THE MARKET-PLACE AND THE PIC-
		TURES OF MUNICH.
				Munich, Oct. 7th, 1882.
	We have with us in this second visit to this
our favorite city of Germany, a dear friend
whose feet have never trod these old streets
before. The delight of the newcomer at the
place seems to quite keep pace with our own
satisfaction in showing its riches. We wax elo-
quent over the market-place; we coax our
friend through a quaint gateway, and then
lead on to the picturesque square where the old
women have set out their wares to the best
advantage. We hunt up one old woman in
particular. She has always been an especial
attraction to us. Her specialty, which she
keeps heaped up in little tubs in front of her,
is, in American parlance, “pot cheese.” Here
we buy it by the spoonful. It is one of our
luxuries. We indulge in it frequently; partly
to please the old woman, partly to please our
own taste. It reminds us of a lovely spot far
over the blue sea, a beautiful country home
where so many happy summer hours of our
early years were spent. Anything here which
recalls that home and those who were the
charm of the old house is a delight to us in
this far away land. The dear hands whose
loving ministrations wrought so unceasingly for
the comfort or the pleasure of all who had the
fortune to be gathered under her hospitable
roof, have long since ceased their labor, but
her gentle deeds and loving words follow us
even into highways and byways of the old
world.
	This market-place of Munich is particularly
quaint and attractive, large and irregular in
shape—it gives room for many a picturesque
group, which might well delight the heart of any
artist from our own shores whose eye should
fall upon the like for the first time.
	We leave the old square and its comical at-
tractions, and post off to the old Pinakothek.
How glad we are to get into it again. We
have been in Rome, in Florence, and in Venice
since we took our last look here. We have
seen a great deal that is very beautiful, but our
affection for the Munich Gallery is in no wise
shaken. There is certainly no collection of
Rubens’ works anywhere in Italy which can
equal in value and variety the one found here.
Murillo’s Italian children are like a magnet,
and draw us irresistibly to the further end of
the building. They are just as fascinating as
they were months ago. We find ourselves
among old friends. A catalogue is not in order
here for us. We can find all we want without.
We know just where to find the treasures of
Van Dych, and Titian, and Paul Veronese.
We feel as though we were wanderers who had
come home, and a great feast had been spread
for us. Rembrandt’s scenes from the passion
are as grand—grander in our eyes—than they
were before we went south. Del Sarto is as
full of sweetness in his holy family here as we
shall ever hope to find him. Wouverman,
Ruysdael, Brouer and Tenieas tempt us into
the cabinets with as eager steps as in the days
of our earlier aquaintance. Holbein, Durer,
Quinten, Matsys, are prominent in the front
rooms just as we left them—just as we must
leave them and all the treasures which come
after them—and go away soon, not to come
back again for a long, long time, if ever. It is
not so very easy to turn one’s back on the

[Column 2]
wealth of this old Pinakothek and walk quiet-
ly away, knowing in your own heart you may
never look upon its like again. Bavaria has
laid hold on many a rare treasure of art. She
keeps them with most religious care, and is a
jealous guardian of all the good gifts committed
to her charge. With reluctant feet we go out
of the doors of this famous building, grateful at
least for the small fraction of its reflected
beauty that our memory can carry over the
rest of our journey through life.
	In these, our farewell visits, we do not forget
the soldiers. We must see one more drill.
We find them “on duty,” drilling away, exactly
as we left them months ago. They are as
sturdy, strong and stalwart as ever. We act-
ually do believe if this German nation lived on
our side of the water we would be obliged to
keep a large standing army under rigorous
drill if we wanted to be sure of keeping them
at a respectful distance. The entire business of
this great kingdom seems to be the training of
soldiers. The “goose step” provokes anew to
laughter,
	In the afternoon we go to the National Mu-
seum, glad of even a hasty peep once more at
its contents. Weeks only could give one, by
patient study, a satisfactory idea of its vast col-
lections. We have become somewhat familiar
with the building and its wealth of rare antiqui-
ties, and we guide our friends on to its greatest
objects of interest in a sort of despairing con-
dition of mind because we can do but little
more than make a hasty excursion trip through
these wonderful rooms so full of the relics of
other centuries—rich mosaics, rare tapestry
from Raphael’s cartoons, Roman antiquities,
ceilings, marbles, casts, tombstones, jewels and
costumes—all showing the progress of civiliza-
tion, some from the earliest ages, others of more
recent date. In our own land, which is so new,
it would be quite out of the question for us to
understand how these aristocratic old nations
cling to their past. Their heroes have lived in
it. Their poets have sung of it. Everything
which belonged to it is sacred in their eyes.
This particular collection is almost inexhaust-
ible in interest and extent. We wander up
stairs and down, taking in what little we can
out of the great variety before us. The day
comes to an end as far as regular sight-seeing
is concerned.
	We are glad to drop into Cafe Lutz for a cup
of its excellent coffee and queer cakes. When
we are rested we go out for a stroll in the Hof-
garten, look at the historical frescoes in the ar-
cades which open out on to the garden and
walk over to the lower parade ground to see
what the soldiers are doing there, and we feel
after the day’s work that we have been here a
long time. We have renewed so many delight-
ful associations, we don’t quite credit the fact
that we have not yet slept in the old city since
our return.
	We go back to our quarters tired physically
and mentally. The good frau is waiting for us
She has one of her most tempting German
meals ready for our famished condition. She
refreshes us with a cup of tea and produces
Marie and Poots to our no small delight. They
are as bright and fresh, as cute and charming
as ever. They are a picture in themselves—
the sweetest, prettiest German children it is
possible to imagine. We were more than glad
to get hold of the dear little things again. It
was right restful to fall into the kindly frau’s
motherly care once more. The dining salon
looked as cheery as ever, and the valuable frieze,
painted by the artist son-in-law, still lent its
grace to this well-remembered room. We missed
the faces which had gathered round the table in
the winter time before. Nearly every one had
“gone on,” and we were left alone in our glory.
Many of these friends had met us more than
once during our wanderings; others shall we
hope to see again. The meetings are for the


most part better than the partings. It was
quite delightful to put our tired head on the fa-
miliar pillows once more, balance the comical
little feather bed over our feet and give our-
selves up to the contemplation of our surround-
ings. The next day we could devote to the
churches, which are more than ordinarily in-
teresting in this old catholic city. We found
our thoughts rather like dissolving views—now
one thing and now another—quaint gables,
marketwomen and costly relics faded out of
mind at last, leaving us fast asleep in Munich.
