"MORMONS"

	It is truly surprising, when we consider the
boasted intelligence of the nineteenth century,
to find how little is really know of the "Mor-
mons."  People actually engage in what they
term studying the Mormon question, and solv-
ing the Mormon problem, without becoming
acquainted with it, except through hearsay.  In
conversing with strangers who pass through the
city, and spend a few hours, or perhaps a day at
most, one can readily comprehend the fact,
that, as far as the people, the institutions, and
the condition of the Territory is concerned, they
are as ignorant as of a foreign country and its
interests.
	The circumstances under which the "Mor-
mons" came into the Wilderness are misrepre-
sented, the desolate state in which the pioneers
found this valley, and the government they
sought to establish here, all these things, and
others of a similar nature, are told in various
ways, and elaborately colored.
	Considering this people belong to the civil-
ized races, and have been educated in the same
habits and customs, as well as schools, of those
who live on the other side the Rocky Moun-
tains, one cannot help wondering at these ab-
surdities.  The only thing that these anti-Mor-
mons are quite sure they do know, is that Mor-
mons have more than one wife, and consequent-
ly they are to them a race of men and women,
separate and apart from the rest of the world of
mankind.  It seems to be a settled fact with
them too, that the women cannot possibly have
minds of their own, or free agency, or they
would never submit to the social domestic rela-
tion signified by the unmeritorious term "poly-
gamy."
	This is all because they do not know, and will
not, or do not care to investigate.  There are no
women who have physically, mentally, morally,
and spiritually greater freedom to develop, than
the "Mormon" women.  The very genius of
"Mormonism" itself, gives women privileges
not acknowledged, and not yet granted in the
outside world.  It gives to every woman the op-
portunity of marriage;  does any other Church
in Christendom do this?  As a natural conse-
quence, no!  Women are in the majority in all
the Churches according to the statistics; then if
they marry, they must of necessity, a large
number of them at all events, marry out of
the Church, and that is undesirable for many
reasons; there cannot be perfect harmony, it
could not be a complete union, or blending to-
gether of heart and soul, which is the true
meaning of marriage.  In this respect then
Mormonism is far in advance.  Woman, too,
may have a choice, she is not obliged to accept
the first offer of marriage, lest there should
never be another opportunity, as thousands of
women do in the world, where according to
some of those self styled protectors of the
weaker sex, women have so much freedom and
attention. To enumerate all the superior advan-
tages given to women here, would take too
much time; but one thing we may say with all
propriety, and that is, that in the matter of pro-
gress, women have greater liberty, because they
are not, and need not be, tied down or restricted
to any of those strait-laces, iron bedstead rules,
that environ about on every hand the women of
the world. To be sure the suffragists have
opened the way considerably and made this
matter much easier for women than before, but
they have not yet attained, in the Church or in
the State, to the liberty enjoyed by these "Mor-
mon" wives and daughters for whom the out-
side world entertain such an abhorrence.
	Many of the chains worn by women are of
gold, to be sure, linked with jewels, and the bri-
dles with which they are so securely fastened
are of fine spun silk, yet they are oft times
galling in the extreme, yet these self-same
ladies scorn the women whose strength of char-
acter has helped them to rise superior to the
environments the world has for centuries past
held necessary for women, and declare them-
sleves free to think, to act, and to advance in
the scale of being, fearless of the ridicule and
opprobrium of fashion worshippers.
	There is no other Church that has such a per-
fect organization, including all within its fold.
And the organization of the women of the
Church is in itself a study.  The world has
nothing that compares with it in its harmony
and consistency throughout.  What is termed
the woman's rights movement is becoming
now a thorough system of organization, but it is
a long way behind in many particulars the or-
ganization of women in the "Mormon" Church.
That it is so little understood outside is due
mostly to the bitter prejudice against “Mor-
mon” women.  They cannot believe they have
any good in them, and look upon them as low,
degraded and unworthy of notice.  Were it
otherwise they might learn many truths that
would help them in the good work now being
carried on in the various societies founded for
advancement and support.  It is a great pity
that when strangers come to this city they do
not make the acquaintance of "Mormons" and
learn of matters from their stand-point; they
would then be much better able to judge and
to lecture or write, on "Mormon" topics.  If
there is nothing in Mormonism it certainly is
not worth so much talk and comment from the
newspapers, the platform and the pulpit.
	The principles advocated and practiced by
this people are of such a nature that they will
endure and gain ground notwithstanding preju-
dice, slander and misrepresentation, when those
who oppose them and seek to destroy and break
down their power will sink into insignificance
and oblivion.  They are the theories which, if
properly carried out in the lives of men and
women, will promote health and long life upon
the earth, strength of character and of intellect,
and produce a race endowed with higher attri-
butes and purer aspirations than any that exists
at the present time.


