HOME AFFAIRS.
			_____
	WE have perused with much satisfaction the
pamphlet entitled “The Farmer's and Miner's
Manual,” recently published by Messers. Stay-
ner and Simmons, edited by Chas. W. Stayner.
It is clearly and forcibly written in a style that
cannot fail to be beneficial to those who are in-
terested in the laws pertaining to land matters
and mining claims. It will be to the interest of
those who are not well posted in the laws that
govern these matters to purchase this little
comprehensive work, for it is, multum in parvo.
The book is for sale at the office of Stayner and
Simmons. Price 25cts.

	ANOTHER lady graduate in medicine and sur-
gery. Mrs. Margaret C. Shipp had her diploma
awarded her at the Woman's Medical College in
Philadelphia, on the 15th of March ult. The
lady has been studying the science for the last
eight years, and during that time has given
lectures on these subjects in different parts of the
Territory. She has now returned home, full-
fledged with the title M. D. well-earned, and
prepared to enter upon the practice of her pro-
fession. Mrs. Shipp is a lady of culture, pleasing
and attractive in manner, and will no doubt
achieve success in a medical career. Utah has
now several talented woman physicians, and
others preparing themselves for this important
sphere of work.

	The Woman's Conference of this Stake of
Zion was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assem-
bly Rooms Friday and Saturday, March 9 and
0. The first day was devoted to the Relief
Society, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
Her Counselors, Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor and
Helen Mar Whitney were both present. Presi-
dent Eliza R. S. Smith and Counselor Zina D.
H. Young were also upon the platform, with
several other of the officers of the Relief Socie-
ty. The usual exercises were given, minutes
of the previous Conference read and reports
from the several branches in the Stake. Sister
Home and Sistereliza occupied the remainder
of the morning in practical instruction to the
Sisters, encouraging them in the performance of
the various duties of the organization. The
afternoon meeting was very interesting, the
speakers were spirited and touched upon mat-
ters of general interest. Sisters Z. D. H. Young,
S. M. Kimball, E. S. Taylor, H. M. Whitney,
P. Woodruff, E. R. S. Smith and M. I. Horne
occupied the time. The Deseret Hospital was
discussed, the silk interest, Dr. Barney's propo-
sition to give free instruction to the sisters who
are desirous of learning how to care for the sick,
and many other matters spiritual and temporal.
	Saturday morning, Conference of the Primary
Associations, Mrs. E. C. Clawson presiding.
The meeting was specially interesting, and
great improvement was manifested in the
several branches, through the reports of the
Presidents. Some very good singing from the
little folks.
	Afternoon, Y. L. M. I. A. Conference, Mrs.
Mary A. Freeze presiding. The reports were
very good. The speakers were Sisters M. A.
Freeze, Mattie Home, Sistereliza and M. I.,


Horne. These sisters exhorted the young
ladies to renewed diligence in the path of im-
provement, commended their labors in the past,
and blessed them for the efforts they had put
forth to bring others into the work. Confer-
ence adjourned for three months. Sung Doxolo-
gy. Prayer by L. G. Richards.
	We hope ere this that the ladies of Utah
have read Dr. E. S. Barney’s advertisement and
proposition to them, which was published in the
Deseret News.
	This being an exceptional opportunity, and
such a liberal offer, we trust an effort will be
made in this direction. It is something we
have long needed. We have visited the Dr’s.,
residence, and find she is making all preparation
to be ready, having faith that her proposition
will be accepted.
	Her rooms are neatly furnished, light and
pleasant, and well suited to the needs of the
student. She says she is anxious to distribute
the knowledge she has gained among the Saints,
and we doubt not she will make the instruction
useful and interesting.
	We hope that Presidents of Relief Societies will
take it upon themselves to make selections, and
wake up an interest, and if necessary aid those
that could not otherwise effect the desired object,
and in sickness they may have some one with
knowledge and skill, while at present many
wards and settlements have no one to refer
to in an emergency who has the requisite skill.
Sisters, consider the great need there is of
assisting in preserving and prolonging life. In
addition to the offer made in her advertisement,
Dr. Barney intends to have lectures from other
lady physicians, of acknowledged ability and ex-
perience. The Dr. says it will require ten days to
get the necessary books, and she hopes to be able
to commence the class in April.


