FIFTY-THIRD ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Church, held
in this city, commencing with preliminary
meetings on Thursday, April 5th, and the regu-
lar Conference commencing April 6th, and con-
tinuing over Sunday, was in our opinion the
largest and grandest assembly of the Latter-day
Saints that ever convened at any time in the
history of the Church. The weather, part of
the time, was not warm enough to admit of
opening the large Tabernacle, and the meetings
were necessarily held in the Assembly Hall, and
thousands of people could not gain admittance,
but most of the time the immense Tabernacle
was open and well filled. On Sunday it was
crowded to its utmost capacity, and many hun-
dreds could not get in at all.
	There has been a general feeling of satisfaction
with the people, an appreciation of the great
blessings enjoyed through the providences of
God, and a desire manifested by the Saints to
persevere in the path of duty, to grow rich in
faith and excel in good works, keeping the com-
mandments of God and rendering obedience to
his laws, and trusting in Him for deliverance
from those who oppose his work upon the 
earth.
	The brethren who addressed the people
seemed filled with the spirit of their calling in
the priesthood and the power of God rested upon
them, and the immense congregations heard-and
felt the influence. The preaching was by the
Twelve Apostles and First Presidency of the
Church, and certainly was impressive and power-
ful. On the last afternoon of the Conference
President Taylor spoke of business matters and
gave his reasons why financial statements were
not submitted to the Conference, which was
satisfactory, and a vote was taken on the matter,
that proved unanimous. President Taylor oc-
cupied the remainder of the afternoon, speaking
with great power and grandeur. He referred
the people to the fact of their almost marvelous
deliverance, and called on the congregation for
an audible acknowledgement of the hand of
God, in delivering his people from the hands of
their enemies. When all that grand congrega-
tion responded to the "Amen" feelingly uttered by
the President; the impression was thrilling and
touched every heart, for every Latter-day Saint
could feel that this weak expression of gratitude
was only a feeble recognition of the manifes-
tation of the mighty power that can turn and
overturn nations and kingdoms at his will.
   To those who have eyes to see and hearts to
understand, it must be apparent that there is a
power with this people that the world cannot
understand or comprehend. Who would have
thought, except a Latter-day Saint, that so little
harm would have been effected, by the passage
of the Edmunds bill? And yet the facts are be-
fore the people, Zion continues to grow and in-


crease, the Gospel is being preached in every
land, and the honest-hearted gathered home to
the mountains. Temples are being erected to
the Most High, where the Saints can perform a
work for the living and the dead, that Israel may
be redeemed and all things prepared for the time
when the lamb and the lion shall lie down to-
gether, when Satan shall no longer have power
to afflict those who serve the living and true
God, and peace shall reign in the hearts of all
men and over all the earth.


