R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
			REPORTS.
			    _____
		MESA CITY, ARIZONA.
	Some time since initiatory steps were taken
to organize a Y. L. M. I. A., and on January
12th, 1883, the organization was effected, with
the following officers, who were set apart by
President A. F. Macdonald, Bros. Richens,
Stewart and Carter, viz., President, Mrs., Zulie
Kimball; Counselors, Miss Etta Pomeroy and
Miss Beckie Richens; Secretary, Miss Gertrude
Pomeroy; Corresponding Secretary, Mrs. Jennie
Bush; Treasurer, Phoebe Shepard.
	Our society meets weekly, and from the
energetic zeal manifested we hope to attain a
higher degree of excellence in the scale of
intellect.
				JENNIE BUSH,
		Corresponding Secretary for Y. L. A.
				_____
	   WEST BOUNTIFUL PRIMARY.
	Our Association is not a large one in point
of numbers, but the little folks are striving to
improve themselves, and most of them are
much interested. We have had two Primary
concerts here for the benefit of the Association,
which were well attended. They were a great
encouragement to the children, and reflected
credit upon their endeavors. Praying that
the Lord will bless all the Primary associations
and the efforts of those who are laboring in the
good cause.
		MISS JULIA FACKRELL,
							Secretary.
				_____
		AMITY, ARIZONA.
	On November 2nd, 1882, a special meeting
was called in Amity, Arizona, and Bishop
Albinon M. Holden organized a Relief Society
with the following officers, who were unani-
mously sustained by the vote of the people:
Mrs. Martha Bigelow, President; Susan John-
son and Lucinda Holden, Counselors; Mary
Emily Marble, Secretary; Celestina Marble,
Treasurer. Nineteen members are enrolled


and four teachers have been appointed to visit
among the sisters. We hold our meetings
twice a month at 2 o'clock p.m.
	A Young Ladies’ Association has also been
organized with Julia A. Johnson, President;
Lucy Norton and Melvina Gunn, Counselors;
Ellen Bigelow, Secretary; L. Jackson, Assis-
tant Secretary; and Maria S. Holden, Treasu-
rer. There are fourteen members enrolled.
	A Primary Association was organized with
Mrs. Polly Ann Greer, President; Priscilla
Hamblin and Lora A. Brown, Counselors;
Susan Greer, Secretary; and Ella Hamblin,
Treasurer. Thirty-four members enrolled.
The Association hold their meetings every
Saturday at 2 o’clock and they are generally
well attended.
	The sisters are diligent and faithful in the
performance of their duties, the Bishop and a
few of the other brethren occasionly visit our
meetings and counsel and encourage us. Al-
ways praying for the welfare of Zion and the
advancement of mankind, including the eleva-
tion of woman, and also for the success of the
EXPONENT as the advocate of woman’s cause,
I have the pleasure to subscribe myself,
			Yours in the Gospel,
				MARY E. MARBLE,
						Secretary.


_______________________________
﻿PRINCESS MARY, DAUGHTER OF
              CHARLES I.
                      ______
          BY HANNAH T. KING.
                      ______
The royal family of Stewart were remarka-
ble for their beauty, for many fine qualities,
but most of all for their misfortunes! The
Princess Mary, daughter of Charles I, was
an exception in the catalogue, and yet little
has been historically written of her; while
other princesses’ lives have been traced on
the page of history again, and again; she had
a little sister Elizabeth, who died at Carris-
brook Castle while a child, and Queen
Victoria has had a lovely monument erected
to her memory in St. Thomas’s Church, Isle
of Wight. It will be remembered that
Charles I. married a beautiful French Prin-
cess, named Henrietta Maria, the youngest
daughter of Henry IV of France, and his
Queen Mariede Medices; she was not consider-
ed a very wise or suitable wife for an English
king, partly on account of her being a zealous
Roman Catholic, and that her training and
education unfitted her for so important a
position; but she was beautiful, and the king
loved her, and she returned his love. Her
eldest son, afterwards Charles II of England,
was born at Greenwich; his mother declared
him to be an ugly, though a very fine child,
and so solemn in his infant ways, that she felt
he was far wiser than herself. The next ar-
rival was a little daughter, born at Whitehall,
London, on the 4th of Nov., 1631, and was
warmly welcomed by both parents, but she
was a very delicate child, and so caused them
much anxiety; on this account they had her
baptized when only a few days old, by the
name of Maria, after her grandmother; they
were very poor at this time, and it suited their
circumstances to have a private christening, as
the Parliament would not vote more supplies
for them. The child was provided with a
nurse, and the Countess of Roxburgh was her
governess from the first day of her life! When
two years old, an establishment was arranged
for her, which certainly did not indicate pov-
erty; besides a nurse and three watchers, a
lady of the bedchamber, a seamstress, a tailor
and shoemaker, a gentleman usher, two pages,
a laundress, three grooms, four footmen, five
kitchen servants, a coachman, and more im-
portant than all, a good physician, Dr. Mayer,
whose skill and care were supposed to have
saved her life when quite an infant, and con-
sequently was much esteemed by the king,
her father, who was obliged to go to Scotland
soon after Mary’s birth, and so was particular-
ly anxious that her health should be strictly
attended to in his absence; the diet provided
for the little lady’s nursery was more substan-
tial than is procurable for children in this age,
being “manchet and fine bread, mutton or
chicken with all,” and the breakfast must have
been early, as it is reported the children dined
between ten and twelve, their dinner was game
and meat of various kinds, custards and sweet 
tarts, and Gascony wine; on fast days fish
instead of meat, supper the same, but not quite
so heavy. They lived at St. James’s Palace,
London, the greater part of the year, which
was a favorite place with the queen, their
mother, and she loved to walk in the beautiful
garden with the children, carrying the baby
in her arms, singing to it, and talking and
laughing with them.
  Charles I. was anxious that his children
should all speak English as their mother-
tongue, though his wife gave him some trouble
by her preference for her native  language, but
as her sons grew up and visited the French
court, they were unable to converse except in
English! The queen was, of course, a Roman
Catholic, and used to give  Mary rosaries and
crosses, and to take her into the chapel for
mass; when Mary was eight years old the king
found out what was going on, and positively
forbade her being taken there again, and in-
sisted that nothing should ever be said to her
against the protestant faith. She grew to be
a pretty child, and a devoted daughter to her
kind and good father her brother Charles
was her favorite companion.
  A very important event in Mary’s life was
brought about in consequence of her grand-
mother, Marie de Medicie, visiting England;
she came without being invited because it
happened to be convenient to her; this visit
was not an agreeable one, though the queen
was pleased to present her children to her
mother: and she told her “the king had made
her a happy wife, happy mother and a happy
queen!” But even at this time trouble was
gathering around the king, who, while this
happy reunion was taking place, was marching
at the head of his army against his Scotch
subjects, causing his family much sorrow and
anxiety; little Mary began to notice day after
day the grief on her mother's face and the
tears shed by her governess, the countess of
Roxburgh, who had been a second mother to
her, and whom she loved very much, but
whose Husband and son were fighting against
the king; and they missed their pleasant
walks at Richmond or Hampton Court, and
thought it very strange and disagreeable never
to be allowed to go out of doors without a guard
of armed soldiers; even at night her sleep was
disturbed by the tramp of the sentries at the
gates, and the poor child began to look care-
worn like the queen, her mother; at this time,
though so young, a way was already being
made for her to escape from the evils that were
coming on her father’s house; for Marie de
Medicie was the bearer of a message from the
Prince of Orange, asking her in marriage for
his son. Charles I. was very willing to listen
to such proposals for his younger daughters,
but he had more ambitious views for Mary,
besides which he loved her so much, that
he shrank from parting with her.	But
he found that large offers of wealth
were made for the bride, and that the Prince
of Orange would undertake to assist him in
his struggle with his rebellious subjects, and,
moreover, the little girl, who perhaps under-
stood what she had seen with her parents,
that difference in religion caused much misery
between husband and wife, told her father
that she should prefer being married to a


[Column 1]

﻿protestant partner. This decided the matter,
and in April, 1641, the young prince came
over, escorted by twenty vessels, and landed
at Gravesend, where he was met by a royal
equipage, and driven through London to
Whitehall where Charles and Henrietta re-
ceived him most affectionately; Mary was not
there, for she was in bed, poor child, at Somer-
set House with a feverish cold and swollen
face, but her bridegroom of sixteen begged so
hard to be permitted to see her, that the king
and queen took him thither, and the prince
was introduced to her by them, and he kissed
the little girl in spite of her swollen face, and
told his father in his first letter that she was
sweet and lovely; although young, he was very
manly in his manners and was highly accom-
plished, spoke four European languages, a good
mathematician, well acquainted with history,
both of his own country and that of others,
and had long been admitted to sit in the coun-
cils of the state, and Mary, from sympathy
with the trials of those she loved, was older
than her years. Arundel House in the Strand
had been fitted up for his reception, and he
had a private key to the garden of Somerset
House. A frequent interchange of visits took
place, and marriage was proposed and earnest-
ly insisted upon; the king objected in consid-
eration of the youth of his daughter: but, alas!
heavy clouds had long been gathering around
him and his throne, and he had much desired
to find a safe asylum for his beloved family,
for Charles was a devoted husband and father;
it was now proposed by the Prince of Orange,
the prince's father, that the marriage should
be solemnized, that the young princess should
still remain under the care and jurisdiction of
her mother for two years, that the queen
should accompany the young bride to Hol-
land, and at the expiration of the two years,
she should pass to the house of her husband.
Charles at last bowed to a dire necessity that
surrounded him and his family; the marriage
took place with the usual court ceremonies, as
soon as preparations could be made ready.
A royal vessel was duly fitted out, and then
came the cruel separation, the king was per-
fectly unmanned at parting with his almost
worshiped child, for having a mind beyond
her years she had been the solace and comfort
of his troubled life; he repeatedly clasped her
in his arms, blest her and wept bitter tears
over her; probably he had a presentiment that
their separation was final. As long as the
vessel was in sight he stood on the shore mak-
ing fond signals of adieus, he then called for
a swift horse that he might rapidly ride to a
high eminence that still commanded a view of
the ship that bore away his heart's treasures!
Never to meet again on earth! Time passed—
the final tragedy of regicide is history. Mary
mourned the sad, sad finale of her beloved
father, but her mother and her husband blest
and consoled her; the two years with her
mother was religiously kept sacred and then
she was placed in the beautiful home that had
been fondly prepared for her by the hand of
love. Alas, a very few years elapsed before
this lovely and chaste union was dispelled by
the cruel hand of death, the young prince
was seized with malignant smallpox, and left
Mary a widow at nineteen.
	At the restoration of Charles the Second,
he invited his widowed neice and her boy to
come and make her home in England, she
accepted the kindly invitation, and Whitehall,
the home of her childhood, was appointed for
her residence. (A window is still shown in
that fine building from which Charles I.
emerged to walk to the fatal block, from
whence he was ushered into eternity.)
	Mary had not resided long in the beautiful
home of her childhood, when she was attacked
by smallpox, which in a short time terminated
her life in the very bloom of womanhood,

[Column 2]

leaving her son, who in after years ascended
the throne of England by the title of William
III, having married Mary, the eldest daugh-
ter of the deposed King, James II. Parlia-
ment desired that her name should be conjoint-
ly blended with his in the government of the
kingdom, and hence they ascended the throne
unitedly as William and Mary.


