THE CULTIVATION OF MIND.

	The thought that our actions here will either
enhance or retard our happiness in the next
world should be ever present with us. As
we progress in any branch of learning, our
preceptions are quickened or cultivated in re-
gard to it, as for instance in music; any triv-
ial mistake that would pass unnoticed by
others would excite our notice and offend the
ear, so with our moral preceptions. Quarrel-
ing and bloodshed, which seemingly delight
some gross natures, would make exceedingly
unhappy more feeling and sensitive beings.
	Virtuous actions are not always rewarded in
this life, as may be seen by reading the lives of
Phocion and Socrates; such lives serve to
remind base, despicable persons of their own
shortcomings, and appeal too strongly to their
better feelings, but instead of standing as
guides to a better life, often rekindle envy
and jealousy and the desire to pull down every
thing to their own mean standard, and these
are only two noble lives among the many
which have been taken or made miserable
through constantly walking in the narrow
path.
	Because the higher qualities often prove dis-
advantageous in this world, probably most
affecting the amassing of riches, it is no reason
why they will not, with knowledge, lead to
eternal bliss in the next, and as we are there
sure to meet sooner or later, those we have
benefited or wronged here, it is easy to perceive
that our heaven there will be in accordance
with our deeds done here.
	What happiness would we have in this life
without friends, and how is the tie of friend-


ship made but by kindred feelings based on
confidence, and as that could not exist between
conniving unscrupulous parties there could be
no friendship.
	From all the instructions given us relating
to our preparing for the next world, the cul-
tivation of the mind certainly takes the first
place, as through its enlightenment we are
prepared to receive or reject baptism and
other doctrines, and it is also certainly that
which prompts us to pure or vicious actions.
It can be cultivated in any direction.
	Prejudice is a "noxious weed" which should
not be allowed to grow, as it often overrules
our reason in the face of facts; this is often
the case in relation to the Book of Mormon,
for though no fault can be found with its
contents, many are prejudiced too much
against it to even read it.
	The following from the Millennial Star I
have often read with pleasure.
	"The Mind.—The Almighty gives mind,
man can only give example and education.
The natural minds in men are like the natural
fields in agriculture. There is every degree of
fertility, but they will all grow noxious weeds
unless cultivated and cared for."
