WOMAN’S VOICE.
	I noticed in the Exponent, a letter from
Ohio, by Mrs. Scott, which has caused me to
reflect considerable.  I have watched with
interest the papers, for the lady’s letters, as
also the answers by our sisters, and feel deeply
impressed to add my testimony.  That perad-
venture, out of the many, something may be
gleaned that will strike conviction sufficient to
inspire faith in her heart, and cause her to
implicitly believe that our Heavenly Father
is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever;
that He will hear and answer our humble
prayers, if we ask in faith, believing, but it is
by obedience to the commandments of God,
that we gain the “all abiding faith.” Dear
lady, you say you would give anything to
possess the abiding faith that so many of the
older professing Christians have.  I gather
from reading your letters, that you believe
there is a God; and that you have faith in
Him, or you would not have cried unto him in
your distress.  But you lack the all abiding
faith which only comes through obedience to
the law of God; then our faith merges into a
certainty. When we look around and view
the mighty works of Nature, the heavens
above, with its millions of stars, the sun, the
moon, and behold the revolutions of the same,
we are obliged to acknowledge a supreme
power.
	Then what is our duty?  It is, to find out
what our Heavenly Father requires of his
children, in order to bring them into a near-
ness with Him, that we may gain a knowledge
of Him.
	You will find, by reading the Scriptures,
what God requires of his children, in order
that they may come to a knowledge of Him.
He says: “Repent and be baptized and wash
away your sins.” The Lord, in giving his
commission to his disciples, says, “Go ye into
all the world, and preach the Gospel; he that
believeth and is baptized shall be saved.”
Mark xvi, 15, 16.  Also Peter, on the day
of Pentecost, called on the people, “to repent,
and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ,
for the remission of sins, and then they should
receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.” Hence
you see, that our Heavenly Father has provid-
ed a way, by which we can gain a knowledge
of Him.  He also says, you shall know of the
doctrine, whether it be of God or man.  By
obedience to these laws you have the promise,
of not only a knowledge of the doctrine, but a
knowledge of God, and the things of God;
and by the spirit of inspiration, given through
the gift of the Holy Ghost, the power to see
into the future, and to understand the work-
ings of our Heavenly Father with the child-
ren of men.
	By obedience to these first laws, or princi-
ples, you will be entitled to all the blessings of
the Gospel; to see visions; to dream dreams; to
have your sick healed by the power of God;
and “eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither
hath it entered the heart of any man, the
things which God hath prepared for them that
love him.”
	And our Father says: “He that loveth me,
will keep my commandments.”
	The Lord has greatly blessed you, in pre-
serving the lives of your children, and you
felt to call upon the unknown God in your
hour of trial.  I will bear testimony to you,
in the name of Jesus Christ, that if you will
obey the commandments of your Heavenly
Father, with an honest heart, that you will
not feel to say an “unknown God,” but that
you will gain a knowledge of God, and of his
Son, Jesus Christ; that you will be enabled to
go to Him, as you would to your earthly
father, in confidence and faith, knowing that
He would hear and answer your prayers; and
your mind will be enlightened; your under-
standing quickened; you will be drawn into a
nearness with God, and your soul will find
rest.  And you will not “get into the mud,”
but you will find “safe footing,” and true hap-
piness and satisfaction in this life.  Let me,
as a friend, beg that you will not procrastinate,
when your soul's salvation is at stake: if you
feel that the principles of Mormonism are
true, let no earthly consideration deter you
from obeying the same, as it is written, “that
the Spirit of God will not always strive with
the children of men.” And our Saviour says,
“he that will not forsake all, for His sake, is
not worthy of Him.” He also says, “if ye
love me ye will keep my commandments.”
	Praying the Lord will enlighten your mind,
strengthen your understanding,  and cause
you to see the light revealed in these last days,
for the salvation of this generation,  I sub-
scribe myself,	
		Your friend and sister,
				S. A. FULLMER.
Castle Dale, Emery Co., Utah, March 8th, 1883


