BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	When Horace returned to Nauvoo he found
that a year or more had wrought great changes,
not only by the death of Joseph and Hyrum,
but other dear friends had passed away—num-
bers were married and others had grown up
till he could hardly recognize them, and
among the most noticeable was myself, which
fact his looks and words expressed the first
morning after his return, as he called to give
us, among other old neighbors, a friendly shake
of the hand. I was not yet sixteen, and
though the feeling between us then could not
rationally be called love, it was something
akin to it, admiration—which only needed
time and acquaintance to mature. I was con-
siderably tinctured with romance and enter-
tained the bright hope that I had already ex-
perienced my most bitter portion of the reali-
ties of life. His mother and sister were
pleased with the idea of our union, and the
latter had early expressed herself to that ef-
fect. Not very long after this Sarah and I
accompanied him and my brother William
across the prairie to Carthage, to see the jail
where Joseph and Hyrum had been murdered.
William and I had often passed through that
little town on the way to Ramus, to visit at
the brothers Perkins; but never before under
like circumstances or with such peculiar sen-
sations. The wife of the jailor very kindly
showed us up stairs. The walls of the room
had been whitewashed and the floor had been
scoured many times, but the stains of blood
were still quite visible, and we saw a number
of bullet holes in the door. We looked into
the cell, into which Willard Richards had
dragged Elder John Taylor after he was
wounded and covered him up, hoping that he
would be overlooked and his life spared to tell
the tale; not expecting that he himself would
ever escape alive.


[Column 1]
	﻿As we stood by the well-curb where Joseph
fell, Horace picked up a small chip covered
with blood, and which he still has in his pos-
session, though the blood is hardly discerni-
ble—nearly thirty-nine years having elapsed
since that awful tragedy was enacted, and
seemingly sanctioned by our nation, under
this grand Constitution which we had learned
from our earliest childhood to love and revere.
And no heed was paid to the wailing cries of
the bereaved, nor the solemn prayers of an
oppressed, weak and defenceless people, but
they were driven out with the supposition and
the hope that they would perish from destitu-
tion, cold and hunger.
	I copy the following incidents from my
father's journal. "May 28th, 1845. This
day the timbers were raising in the attic story
of the Temple, on the dome or steeple.
	"May 29th. Spent a short time at Bishop
Whitney's—had a good time talking of the
order of salvation.	*	*	In the evening met
with my brethren at Willard Richard's office.
*	*	We called on the Lord for rain, and for
the brethren upon the islands of the sea, for
those who had gone west, for the sick, and for
union. Great union prevailed.
	"May 30th. Sister Sarah M. Kimball came
and took myself and wife in her buggy.	*	*
I got out at Warsaw street. Went to General
Charles C. Rich's.	*	*	Then to Elder
John Taylor's, where I found the Twelve.
*	*	William Smith was dissatisfied, other-
wise the Twelve were one. Took dinner with
Elder Taylor. Mother Smith came into our
council at 2 o'clock to express her feelings be-
fore the Twelve—called us her children. The
feelings of the Twelve were expressed by our
President towards the families of the Smiths—
that we would do all that we could for them.
	"Sunday, June 1st. I went to the stand
*	*	Meeting was opened. I was called
upon to speak.	*	*	Spoke one half hour.
John Taylor followed, then President Brigham
Young spoke for some time. There was much
joy among the Saints, as we had not been on
the stand before for three weeks—had been
obliged to hide up. In the evening met at
Elder Richard's for prayer—prayed for rain,
had a good time and broke up at half past
one in the morning."
	That day was my mother's 39th birthday,
which my father mentions in his journal. The
2nd day of June he speaks of five of the
Seventies coming to dig his cellar, and says:
"We had a fine shower in answer to prayer.
We praised the Lord for His great goodness.
2nd day. Began to lay stone in my cellar.
*	*	The day pleasant—all peace and har-
mony in our city."
	About two years previous to this, a brick
addition was made to our log house. The log
part was now torn down and a two story one
of brick built in its place. Father had pur-
chased a good house and lot adjoining ours of
Brother John Tibbits, and presented it to my
brother William. The chamber of it we oc-
cupied until the upper part of ours was fin-
ished and painted, containing a parlor, two
bedrooms and a clothes-press to each, with
hall. The largest room, with exception of the
parlor, was mine, with two large windows, one
opened to the south and the other east,
towards the Temple. The rooms on the base-
ment were very similar. The hall passed east
and west, front, door opening towards the river,
and over it was a large stone on which my
father had his name engraven. This was the
first nice house that he had been able to build
us, his time having been previously engaged in
the Father's vineyard with his brethren, the
Apostles, and then, much of the time they
were obliged to keep themselves hidden or
disguised to escape writs being served on them.
They had to adopt different disguises,
which were sometimes very droll and ludicrous,

[Column 2]
and which afforded us no little amount of fun
and amusement. The last year spent in Nau-
voo, though it was not all gladness and delight,
was the liveliest, and I took more real pleasure,
and can look back to it and my associations
there as the brightest and happiest that I ever
experienced in that city. "Pleasures are bright-
est as they take their flight."
	I was a passionate lover of music, and had
so longed for the privilege of learning to play
the piano, and this I enjoyed during the sum-
mer of 1845. I had an accomplished lady
teacher who had received the Gospel in Lon-
don. My first lessons were given me on a
small piano standing in a milliner shop, which
was owned by the Miss Grays, then living on
Main Street. One of them is now Mrs. Rumel,
who has a large millinery establishment on
Main Street in this city. My teacher would
often praise my aptness in learning, and say
to me, "You will go ahead of me, Miss Helen,
for you have a voice to sing, which I never
had." President Brigham Young had a small
piano and invited me to come to his house
and practice with his daughter Vilate, who,
though younger than myself, had had previous
advantages, but was rather indifferent, and he
thought if I practiced with her she would take
a greater interest. Their piano stood in Sis-
ter Young's room, and her health being very
poor he proposed to have it brought to our
house when the upper part was done. This
pleased us both immensely. I never became
weary of practicing until after I heard it was
decided that we were to be broken up and
move to the Rocky Mountains. Though the
piano remained there through the winter I
felt no encouragement to continue taking les-
sons, though father tried to stimnlate me to go
on, and said, to encourage me, that they should
have the necessary material taken to manufac-
ture pianos and I should have one, but I knew
that I would forget it all; and we little
thought of its being so long before we got to
our destination.

To be Continued.


