		DEAR MOTHER:
	I have been to see the floods of Cincinnati
and will give you a few items. The papers
give a pretty fair description of things as they
are in the flooded district.
	I will not attempt to tell how many houses
are under water, how many floating down the
Ohio, how many families homeless and desti-
tute, how many people thrown out of employ-
ment, nor can I tell how many deaths will oc-
cur from the effects of damp and filthy holes
that people call home. If the destruction is at
the same ratio all down the Ohio valley as at
and near Cincinnati I will simply say it will
do much towards the fulfilment of prophecy.
Elder Marks and I took train Friday, a.m. for
Cincinnati, on the only Railroad that runs into
the city, all others being stopped by water.
	We arrived in the city about noon, and put
in good time traveling the flooded districts.
The streets were full of boats of all kinds and
sizes, full of people of all kinds and colors, on,
all kinds of business, some on pleasure bent
some taking food, water and fuel to those im-
prisoned in the upper stories by the floods,
some moving goods to higher ground; some
taking the sufferers to places of safety. This
will describe life in all the flooded towns. We
took boat for the bridge between Cincinnati
and Covington, Ky. The boats that carried the
passengers to the bridge were run by the city,
fare, three cents. We were taken around
several corners pretty well up in the world, at
least we could look in at second and third
story windows. We were landed safely on the
Mammoth Suspension Bridge, high and dry
over all. It is a grand sight to see and a
master piece of art. The water was sixty-six
feet four inches above its regular level, ye
some of the steamers could go under the bridge
by lowering the upper extension of the smoke
stack. We got a splendid view from the bridge
of these large cities, Cincinnatti on the north
side of the Ohio, Covington on the south side.
This place is on high ground and but little of

[Column 2]
it was under water. Newport is on a low point
of land between Licking River and the Ohio.
We stood some time on the bridge taking a
view of the world afloat. We could see the
heights of Cincinnati and the flooded portion.
Old out-houses, dwelling houses of various
dimensions, stores, warehouses,. R. R. depots,
distilleries, coal barges, R. R. cars, engines,
steamboats, tug boats and all kinds of wrecks
seemed to mingle freely together. The only
apparent difference was, the houses, factories,
etc, seemed like a demolished fort and the
tugs and steamers seemed like the triumphant
army that defied the elements and stood guard
over the vanquished forts, riding proudly over
all, sometimes pushing coal flats defiantly
against the stream, or retiring gracefuly with
the current to their place of mooring. Piles
of lumber, frame buildings, hay stacks, boxes,
barrels, etc, were kept in constant motion
by the raging waters, while the whole scene
was dotted by boats of every kind paddling
or pushing with poles, some on the lookout for
plunder, some for fun, some trying to save,
some laden with baskets of food, etc.
Took a look around Covington, crossed to
Newport, the windows all along each side of
the streets had much the appearance of the
show window of a Photo gallery, with this
difference the pictures were all life size and in
their every day dress or undress. We walked
around the high part of the city a little, then
went back to Cincinnati via Newport Bridge.
It was a very warm day, the waters were
receding and the air seemed filled with stench
from the unhoused filth and rubbish.
	We arrived in Cincinnati about dark. The
city was in darkness, the gasworks being
under water. In walking round the city we
saw some of the houseless urchins minus coat,
shoes and hat, curled up in the recesses of the
doors and the streetsteps; that was the most
heart-rending scene of all. To see the little
fellows curled up on the cold stones to shiver
till morning, then go in search of breakfast.
	We walked the streets for one hour,
saw all kinds of people in all kinds of styles,
sharpers, drummers, news boys, boot-blacks,
business men, shop men, women and children
of every kind and color, factory girls, waiter
girls, and bad girls, Irish, Dutch and Yankee.
We took a room facing Fountain Square, went
to the opera saw Haverly's Minstrels pre-
form very good. Next morning took another
look around, boot-blacks thick as fleas, news
boys with the early morning papers yelling
out "Morning Journal, penny post, all about
the floods for one cent." All kinds of ped-
dlers vending their different wares. Went
through the markets saw meats, fishes, fruits
and vegetables of every concievable kind and
flavor. We followed the lower winding alley
as close to the water as possible; sometimes we
would see a crowd of Irish trying to keep
warm by a fire fed by the ruins of boxes and
other peices of timber raked out of the water.
We saw nearly everything afloat that would
float, pig pens, out-houses and dwelling houses,
some just coming in sight by the falling waters,
some turned cross wise, some over and some on
end. We found our way to the place where
the southern depot used to be, but is now a sea
of muddy water. The main buildings were
gone, some were in sight badly wrecked,
some places the tops of the box cars were in
sight, sometimes a road engine with the smoke
stack out of water. We visited the "Early
Breakfast" stove works. It had shut down,
but Mr. Burton showed us through his sample
room and workshop. They make nine hun-
dred and fifty stoves per week. We did not
visit any other factories as they were all
stopped. Many houses are falling down as the
water leaves.
