ONE WHO KNOWS.
   “The very nature of every virtuous  woman
revolts against polygamy and all its influ-
ences.” Senator Edmunds.
   I would like to ask the wise statesman, the
Hon. Mr. Edmunds, if he ever knew a black-
smith to regulate a watch just by seeing a
man look at it and put it in his pocket. That
would be just as consistent as this remark.
The ladies of Utah are free to judge, think,
choose and act, and would to God that every
woman understood the meaning of the word
virtue and was protected, as we are!  We
have perfect confidence in our husbands, and
they in us. If every senator and representa-
tive man in Washington, that had not kept
his marriage vows, were turned into statuary,
as Lot’s wife was into a pillar of salt,
for disobedience, would the halls of Con-
gress lack decoration? Gentlemen, if purity
of motives and deeds worthy the approbation of
the Gods is revolting, then are we to be judged
thus? If true and faithful, loving our sisters
as ourselves, and having untainted blood in
our veins for our children, knowing we are to
inherit the society of our husbands through
all eternity, if we are true women, and not
without, and vice versa, with our companions,
is this immoral? to hold sacred our mar-
riage relations, through slander, misrepre-
sented at home and abroad, but not forsaken
by God, or our husbands, remain faithful and
true; yes, true, happy, confiding wives. And
right here I entreat congressmen, all men and
women on earth to be virtuous, true to them-
selves, not double dealers, true to the laws of
good order and the Constitution, which all
Mormon men and women consider inspired of
God to protect, not hung on a swivel to face
policy and money at the sacrifice of justice.
Gentlemen and ladies, we ask no mercy, but
give us justice.
   The Jews said, we will not, and so say this
nation; as Mr. Edmunds was once told, he was
not fighting a little handful of people in the
mountains, but measuring arms with the
Almighty; perhaps he wishes the honor of a
Pharaoh, we are content to abide our time, for
all must receive the reward from whom they
serve.
   In referring to the very nature of woman
revolting against polygamy and its influence,
we would inquire, what does Mr. Edmunds
know of its influence, where it is understood
and practiced in the fear of God? Was not
David a man after God’s own  heart, and in
nothing did he displease the Lord except in
taking away the wife of Uriah.
   Gentlemen, learn what true happiness is by
honoring the laws of nature, and be honored
through all eternity because of obedience to
the celestial law of marriage. Act upon prin-
ciple, and make  duty a pleasure, and gather
around you a family of thirty or forty like a
patriarch, that your life may not be spent in
vain.
   I have heard more contention and quarrel-
ing in a family consisting of husband, wife
and two children, than I ever heard in the
family of Brigham Young in thirty years,
with fourteen wives and forty children.
   If purity, fidelity, honesty and integrity,
with hard labor and a clear conscience, is not
valuable, then tell me what is? This govern-
ment has listened to and acted from hearsay
and falsehood. Look at our Tabernacles, our
Temples and our homes, listen to our devo-
tions, search where you will for a “poor
house,” not one will you find; there are still
many counties in the Territory of Utah with
not a dramshop or a brothel; is this a disgrace
to a nation?
   We have been accused of not being a law-
abiding people; we will compare notes at any
time with our grand government.
   Mr. Black knows what is white and so do
we; God bless men that have stamina and ster-
ling integrity to open their eyes to the sun-
shine of truth, and all women who dare to be
truly virtuous, and heaven’s best blessing is a
true husband and good children; this is the in-
fluence of polygamy and what the God of
heaven has provided to protect virtue, ennoble
women, to elevate mankind. This is our
standard, Justice to all. Though Mr. Ed-
munds holds up his hands in holy horror at
the very thought of this condition of things,
we are sorry for him,— but we leave him and
all those who seek to oppress us, in the hands
of that God whose laws we have enlisted to
obey. 			ZINA D. H. YOUNG.


