SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
	MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
		AND PATRIARCH.
			---------------
	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
			_____
	In justice to the wives who were sealed to
William Smith I will here say, that they were
pure and noble women, and they had supposed
him to be a righteous man. The Lord took
the first one, and the others, finding out his
true character, soon left him. After the young
wife left he married again. I understood her
to be a sister of his first wife’s. But she, like
him, was void of the spirit of this Gospel; and
she must also have been blind to his faults, or
to put the most charitable construction, it
might have been for the sake of her sister’s
children. None of us are capable of passing
judgment upon one another. That, we should
leave to Him who will soon come to judge
both the living and the dead.
	One of the most interesting incidents within
my recollection was the laying of the capstone
on the south-east corner of the Temple. This
was on Saturday morning, May 24th, 1845.
The description of it is accurately given by
one of the Apostles, who, with the rest, came
out from their secret retreat long enough to
perform this ceremony, when they again re-
turned to their hiding places.
	The Apostle wrote:  "The singers sang their
sweetest notes, and their voices thrilled the
hearts of the assemblage; the music of the
band, which played on the occasion, never
sounded so charming; and when President
Young placed the stone in position, and said:
The last stone is now laid upon the Temple,
and I pray the Almighty, in the name of
Jesus, to defend us in this place, and sustain
us until the Temple is finished and we have all


[Column 1]
﻿got our endowments.’ And all the congrega-
tion shouted, Hosanna! Hosanna! Hosanna,
to God and the Lamb, amen! amen! and amen,
and repeated these words the second and third
time, the spirit of God descended upon the peo-
ple, gladness filled every heart, and tears
of joy coursed down many cheeks. The words
of praise were uttered in earnestness and fervor;
it was a relief to many to be able to give ex-
pression to the feelings with which their hearts
were overcharged. Altogether the scene was a
very impressive one, and we doubt not that
the angels looked upon it and rejoiced.”
	“So let it be,” said President Young, con-
cluding the ceremonies, “this is the seventh
day of the week, or the Jewish Sabbath. It is
the day on which the Almighty finished his
work and rested from his labors. We have
finished the walls of the Temple, and may rest
to-day from our labors.”
	A great amount of sickness prevailed dur-
ing the summer months. The Apostles and
their brethren were in the habit of meeting
together every evening, and sometimes oftener,
at Brother  Willard Richard's house, to unite
their faith in the holy order of the Priesthood
in behalf of Israel.
	They also had to labor with their hands.
My father worked at his house all the time
that he could possibly get. July 7th he wrote,
“Twelve men came to work on my house, six of
them were masons. Much work was done.
*	*	I went to W. Richard’s to read history
in company with Brigham Young and George
A. Smith. An Italian brother Joseph Toronto
(now of this city), came there and gave up
all he had, which was $2,600.
	“Tuesday, 8th. Fourteen men came to work
on my house. 	*	*	Went with Brigham
Young and Willard Richards to the Temple.
Had council with the trustees. Gave the $2,600
to the Bishop. Visited some sick in the evening.”
	My mother’s babe was very sick at this time,
which fact father mentions in his journal as
being a source of anxiety and sorrow to wit-
ness his suffering. Two successive days some
of his brethren came in to join him in prayer
for him in the holy order. “Sister Jane
(Uncle Joseph Young’s wife) and Sister Whit-
ney were present and spent much’ time with us
to minister to our babe.”
	“On the morning of the 9th of July,” he
says, “I was sent for by Brother Willard Rich-
ards to administer to his wife who appeared to
be dying. About ten o’clock I went again.
Brother George A. Smith and his father,
(John Smith) Levi Richards and John Taylor
were present. We anointed and prayed for
her alter the holy order and she died in about
half an hour. She (as is well known) was one
of my father’s earliest converts in England.
I will here mention one or two incidents,
though this and much more has been published
in his history, concerning her. She was
the daughter of a Mr. Richards, a Presby-
terian minister; and when father first met her
she was visiting a family in Preston with
whom he was acquainted. As soon as they
were introduced she entered into a conversa-
tion with him on the subject of the Gospel.
He found her a very intelligent lady and very
anxious to hear and understand the doctrines
of the true Gospel. She went to hear him
preach that evening and the following, and
then she was fully convinced of the truth and
sent for him and expressed her desire to be
baptized, which request he cheerfully complied
with, and confirmed her at the water’s edge.
And as an illustration of his prophetic charac-
ter, the first time he met Brother Willard
Richards he exclaimed, “Willard, I have bap-
tized your wife to-day.” He writes in his jour-
nal, that Sister Jeannette Richards was buried
at six in the afternoon of the 11th.
	“On the evening of the 9th,” he says, “the
Bishops made a feast at the mansion." Broth-

[Column 2]
er John Pack had charge of the house.
Joseph’s family having moved back into the
White House, nearer the river. Father says,
“I went to John Pack’s to wait upon the
Smith family as the Bishops made a feast.
About one hundred persons present. All
things passed off well.
	“Thursday, July 10th. The Saints met at
the stand at ten o’clock in the morning and
gave alms to the poor. I spoke, also Brigham
Young, George A. Smith, John E. Page and
Orson Pratt. Adjourned at two in the after-
noon, as the heat was so intense. A great
many are sick.”
	After the meeting of fasting and prayer,
father says, “I met with my brethren in the
evening and prayed for rain.” And on the
13th he wrote, “On Sunday morning it began
to rain very hard—have had a beautiful
shower. This was in answer to our prayers.
The Lord be praised for His goodness.” He
wrote the day previous that his wife, Sarah
Peeke, was very sick at Brother Stephen Win-
chester’s, and he sat up with her most of the
night. The evening of the 16th, after witness-
ing the death of Brother William Gheen, who
died at 7 o’clock in the evening, father took
Sarah and Sister Winchester to the river and
baptized them for their health. He was pay-
ing them for the board of his wife and two
daughters, whom he had adopted. Brother
and Sister Winchester and their family, if they
had been our nearest kin, could not have
thought more of one another than we had done
from the time that we were neighbors in Kirt-
land, Ohio and in Missouri.
	“Brother William Gheen,” father says, “was
buried on the evening of the 17th, at 6 o’clock.
Most of the Twelve were present.” Brother
Gheen and family were among the Saints who
came from Pennsylvania. He had given two
of his daughters (Anna and Amanda) to my
father as wives, and did not consider it a
dishonor to be thus connected with him, but
quite the reverse. They have each borne him
a numerous family. And though Anna has
left us to join him and thousands of loved ones
beyond “this vale of tears,” her name will
ever live in the hearts of countless numbers
besides the many who are connected with her
by family ties.
	For five successive days father wrote in his
journal that his time was spent working on his
house, visiting the sick, in council, and a va-
riety of other duties. “Saturday, 26th,” he
says, “I visited many sick and attended coun-
cil. We nominated several officers for our
August election. All goes well, and the Lord
is on our side.” Sunday he mentions going to
meeting with his wife and daughter Helen.
“Brothers George Miller and Amasa Lyman
spoke a few words upon the Nauvoo House,
then Brigham Young spoke.” Most of his
time on the following Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday was spent visiting the sick; and he
speaks of a funeral that he attended with Brig-
ham Young, and speaks of them reading his-
tory and going on the Temple. The house
of the Lord was well on towards its completion,
And they could truly say that this was one of
the results of faith with works. These things may
look strangely to those who are unacquainted
with the principles of our faith and the great
work which we have been engaged in for over
fifty years, and especially that our people should
continue working at the Nauvoo House and
Temple, and at the same time preparing to
leave them to the mercy of a set of sacrile-
gious mobocrats to demolish. I think that this
should be a convincing proof (at least) of the
sincerity and honesty of their motives.
Nothing could daunt their spirits; but if they
had not enjoyed something superior to any
man-made religion they could never have
been supported under all those sorrowful and
trying scenes, It was through the united faith

(Column 3)
and prayers of the faithful few that we were
permitted to remain there long enough to finish
that Temple, that they might be endowed with
the blessings which the Lord had promised
them, and for which they cheerfully gave their
mite and labored faithfully to finish the house
which the Lord had commanded to be built.
Words cannot express the gratitude that I feel.
for being counted worthy to have place among
the ones of whom the Lord has made a “pecu-
liar people,” which is the only Church ever es-
tablished upon the earth since the one we read
of in the days of Christ, who believe and ac-
cept the whole of the Gospel as taught in the
ancient Scriptures, instead of choosing that
portion only which agrees with our peculiar
ideas and notions. The ones who do this are
blind indeed.
	If Christ is truly our pattern, and He had to
submit to bear all manner of crosses and sink
below all things, that He might rise above all
things, how are we to become joint heirs with
Him unless we have a similar experience in
this life? This people have proven their wil-
lingness to submit to be persecuted and hated
of all men for righteousness’ sake; and where
is there another people who have manifested
such true Christian patience, and faith enough
to trust in an unseen hand under all circum-
stances and still believe in and rely upon those
promises made by our Savior, who also com-
manded that we should become one in all
things, and said, “Unless ye are one ye are not
mine.” And because we are striving to obey
this command and every other Christian and
God-like principle, that we may be saved and
have part with Him in that Celestial glory
prepared for the faithful and pure in heart of
all nations, and that they may hear the same
glad tidings of great joy and be gathered with
us into the fold of Christ, making sacrifice of
our idols and rejoicing even in the midst of
our sorrows, when we part with our beloved
brethren, husbands, fathers and sons, who are
going forth in the service of our Master to
save the souls of men, that they may also be
partakers of this joy which is unspeakable and
that life-giving power which has ever brought
comfort and cheer to the humble heart and is
free to all who will seek for it; and because we
have sought to become of one heart and one
mind, we have ever been looked upon with a
jealous eye, and hated by the world, who refuse
to hear and understand the truth, but will mis-
judge us and all our motives. Union is power;
and this is the great bug-bear, and because they
cannot break up and destroy it, they consider
us a dangerous rival, and in their madness cry
polygamy as the only plausible excuse for break-
ing up and destroying this power;
	They do not understand the character and
the unwavering integrity of an honest Latter-
day Saint; but we can well afford to be chari-
table, for we know what is in store for them,
and many of us have drank deep enough of
the bitter cup of adversity to know how to feel
for our fellow creatures, and I fervently pray
for those who are deceived in consequence of
the great prejudice which is in the world, be-
cause of the awful lies which have been manu-
factured and set afloat, for effect, by the wicked
in our midst; and our foes are more to be pitied
than we are. They certainly have met with
poor success so far, and feel rather chagrined
at the present time. And Longfellow says, “If
we could read the secret history of our enemies
we should find in each man’s life sorrow and
suffering enough to disarm all hostility.”
	Supposing they should oblige us to leave
here, it would be doing for themselves a more
sorry job than when they drove us from the
United States, and if they were wise they
would leave us alone; for it has long since
been proven that we are like a mustard stalk,
which, if disturbed, will only multiply the
more.		To be Continued.


