ARTISTIC ENTERTAINMENT.

   The Unity Club entertainment given in the
Theatre Monday evening, April 9th, was an
unqualified success. The programme had been
arranged with great care, and the members of
the club and other performers were diligent in
their preparations beforehand and they were well
repaid for their labor in the appreciation of their
efforts by the general public. The ladies of the
Unity Club are possessed of artistic, dramatic and
musical talent, taste, tact and executive ability
which enables them to carry out an entertain-
ment with but very little outside help. Bishop
H. B. Clawson has been specially interested in
helping the club, partly from a genuine love and
taste for the drama and stage, and also from the
goodness of his heart and a desire to aid the
sick and unfortunate. On the last occasion of
the benefit of the Deseret Hospital he was ma-
terially aided by Henry McEwan, Esq., who has
in days gone by been much accustomed to the
theatre and familiar with all details of the
mechanical work. The programme of the Unity
Club was one which could scarcely fail to draw
and certainly evinced taste of a high order.
The music was the best that the city affords,
and the singing was from some of the sweetest
songsters in these mountain vales, Miss Agnes
Olsen, Miss Nellie Druce, Mrs. S. E. Langford,
Mrs. Maggie Hull and Mrs. Edith Clawson
Knowlton. The piano solo by Master Joseph
McIntyre deserves special mention on his own
account and that of his teacher. Messrs. Care-
less, Carrington and Clive rendered their music
in the most approved and pleasing style. The
tableaux were all attractive and beautiful, fore-
most among them being four seasons, represent-
ed by Lutie Thatcher, Spring; Louie Wells,
Summer; Dalla Cummings, Autumn; and Clara
Felt, Winter. Their costumes were exquisite.
   The costumes for representation of character
in the tableaux were exquisitely arranged and
everything denoted cultivation of a high order.
Among the tableaux of a historical character
were Amy Robsart, groups of Statuary, Boadicea,
Evangeline and Joan of Arc, Cornelia, mother
of the Gracchi, Children, Early at the Cross,
Niobe and children, The Tomb Revisited, Othel-
lo and Desdemona, Faust’s vision of Margue-
rite, Execution of Lady Jane Grey. Besides
these were the Good old days of Yore, Love and
Duty, Tableau from Patience.
   In the comic, Lord Ullin's Daughter, The
Old Woman who lived in a Shoe, and Oft in the
Stilly Night. These were so exceedingly funny
as to provoke the entire audience to laughter
and loud and continuous applause. The reading
by Miss Julia Thomas was much better than at
her first appearance. Her selections were such
as showed to more advantage, her culture in the
beautiful art of elocution. She has a clear and
expansive voice, and is perfectly at ease on the
platform.
   Miss Ada Dwyer, one of our home artists, is
a great favorite on the Salt Lake platform.
Her voice is fresh and sweet and her style is
very pleasing and attractive. She impresses her
audience powerfully. She recited Jamie so
effectively that it seemed real. There is no
doubt that she will attain to marked distinction
in the profession of elocution.
   The Unity Club has certainly made a success
in this last entertainment, and the members
have every encouragement for future efforts in


the direction of culture and benevolent enler-
prise.
   Bishop H. B. Clawson and Henry McEwan
rendered the most valuable assistance, otherwise
the ladles would have never been able to man-
age all the stage arrangements so admirably.
   Success to the Unity Club, and may it con-
tinue to prosper and accomplish good results.


