MALES OF UTAH.

	No man has the right to prescribe to another
what shall be his religious belief, and the
Latter-day Saints, who have added more to the
wealth of this nation than any other class or
colonists—by reclaiming and populating these
barren wastes, being the majority in this Terri-
tory claim the right of self-government, and as
Judge Black said, at the close of his argument
for Utah, (whose name we shall honor in con-
nection with others who have nobly plead the
cause of the oppressed,) "You have no author-
ity to legislate about marriage in a Territory; the
people of Utah have as good a right to their
religion as you have to yours." But if you, who
profess to have gained so much greater light
and wisdom, could show us a better way, or any
better fruits of true civilization, from your own
domestic relations, we would be willing to yield
the point. But when a people assume claims
and power which are unconstitutional and try
to force them upon us "by means flatly pro-
hibited" and "The right to say that the women
of Utah, or the men of Utah, shall not exercise
their religion as they may think it right and
proper, and that they shall be deprived of all
political power in this country because of their
entertainment of opinions upon this subject dif-
ferent from their own," and "that women who
are not found to be bigamists or polygamists," or
to have contracted this tie are to be disfran-
chised, and though we "Mormons" have never
infringed or violated the rights or claims of any


[Column 1]
﻿man or set of men, yet we are not to be allotted
even the claims of the robber or murderer or
criminals in general, but are to be convicted
and punished without judge or jury, we have
neither inclination nor intention to submit to
such an outrage quietly, without even a struggle.
And were we allowed to act upon our constitu-
tional political rights we would first expel from
our midst the characters who "openly and
notoriously" practice their immoralities and
also those who publish the lowest of slanders
against an innocent people, and it would in my
mind not "require the judgment of a court" to
remove such institutions. Let them cut out
their own cancer, which is the foulest blot that
could ever come upon civilization, and if the
feeders and supporters of these wicked and low
lived establishments were treated as they
should be they would not be permitted to vote
or to hold office. These criminal practices were
never countenanced in any "Mormon" com-
munity, while they were allowed to hold the
reins of government, but "where the carrion is
there will the eagles be gathered." This nation
is indebted not only to the "Mormon" men, but
to the "Mormon" women, and though we have
been wronged and borne our wrongs in silence
for many years and were willing to forgive and
"bury the hatchet," when we see that the very
worst enemies" to our Constitution are being
allowed to harass and afflict us, whom they
know to be the most peacably inclined, indus-
trious and enterprising class of people, and who
first colonized and made these once dreary and
barren deserts inhabitable, leaving no stone
unturned to rob and strip us again of our rights
as American citizens, and of every lawful
means of defence against the meanness and
violence the most corrupt set of lawless aggress-
ors that ever disgraced a nation, we do not
intend to yield quietly again, to be driven from
our happy homes, which are far dearer to us
now than were those which they robbed us of
in an early day and drove us into the wilder-
ness. We will publish our history and also
theirs, and expose to the world the abominable
schemos and hypocrisy of some of the wise and
learned of their "Scribes and Pharisees;" who are
trying to disfranchise the "Mormon" women
because, forsooth, we vote for the men of our
choice, being to our own interest to do so,
instead of for those who have openly acknowl-
edged themselves to be our most bitter enemies.
What an enormous "sacrifice" for the few Gen-
tile ladies who vote in Utah to deny themselves
this privilege long enough "to destroy the power
of the Mormon Church," expecting, as many do,
to share in the booty.
	We would call their attention to a time when
some were so very humaue as to propose the
right of suffrage to be conferred upon the "Mor-
mon" women that they might free themselves
from the awful bondage of the "Mormon"
Priesthood or hierarchy. This right having been
given us by the "Mormon" Legislature, over
twelve years ago, with the full consent of the
United States. We were not slow to avail
ourselves of it, and if we were in bondage and
felt our chains to be very galling we could most
assuredly have refused to live in, or sustain
plural marriage, and we are at perfect liberty, at
all times, to free ourselves if so disposed, and if
there was the least danger or necessity we
could call on this army—stationed here upon
the bench to protect us. This fact was proven
in an early day, when a few weak minded sisters
sought protection under the wing of Colonel
Steptoe's army, but which, I think, proved a
warning to others to beware of "wolves in
sheep's clothing." "Mormon" women are not
so ignorant as might be supposed, of the power
that they hold to declare polygamy illegal.

[Column 2]
But before Senator Edmunds and others allow
themselves to be convicted by overstepping their
authority in taking away our rights without
due process of law, they would do well to come
and visit some of "these poor females," for
whom they profess so much sympathy and'
wish to emancipate "from the slavery of voting.
(I wonder these words did not choke him)
Instead of trusting to the tales of those who are
using them as "cat's paws," and we warrant that
they "could get at the real opinion of the
"Mormon women," who are at liberty to speak
for themselves and are more than willing to
"give them the free exercise of those opinions,"
and they might possibly blush at their own
ignorance and bigotry, and return wi er if not
better judges of the human heart, and of the
superior blessings and privileges enjoyed by the
"Mormon" wives who have honored this Celes-
tial order. I believe that they would find more
advocates and those who would sustain this
order among the women than among the men.
Women are generally inspired by the strongest
religious motives; and they have the greatest
faith and courage to endure pain and the various
crosses in life. This has been demonstrated in
all ages. There are of course, exceptions to
every rule, but in the life of Christ, see the devo-
tion that was shown by woman. She was last
to linger at the Cross, and was first at the Sep-
ulchre. We read "when it was yet dark" and
"when the disciples went away again to their
own home" Mary still "stood without the Sep-
ulchre weeping," and she was the first to hear
the Savior's voice, who gave to her the message
to take to His brethren.
	I know of no plural wife who has felt fright-
ened enough to propose being divorced from her
husband, but I did hear of one man who, at the
first sound of the news that these commisioners
were to be sent here, gave to his second wife a
bill of divorcement. And I remember (not
many years ago) of a few dissatisfied men who
murmured against the authority of the Priest-
hood and when in darkness they sought revela-
tion from peepers and other spurious sources
and withdrew from the Church—and to gain
favor and popularity in the world they had to
put away their plural wives, though some had
become mothers and were devotedly attached to
their husbands and the parting between some
of them was enough to melt the hardest heart.
They had never given it a thought, when leav-
ing this Church that they would ever repudiate
any of their wives. But some of the first wives
gave their lords to understand that they had
no right to live with a plurality of wives out-
side of the Church, which they had withdrawn
from. So the virtuous portion sorrowfully sub-
mited to their fate with martyr-like fortitude
and the majority, losing what little light they
had fell into the worst darkness, spiritualism
and infidelity, and how much higher are they
now in the estimation of the world than are the
ones who held on to "Mormonism" and stood
out in defence of this Celestial principle of mar-
riage? I fail to see that they have gained any
thing; but they have lost every thing that was
essential to true happiness in this world and
all hope in the world to come. And as for the
demon jealousy, it flourishes more outside of
plural marriage than it does among the ones who
practice it whatever may be said to the contrary.
We all know and expect that our husbands will
acknowledge their wives before the world, there-
fore there is no deception nor necessity for prac-
ticing the system of hypocrisy and the awful,
vices of intrigue and lying which our most
zealous and over righteous accusers are addicted
to—encouraging secret transgressions; they
steal away from the only woman, whom they
honor with the name of wife, and indulge pro-

[Column 3]
miscuously without any regard to honor or mo-
rality, and many of them without the least
restraint, indulge in open profligacy, and then
adding insult to injury such characters set them-
selves up to judge us—denouncing the men and
the women who are "in the marriage relation"
as criminals, doomed to suffer any penalty which
they see fit to place upon us. But "people living
in glass houses should not throw stones." If it
is crime they wish to repress, let them begin at
home and first honor "that most sacred tie
which lies at the foundation of the home and
of society," (which we not only preach, but
paactice,) instead of saying, "I am more holy
than thou," because a new faith happens to
come in contact with the old rules and prejudices
and long established views of society, and their
opinions of "social order." "He that is without
sin among you let him cast a stone at us." But
we truly rejoice that we stand in our own posi-
tion to-day instead of theirs; for "he that is of
God heareth God's words," and the Latter-day
Saints have long been prepared for the scourges
and judgments which were to "commence at
the house of the Lord," and we see the calami-
ties already coming which were pronounced,
(through the Prophet Joseph Smith) upon
this favored nation, if they would not repent
and cease their persecuting God's people. The
things once viewed in the far future are now at
our doors, and do we rejoice at the sufferings of
these our fellow beings—even though some may
have sanctioned and had a hand in making these
wicked and inhuman laws to destroy and break
us up—rending assunder the dearest ties of con-
sanguinity, to rob and drive us again? No! there
is not one in possession of a Christian spirit, but
would be glad to save them if it were possible,
from the suffering which their own deeds are
bringing upon them. But when they not only
refuse to accept salvation when it is offered
them by God's chosen servants, and scorn the
warning voice, but continue to persecute them
to the death; they cannot eacape, for He has
long since decreed these things. We read in our
papers from day to day of the awful suffering
from disasters causing untold misery and an-
guish, such as no language has power to de-
cribe—sweeping thousands of God's creatures in-
to eternity without the least preparation or
warning, and to think that we have no power
to prevent it, and the only thing we can do is
to plead with that God of mercy, whose hand
has ever been over us for good, that he will show
mercy unto those who are innocent. But the
wicked of this nation have got a heavy debt to
pay. There are a few of God's predictions
which we see are being fulfilled. "Behold,
saith the Lord, I will bring plagues upon the
world, the sword, famine, death and destruction
I will hold my tongue no more. The innocent
and righteous blood crieth unto me and the
souls of the just complain continually. There-
fore, saith the Lord, I will surely avenge them,
and receive unto me all the innocent blood from
among them. Behold my people are led as a
flock to the slaughter. I will bring them with
a mighty hand and a stretched out arm.
	Woe to them that sin and keep not my com-
mandments! saith the Lord: Behold clouds from
the east and from the north unto the south,
and they are very horrible to look upon, full of
wrath and storm, and there shall be great fear-
fulness and trembling upon earth: and they
that see the wrath shall be afraid and trembling
shall come upon them. Fire and hail, and
many waters, that all fields may be full, and all
rivers, with the abundance of great waters, and
they shall break down the cities and walls—and
grass of the meadows, and their corn. Like as
thou hast done unto my chosen, saith the Lord,
even so shall God do unto thee, and shall deliver


thee into mischief—Thy children shall die of
hunger, and thou shalt fall through the sword,
thy cities shall be broken down, and all thine
shall perish with the sword in the field.” Our
God seeth all things, and He is surely avenging
the wrongs of an innocent oppressed people,
and our enemies will have no power to escape
the fierce judgments of the Almighty.
						H. M. Whitney.


