ADDRESSED
To Mrs. E.R. Snow Smith:
	In a quiet spot ’neath a cedar tree,
	Is a little grave very dear to me;
	A darling, my baby, lies buried there,
	Safe from temptation, and free from care.
	To-day is his birthday and yours, dear friend,
	And tenderest greeting to you I send;
	A sweet, sacred tie it seemeth to be,—
	That grave, this birthday, 'tween you and me.
	
	In his life’s early dawn he passed away,—
	Your life has been one long busy day;
	Why, wherefore, no mortal tongue can tell;
	God willed it so, He doth all things well.
	Time hath chastened my grief for the absent one
	In submission I say, Thy will be done.
	Dear friend upon this day,
	This milestone on thy way
	I've stopped awhile, ’midst work and care;
	Your history to read. Its pages fair
	Abound in noble deeds,
	From morn, through noon, still busy sowing seeds
	Of good, which will, and do bring forth 
	A harvest rich of love and faith.
	Methinks I hear recording angels say:
	"Another year of noble work to-day;”
	
	Could I but near you stand,
	See your face, clasp your hand,
	And say: “God bless her,—bless this, her birthday,
	And may it bring her happiness alway:”
	My heart would thrill with joy
	God grant we meet where bliss hath no alloy.
	A crown awaits you there, angels will sing
	Their sweetest song for your glad welcoming;
	For many souls can now more hopeful be
	Of heaven, for your faithful ministry.
	
	And I, in daily life
	As woman, mother, wife,
	Will set my standard high, as you have done,
	And nobly, truly work, till victory's won
	You have not lived in vain,
	Your life hath given joy, and lessened sin and pain.
	Your light doth shine brightly afar,
	Leading Jesus, as did the star
	Of Bethlehem. Faithful work, and noble aim!
	All womankind may love and bless your name.

	Accept this tribute of respect and love;
	We may not meet on earth, we'll meet above,
	That little grave shall as an altar be
	For prayer, and incense to your memory.
	When flowers bloom thereon, their fragrant breath
	Will tell of joy and heaven–after death;
	That winter's cold, like worldly strife,
	Is but the preface of a brighter life.
	And when the year goes round and brings this day,
	Beside that grave I'll think of you alway
						EMILY SCOTT.
Ohio, Jan. 21, 1883.


