DESULTORY NOTES.

	We are often asked why there is not more in
the EXPONENT. concerning the Deseret Hos-
pital. To give definite particulars that the
public might like to know would occupy consid-
erable space, and would scarcely be of sufficient
importance to give so large a share of a very
small paper, which is published in the interest
of women generally, both young and old, and
not one particular organization or department
of either charity, industry, or politics. We
may say, however, with all safety at the pres-
ent time, that thus far the Deseret Hospital has
prospered. With the many difficulties to sur-
mount that ever attend the establishing of an
institution of this character, and, taking the
whole matter into consideration, it cannot but
be said the ladies so far have done well. To
be sure they were most of them inexperienced
in hospital work, but time, patience and per-
severance accomplish wonders when the heart
is interested, and certainly the ladies of this
city and adjacent cities and counties have mani-
fested a true spirit of benevolence and liberality
in bestowing of their means, and a desire to
help carry on this enterprise, which is most
praise-worthy and admirable. There has been
obstacles to encounter and emergencies to meet
which were not anticipated in the beginning,
but such things are incidental in all depart-
ments of life and work, and therefore, scarcely
need commenting upon. The people were ap-
pealed to for free donations to assist in furnish-
ing and fitting up the building, and the res-
ponse was general from both men and women,
as well as prompt and generous.
	A great many have feit very anxious to help
forward the institution by giving public enter-
tainments; perhaps, because they knew more
of the needs of such an institution, and it is
customary to aid in this way, and certainly
it has been a great blessing and help to the
Hospital. The proceeds of the concert given in
the large Tabernacle last July, under the direc-
tion of a very able Committee, Elder George
Goddard, Chairman and general manager of the
affair, did considerable towards helping this in-
stitution in its incipiency. Since then a Pri-
mary Concert has been given in the Elevnth
Ward in this city, and the proceeds handed over
to the Hospital, $41, from the children, exceed-
ingly good indeed for the little folks; of course,
a great deal was due to the excellent manage-
ment of Mr. Louie Felt and her associates in
getting up the entertainment.
	The Unity Club, which waa organized in
November, 1882, have made a donation of $500
(five hundred dollars) to the Deseret Hospital
for the benefit of that institution. It is certain-
ly most commendable in these ladies to work
and aid with material help, a place for the sick

[Column 2]
and injured to be cared for and made comforta-
ble as they could not be in their own homes.
Tne money given was the proceeds of entertain-
ments and parties, for which the members of
the club worked with all diligence and enthu-
siasm, realizing they were laboring in a charita-
ble cause for an institution just in its infancy,
struggling for permanent establishment.
	For years the sisters actively interested in
the Relief Society in this Church have seen and
felt deeply the need of a place of this kind.
But where to obtain the means to found a hos-
pital seemed to be the difficulty in the way of
its accomplishment. There did not appear
beforehand, at least in the minds of many, so
much apprehension about maintaining it were
it once practically started. However, having
undertaken this benevolent enterprise, the
ladies of the Executive Board find that it will
require continuous application to meet the
monthly expenses, as there are necessarily more
patients that can only pay a small sum towards
their care and treatment, than those who can
pay in full the expenses for board and medical
attention.
	Every person must know what it is to go into
an empty house and furnish it with everything
for comfort and convenience, and besides the
furnishings such as are necessary for family use
in a home, a hospital must have a dispensary
supplied with medicines, and also instruments
for operations of all kinds. In this respect the
Deseret Hospital is well fitted up. The instru-
ments were purchased in New York City, and
are of the very best material and manufacture.
	All the apartments and wards are neatly and
suitably furnished, and the accomodations are
such as the patient might enjoy in a home,
more than like an ordinary hospital. All the
people employed there strive to make the
house home-like and its inmates happy. Ser-
vices of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints are held in the reception room every
Sunday afternoon, and the sacrament is admin-
istered under the direction of the Bishop of
the Ward and his Counselors. The sick have
the privilege of the administration of the Elders
of the Church, which is certainly an advantage
and blessing to the suffering, which the Latter-
day Saints can appreciate.
	The medical board is ample for all emergen-
cies. Dr. W. F. Anderson, the regular visiting
surgeon, has an established reputation as a
physician, of more than a quarter of a century’s
standing in this community. Several lady
physicians are on the visiting and consulting
board who are well and favorably known as suc-
cessful practitioners and a house surgeon, who,
though a young lady, has already won laurels
in the profession, and made hosts of friends in
the calling she has chosen.


