R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
HYRUM.	
	The Primary Association of Hyrum held
their annual meeting, March l6th. The meet-
ing house was well filled. Quite a number of
visitors were present. On the stand were Presi-
dent Lucy Wilson, Jane E. Molen, President
of Stake, Christena Johnson and Frances
Stephens, Counselors of the Relief Society. Of
the brethren, Bishop Simpson Molen, David
Osborne and Alma Benson. Sister Lucy Wil-
son presiding. Prayer by Brother D. Osborne,
Singing. Roll called. Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved. Reports were then read
and accepted.
	Exercises. Lecture from Parley P. Pratt,
Milia Corbett; Recitation, Hannah Iverson;
Song, Joseph Wintle; Recitation, Clara Fellef-
son, entitled, “The Purest Pearl;” Dialogue
by Ella Stephens and Harriet Shaw, “Primary
Meeting;” Song, Sarah Hanson; Recitation,
“Cold Water,” by three little girls; Recitation,
Thomas Fellefson; Song, Emma Hanson and
Eva Unswortk.
	President Wilson made a  few remarks,
wished to do her duty at all times, and teach
the children the ways of life and salvation.
Sister Johnson was the next speaker; she spoke
encouragingly to the children, said there was a
great improvement in the Association. Sister
Stephens spoke a few words on the good that
was being done in teaching the children the
principles of truth, and preparing their young
minds for usefulness in the Kingdom. Sister
Molen spoke very interestingly to the children.
Bishop Molen said, “I regret there are not
more boys belonging to the Association; “said
the boys who attend the Primary are the best
boys, we ought not to drink liquors nor use to-
bacco,but should keep the “Word of Wisdom.”
	The Primary Association also gave an enter-
tainment in February. The exercises consisted
of songs and recitations, selected from the
Primary Speaker. We had a good time; all
present were pleased with the entertainment.
The proceeds were $15. We gave $7.20 to the
missionaries, and the remainder was used for
the Primary.
	Our meetings are interesting, and much
credit is due to the President and those asso-
ciated with her. Ever praying for the welfare
of Zion, and the success of the Exponent.
Alice TJnsworth,
Corresponding Secretary.

[column 2]
OGDEN, WEBER STAKE.
	The Relief Societies of Weber Stake of Zion
held their Quarterly Conference on Thursday,
March 8th, 1883, in the Ogden Tabernacle.
On the stand were President Jane S. Richards,
Counselors Hattie Brown and Sarah I. Her-
rick, and Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina
D. H. Young, Eliza Hall, also Presidents of
branch Societies, several Bishops and leading
Elders. After the usual exercises of singing
and prayer, the reading of the minutes and re-
ports, etc., President Jane S. Richards made a
few opening remarks, felt pleased to see so
many of the brothers and sisters out to meet-
ing. Felt sure the Lord would bless and pour
his Spirit upon them; was grateful and thank-
ful to our Father in Heaven, for his goodness
unto us as a people. Prayed that all would
strive to keep faithful and true to their reli-
gion, remember the poor and needy, comfort
those whom we see who are in trouble or dis-
tress, for that is what these societies are organ-
ized for, and in blessing or helping others
wo certainly bless ourselves. Asked God to
be with each and every one of us.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith addressed the
meeting. She spoke first on the subject of
baptism, and how a real Saint of God felt
when this holy ordinance was performed; re-
fered briefly to the paying of tithing; thought
all should attend to this duty, even little chil-
dren should be taught this principle, no matter
whether we have much or little. The Lord is
very particular in small things; we know this
by reading the Bible. Let us also strive to be
particular in all little matters pertaining to
this life; by so doing we are preparing for our
future existence, which is something well worth
living for here. Spoke on the Sacrament of
the Lord's Supper, and the necessity of partak
ing of it with a pure heart before the Lord.
She dwelt some time on the subject of training
and educating the young and rising genera-
- tion, especially the girls; thought they should
have a good kitchen education, and that they
would then be good housewives, be good for
something, besides simply to drum a few tunes
on an organ or piano; the education of our
girls must be in everything that is ennobling to
womankind. Hoped all would be diligent in
attending to their duties, no matter how small
they might appear.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young hoped our minds
would be illuminated, to quicken our under-
standing, that we might prepare here for the
life to come. Advised the sisters to read good
books, to gain light and intelligence. Thought
that all we learned here, and every victory we
attain in the flesh, would promote our advance-,
ment hereafter, when we leave these frail
tabernacles, and go home to Father and Mother.
She spoke also on the subject of physiology
and health; thought the mothers of the day
should try and educate a race who might have
room to breathe. Let us promise even in their
cradle, that their hearts shall not be pinioned.
as in a vice, nor their spines bent like a bow,
nor their ribs bent into the liver. We must
teach in the nursery that the body is the tem-
ple of the Holy Ghost. We must leave no,
place in the minds of our little ones for lunatic
sentiment, that the minds healthful action and
the integrity of the organs on which it operates
are secondary to the vanities of external decora-
tion. If they have received from their cradle
a sound mind and a sound body, convince the
child that it is accountable for both. How shall,
the mother answer for it, in whose hand the soul
of her child is laid, if she suffers fashion to
cover it, melting the lines that wisdom penciled
there, till what heaven would have polished for
itself, loses the fair impression, and becomes
like common earth? Thought we should study
deeply, that we need not through ignorance in-
terfere with those laws on which the organiza-
tion of our children depends, rendered precious


by being the shrine of an undying spirit.  We
must not only pray for the welfare of the souls
of our children, but seek the good of its com-
panion, who walks with it to the gate of the 
grave, and rushes again to its embrace on the
morning of the resurrection.  Both Sisters
Snow and Zina dwelt long on the above sub-
ject.  I cannot begin to describe in language
as heart felt as they spoke.  It is hoped that
all who heard them will remember their words.
They gave much valuable instruction on a
variety of subjects.
	Sisters Brown and Herrick, and Bishops
McQuarrie and Critchlow,  also made some
timely and interesting remarks,  after which
the meeting was adjourned for three months,
with singing and benediction.
				MONTA HARRIS,
					Secretary Relief Society.


