SLANDER AND BACKBITING.

	You may think that I have chosen an odd
subject for my essay, but I think it is one that
is almost exhaustless, at least the evil results of
it are.
	We all, as you know, have our failings,  or
weak points, as they may be called; and slander
is a failing that is common to almost every one
of us.  Slang is a habit that injures us, but
slander not only injures us but those of whom
we are speaking. If any person has injured us,
let us not speak evil of that person, for the
purpose of making enemies for her, for in this
we may fail and only make enemies for our-
selves.  I never injured a person in my life but
what I was sorry for it afterwards, and would
gladly have recalled that injury; so it must be
with those who injure me; their consciences
will reprove them, which is punishment enough,
without being slandered by me,  which only
makes the breach between us wider, and mak-
ing enemies for her, but gain no friends for my-
self
	We should try to guard our conversation and
if we have any thing to say about a friend or
even a stranger, let it be good and not evil.
We should avoid speaking evil reports of an-
other; we cannot gain friends by talking evil,
therefore, as friendship is essential to happiness,
we must guard our conversation, and not forget
this saying of our Savior: “Blessed are the
peacemakers for they shall be called the chil-
dren of God."
	Social conversation is largely made up of
what is called scandal; it would be difficult to
find a talkative group of either sex, who could
spend an hour together without evil speech of
somebody.  It is far better to sit dumb than to
open our lips to speak evil of any one. We
should practice the golden rule, “Do unto
others as you would have others do unto you.”
When we have anything but a good word to
say of a person let us say it to the person con-
cerned, that he or she may have a chance to
defend him or herself.
	Happy are the few who avoid slander,  tale-
bearing,  and spreading evil reports. They
merit the approbation of the wise and good;
and happy would it be for the community at
large if this number could be increased.
We have it in our power to encourage or
discourage altogether this propensity to slander;
and as we are often the sufferer by the indul-
gence of this unprincipled conduct it is our duty
to discourage it.
	Do not therefore let our lips unclose to utter
anything that will injure another, nor do not
let us listen to any one who would fill our ears
with the failings or follies of another; and thus
we can do our part toward banishing from so-
ciety this pest of social life, slander.
	I have no doubt that while I have been
reading this, many of you have thought that
I preach what I do not practice. I do not


doubt but that I do, but we can take advice
from a fool, if that advice is good, without
partaking of his foolishness.
