WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
COTTAGE HOSPITALS.
FROM “WOMEN AT WORK."
	England is far in advance of this country
in her provision for her care of the sick in
small cities and towns, and the system of Cot-
tage Hospitals there in operation, is one which
we may study with advantage and adopt with
great benefit to the sick.
	Our large cities are, in general, well sup-
plied with hospital accommodations, but the
smaller cities and larger towns are lamentably
deficient in this respect.  Concerning the de-
sirability of providing these places with small
hospitals, there can be no question.  Especial-
ly are they needed in the larger manufactur-
ing towns, in which many of the employees,
are without a home, living in boarding places
and in case of accident or disease are but poor-
ly provided for, and many lives are lost in
consequence of improper care.  Any physi-
cian practicing in these towns well knows how
unsuitable are these boarding places for the
care of the sick, and often finds his labors
will be of no avail in face of the improper
conditions which surround his patient. How
diffierent would be the result, if the sick or in-
jured could be removed at once to a quiet
home-like cottage hospital, where, with a
trained nurse in charge, and attended by the
physician of his choice, he would also have all
the resources of the hospital at his command!
	The value of these small hospitals has
been well tested in England, during the past
twenty years, and their simplicity, the home-
like surroundings, and ready adaptability to
the needs of country life, have won for them a

[Column 2]
warm place in the regard of the English peo-
ple.  Two hundred and fifty cottage hospitals
are now in successful operation in that country,
relieving about 50,000 patients annually, who
contribute at least one-sixth the cost of their
maintenance to the hospital.  If this system
could be generally introduced into this coun-
try, its value would be  provided with hospital ac-
comodations, who are now deprived of their
advantages, many of whom would be willing
to pay a small sum weekly for the medical
care and nursing thus provided.
	A large outlay is not required, for the neces-
sary building need not be expensive.  In Eng-
land, the average cost of cottage hospitals,
having a capacity of about eight beds, is from
$4,000 to $6,000 each.  In my own experience,
with a capacity of twenty-five beds for child-
ren, $5,000 will about cover the expense of
land and building, of course, the cost of con-
struction will vary with the location, but there
is surely no town of 10,000 inhabitants, and
upwards, too poor to establish and maintain
one of these small institutions.
	A small hospital managed by ladies has
been in successful operation at Pittsfield,
Mass., for several years, another is contem-
plated at Newton, while a third, intended es-
pecially for children, has just been established
at Baldwinville, in the same State.  This is a
work for which ladies are well adapted, and
much of the energy now lying idle, or exerted
in wrong directions, might be profitably ex-
pended in the establishment and support of
cottage hospitals in every town of 10,000 in-
habitants in this country.
	The plan of operation may be very simple,
a small building, in a good location, can be
rented until desirable to build, and a nurse
placed in charge, with a woman in the kitchen,
and such other help as may be needed.  The
physicians of the vicinity will, I have no
doubt, be ready and willing to co-operate, and
can arrange their attendance so as not to inter-
fere with other engagements.  Each physician
is expected to take charge of the patients sent
by him to the hospital, and in England it is
customary to appoint one or more of the medi-
cal staff, in rotation, whose duty it is to look
after all the cases in the hospital requiring
especial attention in the absence of their
physician.  The medical director, as he is
called, is not to prescribe, except in an emer-
gency, for any but his own patients, but is to
carry out the wishes of his colleague, who is to
visit the patients under his care daily, and
order any alterations he may deem desirable.
L. W. Baker, M. D.


