				HELEN.

Yes!
In gazing on that form of wondrous charms
As in the casket it so peaceful lay,
So calm and chaste in the embrace of death,
Words most expressive leapt from out my lips
As though a voice within my heart endorsed
The beauty that lay passive there.—Beauty
In its highest, holiest, most unearthly sense,
In silent eloquence, was stamped thereon!
That girl so young, in unassuming youth,
Became at once transfigured as it were,
And all approached as with a silent awe!
How eloquent that silent, beauteous form
Spoke to each awe-struck gazer as they passed,
Telling the brevity of earthly life!
How frail the aspirations all are wont to feel!
Beauty was there that death alone can give;
It clothed with sanctity the sleeping form,
And all approached as they would bend before
A royal presence, in its robes of state!

Oh! mourning mother! stay thy falling tears!
Oh! sorrowing father, hush thy choking sobs!
Would’st thou recall her from the realms of bliss?
Would’st thou strip off the robe of Heaven?
Or tear the starry chaplet from her brow? 
And once more clothe her in habiliments of earth?
No, No! I hear you say, No, no, we would not.
Then, dear friends, stem now the tide of grief,
Oh! mourn no more for her who wears the robe,
The immaculate robe of the redeemed—
The starry crown of an immortal soul!
Think of her dwelling in eternal light,
Within the ineffable presence of her God,
And the divine association of her Savior’s love!
Of beings great and noble while on earth,
Who having nobly filled the mission given
Are now beatified within the smile of God!
Imagination fails to paint the scene,
But He, who viewed the ransomed throng,
And saw the glory of the Firstborn’s Church,
Has left by his inspired pen a vision
Michael Angelo would have loved to paint!
On meditations, such as these, let us dilate
Till we become with all their glory rife.
Feeling our spirit chastened and subdued,
And bending low respire, “Thy will be done.”
						Hannah T. King.
Salt Lake City, March 15th, 1883.


