MEMORIAL OF UTAH DELEGATES.
			   ______
	In the Senate of the United States, on Fri-
day, February 23rd, Senator Call presented a
memorial of Delegates from the Constitutional
Convention of Utah, which was referred to the
Committee on Territories and ordered to be
printed in the Congressional Record.
“To the Honorable Senators and Representa-
tives of the United States:
The undersigned respectfully and humbly
present this their petition and memorial as
follows, to wit:
We are citizens of Utah, authorized and
instructed by the people of that Territory to do
what is proper and possible for the preservation
of their rights and liberties.
	In their name we pray you to consider the
situation in which your legislation may place
them. We feel sure that you will at least hear
us, since our worst enemies do not pretend
that we have lost the right to petition for the
redress of our grievances.
	For certain reasons, elsewhere given, and
which need not now be repeated, we are entire-
ly satisfied that the act of March 22, 1882, was
an assumption of power not granted even to
Congress by the Constitution. We admit, how-
ever, that we are not the ultimate Judges of
that question. If you shall be convinced that
you, and not the Territorial government, have
jurisdiction to legislate on the subject of mar-
riage, divorce, and other matters of purely
private and local concern, and if you think it
proper to exercise that power without regard to
the nearly unanimous opinions of the people
affected by it, then we beseech you to modify
your law so that its penalties will be visited
upon those only who commit the prohibited
offense and are legally found guilty by a jury
impartially selected.

[Column 2]
	We pray you to repeal so much of the act of
March 22 as authorizes, or seems to authorize,
the disfranchisement of persons who are not
convicted, because it is a cruel punishment In-
flicted upon persons conclusively presumed to
be innocent.
	It is also hoped that the retroactive feature of
your law will be eliminated. No grosser viola-
tion of common justice could be committed
than a criminal law operating ex post facto.
	Respectfully but earnestly we protest against
the commission appointed under the act of
March 22. The people of the Territory had a
clear and unquestionable right to choose their
own local officers according to their own estab-
lished laws. Congress decreed that this right
should not be exercised except under the super-
vision of five persons to ba appointed by the
President. The commissioners, being appoint-
ed, undertook the duty but did not perform it
In consequence there could be no election with-
out a conflict with Congress, which we were
unwilling to bring on, however certain we were
of being in the right. There was no election,
and as a legal consequence, the incumbents of
the local offices held ovor agreeably to the stat-
ute in such case made and provided.
	But an attempt was made to punish the
people of the Territory for the default of the
commissioners by seizing the local offices and
putting the public money into the hands of the
Governor and his retainers. And this, we are
sorry to say, is asserted to be in accordance
with what is called the Hoar amendment, hast-
ily and inconsiderately stuck into the appro-
priation bill at the close of the last session. It
is clear to us, and must be to you upon reflec-
tion, that this amendment has not and was
not intended to have the effect claimed for It;
but if the courts of the Territory should give It
that construction all control of their own affairs
would be taken out of the people’s hands and
free government in the Territory would be at
an end. We submit to your candid judgment
whether the repeal of this amendment is not
duo to the character of Congress as well as to
the Territory of Utah. So, and so only, may
all pretence be taken away for the perpetration
of a huge political robbery.
The people of that Territory would be un-
faithful not only to their own rights and the
rights of their children, but to the cause of
liberty and justice everywhere, if they did not
remonstrate as earnestly as possibla against the
bill of pains and penalties reported by the Sen-
ate Judiciary committee. In open defiance of
the Constitution, it authorizes the capture and
imprisonment- of citizens, male and female,
known and admitted to be perfectly guiltless of
any offense. It violates the sanctities of the
family by compelling husband and wife lawful-
ly married and living together in conjugal har-
mony, to testify against one another. By a
legislative decree purely arbitrary, It disfran-
chises all female citizens, though their right to
the ballot is vested as clearly as that of the
men, and though it is not pretended that they
have done anything to forfeit it; the injustice
wopid be no greater to extend this disfranchise-
ment to the whole population, and probably is
expected to follow, either directly or indirectly.
The pending bill abolishes the election dis-
tricts for members of the Legislature, and if It
passes no election can be held unless a commis-
sion of Federal officers, known to be the bitter
enemies of popular government, .fahall rediatrlct
the Territory. This bill passed in its present
shape, and added to the hostile measures of the
last session, must almost necessarily result in
the destruction of the Territorial Legislature,
the seizure of the local offices, and the subjuga-
tion of the people to a state of ignomlnous
slavery,
Whatever may be the extent of the Juris-
diction over our local affairs which yon may
think It right to claim, we are safe in assuming
that no honorable man in or out of Congress
will stand up to defend measures forbidden, as
they are, by the express words of the Constllu-
tiou.
Nor can any excuse be found for them in the
antipathy which is professed by many, and
by some sincerely felt, for the doctrine of plu-
ral marriages. These penalties fall on the
whole population without reference to the per-
sonal guilt or innocence of individual.'. They
are stabs which roach the vitals of civil liberty
and do not touch polygamy at all.
We bring no railing accusations against our
enemies at home, who have labored to excite
animosity against us to break down our Terri-
torial government, and to rob us of the right to
manage our own affairs by agents of our own
choice. But we cannot conceal from you the
dread and terror with which v.e contemplate
the bare possibility of being placed under their
domination.
Possessed of despotic authority, with law In
their voice, with unrestrained power in their
hands, and a helpless people under their feet,
they would act after their kind and plunder us
without remorse. What chance of justice will
we have if we submit to their exactions? What
safety for our lives if we resist? With what
reason can we hope to escapo the fate of all
other communities placed in that unhappy
situation? Our case is even more forlorn in its
outlook than any that modern history records.
The men who are striving to become our mas-
ters claim the offices and funds of the Territory,
which are our undoubted property, In defiance
of law, justice, and the rights of self-govern-
ment secured to us by the Constitution. If
they succeed it would be mere madness to ex-
pect the smallest regard for our rights of private
property or personal liberty.
The undersigned were specially entrusted by
the convention which framedfor the people the
constitution under which they hope to be ad-
mitted as a State, to lay that instrument before
Congress and ask that proper action be taken
thereon. Inasmuch as our constitution Is fault-
leas and our population much larger than
that of some States already in the Union, we
venture to hope that our admission will not be
unreasonably delayed.
We implore you to take our case into your
consideration, and save us, as far as your sense
of justice will permit, from the great calamities
with which we are threatened.
And we will ever pray, etc.,
JOHN T. CAINE,
F. S. RICHARDS,
D. H. PEERY,
