W O M A N ’ S  E X P O N E N T .


WOMEN IN JOURNALISM.—The first daily
newspaper printed in the world was estab-
lished and edited by a woman—Elizabeth
Mallet, in London, 1702,-almost 200 years
ago. In her salutatory, she said she had
established a newspaper to "spare the public
half the impertinences which the ordinary
newspapers contain." Woman like, her paper
was reformatory.
   The first newspaper published in America,
of which we have any record, was in Massa-
chusetts. It was called the Massachusetts
Gazette and News-Letter. After the death of
the editor, the widow edited it in the most
spirited manner for two or three years. It
was the only paper that did not suspend
publication when Boston was besieged by the
British. The widow's name was Margaret
Craper.
   In 1772 Rhode Island issued its first news-
paper. It was owned and edited by Anna
Franklin. She and her two daughters did
the printing, and their servants worked the
printing press. History tells us that for her
quickness and correctness she was appointed
printer to the colony, supplying pamphlets,
etc., to the colonial officers. She also printed
an edition of the colonial laws of 340 pages.
   In 1776 Sarah Goddard printed a paper in
Newport, R. I., ably conducting it, afterward
associating with her John Carter. The firm was
announced Sarah Goddard & Co., taking the
partnership precedence, as was proper and
right.
   In 1772 Clementine Reid published a paper
in Virginia, favoring the colonial cause and
greatly offending the royalists; and two years
after another paper was started in the in-
terest of the crown, by Mrs. H. Boyle, borrow-
ing the name of Mrs. Reid's paper, which
was the Virginia Gazette, but which was
short lived. Both of the papers were pub-
lished in the town of Williamsburg. The
colonial paper was the first newspaper in
which the Declaration of Independence was
printed.
   In 1773 Elizabeth Timothy published and
edited a paper in Charleston, S. C. After the
revolution Annie Timothy became its editor,
and was appointed State printer, which posi-
tion she held for seventeen years. Mary
Crouch published a paper in Charleston about
the same time, in special opposition to the
stamp act. She afterward removed her paper
to Salem, Mass., and continued its publication
there for years after.—Ex.


