SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
		AND PATRIARCH.
			_______
	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
			_______
	I here produce a copy of the letter received
by President Brigham Young from Governor
Ford - dated April 8th, 1845, containing a
proof, indisputable, that the Prophet Joseph
Smith was the first to propose moving to this
western country, instead of Brigham Young,
as has been stated by Joseph Smith, Editor of
the Lamoni Herald and reputed by others, who
are equally in the dark in this, as well as in all
other matters pertaining to this Latter-day
work.
	“If you can get off by yourselves you may
enjoy peace, but surrounded by such neighbors,
I confess that I do not see the time when you
will be permitted to enjoy quiet. I was in-
formed by General Joseph Smith, last summer,
that he contemplated a removal west; and from
what I learned from him and others at that
time, I think if he had lived, he would have be-
gan to move in the matter before this time. I
would be willing to exert all my feeble abilities
and influence to further your views in this re-
spect if it was the wish of your people. I
would suggest a matter in confidence. Califor-
nia now offers a field for the prettiest enter-
prise that has been undertaken in modern
times. It is but sparsely inhabited, and by
none but the Indians, or imbecile Mexican
Spaniards. I have not inquired enough to
know how strong it is in men and means. But
this we know, that if conquered from Mexico,
that country is so physically weak and morally
distracted that she could never send a force
there to reconquer it. Why should it not be a
pretty operation for your people to go out there,
take possession of and conquer a portion of the
vacant country and establish an independent
government of your own, subject only to the
laws of nations?
	“You would remain there a long time before
you would be disturbed by the proximity of
other settlements.
	“If you conclude to do this, your design ought
not to be known, or  otherwise it would
become the duty of the United States to pre-
vent your emigration. If once you cross the
line of the United States territory, you
would be in no danger of being interfered
with.”
	The Twelve Apostles had then nearly ma-
tured their plans for the move (not only of the


Saints in North America but also those in
Great Britain) to these Rocky Mountains, and
the Governor's advice was therefore quite un-
necessary. They had received similar advice
from Senator Douglas, James Arlington Ben-
nett and others. About this time they ad-
dressed a petition to President James K. Polk,
laying before him the true condition of a poor
oppressed and long suffering people. But his
heart was as an adamant--he did not deign an
answer.
	I find many things mentioned in my father’s
journal which I remember as I read them, and
they bring to my mind other incidents which
had it not been for his record, would probably
have been buried in oblivion. I will copy a
few as they were written by his own hand in
1845. He says, "On the morning of the 18th
of June, I went to John Taylor's to read his-
tory. President Brigham Young, George A.
Smith, John Taylor and myself—Brother Ezra
Benson read for us. The same morning Phineas
Young and Charles Shumway returned home
from their Western mission. At four o'clock
they came in where the brethren were reading,
and we stopped to listen to a letter from
Brother Dunham, and they gave to us a his-
tory of their travels." "They have had some
difficulties, but all will work right in the end."
Next day he writes, "I and others of the Twelve
were sent for by Sister Jennetta Richards,
(Brother Willard's wife,) to meet there and
pray for her, as she felt that she could not live
long. We also prayed for my wife, who is
very sick--and offered up prayer for Bishop
Whitney, who has gone to St. Louis--that he
may be prospered. "The same day he writes,
"Brigham Young, George A. Smith and myself
went to the Temple to see how things were pro-
gressing." "The rafters were mostly on, all
things going well." "Returned home and
found Sister Whitney. She anointed my wife
and sang in tongues; I also sang and the Lord
blessed us.” “June the 20th, I again met with
my brethren to read history--were in that part
which describes the persecutions ﻿in Jackson Co.
Missouri." "We stopped reading at two o'clock
in the afternoon. I found my wife worse--sent
for Sister Whitney. We clothed ourselves ac-
cording to the order of the holy priesthood and
anointed and prayed for her. The Lord heard
us, for she was better and had a good night’s
rest. The Lord shall have the glory." "All is
quiet in our city."
	He speaks of feelings having arisen from
what William Smith had said on the stand the
previous Sabbath, that he and his connections
had been neglected, etc., which was false, and
he says, "This gives me sorrow, but the Lord
will cause all things to go right."
	"June 22nd, Bishop Whitney got home from
St. Louis." At four o'clock the same day,
William Smith was married by Brigham
Young.” “On the 25th, met with the police,
the Bishops and many others at the Masonic
Hall. William Smith was present and said he
was afraid of his life. He received a rebuke
from Brigham." We read that, "the wicked
flee when no man puruueth," which words ap-
plied to William Smith, and he justly deserved
that rebuke. In Joseph's life he was quarrel-
some and frequently had to be dealt with before
his brethren for unchristian-like conduct. He
became very wicked and unprincipled, and his
conduct towards Joseph was at times unbear-
able, but he exercised towards him all the
kindness and forbearance that was possible.
He was very deceitful and tried by his allure-
ments to lead away some of Joseph's young
wives by picturing to them the grand sights
to be seen, and the more pleasant and agreable
life that they could lead if they would accom-
pnay him to the Eastern cities. He had a
plurality of wives, but his first wife was an in-
valid and was then living in Philadelphia with
her little children. Bishop Whitney was in-
formed of his wicked course taken against
Joseph, but his counsel was to keep it from him,
as he had trouble enough already upon his
shoulders. He(William) was certainly an odd
one in that family--was very genteel, good
looking and capable of appearing in the most
refined modern society, like some others of the
kid-gloved gentility of these days, but if all
of his conduct had been exposed to Joseph, the
consequences might have been more serious.
He came from the East when hearing of his
brother's martyrdom, and the next day after
his arrival at Nauvoo, instead of coming to the
meeting, which was held by the road-side east
of the Temple, he rode flauntingly by in a fine
carriage dressed in deep mourning with none
but himself and driver. He could have taken
any other road as well, but it looked as though
he did it just for the purpose of creating a
sensation. He aspired to stand as the leader
and fully expected to take some of his brother’s
wives if not all. He afterward professed or
feigned repentance and humility before the
Twelve Apostles and the people. I had the
honor of the perusal of a long and eloquently
worded epistle written by him to one of Joseph’s
oung wives, telling not only his devotion to
her, but of a wonderful vision, or revelation
that he had received, concerning her and him-
self, picturing out her future state in glorious
colors. But I suppose her mind had not suffi-
ciently expanded or else she possessed too little
of the spiritual to appreciate such visions, es-
pecially from that quarter, even to deign a
reply, but cast his letter to the flames. His
poor suffering wife had passed away previous
to this and he thought it a flattering induce-
ment to offer a young lady the privilege of
standing first. But she knew his former his-
tory, being one of the number that he tried to
fascinate and lead away from his brother, the
Prophet, while he was  living. After al-
lowing her sufficient time to answer his epistle,
he called one morning, and I happened to be
present and heard him ask her for "that letter,"
when she coolly informed him that it had been
destroyed. His countenance, which had al-
ready become a shade or two darker with the
pent up wrath, (which he did not try to con-
ceal) grew darker still and the look he gave
her as he turned to leave resembled anything
but that of a Saint. What made his sins still
greater was that he tried to hide them under the
cloak- of religion, and in such there is no such
thing as repentance or remission of sins. He
soon after married a very pretty young girl,
and though the character she bore was not of
the best, she was good enough for him. I met
them both at a dinner given on the 6th of the
following August, at Brother John Benbow's,
who owned a large farm on the prairie. My
parents, with about fifty persons, were present.
William Smith's countenance that day plainly
bespoke the bitterness that was raging within.
It was said that he only married the girl for
spite, at all events they were not happy, and it
was only a short time before they separated.
His brethren labored with him and tried to do
him all the good they could, and my father
spoke truly, for William Smith was always
dissatisfied, otherwise the Twelve were one.
	June 27th, being one year from the day that
Joseph and Hyrum were killed in Carthage
jail, was set apart for fasting and prayer.
Father writes in his journal. "O Lord, I thank
Thy holy name, that Thou dost hear thy ser-
vants and have brought trouble upon those who
have spilt the blood of thy servants and per-
secuted thy Saints. Even now they are
dumb--that they can not do business, and are
thrown into confusion in answer to prayer, as
we have felt to plead with Thee, with uplifted
hands in token of our regard to Thee. I thank
Thee, O our Father, for Thou dost hear us in
all things when we are agreed, and this Thou
hast granted to Thy servants this day, and I
pray that Thy blessing and peace and prosper-
ity my rest upon all Thy Saints; even so
amen."
	Saturday June 28th, father wrote, “The old
stand in the grove west of the Temple was pre-
pared for holding meetings. The Twelve were
present. We spent most of the day at the
Temple.
“Sunday, 29th, meeting was held at the old
stand. The congregation was very large. It
seemed like old times when we used to hear
from Joseph and Hyrum. * * The day
passed off well and heaven's blessings were
with us. In the evening went and baptized
fifty-one persons.” He mentions the fourth of
July, and says, "Many of the Saints spent the
day riding and had bands of music, and amused
themselves in different ways. The steamer Di
Vernnon came up from St. Louis, some from
Quincy and other places for pleasure. There
were near one hundred and fifty who stopped
in our city and went all over it—were very
civil. All things passed off well. General
Demming and Sheriff Backenstos came to my
house and spent the evening."
			To be Continued.


