IN MEMORIAM.

	Died, in this city, March 6th, 1883, of inflammation of
the lungs, Helen E., beloved daughter of George A. and
Lydia L. Alder, aged eighteen years, one month, and
seventeen days.
	A pure spirit has left us, one well prepared to dwell
in a holler sphere and among purer intelligences.
	Having been intimate with the family and being her
Sabbath School teacher for many years, I feel I can
speak advisedly in saying she was exemplary in all her
walks of life, also a member of the Young People’s As-
sociation (which was held at my house for more than
three years) I always found her prompt and willing to
perform anything she was requested to do. She was
modest in her manners and conversation, chaste in her
tastes, sensitive and delicate in her temperament, full
of filial affection to her parents, brothers and sisters,
and also most affectionate to her friends, myself in-
cluded. Ever willing and ready to make personal sac-
rifices to oblige others, especially those in advanced
life, to whom she was ever respectful. Always
thoughtful of her mother, and desiring to assist her in
her domestic duties. Not long ago she said to me, “I
should so love to attend Sabbath School, but I cannot
now, when I think how long mamma has done the
work, that all of us might attend Sabbath School.
Now I feel it is my turn.” She was very sensitive in
regard to her friends, and the way they felt towards
her. She ever reminded me of a delicate tea rose just
burst forth, and, oh! so sweet and fragrant, but open
the door and let the frost touch it, or expose it to the
too fierce rays of the sun, and it will droop, fall, and
die. The extremes of the chilling blast of winter, and
the burning heat of summer, affected her earthly taber-
nable; and so was her spirit chilled or brightened as the
breath of love and friendship rose or fell upon it. Her
natural disposition was cheerful, and she had implicit
confidence in the ordinances of our Church. She wished
to live, but her Father in Heaven desired her presence
in the serried ranks of the seraphic hosts, where she
now shines among the jewels of that glorious court.
	Shall we be so selfish as to mourn her exaltation by
which we lose her sweet society? No, we have dropt
tears of love upon her youthful bier, it was right and
just to do so. But now let us all, with heart and voice,
congratulate her, and say,
		“Joy, joy forever! thy task is done,
		The gates are passed and Heaven is won."
						JULIA CRUSE HOWE.
arch 10th, 1883.


