A VENERABLE WOMAN.
		PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.
				[Continued.]
	In the fall of 1840, Mrs. Buell moved from
her home in Missouri to Illinois and settled be-
tween Quincy and Nauvoo. During the time
she lived there, a period of between five and
six years, she made frequent journeys to
Nauvoo and visited among the Saints, being
particularly aquainted with Joseph and Hyrum,
with Mother Smith and family. Sister Pres-
endia, as we shall hereafter call her, became
more familiarly associated with the Prophet
and his teachings, which were attracting much
attention among the Saints and all sorts of
slanders imaginable were being circulated.
Truth is always counterfeited and every true
principle of science or religion introduced into
the world has been met by strong opposition
from the masses, generally the ignorant and
bigoted. In Nauvoo the teaching of the prin-
ciple of celestial marriage by Joseph spread
like wildfire, and all sorts of improbable and
impossible misrepresentations were noised
abroad. It is so strange that the Gospel having
been restored to the earth and the holy Priest-
hood bestowed upon the servants of God ac-
cording to the prophecies of Scripture, for in-
stance, Isaiah, Jeremiah and Malachi, that
the Lord should command his servants to fol-
low in the footsteps of Abraham, the father of
the faithful, and other ancient worthies with
whom He condescended to hold converse? To
me it seems only consistent with the dealings
of the Lord with his people from the com-
mencement of the world. The Lord's ways
are not as our ways, and man cannot judge the
Almighty.
	Joseph himself taught the principle of plural
marriage to Sister Presendia, and her heart was
humble, and her mind open to receive the
revelations of heaven. She knew Joseph to be
a man of God, and she had received many
manifestations in proof of this, and consequent-
ly when he explained to her clearly the knowl-
edge which he had obtained from the Lord,
she accepted the sealing ordinance with Joseph
as a sacred and holy confirmation. The trou-
bles and difficulties that arose afterwards, that
eventually resulted in the death of Joseph and
Hyrum, kept the Saints in a constant state of
anxiety. The sisters who had entered into
these covenants were in one sense separate and
apart from all others. Their minds were more
expanded, new light had burst in upon them,
and they were buoyed up by a spirit which
they scarcely understood, otherwise they could
never have borne the calumny and reproach
cast upon them, because of their having taken
upon themselves these solemn vows. No
tongue can describe, or pen portray the pecu-
liar situation that environed about these noble
self-sacrificing women, who through the provi-
dence of God helped to establish the principle
of plural celestial marriage. Those who speak
of the principle of a plurality of wives as de-
basing, or degrading, know nothing whatever
of the practice of it as it exists among the Lat-
ter-day Saints, and those who condemn these
sainted women who have taken upon them-
selves this cross, in all purity of heart and
motive of purpose, are as ignorant of their
lives and the reverence in which they hold
these sacred relations, as they are of what ex-
ists upon another planet, or they would never
dare upbraid and sneer as they do at those
whom God has called to take such an impor-
tant part in his great Latter-day work.
	The crisis came, when the Prophet and Pa-
triarch were foully murdered. How did if af-
fect the people, the Saints? They were plunged
into the depths of grief for the man of God they
had so loved, and the wives and the children of
these noble men, were sorrow stricken beyond
measure. Sister Presendia heard the dreadful
tidings and could not believe it true, but when
it was confirmed and she comprehended the
situation, she called upon the Lord in her
loneliness, and asked that the Holy Spirit
might comfort her in her extreme need. To
attempt the recital of the suffering and an-
guish of those who mourned for the Propht
and Patriarch, is impossible.
	The time came for the performance of
ceremonies and ordinances in the Nauvoo
Temple. Sister Presendia was some distance
away, but she was notified by her friends that
it would be her privilege to go into the Temple,
and in the language of Scripture straightway
she came, and availed herself of the opportuni-
ty.
	Hereafter we recognize her as the wife of the
renowned Apostle Heber C. Kimball. The
next great event in the history of this people
was the exodus from Nauvoo; and with this we
take up the thread of the narrative of this
distinguished woman, of whose life we are only
giving a brief sketch.
			To be Continued.


[Column 1]
	﻿THE CHARACTER OF LADY
			MACBETH.
			     _____
	In the character of Lady Macbeth, we find
the commingling of two sets of elements; one

[Column 2]
the combination of superior intellect, refine-
ment, high courage, womanly love and affec-
tion, indomitable will, power, and fidelity-
Contrasted with, antagonized, and finally over-
powered, by a baser set; foremost among
which, and predominating over all the others,
is mad ambition, in fact, the others are but
outgrowths of this one ruling power. Let us
examine this passion, and see under what
peculiar guise it is presented in the character
before us. The word ambition we generally
associate with an innate desire on the part of
its possessor to accomplish its own aggrandize-
ment, self, being the great central motive
power, or pivot, around which all other issues
revolve, and to which they are subservient.
But in Lady Macbeth we find that self is not
the basis or foundation of that vaulting ambi-
tion which transformed her into a thing of
evil, and caused her to violate not only the
most sacred claims of kindred and hospitality,
but also to lead Macbeth on to his destruction,
the one being on earth whom she had sought
to exalt. It was for him and not herself that
caused her to steep her heart in guilt, and
bathe her hand in blood, that little hand, that
"all the perfumes of Arabia could not after-
wards sweeten." It was for him that she be-
came the impersonation of evil passion; to
place within his hand the sceptre, and upon
his brow the imperial crown, she had sold her-
self to hell. Among the nobler qualities of
her mind and heart, we find high courage,
womanly love and sympathy, filial and paren-
tal affection; the two latter traits strikingly
exhibited where she says: "I have given suck
and know how tender it is to love the babe
that milks me," and the sentence, "Had he not
resembled my father as he slept," etc., occur-
ring as it does in the midst of a tumultuous
throng of evils, has been likened to the unex-
pected tender minor chord occurring in one of
Weber's or Beethoven's symphonies, and steal-
ing over the ear is heard amid the magnificent
crash of harmony, making the blood pause,
and filling the eyes with unbidden tears.
	We cannot look upon Lady Macbeth as a
monster of depravity, or a "masculine virago,"
but as a proud, noble, brilliant, intellectual
woman, who fell from her high pinnacle of
virtue through mistaken love, and the lack of
Christian influences. Had the circumstances
of her life been other than they were, she pos-
sessed elements of mind and heart which, pro-
perly directed, would have made her stand out
prominently among the noblest of woman-
kind.
	Black as is the crime which she ushers on
to a successful issue, we find by way of pal-
liation that she is not the sole originator of the
dreadful conception, for it springs within Mac-
beth's mind, before his lady is introduced; 'tis
true she takes a more active part in the crime
afterwards, but commentators on the play say
that it is due to her superiority of intellect,
rather than her love of blood, and her more
thorough executive ability, as compared with
that of her more timid husband, and had it
not been for her self-possession and courage,
they would have been discovered at the mur-
der of Duncan, and identified with it. It was
not altogether the pangs of conscience that
made Macbeth oblivious to the danger of his
situation, and the necessity of concealment, as
he stood with the bloody hands and dripping dag-
ger, in the open court, but a lack of that self
poise and dauntlessness that marked the supe-
rior mind of Lady Macbeth.
	After the commission of her first great
crime, we find her not a willing agent in other
deeds of blood, but devotedly engaged in sup-
porting the nervous weakness of her husband,
until that greatest of all  wrecks, aberration
of the mind, made her oblivious to all earthly
woes. In her sad life we read the story of "a
proud heart broken."			ZOE.


