CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.

	The Constitutional Convention met pursuant
to adjournment at 2 p.m. April 10th in the City
Hall, Hon. Joseph F. Smith in the chair. The
roll was called and it was found there was a
quorum present. The chaplain offered prayer.
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
	Hon. D. H. Wells, chairman of the committee
on statistics and other essential matter, reported
that a document had been prepared, which he
submitted for the approval of the convention.
It was read by the secretary, received and adopt-
ed by the convention, and 1,000 copies ordered to
be printed for distribution.
	Hon. John T. Caine then presented a report
of the delegates, accompanied by the memorial
which had been presented in both houses of
Congress, and published in the Congressional
Record; these documents were also read by the
secretary, and a motion made and carried to
have them printed and published with the re-
port of the committee on statistics.
	A vote of thanks was given to the Washing-
ton delegation, and they were highly compli-
mented on the able paper preparod as a memo-
rial or a petition to Congress.
	Hon. F. S. Richards, in behalf of the delega-
tion, made a very happy and appropriate res-
ponse to the compliment tendered the delegates,
and recounted a few of the difficulties under
which they labored to bring the matter before
Congress at its last session.
	In the report of the progress of the committee
by the Hon. John T. Caine, the fact of the
death of Hon. Wm. H. Hooper, chairman of
the delegation, was alluded to. This reminded
the president of the vacancy and he made a
suggestion to the convention, that they take
the matter into consideration. One or two
members offered motions and others amend-
ments to the motions; but it was finally decided
that as the committee on nominations previous-
ly appointed in convention assembled, had not
been discharged, this committee should be pre-
pared with a nomination to fill the vacancy re-
ferred to at the next meeting of the conven-
tion. Carried.
	A motion made by Hon. Hosea Stout, that
when the convention adjourn it be until the
9th of October next at 10 o’clock in the morn-
ing, prevailed.
	Hon. D. H. Wells made some very sensible
remarks upon the political situation of Utah,
the constitutional rights of the people, their
heritage of religious liberty guaranteed by the
constitution, and the attempts of some of the
members of Congress to pass unconstitutional
and aggressive laws to oppress a free people
and bring them into bondage; he spoke of the
attempt to annul the woman’s suffrage act;
to disfranchise every class of citizens they pos-
sibly could in order to further the schemes of
some men who desire to obtain possession of
the offices of the Territory.
	Hon. John T. Caine made a few explanations
of matters of public interest that had not been
quite understood in regard to men and measures,
and which it was necessary should be made
clear in connection with what had been spoken.


﻿Hon F, S. Richards added a few words and
made some positive statements on the subjects
before the convention. Minutes were called for,
read, and ordered to be printed.
   The convention then adjourned until October
9th, at 10 a.m.


