.	" OBITUARY.
Death has made sad havoc in the little town of
Kanab; in the past three months. Many homes have
felt its icy touch, and many hearts have been left
desolate. The aged, the youth, the babe and the
young mother, have been ruthlessly torn from our
midst. It is peculiarly touching to see the fondly
expectant mother clasp her infant to her breast and
yield up her young life for that of her offspring.
	It is with regret that we record the death of two of
these young mothers.
	Nov. 5th, 1882, Elsie, wife of Joseph Hamblin and
daughter of Nephi and C. A. Johnson, departed this
life, three days after the birth of a son.
	She was born Nov. 5th, 1861, and consequently was
twenty-one the day she died. Although she was
young, she was a good Saint, a dutiful daughter, and
a loving wife and mother.
	From a child she was proverbial for her truthfulness,
she was a member of the Rollef Society; but having


two small children she could not attend as often as she
wished.
	During her sickness she repeatedly said, she wished
to go home, and told the nurse to have her babe
ready, for she would come for it in a few days.
Singular to say, the babe died three days after the
mother.
	A few hours before her departure, she said to her
husband, “Joseph, I am going home, you cannot come
with me now, but if you are a good boy you shall
come after.” With a smile, she gently fell asleep.
 Also, Dec. 21st, 1882, Fanny M., wife of W. T.
Stewart, and daughter of James A. and Mary J. Little,
died of puerperal fever. She was born in Salt Lake
City, May 3rd, 1862.
	Like her friend before her, she was anxious to go
home, and said to her mother, who was weeping.
Mother, why do you weep? I am not afraid to die; I
would rather live in eternity than here.” She was
good and beautiful, and loved by all who knew her.
She has left two sweet babes, as well as husband and
friends, to mourn her loss.
	Blessed consolation, to those who are left behind,
that these pure daughters and young mothers in Zion,
have gone to an eternal rest.
“Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord, for they
rest from their labors.”
						M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.
Kanab, March 2nd, 1883.


