MEN'S RIGHTS.

	Men's rights! the reader is saying in sur-
prise, why we always supposed men not only
had rights, but the power to grant similar per-
sonal possessions to others. For men style
themselves "lords of creation," and boast on
Scriptural grounds that in their faces the
image of God dwells. And so it should.
	A maiden lady whose business had thrown
her much with that shrewd class of men called
lawyers, by whose craftiness, or her own ig-
norance, a handsome property suddenly van-
ished, bewailed the degeneracy of men and the
advantage they often took of poor, defenceless
women. "Well," answered the translator of
the law, "what's a woman that you should
make such a fuss of her?" "What's a man?"
tartly answered the aggrieved party. "A man!
a man! why a man's a man! The world couldn't
do without men; they build railroads, and
carry on great enterprises. But the women—
all they have to do is to mind the house and
be the mothers of men."
	A look of unutterable scorn, and as the in-
furiated woman departed, the final knell came,
"The mothers of men!"—looking the shrink-
ing individual from-head to foot—his narrow
soul blinking through his half shut eyes—
"what a mother you must have had!"
	And watching the faces of men, how often
are we impressed with the truth of these
words. In some the image of God—truth,
purity, mercy, justice, love, glorify them into
more than human (what a blessed mother was
theirs!); in others the image defaced by lines
of sin, selfishness and low desires. ( God pity
your mothers, poor men, for ye are legoin!)
	So we cannot be far from the truth when we
say the first right of every man is a good
mother; and as the choice of mothers depends
on the men, we add most emphatically, a good
father too. "Oh, that's an old story, we al-
ways have heard that." Old! certainly, but
none the less true: and so a rule that is only in
the primary books of the first series of the vol-
umes of human life—the rule of three. For if
two uncongenial souls can afford to battle out-
alone their miseable rexistence, choosing pan
demonium instead of paradise, the world can-
not afford for them to cast another being like
themselves—an Esau from his birth—into its
schools, its streets and its business.
	The very idea of a baby in a home suggests
a welcome, a place, loving care of both father
and mother, intelligent understanding of its
physical needs, and skill to develop its mind,
leading it always towards the good. It also
suggests plenty of bread and butter, fresh air,
sunshine, and common sense.
	Men who would not expect to gather
"grapes of brambles" will wonder why their
children are not miracles of beauty and genius,
when they marry women of small mental cali-
bre, poor creatures with no thought above the
dressing of their bodies or the obeying of the
dictates of fashion; they will wonder why their
children are peevish and puny, when their
mothers are always "under the Doctor's care,"
miserable dyspeptics, despondent and morose;
and wonder of all wonders, they are surprised if

[Column 2]

their little ones show selfishness, meanness, re-
taliation, when they themselves kept the moth-
er a very beggar upon their bounty, or by
carelessness and neglect sowed the seeds of this
bitter harvest.
	To many men this first best right has been
denied, and many a one because of the lack,
battles all his life with the unseen foes of con-
torted or misdirected impulses. Better even a
mother with a weak body, than one with a
weak mind and cringing soul, afraid of her
husband, afraid of life, and afraid of death.
	Many a man toils unceasingly to give his
children worldly possessions, when the best
heritage he could give them would be himself;
the love and care that binds a house together
and keeps its faith with God; that with un-
tiring patience and sweetness gives to each
child its best birthright—a good mother.
—Women at Work.		E. T. H.


Dr. Mary Safford, sister of ex-Governor
Safford of Arizona, has taken two hundred
acres of land near Tarpew, Florida, where she
intends to plant a colony. She has an idea of
establishing a Sanitarium in that colony to
which invalids will likely be attracted from all
parts of the States. Dr. Safford is an energet-
ic, shrewd, and brilliant woman, highly cul-
tured and exceedingly able in her profession.
She has traveled extensiveiy in foreign lands,
also among other places, and visited Utah, when
we had the pleasure of meeting and conversing
with her. Her views upon the woman ques-
tion are broad in the extreme and she intends
putting them in practice, it seems, by founding
a colony. She has similar ideas in this matter
to Mrs. Martha Coray (now deceased) pub-
lished in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT several
years ago.


