THE CROWN JEWELS OF AUSTRIA.

					VIENNA, Oct. 3rd, 1882.
	No one leaves Vienna without a visit to the
treasury, which is full of rich and remarkable
curiosities. On the long walls of the entrance
room hangs many a page of Austrian history.
The standard of the nation catches your eye
as you enter the hall. Just beyond this comes
a delightful assortment of herald's robes—robes
embroidered by fingers which forgot their cun-
ning in the centuries that drifted into the
great past long before the more modern heroes
were born. The shield of the Grand Marshal
calls up a thought of gorgeous pageants and
imperial shows. The ebony casket containing
the keys of the coffins of the ancestors of the
imperial family is equally suggestive. A large
crystal goblet set with rich jewels takes us
back to the times of Charles the Bold. We
sit beside him at some grand feast, watching
the old courtiers as they pledge themselves
and their arms to the fair ladies whose knights
they bound themselves to be. The bright eyes
and rosy lips that graced the court of the
brave old monarch lives only in song and
story, but the old goblet flashes back the light
of the present century as clearly as though
just fresh from the lapidary. The appoint-
ments for the tables of royalty were neither
simple nor inexpensive in the times before
our own. Francis I., of France, counted
among his valued articles a salt-cellar, the de-
sign wrought from the fertile brain of Ben-
venuto Cellini.
	We go on through these wonderful rooms
till we come to the jewels of the imperial
family. We find that our republican educa-
tion is no bar to our enjoyment of crown
jewels. We confess to a positive satisfaction
in the contemplation of all these regal appoint-
ments. This Austrian regalia dates back to
the time of Rudolph II, and includes the
crown sceptre and imperial globe. They tell
their own story of individual power and force, 
differing widely from any our own continent
has ever known. The crown of the Empress
looks fresh and modern, having been re-set
within a few years. Diamonds of fabulous
value flash out their glittering rays as we go
on from case to case of these rich jewels. A
beautiful hat-clasp contains the wonderful
Florentine diamond, valued at about three
hundred thousand dollars. This belonged to
Charles the Bold, of Burgundy; it was found
by a peasant after the battle of Granson and
sold by him for less than a dollar. It is
probably that the merchant of Berne who
bought this royal gem was as well satisfied
with his share of the spoil as any of the actors
in the famous battle. A scarf contains the
grand cross of the Maria Theresa order, com-
posed of hundreds of diamonds clustering
around a large pink one. Rubies and eme-
ralds of the choicest kind are used in all sorts
of devices in these magnificent ornaments be-
longing to the imperial families. Many articles
are the decorations of different orders. One of
the Golden Fleece is made up with at least a
hundred and fifty brillians, the Frankfort dia-
mond with coronation robes which have playes
a grand part in the historical days of the past.
	The little silver cradle of the King of Rome.
still bright with its golden coating, is the most
pathetic thing we find in all this grand dis-
play. It stands empty and neglected in the
same oom where we saw the insignia of Napo-
leaon as King of Italy.
	Historical curiosities greet us at each step.
We sigh for longer days and fewer limitations
to our time. As we come upon the old horo-
scope of Wallenstein, we wonder if the talis-
man may not be able yet to work its spell. If
we could lay hold of one of those astrologers of


old, how persistently we would besiege him
till he should give us length of days and the
ability to comprehend the things about us.
	The storehouses of our memory are all in-
adequate to hold the wares offered by these
old empires for our consideration. The sabre
of Haroun al Raschid savors of romance and
daring deeds. In another small room, without
even a guard to keep watch over its treasures,
we find another case of relics that might well
make us stop and look down the ages. Charle-
magne rises out of the events of the past
which come crowding down upon our bewilder-
ed senses- This great, ambitious king strides
grandly before us. Here is his crown—iron-
faced and firm as when it rested upon his im-
perial brow after the siege at Pavia in 773.
Here is his stole, his girdle, his sword. Here
are his coronation robes and his sceptre; the
imperial globe which was never held by a
firmer grasp than when the mighty king put
his strong hand upon it. The present century
seems the one that is dim and far away as we
stand in a dazed condition. These famous
relics of the "Emperor of the West" were
found in his tomb at Aix La Chapelle. When
the vault was opened he was found sitting in
most regal state on a throne. A mightier des-
pot sat side by side with the imperial body.
Death alone had curbed the spirit of this
mighty warrior king. France had cause to
take great pride in this wonderful sovereign,
Lombardy to hate him, Italy, Spain, Germany
to fear him. Learning, art and science owe
much to his patronage. He was as extra-
ordinary as despotic. We seem to come almost
into his visible presence as we stand gazing at
the old crown.
	We are quite content, however, with our
own day as we shake off the illusions which
gather around us. There is another great
country beyond the sea where trade and
industry find a home, where art and science
are encouraged, where there is free thought
and free speech, liberty of conscience and room
for all who crave it. There are no old coro-
nation robes hanging on the walls of its
treasury; no crowns whose wearers have put
their iron heels on the hearts of its children.
Charlemagne's hour is over. A grander na-
tion has risen—a West which he never
dreamed of.
	The Prater is the grand park of the city,
where all visitors delight to drive. Grand
carriages of the nobility are daily the admira-
tion of the walking public. We hunt up the
old buildings frescoed on the outside, admire
the fountains and statues, roam through the
quaint sections of the place, and wish we had
weeks to spend within its walls. We could be
busy all the time; hunting up new sights and
old curiosities. When we turn from here it
will be with regret; but everywhere we leave
much unseen which we shall hunger and thirst
for in the days to come. We generally coax
ourselves off with the promise that "next time"
we shall do all these wonderful things which
we leave undone now. If the promise is never
to be quite fulfilled, we go away rather more
cheerful for our little delusion. If we had all
our lives to live over, we half suspect we might
after all leave out some things we would be
loth to do without. In the morning Vienna
will be a long way behind us. We have had
a royal feast within her gates. The banquet
has been both rich and rare. We are more
fortunate than the Romans of old; we turn
away before our appetite is wholly appeased.
