PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]

	Many incidents worthy of record and evinc-
ing the dauntless courage of Sister Presendia
occurred while the Buells were living on Fish-
ing River, Clay Co., Missouri. Mr. Buell
was employed as carder, at a mill some dis-
tance from home, and his wife and family were
consequently very lonely, as the log house
they occupied was some distance from neigh-
bors, situated in the woods. Here in this se-
questered spot Sister Presendia lived with only
a young girl for her companion. And even
the girl who had come there on purpose to
teach in that district, of course left Mrs. Buell
entirely alone during the day, as her little son
George was old enough to attend school and
went with his teacher. She writes, "I used to
stay alone all day in the woods, my company,
the wild birds, and my music the cooing of the
turtle doves in the forest." In this very hum-
ble home, on the 24th of April, 1838, her first
daughter was born, but lived only four hours,
she called her Adeline Elizabeth. It is won-
derful how much hardship Mormon women
have borne; and under what peculiarly trying
circumstances many of the children of the
Latter-day Saints have been born.
	As an example of heroic courage, we are
proud to give the following. One day while
Mrs. B. was living in this secluded place, she
had occasion to go to the mill four miles dis-
tant; she drove her own team and took her
little son George with her. As she came out
upon the prairie she had to pass through a large
company of armed men going up to Far
West. She well knew their purpose. Their
horses were loaded down with bedding, spades,
shovels and cooking utensils, and there was a
terrible clatter of tin dishes. There were two
men who knew Mrs. Buell and spoke to her.
She says, as the horsemen rose to go up the
hill, she, with her team and little child, was
only a little to the left of them. The horse-
men called a halt—and dismounted, facing
the company towards Mrs. B. and the child,
holding their horses by the bits. Sister
Presendia says, "I thought of Mr. Carey, who
had a short time before been killed on the
prairie as he was returning home from the
mill. Then, for the first time in my life, I
expected to be shot. I asked the Lord in
silent prayer to let my only child go with me
if I should be killed, as my husband had en-
tirely lost his faith in the Gospel. I did not
hurry or urge my team forward, but went
steadily on over the hill, and the horsemen
stood looking at me, but the shock nearly
overcame me." Think of the trial of that
moment; and also of the brutality of men who
style themselves "protectors" of women and
children, to thus intimidate a defenceless
woman and her little child on an open prairie,
where there was no possibility of obtaining help!
It is too inhuman to bear thinking of. Those
who read this account will doubtless look with
still greater reverence on the white hairs of
this aged veteran in the faith. The same Fall
Mrs. B., while living on the river bank, had
another dreadful fright from these Missouri
mobocrats, who were anxious to drive and des-
troy the Mormons. One day six men rode up
to her door on horseback, all well armed.
They inquired if she had seen two men pass
by there on foot. She said, No, she had not;
then they crossed the river in search of them.
They had but just gone when two brethren,
Bro. Rust and Bro. Cleveland, came in; they
were in search of work. Mrs. B. imformed
them of the danger that awaited them if they
proceeded. She gave them something to eat
and to carry with them in their pockets, and
told them they had better go up the river and

[Column2]
back to Far West and travel all night as they
had certainly been watched for evil. The
brethren were often whipped and sometimes
killed if they could be caught outside of the
"Mormon" settlements.
	Later on in the season when the carding
was over where Mr. Buell had been employed,
he rented a grist mill and two carding ma-
chines, built a comfortable house for his fami-
ly, out of the woods, and commenced business
again on his own account, and run the mill
through the following winter. The persecutions
against the Saints grew stronger and stronger.
Mr. Buell having apostatized from the Church,
was possessed of a very opposite spirit to that
of his wife, who was strong in faith and fervent
in spirit. Sister Presendia prayed earnestly to
the Lord for her companion, that he might re-
turn to the faith, but his mind had grown very
dark and it was useless to reason with, or en-
treat him to see the error and doubt which
had misled and confused him. The Hunting-
tons were obliged to leave Far West at the
time of the driving of the Saints from Mis-
souri in the Spring of 1839, and Sister Pres-
endia felt entirely alone and forsaken. She
expresses it thus, "I never saw my mother
again. I felt alone on the earth, with no one
to comfort me, excepting my little son George,
for my husband had become a bitter apostate,
and I could not speak in favor of the Church
in his presence. There was by this time not
one true Saint in the State of Missouri to
knowledge."
	Sister Huntington (the mother of Sister
Presendia) died on the 8th of July following,
from hardship and fatigue brought on by the
merciless men, "who persecuted the Saints
unto death;" many were killed and many died
of hardships, others deprived of health, which
they were never able to regain.
	From that time on Sister Presendia suffered
greatly in her feelings, and was overburdened
with sorrow, and her mind saddened with the
griefs of the people she so loved, and she
obliged to remain away from them all, with no
one to whom she could open her heart. Mr.
Buell prospered in business and in a temporal
point of view, the family had an abundance of
everything necessary to make them in every
way comfortable.
	About this time another son was born to the
house of Buell, Norman Oliver, on the 31st
of January, 1840, which one can readily per-
ceive was directly after the dreadful outrage
perpetrated against the Saints in Mo. These
two boys, George and Oliver, both to grew man-
hood, married and had families of their own.
The next few years after the Saints left the
State of Missouri, some of the greatest events
transpired in the history of the Church.

To be Continued.


