WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The woman who invented the submarine
telegraph received but $10,000 for that which
brings Europe within speaking distance.

THE Unity Club will give one of their artis-
tic and brilliant entertainments at the theatre
on Monday evening, April 9th, in favor of the
Deseret Hospital. The object is entirely be-
venolent. An able committee of ladies are
busily engaged in the preparations assisted by
Bishop H. B. Clawson.

 THE lectures given in this city by Phil
Robinson, Esq., on his experience as a special
war correspondent were very entertaining.
His letters, telegrams and writings are bril-
liant and shrewd. His articles upon the
Mormon question have been exceedingly fair
though humorously written. Undoubtly he
is a genius, at any rate he is genial and spark-
ling.
 MISS Julia Thomas who came to this city
recently from New York City for her health,
has decided to remain during the spring.
She has quite a large class in elocution at the
Octagon and intends giving a series of lectures
on Physical Elocution and kindred topics.
Miss Thomas is a highly cultured lady, pleas-
ing in her address and will doubtless win many
friends during her sojourn here. The lady is
also a newspaper correspondent, traveling with
passes from the press.
 THERE is nothing in God’s word that
teaches us the inferiority of woman, and she
is the equal of man. I do not see why it is
more inappropriate for a woman to leave the


kitchen and needle to apply her talents to
higher planes, than for man to abandon the
labor of sawing wood and drawing water and
engage in more dignified employment. The
useful life is the healthy life, and any useful
employment is elevating. Life is serious, and
it ought to be industrious; idleness is a re-
proach to any one. That which makes indus-
try useful must be sought for; and industry, to
he useful, must be systematic.—Rev. Howard
Crosby.

	Men in Ireland often get elected to Parlia-
ment while they are in prison, while in this
country, if one half of the reports are true,
men are elected to Congress who ought to be
in prison.


[Column 1]
