CORRECTION.
Dear Editor;
	I sent you an obituary of Sister Rozina Fyers, which
was inserted December 1st, please correct. For Rosina
Fyers, born in Denmark, Furs County, please insert
Rozina Shepperd Hyers, born January 21st, 1829, in the
town of Denmark, Lewis County, State of New York;
and oblige your sister in the Gospel,	 B. BROWNER.


[Column 1]
﻿OBITUARIES.
Died, at Fillmore, Febuary 7th, 1883, Sister Elizabeth
Richmond, daughter of William and Mary Green. Born
October 2nd, 1806, at Lugwardine, Herefordshire, Eng-
land. Became a member of this Church in 1810. Emigrated
to America with Apostle Orson Hyde’s company, on his
return from Jerusalem, ariving at St. Louis late in the
fall; remained there until Spring, then proceeded to
Nauvoo; there she was married to Thomas Richmond
and resided until the expulsion of the Saints, in which

[Column 2]
she suffered severely. After burying her husband on
Musquitoe Creek, emigrated to Utah in 1851, making her
home in Provo until 1854, when she moved to Fillmore,
where she has since resided until her demise. Her quiet,
peaceful countenance bespoke the joy aud satisfaction
she experienced in the everlasting Gospel. she was a
faithful member in the Relief Society, and with the
“widow’s mite” was ever ready with untiring zeal to as-
sist others. Her death leaves her aged sister very lonely,
as their lives have been so closely connected, sharing
each other’s joys and sorrows for so many years, that a
separation was painful, and the entire community
extend their heartfelt sympathies to the bereaved and
pray the consoling influence of the Holy Spirit, may be
with her in this hour of affliction. The funeral services
took place in the meeting house, where a very large as-
sembly met to pay their last respects to the departed.
D. K. O. 

Died, at Lake View, Tooele. County, March 6th, 1883,
of child-bed fever, Jane Adamson, beloved wife of Robert
C. Shields, and daughter of David and Jane Adamson.
Born February 11th, 1846, in Rumford, Stirlingshire,
Scotland. Emigrated to Utah with her parents in
1862.
She has been a faithful Latter-day Saint, and a true
member of the Relief Society ot the Lake View Ward.
She was a loving wife and mother, and leaves a husband
and eight children and a host of friends to mourn her
loss.	Relief Society Teachers.

 Died, at Malad City, Oneida Co., Idaho Territory,
Emily Jane Evans, daughter of Leonidas Clinton and
Margrett Emma Mecham, born April 19th, 1863, at
Richville, Morgan Co., baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, when eight years old; re-
baptized by her own desire in 1874. Died, March 25th,
1883, of convulsions, being nineteen years, eleven
months and six days old. She leaves a loving husband,
a little babe of a few hours, and a large circle of rela-
tives and friends to mourn her loss.
All who became aquainted with Sister Emily loved
her, for her amiable, cheerful, and happy disposition,
dispersing clouds of gloom with the merry sunshine in
her loving heart. She was Assistant Secretary to the
Y. L. M. I. A., which she filled with credit; she also took
an active part in our ward choir, and filled our hearts
with joy in listening to the songs of Zion as they flowed
from her lips; and though we sympathize with the
bereaved relatives, and acknowledge the hand of God
our Eternal Father in all the trials and vicissitudes of
life, yet we can say with the poet,
“Dearest sister thou hast left us,
And thy loss we deeply feel,
Yet ’tis God that has bereft us,
He can all our sorrows heal.
“Yet again we hope to see thee,
When death’s gloomy night has fled,
Then on earth with joy to greet thee,
Where no bitter tears are shed.”
Anne Sawyer,

Died, in St. George, of old age, Dioy Ray Perkins,
beloved wife of William G. Perkins, of St. George, Utah
Deceased was born August 12th, 1796, in Patrick Co.,
Virginia. Sister Perkins embraced the Gospel in 1840,
in MacDonald, Hancock Co., Illnois. Brother and Sister
Perkins emigrated to Utah In 1848, bringing with them
an only daughter, who is living in St. George, and who
has ever been devotedly attached to her mother, and her
constant companion through all the trying scenes of
travels, journeyings, and the sorrows of life. Aunt
Dicy, as she was affectionately styled by her friends
both young and old, was one of the most kind-hearted
and generous women that ever lived. In sickness she
was an invaluable friend; thousands in this city can
testify to her devotion in times of extreme trial, and
when sickness and death invaded the homes, Aunt Dicy
was sent for; she practiced as a midwife many, many
years, and was very sucessful indeed as a practitioner.
Warm hearted and sympathetic in her nature, tender to-
ward all, charitable and forbearing, a Latter-day Saint
in every sense of the word. Aunt Dicy died full of
integrity and rich in the faith of the new and overlast-
ing covenant; aged eighty-seven years six months and
twenty-one days. She retained her senses till the last
moment, and gave directions to her daughter Patty,
who she would Iike to have to attend to the last offi-
ces to be performed for her when she was gone. Sister
Perkins suffered much foreight weeks in her last illness,
“Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord,”


....We extend, our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved
husband and family, and especially to the daughter who
is left so lonely by the mother’s death.
									E. B. W.

	Polly Ann Lane Greer was born in Washington Co.,
Texas, May 1st, 1849, and was married to A. V. Greer
November 2nd 1865, according to the laws of the State
in which they resided, (for time.) On the 2nd day of
July, 1878, they were sealed for time and all eternity ac-
cording to the celestial law of marriage, in the St.
George Temple. Sister Greer was baptized by Elder
Israel D. Alphin, April 18th, 1865, in Bosque Co., Texas.
Brother and Sister Greer emigrated to Utah in 1877, and
to Arizona in 1878. Sister Greer died at Amity, Apache
Co., Arizona, November 28th, 1883, at 6.20.a.m., of con-
sumption. She was a true Latter-day Saint, and re-
ceived with joy all the principles of the Gospel.
	She was set apart as President of the Primary Associa-
tion of this place November 2nd, 1882; she was an affec-
tionate and dutiful companion, a kind mother, and
truely a good neighbor. She departed in peace and full
faith of the Gospel, and an assurance of eternal life in
the Kingdom of God, where she will eventually be re-
united with her husband and little ones, and beloved
brethren and sisters who had not forsaken her in the
dark valley and the shadow of death. She was an ex-
emplary woman and beloved by all. She was the
mother of six children, three girls and three boys. Her
last words to her husband were, I want you to live your
religion and get another wife, one that will suit you.
To her eldest girl Mollie she said, Are you prepared
to give your mother up? the child sobbed no! then she
counseled her to take care of the little brothers and
sisters that would be left lonely at her death, she en-
treated her to be reconciled, and said she must be a good
girl. To her next daughter Sue, she said, I love you Sue,
and then her spirit departed so quickly it could hardly
be realized.							COM.


