THE YOUTH OF ZION.
				____
	It is evening, and while quietly thinking of 
the past, present, and the future, my mind es-
pecially dwells on the youth of Zion, male and
female, and wonder what they are doing at the
present time. Some may say, what buisness is it
of yours? Well, I know how mine are engaged,
and I think it would be well if all mothers
knew how their sons and daughters were em-
ployed; for verily this is a time for us to ear-
nestly watch our young people, and preserve
them from being enticed and overcome by the
evil one, and the temptations that exist, not
only in this city, but so far as I can learn, in
the various settlements. O! my young brethren
and sisters, flee from the evil as you would
from the poison of a snake; yea avoid the very
appearance of evil; take the advice and coun-
sel of those who have had more experience in
the world than you; think of the many privi-
leges you enjoy by being in this Church and
Kingdom, and the opportunities and induce-
ments held out to you, for gaining knowledge
which will fit and prepare you to fill honorable
positions in this life, and enjoy endless lives in
the worlds to come. O! ye daughters of Zion,
why will ye spend the precious time given to
you in frivolity, which I am sorry to say so
many do? Remember you are wasting the
moments that you should be spending in gain-
ing knowledge as to how you can best prepare
yourself for that high and noble purpose for
which you were created even to bring forth sons
and daughters, whose spirits were created by
our Father in Heaven, and have been reserved
to come forth in this dispensation, and you will
be held accountable for the manner in which
you train them.
	Can an impure spring bring forth pure water?
Nay, verily, and it is just as impossible for a
mother to teach her children the principles of
truth, unless she practices the same herself.
But some may say, I don’t know that Mormon-
ism is true, I have not had a testimony that
the work called the Gospel of Jesus Christ has
been restored upon the earth; if these be your
feelings, then rest no longer in this uncertain
state of mind; ask the Lord in humility of
heart, by earnest prayer, to open the eyes of your
mind to see and understand, and know for
yourself; and if you will do so, you will not be
long without a testimony of its truth, and that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. Again,
there are many who possess a knowledge of its
truth, and are in the enjoyment of the blessings
of the Gospel. "They are those who take every
opportunity which they have to attend meet-
ings, read good books, and in every possible
way gain knowledge for the position of wife
and mother. These will be among the wise
virgins, who when the Bridegroom cometh, will
have their lamps trimmed and burning, whilst
on the contrary, those who have neglected to
improve their present opportunities, will find
themselves unprepared, it will be to late to get
oil, and they cannot borrow, therefore they will
not be permitted to enter into the Marriage
Supper of the Lamb.” These things, my
young sisters, are not to be trifled with. Then
seek while young for that wisdom which is of
far more worth than all the splendor or fleeting
vanities of this life; be virtuous and retiring
in your demeanor, let your daily walk and
conduct be circumspect, that you may not give
cause to any one to think lightly of you, for
verily a wise man will certainly look for and
admire a woman who is discreet and modest in
all her movements, and who is endeavoring to
improve in all that is good and praiseworthy.
That this may be the aim of all the daughters
of Zion, is the prayer of your humble servant.
	February 19th, 1883.			E.R.C.


