EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Classes for instruction in midwifery and
obstetrics are being formed in the city in order
to meet the requirements of competent help in
this department of science.

	DR. R. B. Pratt, who has been teaching
for some years past, advertises her class will
commence in April. Terms thirty dollars for
the course, and twelve dollars for the books
used by the students. See advertisment.

	For sale at this office, Two Poems, by Bishop
O. F. Whitney, now on a mission in England.
The book is in pamphlet form, 10cts. per copy.
The proceeds of the sales are to be given as
a donation to the Deseret Hospital.

	IN the last issue of the EXPONENT we re-
published "A Sermon on Canvas" by O. F.
Whitney, but forgot to give him or the Millen-
nial Star credit for the article. We beg
pardon for the neglect and recommend the
article to our readers as a sublime and touch-
ing pen picture; those who read the descrip-
tion will feel as if they had actually seen the
artist's masterpiece.

	THE Conference of the women's organiza-
tions of Weber Stake was held in the Taberna-
cle, Ogden City, March 8, 9 and 10. Sisters
E. R. S. Smith and Zina D. H. Young went
up to the Conference on Thursday, but re-
turned the same evening, as the woman's
Conference in this Stake convened on Friday
and Saturday. Reports of these Conferences
will be published in the next number of
this paper.

	ON Wednesday, March 9, in company with
Mrs. M. I. Horne, we went to Coalville in
the interest of the Deseret Hospital. A meet-
ing had been previously appointed for half
past seven in the evening and a crowded house
was the result. The subject of the benefits of
hospital treatment for the sick and injured
was dwelt upon, and some committees were
appointed to make further arrangements for
the benefit of the institution.

	ON Saturday, March 3, an annual meeting
of the Primary Association of Farmington
was held at that place. Sisters E. R. S.
Smith, M. I. Horne and E. C. Clawson of
this city, went up on the morning train to
attend the meeting. Arriving at the depot,
they were serenaded by the Primary band,
who escorted them to the meeting house, play-
ing some enlivening music. The meeting was
well attended and the exercises ably conducted
by Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, who has been
untiring in her efforts to help the children
forward in their organizations. The pro-
gramme was interesting, the selections appro-
priate and very creditably rendered.

	ELIZA R. SNOW'S POEMS. The first volume
of Sister Eliza's Poems, which were published
several years ago in England, has been re-
bound and will soon be ready for sale. This
book contains many sublime effusions
which strike a harmonious chord in the heart
of every Latter-day Saint. "The Invocation
or the Eternal Father and Mother," a poem
entitled "Two Chapters of the Life of Presi-
dent Joseph Smith," "The Assassination of
the Prophet and Patriarch" and many other

[Column 2]
grand and touching pieces are contained in
this work. The Young People's Libraries
should be supplied with this work.

	Dr. E. S. Barney who has spent the last
five years in medical studies, most of that
time in some of the best medical colleges in
the East, makes quite an advantageous offer
to those wishing some obtain a knowledge of the
science of medicine and anatomy. Dr.
Barney offers for the specified sum of $2 per
week to take twenty-five students and provide
furnished rooms, bed, fuel, light, cook and
washwoman, making it something of a club ar-
rangement, as they will bring with them or
furnish their own provisions. The doctor will
give them free medical instruction, lectures on
anatomy, physiology, materia medica, surgery
and practice. This is certainly an economical
plan to work upon; particulars can be obtained
on making application by letter to Dr. E. S.
Barney, Box 555, Salt Lake City, Utah. Mrs.
Barney was a very successful school teacher
for many years in this city, and has, by patient
application and her own efforts, risen to the
ranks of the medical profession. The offer
she has made should meet with a ready res-
ponse from the several parts of the country,
for it has certainly been made in good faith
and with an earnest desire to benefit human-
ity. A more extended knowledge of nursing
and obstetrics, and the laws of life and health
cannot fail to be beneficial to all.


