A LOVING TRIBUTE.
[Suggested by those kind Sisters who gave me a "Sur-
prise" party on my birthday, March 16th, 1883.]

Of friends!—What know I not of friends?
The blessed boon that Heaven sends!
How dear to me they've ever been
Throughout my life's meandering scene!
How dear to me have been their faces—
Their presence charmed, and hallowed places;
Like ancients in the olden time,
In every place I had a shrine!
An altar, where I often paid
Devotion at the shrine I made!

Of friends!—What know I not of friends?
Through them, a Heaven on me descends!
How rich they've made me all my life—
They've banished care—thay've banished strife,
They've made me feel each sorrow lighter,
Yes! made the sun himself look brighter!
No place to me was desert ground
If they were hovering around;
And when I heard the well known voice
It made my thrilling sould rejoice; 
And when I met the loving eye
All sorrow I could then defy!
And when I grasp'd the faithful hand
The living touch I could command,
Wherever they might chance to be
The gate of Heaven was to me!

What know I not of friendship's care,
When sickness I'd to take a share?
And e'en when death appeared to claim
The life I struggled to retain!
Though sad bereavement steeped my soul
In all its bitterest control!
But friendship's hand in PRIESTLY power,
Dispelled the darkness of that hour,
And I was healed, and I was blest,
And all my woes and wants redressed;
And garnered in my heart's recess
These names remain to cheer and bless.

And e'en to-day, my grateful eyes
Run over with a sweet "surprise!"
A host of friends have met to bless
Their Sister with a fond caress;
I see around a loving tribe,
And each with honey from their hive!
And viands sweet and rich—in fine
For epicures to sit and dine;
A "feast of reason, flow of soul,"
Shed o'er the scene a sweet control;
And every heart was full of love,
And every lip this truth did prove;
And each one rose, and every heart
Its prayers and wishes did impart;
And called for blessings on the head
Of her they had so richly fed.

But O! the dress! Ah! yes, the dress!
A fabric rich they brought to bless,
Presenting it with words of cheer,
Sweet words I know, but did not hear.
Surprise had stunned my listening ear!
Of friends!—What know I not of friends?
That blessed boon that Heaven sends,
And all these tributes they did bring
To shew their love for H. T. King.
						HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, March 16th, 1883.


