Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponents, January i and January 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations" Welcome 1885! A Happy New Year to all our readers, patrons and friends! The beginning of a year is always fraught with sentimental feeling. We have just bid farewell to the old year, and there is a sort of sadness in the very fancy of parting, but the new year brings anticipation and sublime resolves, and the influence of the desire to do better, to aim higher, to live nearer to God, buoys one up and makes glad the dawn of the new year. The division of time is most wisely arranged, and the effect upon the human soul is inspirational. There is a time for all things, said the preacher, and if men were wise and judicious in the matter of time no doubt there would be. It is mortals who fall so far short, and not the great Dispenser of times and seasons and the over-ruler of all things....Home Affairs: The Office of the Woman's Exponent has been removed to the Hooper and Eldredge Block, Main Street, just a few doors south of Z. C. M. I., upstairs, in room No. 4. The merchants, coal-dealers and men in business have been liberal to the poor during the holiday time, and much has been distributed by the Bishops and the Relief Society through the city. The weather has been favorable for those who have been short of fuel, and it is ardently to be hoped that no one has suffered. There is certainly no need of any real suffering while the granaries and barns are filled with grain, and the cattle abound "upon a thousand hills." Two handsome pictures hang on our walls received from the large mercantile firm of Z. C. M. I. They have been prepared expressly as a decorative advertisement, and certainly are artistic in design and coloring. Each has a calendar so on each day in the month and each month in the year when one refers to the calendar on the wall, one is reminded of the wholesale and retail establishments of Z.C.M.I, where they can always purchase the best quality of all varieties of goods at the most reasonable rates. Ladies can buy there fancy as well as staple groceries, glass, china and silver ware. Fancy dress goods in all styles, ribbons, scarfs, shawls, laces, gloves, hosiery, shoes of the best quality. A room has been fitted up where a lady can feel perfectly comfortable to try a shoe on. There have been a number of desirable changes made in the inside arrangements of goods during the past year, and a decided improvement is the result. Everybody trades at Z. C. M. I. They carry the largest stock of goods of any wholesale house in the Western interior. Professional Travels: Mrs. Margaret C. Shipp, M. D., has recently returned from rather an ex\: ended and interesting professional trip through Northern Utah, parts of Wyoming and Idaho. Leaving this city September 25th, the Dr. Visited Coalville, Grass Creek and Wanship, then returned home to attend October Conference. Immediately after conference, resuming her labors in this direction, she visited Morgan, Evanston, Almy, Woodruff, Randolph, Laketown, St. Charles, Bloomington, Paris and Montpelier. In each of the places mentioned she lectured to the ladies upon those special subjects that interest women so greatly... Page 28