Social Science Modern Applications of Ethical Principles Lesson 6?Honesty, the Core of Character Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, April 24, 1945 Lesson link: The discussion last time centered around truth and its perversions. It was shown that truth is the very framework of ethics, but that because of abuses; such as ignorance, lying, cheating, hypocrisy, expediency, et cetera, the highest morality is frequently never reached. Lesson aim: To analyze the ethical aspects of character and to show that honesty is at the heart or core of it all. THE last hundred years or so has " been described as the age of science. During this period, more than at any other time, man has been occupied with the discovery and analysis of facts. And in this quest for factual truth man has been largely successful, for he has greatly extended the boundaries of his understanding, making possible, thereby, a speedier progression and a higher morality. But facts alone are not enough. In spite of the world's technological advancement, it is doubtful that it is any more happy or any more moral than before, as we have shown in an earlier lesson. Knowledge means power; but power used without principle is a curse rather than a blessing. The misapplication of facts is as often to blame for the ills of man as is the ignorance of facts. Science cannot substitute for virtue. The right application of knowledge and the right use of power are far more important than knowledge and power in and of themselves. Technical education without adequate ethical orientation is of questionable value. It is time for man to realize that character building is the most important business of life. Character Versus Reputation It was shown last month that truth is frequently abused and distorted in an attempt at self-benefit. The highest morality depends upon our ability to strive for: Truth instead of falsehood Intelligence rather than ignorance Information in place of confirmation Straight thinking in place of fantasy Sincerity in place of indifference Certainty along with sincerity Intellectual honesty instead of self-justification. Analytic searching rather than dogmatic defending Conviction in place of skepticism Confidence without arrogance or self-pity Self-interest without cheating Humility without self-depreciation Statesmanship rather than politics Honor rather than expediency Genuineness rather than hypocrisy Principle rather than profit Whenever truth becomes neglected or perverted in any of the ways discussed (or any other way for that matter) morality suffers. Dishonesty is the willful abuse of truth, whether it be on the covert, the verbal, or the overt plane. Some people are dishonest because they won't think straight, others because they lie, and still others because they cheat. But most dishonest individuals offend on all three of these levels covering up deceit with more deceit. Because of this all-too-common tendency to cover up or hide the real self from others, there is frequently a fundamental difference between a person's character and his reputation. Character is what we are, while reputation is what we seem to be to others. If everyone was entirely honest, character and reputation would be identical; but since all are not honest, man is easily fooled and injustice is perpetuated. A Sunday School teacher assigned the twenty-fifth chapter of St. Luke to be read for the following week. When the class reassembled he asked how many had read the assignment, and about one-third of the hands went up. "Well," he remarked to the startled group, "you are just the ones I want to talk to for my subject is on lying, and there isn't any twenty-fifth chapter in St. Luke." Several years ago Eddie Cantor offered a $5,000 prize to high school students for the best essay on peace. Out of the thousands of entries a young man was selected and taken to New York City to be honored and awarded the prize. But before the end, it was discovered that he had copied a large proportion of his essay word for word from a magazine article published a few years earlier. Needless to say, he went home in disgrace and without the prize, all because he had failed to understand the meaning of plagiarism. These are only two of many examples that could be given to illustrate the existence of basic dishonesty in society around us. Studies reveal that quite a high percentage of our young people copy and cheat in school. But the problem doesn't stop there. Even a cursory self-analysis along with an examination of society at large will reveal that cheating is not confined to school nor to the young alone.
Those who seek to build or protect their reputation by deceit will do well to remember that, "nothing is secret that shall not be made manifest, neither any thing hid that shall not be known and come abroad" (Luke 8:17).
The Role of Honesty in Character
Hugh M. Woodward (Humanity's Greatest Need, pp. 137-150) following an arrangement by Mrs. Noenetta Richardson, summarizes the major qualities of character by comparing them to the construction elements of a building. The aim or motivation for building the temple of character is found through self
unfoldment and service to humanity. The temple is located on the mount of service beside life's highway. The great sustaining pillars which support the entire structure are self-respect, self-effort, self-control, and self-poise. The foundations of the temple are honesty, trustworthiness, sincerity, and courage. The floor is made up of perseverance, temperance, frankness, and humility. The doors for entrance into the temple are faith, a passion for the truth, an interest in all life, constant industry and effort, and a wakeful conscience. The windows of the temple, which represent the attitude of a righteous soul, are a genuine interest in life, a sympathetic understanding of others, tolerance, and love. The color scheme is cheerfulness blended with refinement, kindliness, gentleness, and gratitude. The crowning feature of this temple of character is made up of charitableness and altruistic service.
Some of these features of character we have already discussed in earlier lessons, and others will be examined on later dates. While the scheme obviously is not perfect as it stands, it is at least suggestive. With close study, it may seem desirable to add additional qualities of character and mentioned here or to rearrange the order and relative position of those given. But, perfect or not, such a scheme should at least prove helpful in any character analysis.