[Vol10 | September 1923 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: The Book of Mormon Tested]

The Book of Mormon Tested
Alice Louise Reynolds.

"And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost."—Book of Mormon, Moroni, 10:4.

His Mother Gave Him The Book of Mormon.

He was a little boy living in Ogden, Utah, born just five years after the pioneers entered the valley. He learned to read when he was very young, and although he was only seven years of age when the Book of Mormon was given to him by his mother, he had read Sindbad the Sailor and other stories that are the product of imagination. It was in the summer time when the book was first placed in the little fellow's hands, so he seated himself in the shade of the log cabin and began to read it. He had read but a few pages when he said to himself, "This book is not like the other books I have read; this book is true. It is from God!" The conviction of the truth of the book that took hold of the child has never left him. Although he is a man considerably past middle life at the present time, a man of large experience and of many varied testimonies, yet he says the Book of Mormon holds a unique place in his experience which is held by no other book. More than that, he tells us that the feeling that came to him that the book is true and of God is always present whenever he reads it. Other books of scripture carry with them something of the same feeling, but not in the same measure or degree as does the Book of Mormon.

This man is one of the very best known men among the Latter-day Saints. Were I to go into the details of his life, there would be comparatively few of my readers who would not identify him. He has electrified audiences all over the Church and in the mission field with the power of his testimony. He was once asked, by the president of a mission, to visit a family where the wife had joined the Church, but where the husband was still skeptical. He talked most of the night with the man who pondered in his heart the things he heard, and as a result, joined the Church. His son, then a mere lad, listened to the conversation of that night with rapt attention. Later in calling the incident to mind he said to me, "That, too, was the night of my conversion as well as that of my father." This family moved to Utah and both the father and the son are occupying prominent places, one in the Church, the other in the State. The driving force behind this man, who was the little boy in Ogden, is like unto the force that was kindled within his soul as he sat by the log cabin reading the book that his mother gave him.

His Sweetheart Gave Him the Book of Mormon

Two or three years ago a young man came from the mountainous districts of Central Europe to Utah. He was not a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. His mother and a number of his sisters, and possibly a brother, had joined the Church. When he was a lad he went to live with an uncle, who was very prosperous, so that his association with the members of his own family had not been as close as that of his brothers and sisters. He loved his mother, and brothers and sisters, but was not a little embarrassed over the fact that they had joined the so-called "Mormon" church. When he came to Salt Lake City it was not because of the sympathy for, or interest that he had in the "Mormon" people, but merely because he wanted to be with his mother.

On the day of his arrival, his sister met him with a friend. He could not speak English, so there was no communication between them. He was well trained in a certain line of work, and so he induced his sister's friend to go with him and explain matters to a well-known business house in Salt Lake City with the thought of his obtaining a position. He obtained the position he sought, and became convinced that his first duty was to learn English. As a result, he entered a school that was very close to his place of business. The friend also was near by in her studio. Frequently the young man came into her room to ask her to pronounce the words of his lesson. On one occasion she suggested that she would be glad to have him read to her and she would correct his pronunciation when faulty. He promptly agreed to the arrangement and his expression was full of pleasure at the suggestion,—an expression that did not fade until she handed him the Book of Mormon.
