[Vol10 | September 1923 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson I - Theology and Testimony]

Whitmer, in Fayette, Seneca county, and at sundry times and in divers places through all the travels and tribulations of this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. And the voice of - Michael, the archangel; the voice of Gabriel, and of Raphael, and of divers angels from Michael or Adam, down to the present time, all declaring their dispensationg their rights, their keys, their honors, their majesty and glory, and the power of their Priesthood; giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little—giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hope." Doc. & Cov., Sec. 110: 11, 12, 13, 14: "After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us, and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us © the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north, "And after this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us, and our seed, all generaitons after us should be blessed. "And after this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us, for Elijah the prophet who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us, and said— "Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi, testifying that he, (Elijah) should be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come. "To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse." September of the present year marks the one hundredth anniversary of the appearance of the angel Moroni. It is suggested that the prophet Joseph's testimony concerning this event be read, Pearl of Great Price, pages 88 to 96, and that the hymns, "What was witnessed in the heavens?" as the opening hymn, and "An angel from on high," as the closing hymn be sung. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Give a list of the special messengers of this dispensation. 2. What does the sending of so many special messengers in this dispensation indicate? 3, What is your personal testimony of the mission of the Angel. Moroni?