[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 592 | The Home | A Family Blackboard Celia | Larsen Luce]
Celia Larsen Luce @ Parents spend great sums of money for educational toys, yet often ignore one of the cheapest and best —a blackboard. At least it is one of the cheapest if you are willing to make your own. This is easier than most folks think. All you really need is a smooth surface and some blackboard paint. Of course, moldings make a nicer finished product. A blackboard painted on the wall is best, as there is no bother with an easel and no storage problem. The blackboard can fit into the decorative scheme of your family room, kitchen, or a child's bedroom, for the paints come in colors other than black and green. Check with your paint dealer far enough ahead so he can order the color you wish. Black is easiest to find and best for most purposes. The wall surface must be smooth. Run your hand over the wall to check this. If you have a wall of painted plasterboard you should have no trouble. Masonite will supply a smooth surface if your walls are not smooth. If you are renting, perhaps you would prefer a masonite blackboard that could be hung on the wall and taken with you when you move. It is much easier to make and use than an easel blackboard. Make your blackboard large enough. Tiny children use only the 592 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OuT 593 Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions (In Three Parts) Part I - Main Dishes, Casseroles, and Meats Rosa Shurtz ®@ Quantity cooking presents special problems in food handling, but improved modern processes of canning, freezing, and packing foods are great time and labor savers for inexperienced cooks. Costs of commercially prepared food are about the same as homemade when time and labor are counted. Buying good grade, ready-prepared main ingredients, experimenting with seasonings, adding fresh or home-prepared products to complete the dish, produce the good home-cooked flavor that is the main appeal of bazaars and fund-raising dinners.. Wholesale houses will sell to an organization, and there are also supply houses for restaurants, cafes, and other institutions in all large cities, where quantity purchases may be made. The butcher will usually quote restaurant prices on meats and will bone and slice the meat. Many bakers and restaurants will roast turkeys and other meats if your facilities are not adequate. Some bakers will order doughnut, cake, gingerbread, and other prepared mixes in bulk, from their own suppliers for an organization.