[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 633 | Lesson | Literature — Good versus Evil — Part II Robert | K. Thomas]
The selections of literature which we will consider this month all share a focus on personal choice, and the results of such choice. Problems of personal choice. THE HAPPY PRINCE In "The Happy Prince," by Oscar Wilde, we see how one good choice makes possible another, until a whole life is changed. This is a deliberate and deceptively simple account of the linked force of small choices. The empty-headed swallow is easily deceived, a bit vain, but essentially good-hearted. His first positive choice, to stay with the Prince overnight, stems. Only from his feeling mildly sorry for the Prince who is no _ longer happy. The swallow is only delaying his flight to the sensuous. Delights of Egypt. After his first proper choice results in a focus to his life that he didn't have before, he feels good—but hardly sees the significance of his action. He is still vain, and his thoughts turn easily to the personal indulgences which have set the tenor of his life up to now. The swallow finds it easier to make his second right choice— staying the second night—but he 


 is really moved for the first time when he sees the willingness with which the Prince sacrifices one of his jewelled eyes. After staying to help for one more night, the swallow suddenly realizes that he can't leave. The seemingly insignificant choices have become commitment. The evil of the world has not been solved by the swallow's choices and the Prince's sacrifices, but they have achieved individual salvation—which is all the triumph any person can have over evil. The form of "The Happy Prince"' does little to reinforce its message. Perhaps all that can be said is that the simplicity of its form supports the simplicity of its solution. THE HOUND OF HEAVEN In turning next to ""The Hound of Heaven," by Francis Thompson (1858-1907), we go from the 66s artless to the intricate. It "is one of the great short religious poems of the English language. It is not only vivid in imagery and lavish in music but also rich in thought and meaning" (Text, page 348). I fled Him, down the nights and down the days; I fled Him, down the arches of the years; I fled Him, down the labyrinthine ways Of my own mind; and in the mist of tears I hid from Him, and under running laughter. Up vistaed hopes I sped; And shot, precipitated, Adown 'Titantic glooms of chasmed fears, From those strong Feet that followed, followed after. But with unhurrying chase, And unperturbed pace, 634 Deliberate speed, majestic instancy, They beat—and a Voice beat More instant than the Feet— "All things betray thee, who betrayest Me." In reading the poem one should first of all understand that Thompson intends no blasphemy or heresy with the term "Hound of Heaven," referring to Christ. The phrase comes from Shelley's Prometheus Unbound, in which Shelley refers admiringly to Christ as "heaven's winged hound." Thompson uses the phrase in the sense of an analogy. As the hound pursues the rabbit, ever drawing closer in the chase, so does Christ in His love pursue the sinning mortal who in his rebellion would escape the influence of Christ (Text, page 348). It takes a total approach to get the full effect of "The Hound of Heaven," and it helps a great deal to know something about its author Francis Thompson as we read this famous poem. In addition to the material in our text, it helps to know that his genius as a poet was early recognized. His poverty, his apparent determination "to lead his own life" were deliberate. He was less a victim of circumstance than he was of his own choices. Better than most men he understood that we are not always driven; we flee. The tragedy of this poem is not that we choose degrading things, but that we try to substitute the part for the All-Good. The form in which Thompson presents his message is most effective. Note how the phrasing of the poem twists and turns in an effort to escape. The lines stop and start, rush headlong and then pull up short. The rhyme scheme suggests an attempt to order a life—to bring it into balance—but the off-rhymes and near-rhymes try to help us see O harmonize ch with limax of the poem "Naked I wait Th d stroke!" the key rist's insistence 5 uplifte of God. Over the le better. THE INVISIBLE COLLECTION the text, "The an? By Stefan adds 2 diInvisible wrongs seem trast that we culty in choosing, the situations in wh results are LESSON DEPARTMENT guish? Consider again the story we are discussing. The reasons for selling the collection appear overwhelmingly justifiable. As the distraught daughter truly comshame at the end? The author of this moving little story is not going to let us gO without reflection on what it means to against principle. Principle can never be violated with impunity. A choice in which either alternative is in some degree evil disturbs the balance of trust by which men and civilizations live. As someone has suggested, the real terror of lying lS not that no on® will trust us but that we cannot trust ourselves nor anyone else. If we choose to hie under certain conditions, what lS there to stop others from doing the same? The daughter and mother suggest that the blind father "knows nothing of our material difficulties." It ls sobering +0 realize that in choosing not to tell him, perhaps in love and surely in concern, they make the lying inevitable. Is the father's "happiness" pought at too great a price? Indulgence of those we love may be a subtle form of selflove. How easy it is for us to defend our actions in terms of what we think we are doing for others. As Paul reminds us in his AUGUST 1965 think they are. A lie is not usually the beginning of wrong choices, but it is the inevitable fruit of them. A CHRISTMAS CAROL "A Christmas Carol," by Charles Dickens (1812-1870), needs no explanation for its message is clear. It is a simple story in which fantasy comes to the aid of reality in letting us see what ought to be. Past, present, and future unite in one who can repent. Yet even the fantasy does not blur the primary force of individual choice in all change. AFTER CHRISTMAS Note the matter-of-fact conversational language of the poem "After Christmas," by W. H. Auden (1907- +). How easy it is to follow a comfortable pattern; how difficult it is to move from the rut. Even habitual good becomes suspect because it does not require very much commitment on our part. This poem, finally, goes far beyond its implied Christmas setting. (See text, page 275.) WHITE CHRISTMAS "White Christmas," by W. R. Rodgers (1909- ), documents one shabby way in which we can avoid facing our problems. We can play at life, pretend that things are better than they are. As the snow covers and equalizes everything, good and bad, so we at Christmas, find it easy to spread a blanket of hypocritical good will over the land. The spurious world we thus create is not an ideal which might at least set us goals. It is a justification for our greed. We are not, for one 636 wonderful moment, trying to live above ourselves; we are merely pretending, accepting appearance for reality. The real commentary upon our falsity arrives with the day after Christmas when we return to our actual lives without remorse, no more changed by our Christmas experience than we are by any other make-believe. If 'White Christmas" verges on the bitter, it lacks the rancor of "Karma," by Edward Arlington Robinson (Text, page 280). KARMA The title of this poem is taken from a concept found in Buddhism and Hinduism which suggests that your destiny is determined by the sum of your acts, that is, you will receive in another state of existence, exactly what you have chosen to receive, as demonstrated by your deeds in this life. It is a shock to realize that Robinson has chosen to use a conventional sonnet to make his point, for in the sonnet the first eight lines usually present a problem which is resolved in the last six. Note the nature of the resolution here. The faint twinge of conscience which has pricked the subject of the poem after he has ruined a friend in a business transaction is resolved by giving ''a dime for Jesus who had died for man." Of all the material we have covered in this section none is so bluntly condemnatory. By continuing effort, man has succeeded in degrading himself so totally that the "'fullness of his heart'? Adds up to no more than a dime. Perhaps Robinson is suggesting that the most pervasive compromise of our time is a belief that anything can be solved by money. If we choose to believe this, nothing but money finally matters. After a while even the amount doesn't matter so long as money is involved. 'Note to Class Leaders: Since there is no literature lesson for December in 1965 we have included several pieces appropriate to the Christmas season in the November lesson. The extent to which they are used will depend on each class leader, but there should be no difficulty in considering them in terms of our November emphasis on choice. Questions for Discussion 1. If succeeding right choices do reinforce one another, as we see in "The Happy Prince," is there any problem in making right choices out of habit? 2. How responsible do you think the daughter and mother in "The Invisible Collection" are to let the father know of their financial plight? In not doing so, do they choose to lie? 3. Of all those we have met in this lesson, who has failed most completely to discern between good and evil?

The air is so full Of sunlight and song That this is a day To cherish long. With joy in my heart, My beloved here, "And a day like this— Oh, heaven is near! HAWAIIAN TOURS July 31, 1965 October, November 1965 WORLD'S FAIR and L. D. S. PAGEANT TOURS 16 day tour July 17—Aug. 7 22 day tour July 24—Aug. 14 Two 29 day tours July 11—Aug. 8 and July 24—Aug. 21 AUTUMN TOURS TO EUROPE Leaves September 3, 1965 WORLD'S FAIR NEW ENGLAND and CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 16, 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88, 89, 90 (Eight Lectures) by ROY W. DOXEY Associate Professor of Religion Brigham Young University EDUCATION WEEKS 1965 Price $1.50 Available end of June from BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Extension Publications Provo, Utah 84601 Write for Extension Publications Catalog listing talks given at BYU by General Authorities 637 i \ @ @ Is your family grown or mostly grown? @ Do you want to become a technically competent, contributing member of society? @ Would you be proud to serve as a registered nurse with an Associate of Arts degree? @ Are you in need of dignified, remunerative employment? > FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION WRITE OR PHONE (EVENING CLASSES IN SALT LAKE CITY BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF NURSING Through the B. Y. U. - Salt Lake Center for Continuing Education offer a two year associate degree career in NURSING FOR MATURE WOMEN WHO ARE HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES mw YOUNG UN, ee BYU ""s,. ' SALT LAKE ° CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 200 North Main Phone 328-0325 a Lake City FIRST CLASS STARTS OCTOBER 4, 1965 J CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR leaving August 8th PASSION PLAY TOUR leaving August 22nd LABOR DAY TOUR September 4-5-6 NEW ENGLAND, CANADIAN FALL TOUR leaving September 4th HAWAIIAN ALOHA TOUR October ROSE PARADE TOURS December Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 SINGING MOTHERS' CHORAL ARRANGEMENTS Abide with Me—Madsen.20 Come Ye Blessed of My Father.20 Come Ye Blessed—Scott.25 Create in Me a Clean Heart.25 Eternal Life 20000..25 Eye Hath Not Seen 00 25 God of All Nature 0.000000..25 Incline Your Ear - 000000..0.0------..25 Lord Bless Thee and Keep Thee.20 Lord, God of Our Fathers.25 Lord Is My Shepherd—Ryg.20 Lord's Prayer—Robertson 25 Peace I Leave with You.20 Prayer for Our Country 25 Voice in the Wilderness.25 327 Broadway Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 Orders shipped the same day as we receive. Catalogs supplied. 638 Tour the Holy Land This Fall Via Pan American Jet TOUR LEAVES OCTOBER 7th: Murdock Travel's annual Fall tour of the ever inspiring Holy Land provides you with 21 days of high quality, worry-free travel. You are assured of luxury travel on Pan American jet clippers and superb accommodations in the finest hotels... All at unusually low cost! The tour includes all of the Holy Land as well as places such as Istanbul, Cairo, Athens, and Rome. W. Cleon Skousen, Tour Director Mr. Skousen is a foremost LD. S. Authority on the Holy Land and the author of several successful books. Among these are: So You Want to Raise a Boy? The First Two Thousand Years, and The Third Thousand Years. WBeeteveeceoveeeeeseeeesseeaesenesceseoeseveescesvenvuvvvuevevuvueeee MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, Phone 328-3161 PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE FALL TOUR OF THE HOLY LAND. MURDOCK Xe le i. 5 e TRA VEL WY eee ceecee cece ceeeesState eeZip. Gu Meeaeeteoeseeeesvoseeeetseevensbe By Wielka ccc cccw sss cuiinccddecneccccccccccnccc cts ee, BEAUTIFUL Jhank You HANDY for your patronage and DURABLE your fine friendship over the years We have A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society MagaALL THE NEW HANDCRAFTS: zine is in a noaneseus neune nme, be ° Mountain West''s first an inest bindery an Plastic Grapes and other printing house is prepared to bind your editions Plastic Casting Supplies into a durable volume. Feather Flowers Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to Ribbon Flowers the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Satin Wrapped Fruit, etc. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 and Phone 486-1892 ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Mosaics Advance payment must accompany all orders. Aluminum Trays Copper Tooling Basketry, etc. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Send 25¢ for catolog and also receive a rene yea our newest book Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6.90 "EGG CARTON PARTY FAVORS" Zone 3.60 Zone 7 - 2005. Zone 4.65 Zone 8.. 1.20 Discounts to Groups Jone 5S 80 ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah — 2 PESERET FREws PREssSs 639 99