THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
MAY 1931
Vol. XVIII No. 5

"I advise young men and women to save the most precious years of their lives by securing a business education, that they may go forth fully equipped early in life."—Andrew Carnegie.

Too Late to Start School

Perhaps you are one of those who are feeling a pang of regret as others have returned to school and you wish, too late, you were with them. Youth is the training period of life. What you are tomorrow will be the result of your plans today.

IT IS NOT TOO LATE

You can begin to prepare for a business career next week at L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE. Write or call today for free literature, telling of opportunities and courses, or write your name at the bottom of this advertisement, tear it out and mail it for complete information.

L. D. S. Business College

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

NOW is "When" to Buy Good Nut Coal

KNIGHT SPRING CANYON COAL

With the firm, straight grain from Utah's deepest coal seam. A GOOD, economical coal for you to buy and to burn.

ROYAL COAL

Utah's best quicklite coal. Furnishes maximum of quick, clean heat, with a minimum of ash or soot.

SOLD BY LEADING DEALERS IN SEVEN WESTERN STATES

KNIGHT FUEL CO. ROYAL COAL CO. L. E. ADAMS, General Sales Agent

ELECTRIC COOKING IS ECONOMICAL

Electric Cooking offers many advantages over old fashioned methods. It is clean, fast, convenient, automatic in operation, and economical. It greatly improves your kitchen's appearance, meaning happier, more healthful living for every member of the family.

Come in and see the beautiful models of WESTINGHOUSE and HOTPOINT ranges on display.

Five Dollars Down—Easiest of Terms

UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Efficient Public Service

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Retirement Fund

The one safe way to guarantee financial protection to your family and at the same time prevent financial dependence at old age. This special contract matures as a cash retirement fund at age 65 and furnishes protection to loved ones in the event of premature death or permanent total disability.

Don't Grow Old Poor

When Life Insurance Protection Can Be Had At Your Own Price

The BIG HOME COMPANY

BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.

HOME OFFICE—SALT LAKE CITY

HEBER J GRANT President E. T. RALPHS Gen. Manager

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 18 May, 1931 No. 5

CONTENTS

Motherhood Bessie Potter Vonnoh Frontispiece
Resurrection (Poem) Rachel Grant Taylor 245
Mother (Poem) Jennie Bastian Mansfield 245
Sketches of Representative Women—Augusta Winters Grant Susa Young Gates 247
A Tribute Amy M. Rice 252
A Visit to the American Embassy in Mexico Alice D. Moyle 253
Where's Mother? (Poem) H. L. Reid 257
Anna Garlin Spencer Amy Brown Lyman 258
Mothers' Day (Poem) Winona F. Thomas 260
Facing Facts on Mothers' Day 261
The Children's Charter 262
The Waste in Mothers' Lives Mrs. John Sloane 264
What is Adequate Maternity Care? Hazel Corbin 265
My Mother's Smile (Poem) Mary Petterson 266
Mothers' Day (Story) Ida R. Alldredge 267
A Mothers' Day Observance Without Children Olivia S Waddoups 271
Bessie Potter Vonnoh Jennie B. Knight 273
Our Field (Poem) Martha J. Barnes 275
Growing Old with the Poets Lois V. Hales 276
Maytime (Poem) Merling D. Clyde 278
Moroni the Faithful Nora A. Davis 279
What Does Your Home Afford? Jean Cox 281
Notes from the Field 285
Hope (Poem) Willamelia F. Barton 288
Relief Society Annual Report, 1930 Julia A. F. Lund 289
Notes to the Field 291
Editorial—Mothers' Day 294
Another Victory for Women 295
Twelve Outstanding Women 296
Relief Society Handbook 297
Hats Off Annie S. Gill 297
Mothers of Men Vernessa Miller Nagle 299
The Consumer's Responsibility to the Manufacturer and Merchant Vilate Elliott 301
A Tribute Helen K. Orgill 302

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah

Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c

The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.

Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.

L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS

Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:

No. 1 New style, ribbed light wt. cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent Ladies number $1.25

No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. wt. cotton, our standard summer number $ .95

No. 3 Ribbed med. Wt. Cotton, bleached or unbleached. Our old reliable. Ladies or Mens 1.15

No. 4 Ribbed heavy wt. Unbleached cotton. Our double back number 2.25

No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number 3.00

No. 6 Light weight summer garment. Ladies' new style .85

No. 7 Light wgt. New or old style, mercerized—silky finish 1.75

No. 8 Light weight Spring and Summer garment. Men only 1.00

No. 9 Med. wt. Fine ribbed, men only, new style only 1.25

No. 10 Light wt. Silk stripe men and women, new style only. Non-Run 1.95

In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid. Special discount to missionaries.

FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL

Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates

SUMMER EXCURSION FARES Via Southern Pacific Lines

LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $40.00
SAN FRANCISCO $47.10
LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO return direct or route reversed $47.10

Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA.

STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY, MAY 15th TO SEPT. 30th FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCT. 31st

For further information fill in coupon below

D. R. OWEN, General Agent, Southern Pacific, 41 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Ut.

Please send me information and literature on a trip to _____ City

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.

CP LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.

"No Kelvinator Has Ever Worn Out 1914-1931"

The Granite Furniture Company is now featuring the world's widely known KELVINATOR Electric Refrigerator

The oldest electric refrigeration, and recognized as the greatest value as well. The KELVINATOR is known as a long lived dependable refrigerator and is in use all over the East, all over the West, North and South.

THE DEXTER WASHER

Reduces washing to a pleasure. The DEXTER Washer represents low price without sacrifice. Ask to see the DEXTER Speedex with Vitreous Enamel Tub.

LINOLEUMS

The Granite Furniture Company are exclusive representatives in the South East for the famous Armstrong Linoleums. We carry a complete line of beautiful floor coverings in all the newest patterns.

THE FAMOUS LEVIN LIVING ROOM SUITES

We are featuring new shipments and showing more than 100 beautiful suites. This is known as one of the finest lines manufactured.

"THE FINEST DRAPERY DEPARTMENT IN THE WEST"

GRANITE FURNITURE CO. 1050 EAST 21ST SOUTH

THE SUGAR HOUSE FURNITURE COMPANY has moved to the Basement of the Granite Furniture Company, where you are invited to come.

W. B. RICHARDS, JR., President and Manager

Four Big Stores—Sugar House, Murray, Park City, Bingham

HALL'S CANKER MEDICINE

If you want to prevent canker or sore throat, use Halls Canker Medicine. If any of your children have canker or sore throat, give them Hall's Canker Medicine. This wonderful medicine is sold by all Druggists.

In Buying Canker Medicine Don't Forget to Ask For HALL'S CANKER MEDICINE

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Resurrection By Rachel Grant Taylor In tune our hearts throb with the song of spring, "I am the resurrection and the life." Held close in winter's icy bands, the germ of life lies hidden. Those coatings dull and brown are but its somber grave clothes. Peacefully in darkness deep it rests, beneath a coverlet of snow. But when the light of spring's fair sun, dispels the shades of winter's night, Deep in the earth, life hears the Master's call, Casts off its shroud and triumphs over death. In tune our hearts throb with the song of spring, "I am the resurrection and the life." Mother By Jennie Bastian Mansfield Bits of heavenly wisdom, Love that never faileth, A thousand kinds of cheer, Tenderness sincere, A million kinds of comfort, God put them all together For every need that's here; When He made you, Mother dear. By Bessie Potter Vonnoh. MOTHERHOOD THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XVIII MAY, 1931 No. 5 Sketches of Representative Women Of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints By Susa Young Gates WHEN the roll of honor is called in heavenly courts, the women whose names will lead all the rest will be those who have crowned wifehood and motherhood with the jewels fashioned out of the glowing sacrifices of their own hopes, ambitions, gifts and love. The names will be not those of the female poets and painters, the orators or authors who have emerged from domestic obscurity to emblazon their names on earthly scrolls of fame, but of those wives and mothers whose human masterpieces have gone out from their hearthstones to repeat again and again the dramas, comedies, and tragedies of life! And if life or opportunity have deprived the childless, husbandless woman of her God-ordained destiny, she too, if she has risen to her full womanly stature, whether her feet have trod the highways of fame or the byways of absorption in other related lives and interests, if she has preserved and developed her mothering instincts and qualities—she, too, will be named among those chosen ones when He makes up His jewels. Augusta Winters Grant Wife of President Heber J. Grant MRS. AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT, wife of President Heber J. Grant, is a true representative of the womanhood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, sincere, modest, intelligent. Her life has expressed the best there is in wifehood and motherhood. Mrs. Grant was born July 7, 1856, at Pleasant Grove, Utah. Her ancestry answers the problem of her own distinguished and beautiful personality. Her puritan and American pioneer ancestry on both maternal and paternal lines molded the strong lines of courage, the delicate tracery of natural refinement and peace with the added resourcefulness which enabled them and their descendants to meet wisely and calmly life's daily problems. MRS. GRANT'S father, Oscar Winters, descended from two Puritan strains, the Burdicks and the Winters. His mother, Rebecca Burdick Winters, was a daughter of 248 Gideon Burdick who was a Revolutionary soldier. Gideon enlisted in 1776 in the Colonial Army at the age of 16 years, and served throughout the war with some years of subsequent service. He rose to the rank of lieutenant and finally to that of captain; but he began his record as a drummer boy. He enrolled from Charleston County, Rhode Island, and was with Washington on that fateful night, the 25th of December, 1776, when the ice-filled Delaware bore the determined American troops across and met and out-flanked the enemies' treacherous assault. Gideon vividly recalled and described to his descendants the scenes and tragic events of that night and his subsequent experiences. The war records show that he remained in active service until 1804. He was a pensioner of the government until his death. Gideon joined the Church in June, 1833, in Jamestown, New York, his whole family being baptized at the outlet of Lake Chautauqua, near Buffalo. Oscar Winters, son of Rebecca Burdick, grandson of Gideon, was a well-read, intelligent man, who always kept abreast of the happenings which were of world-wide interest. As a child, Mrs. Grant remembers her father reading Greek history and the biographies of noted men in their little pioneer home. For years he was a subscriber to the Toledo Blade and the New York Sun, when these papers were scarcely ever heard of in Utah. In those days indeed few books and papers were obtainable, as pioneer conditions and the long journey across the plains prevented general distribution. The children in the household read these papers with great interest. Particularly was the mind of the growing girl, Augusta, formed along educational lines. She was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE assisted by her wise father in acquiring opinions of national affairs and prominent people which were uncolored by political bias and untouched by heated controversy. Oscar Winters had not the remotest idea of becoming a school teacher; but he was called by the Bishop of Mount Pleasant about 1860 to take charge of the winter school with his wife, Mary Ann Stearns Winters, who had long been a trained school teacher. Mary Ann Stearns Winters, the wife of Oscar and mother of Augusta, was a school teacher from the time she was a little girl. She taught in Winter Quarters and all her younger life in Utah. AUGUSTA'S earliest recollections were concerned with the pleasurable task of assisting the younger children in the class work of those primitive schools. She acted as teacher and assistant teacher from the early age of thirteen years. She was so successful and so beloved a teacher that her pupils and associates carried her reputation all over the State. She was the principal of the school in Pleasant Grove for two years. The next year she attended the University of Utah, and was invited by Dr. Park to take charge of a department in the city schools in his first attempt to grade and organize the city schools. Prior to this time each district and ward managed its own educational affairs, and the tuition paid in by the children was given to the teacher. Again asked to act as principal, she accepted the responsibility of the 17th Ward Academy where she presided over a group of pupils older than herself. This was her last experience in direct school teaching. Augusta taught school altogether about ten years. She has "ex-pupils" all over the State of Utah. AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT 250 A hunger for learning has always characterized her life and is one of her outstanding attributes. She never has had to make herself study, but does it because she loves it. It is her recreation. At the age of eight she spelled down her entire school in an old-fashioned spelling contest. As her mother was a school teacher, she encouraged her children to get all the education they could. The "Winters girls" were among the first to go away from home to school in Provo and Salt Lake City, and older heads in the town were shaken seriously as the townspeople prophesied that "Oscar Winters was going to spoil those girls by spending for their education instead of keeping them home to help him." They would go to school one year and teach the next, saving the greater part of the money earned to help pay for their education. When in New York the winter her daughter Mary was at Columbia University, the mother Augusta registered there for one of the courses. At this time she was nearly sixty. She loves to study French and used to keep up with her daughter while she was taking it and has remembered it always, taking frequent opportunities to speak it since. She learned Japanese quite readily, and the knowledge of the language enabled her to do much good while in Japan. She has always been interested in books and magazines and has kept up on current events. She organized a night school in Pleasant Grove for young people who had been denied educational opportunities and had a very successful class in English. One member of this class was head of the schools in this little town. AUGUSTA was married happily and congenially in 1884 to President Heber J. Grant and found RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE herself in a family of ten—the orphaned children of her husband and her sister. While she was privileged to bear but one daughter of her own, she has mothered in her home twelve fine girls; the children of her husband and of two of her sisters. She has seen them all grow to maturity and develop into fine characters, worthy citizens and all happily married. To her one daughter, she is a haven of joy and still waters, where the restless barks of her noisy grandchildren may harbor without storm or delay. All of these, as well as her husband's children and children's children, cast anchor into the soundless depths of her love and peace. She is a firm believer in the principle that we receive our reward for all we do, as we go along, and is sensitive of the fact that she has received more than her just reward in the loyalty and devotion of her family. SHE is never aggressive, nor a seeker in any sense of the word. She has to be chosen. She cares nothing for formal society and its arbitrary rules and restrictions. She has always been beautiful, and has been sought after by all who knew her. Yet she has preserved her modest character without a taint of vanity or self-seeking. Her charm of personality and her refined taste, quiet attire and modest appearance, have given her an air of distinction which she herself has never sought. Early in life she decided that she would "always like to do what she had to do" and "she would never want anything which she could not have." These two decisions have influenced her life deeply. She is never averse to telling her age, and rather enjoys announcing the fact that for four months in the AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT year she is older than her husband, while for the rest of the year they are the same age. She cares nothing for jewelry and has told her husband that instead of buying diamonds and jewels for her she would prefer to have him use the money for charitable purposes. She sometimes says that diamonds, instead of adding youthful charm and attractions, rather accentuate the lack of them. WITH gifts and graces which qualify her for highest public position and responsibility, with a radiant personality and supreme powers of leadership, she has accepted only of such minor offices and duties as will permit her full discharge of those domestic responsibilities which flood the swift flowing river from her husband's burdened public life. She is ready at his instant call for voyage, sudden dinner guest's change of plan or removal. Never flustered, never reluctant, peaceful, hopeful, self-reliant, and with abundant tact, she is the ideal helpmate for her virile, swift-moving, intensely active husband. Yet she has served in many offices in our Church organizations. She was made secretary of the Pleasant Grove M. I. A. by President Emmeline B. Wells, who was always proud of the fact that "she had discovered Augusta Winters Grant." She was made secretary of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society in 1898 when that stake comprised all of Salt Lake Valley and when the venerated M. Isabella Horne was president. She was appointed on the General Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. September 19, 1898, by President Elmina S. Taylor. She assisted in establishing traveling libraries and served on the editorial committee of the Young Woman's Journal. She 251 has also been a member of the Reading Course Committee, the Advanced Senior Course Committee, and on the Committee for Summer Homes for Girls. It was she who selected and suggested the beautiful site of the Girls' Summer Home in Brighton. She has greatly enjoyed all these and other labors on the General Board of which she is still an honored member. She is and has ever been the quietly acknowledged leader of any circle where she moves. No one, least of all herself, ever announces that prominence. Few know the secret of this power; yet all might. It is that she is impersonal in her wishes or purposes. She has used her governing powers in her home and social circle so discretely that only those who observe closely realize what force is moving them. She has the rare reserves of a thoughtful frankness. Her own inner fortress rarely opens, even to her friends. She guards her own and her husband's secrets with strong yet gently fastened locks. It would not be friendship to endeavor to infringe upon her silences. In all her speech there shines her quiet insistence on the virtue of truth. Never does she exaggerate! It is rarely possible to find so strong a personality blended with such simple graciousness, consideration, and uplifting helpfulness. Steadfastly cheerful, quietly hopeful, wisely prayerful, she rules in her own circle because she wins love and obedience. She never asks: "What do I get of this?" It is always: "What can I give to this or that cause or person?" MRS. GRANT has traveled widely. She, with her husband, has met many of the most eminent people of the nation—men and women famous in science, edu252 cation, and governmental renown. She greatly appreciates the privilege of thus widening her own field of observation and experience. She spent two years with her husband in Japan. In all of this traveling, Mrs. Grant finds great delight in nature and the beauty spread before her eyes by Him who made the stars and set bounds to the rivers of water. She is very much interested in art and music, Wagner's operas being her favorite. Her favorite of all forms of entertainment is grand opera. She would now rather read Shakespeare than to see the plays on the stage, for since the days of Booth and Barrett, few are good Shakespearian actors. She cannot endure a whole evening of piano music, and is not partial to victrola music. She has only contempt for jazz music and plays. Only the very best in theatricals appeals to her. Popular vaudeville and film pictures do not interest her. Ancient relics of the past move her only as they relate to the development of character and the purposes of God. Her principal interests are in educational fields and in Church organizations. Her attractions in education are history, literature and the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE languages. She is, to this day, often intrigued with a new French book or a French newspaper. NO more exalted example has been set by the wife of any President of the Church than by this good woman in her constant devotion to temple work for many years. She has and does give liberal funds to the research work for her kindred dead. Following in the pathway marked out by her saintly mother, she not only gives of her substance for this work—she likewise gives herself. At least once a week, oftentimes more, she enters the Salt Lake Temple, and there she slips in and out of the crowded halls, so retiring, so modest, that newcomers are astonished when they learn that she is the wife of President Heber J. Grant. She accompanies her devoted husband when he is in town and can attend, but she goes many times when he is absent or busy. And her manner of doing what she does is no less an example than the work she does. Quietly, modestly, simply, she moves in her wide circle of friends, loving and beloved by all. Verily, of such are the queens of heaven. A Tribute To Charlotte Stahr, California Mission By Amy M. Rice Sometimes when I am tempted most, Beset by grief and fears; The words I've often heard you say Keep ringing in my ears. And to my weakness comes your strength To lift me to the sun. And I am able by that grace To say "Thy will be done." Sometimes I'd give the world to be, Where you could take my hand; For in your kindly sympathy I know you understand. We must have known each other There In ages long gone by; You in your strength to help inspire The weak ones such as I This tribute rare I give to you No greater if I tried. 'Tis Zion's grandest womanhood In you personified. And if you're called to journey first, To other lands more fair, May your kind hand extended be To help me enter There. A Visit to the American Embassy in Mexico By Alice D. Moyle A LONG felt desire to visit the wonderful ruins of Yucatan and Mexico resulted in Brother Moyle and myself sailing from New York recently bound for Progresso, the only port of entry for the peninsula of Yucatan, where we landed five days later and proceeded to Merida. This quaint Spanish City is the capitol and only city of any size in Yucatan, it has a little less than a hundred thousand inhabitants. From there we visited Uxmal and Chichen Itza where are found some of the most extensive and remarkable ruins of the cities of the Mayas—the most progressive and enlightened nation of the ancient Aborigines of America. These cities must have had a far greater population than Merida now has. I should like to dwell on this fascinating part of our trip, but I want to tell you of our visit to Mexico City, and of the interesting and important position occupied, and of the work being performed by our own Mrs. Clark and her distinguished husband. After leaving Yucatan we took a steamer to Vera Cruz and from there went by train over one of the most picturesque roads on the continent to Mexico City, where we were met at the station by Ambassador and Mrs. Clark and taken bag and baggage to their beautiful home, the American Embassy. Mexico City is seventy-five hundred feet above sea level on a great plateau surrounded by mountains, AMERICAN EMBASSY 254 towering over all is the famous Mount Popocatapetl, which is ten thousand three hundred feet above the valley and nearly twenty thousand feet above sea level. It has been called the "Vesuvius of America,' but now only _ occasionally emits smoke. Its peak is snowcapped, and on a bright day its summit seems to link with the sky. Mexico City is perhaps the oldest city on the continent, and has a population of 968,443. The Span RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE high arched windows and huge fireplaces. The drawing rooms are beautifully furnished and draped with old brocades, antique furniture and beautiful mirrors. The large dining room easily seats fifty to sixty people. This room opens with low French windows onto a wide © veranda which runs the length of the house, and from this we reach a lovely garden, or patio enclosed by a high wall covered with vines and flowers. In this enclosure at THE CLARK FAMILY ish atmosphere, the tropical vegetation and flowers, combined with its temperate climate, make it a most desirable place in which to live. The American Embassy, by far the finest of any of the Embassies in Mexico, is imposing and impressive, and iis very fittingly called "The White House of Mexico." It is a large one-story structure, Spanish -style, with flat roof, heavy columns, ceilings twenty-five to thirty feet in height, marble floors, the other end of the garden are the offices of the Ambassador and his staff in a dignified building, called the Chancery. The Embassy is beautifully decorated for all entertainments and every day is filled with the loveliest flowers, immense bowls of which are in every available space. As we approached the Embassy, we entered through large carved iron gates, which were closely guarded. These led to a recessed white marble entrance, which was very striking with its red AMERICAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO velvet carpeted steps, and looking out upon a wall of beautiful flowers and beds of Calla lilies. Ambassador and Mrs. Clark are very busy people. Besides affairs of State there is much entertainment. Luncheons, teas and dinners 209 During our stay we were fortunate enough to be among the guests at two large dinner parties, one given to educators and men of affairs in Mexico, the other to Diplomats and distinguished visitors. A large dinner dance was also given -LIVING ROOM IN AMERICAN EMBASSY follow each other in quick succession. Once every month the Embassy is thrown open for a large reception at which three or fotr hundred people are entertained. The guests include Mexican Diplomats and Officials, American and British Subjects, in fact, the Embassy is an open house. For the American Consuls, eighty in number, who were attending a conference in Mexico City at the call of Ambassador Clark. Mrs. Clark shares the distinction, with the wife of President Rubio of Mexico, of being chosen an honorary President of the Pan-American Society. This Society was enterMUSIC ROOM IN AMERICAN EMBASSY~ 256 tained recently at a beautifully appointed luncheon by Mrs, Clark. It is the privilege and custom of the Ambassador to entertain any and all distinguished people who visit Mexico. Mr. Thomas S. Gates, President of the University of Pennsylvania, and until quite recently, the partner of Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan, with his wife, were guests at the Embassy during our visit. Ambassador and Mrs. Clark planned and accompanied us on several wonderful trips to places of interest. One delightful jaunt was to Xochimelico,* where are located the famous floating Aztec gardens. These gardens were originally made by inter-lacing twigs strong enough to form a mat, and covering them with a thin layer of earth. Being light they were easily moved across the canals with oars. They were sometimes one hundred feet long. Fragile huts and gardens were built upon them. Eventually these gardens took root, and trees and shrubs grew, until now they are stationary gardens of trees, flowers, and vegetables. Each little plot of land is a floral paradise. At one of the landing places, awaiting our party of eight, was a quaint flat bottom boat with posts supporting a canopy covered with bunches of flowers. Down the center of the boat a table was spread with'a most delicious luncheon. We were towed by a native through picturesque canals lined on both sides with gardens of flowers, and the most wonderful tropical vegetation. At every turn in the stream, we passed boats bound for markets laden with fruit, vegetables and flowers. We visited the wonderful pyramids, temples, and ruins of pre historic time, in and around Mexico City. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Xochimelico means "Where flowers grow." Another delightful trip was our visit to Cuernevaca, where the summer home of the former Ambassador, Mr. Morrow, is situated, and is still maintained by him. Here the most luxurious tropical gardens, swimming pool and quaint Spanish home is at the disposal of Mr. and Mrs. Clark. Of all the demands made upon Mrs. Clark, none does she enjoy more than her philanthropic and charitable work. She has already identified herself in the work of the Red Cross and other local charities. Mrs. Clark had the honor lately of opening a large bazaar. Mr, Clark's decision, that no liquor 'be served at the Embassy, while quite an innovation, has impressed the American Colony with its consistency and good taste. If one may judge from the popularity and length of time the guests linger, Mr. Clark has refuted the idea so prevalent, especially in Latin countries, that dinners and entertainments cannot be popular without serving liquor. Twelve native servants are employed at the Embassy, and Mrs. Clark is able to give, in Spanish, the final word in the management of her household. One of the most highly prized members of the staff is the efficient and attractive Social Secretary. Mrs. Clark's Chef is reputed to be the finest in Mexico, with which I heartily agree. This article would fall short if I did not tell you about Luacine, the only child of Mr. And Mrs. Clark at home. She is not old enough to attend formal parties, but is a joy in the Embassy. Luacine will graduate from the American High School in June. She speaks Spanish, and is -very accomplished in music and composition. She, with AMERICAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO her mother, are at work now on an operetta. Her intelligent, sweet unaffected manner is winning for her many friends. Mr. Clark's appointment to this high position, is due to his expert knowledge of International Law, and to his demonstrated ability to handle successfully the delicate and important diplomatic affairs of our government, with Mexico. It is. Common for Ambassadors to be appointed because of great wealth, social distinction, or coming from 257 important centers of population, but Mr. Clark was chosen not for these, but for his recognized ability, knowledge, fitness for the place, and popularity with Mexican people, who are not easily understood. That so small and remote a state as Utah should be thus favored, is a distinct honor, not only to Mr. Clark, but to the State. Mr. Clark's home and domestic life in Mexico is typical of the highest ideals of the people to whom he belongs, and of the country which he represents. Where's Mother? By H. L. Reid When father comes home at the close of day, From the office, or road, or the field of hay, He puts out the team, or drives in the car, Then enters the house, leaving the door ajar, And asks, '"Where's Mother?" As the setting of the sun is drawing nigh, Sis comes home from her work at the High. She giggles and iaughs with the crowd at the gate, Then enters the house, she knows she's late, "O! Where's Mother?" Bill comes home, gaunt and slim From his work on the track, or perhaps in the Gym. He bounds in the house, leaving wide open the door, Throws his cap and his books, upon the floor, "O! Where's Mother?" Then the kiddies come honie, each in his way, As chicks to the roost at the close of day, They find father, sister, and brothers all, But yet each echoes that little call, "O! Where's Mother?" If she should chance to step out of the way, Or lie down to rest for a minute some day, Though nothing is needed, there's nowhere to go Yet everyone seems to just want to know, "O! Where's Mother 2?" When Mother's gone the "home" isn't there, Of course, there's the house and the garden fair, But amid it all there's an empty sting, The spirit of home! Unless Mother's there. There isn't such a thing Anna Garlin Spencer By Amy Brown Lyman R. ANNA GARLIN SPENCER, one of America's noted women, passed away on February 12, 1931, at her home in New 'York City, only two months before her eightieth birthday. Born April 17, 1851, of excellent parents, in Attleboro, Massachusetts, and was a direct descendant of Peter Garlin who emigrated to the United 'States in 1637. Mrs. Spencer was one of the rarest spirits and most gifted women of her time. Although slight in figure and rather delicate physically, she was possessed of a powerful intellect and remarkable mental clarity. Availing herself of every opportunity for study and training, she won many academic honors. Free from prejudices and complexes, her lovely personality and fine mind were released for constructive, helpful work, of which she did her full share. Mrs. Spencer was a pioneer in social work and public welfare. She was a suffrage leader, sociologist, philanthropist, teacher, preacher, and writer; and withal, a faithful and helpful wife and devoted mother. She was well known to many 'Utah women through association in the National Council of Women of the United States, and was always their loyal and interested friend. She had been active in the Council from the beginning, and attended the organization meeting in 1888, appearing on the program on that memorable occasion. She had held various offices in the Council, and at the time of her death was honorary vice president. She was.It is a deep satisfaction to all who knew and loved her that she was able to be her active, busy, and efficient self until almost her last moment. ~ On February 2, 3 and 4, 1931, she attended the biennial meeting of the National Council of Women, where she was the foremost figure and leading spirit of the convention, directing in a marvelous manner plans for the reorganization of the Council. On Monday, February 9, the day before she was taken ill, she gave a lecture in her course on The (family before one hundred and seventy-eight students at Columbia University. On Tuesday, the 10th, she was at her desk in the office of the American Social Hygiene Association, from which she directed her work in the Family Relations Division. On Tuesday evening she attended a dinner given by the League of Nations Association in honor of Dame Rachel Crowdy of England. She was taken sick during this dinner, and two days later passed away without distress or anxiety. Dr. Spencer's public career began at the age of eighteen 'when she taught school in Providence, 'Rhode Island. She later took up newspaper work and magazine writing, and for nine years was connected with the Providence Journal. All this time she continued her academic studies. In 1891 she was ordained a minister of the Unitarian Church, in which she preached regularly for fourteen years. Her husband was also a minister of this denomination. Early in life she had been interested in moral education and social reform, and she later specialized in ANNA GARLIN SPENCER these fields. She was for ten years associate director and staff lecturer of the New York School of Philanthropy; for three years she was special lecturer on social service and 299 Theological School, Meadville, Pennsylvania; in 1918 she was lecturer at the University of Chicago; and since 1920 she had been a lecturer in social science at Teachers' ANNA GARLIN SPENCER social aspects of education, at the (University of Wisconsin, and director of the Summer School of Ethics for the American Ethical Union; for five years she was Hackley professor of sociology and ethics at the College, Columbia University. At the time of her death, she was director of the Division of Family (Relations, American Social Hygiene \Association. She was for six years a member 260 of the Board of Control of the Rhode Island State Home and 'School for Dependent Children; she was secretary and later vice president of the Rhode Island Woman's Suffrage Association; president of the local Council of Women of (Rhode Island, in which capacity she aided in securing the law by which the legal age of the child worker was raised from ten to twelve years, and other reforms in the interest of ifactory workers; she was an officer of the Providence Society for Organizing (Charity; and chairman of the section on child saving and care of the International Conference of Social Work. The memory of Anna Garlin Spencer will be sacred to all those fortunate enough to have known her. They will remember her for her keen interest and active participation in causes which have had for their object the benefit of humanity and the raising of human life to its highest level—in woman suffrage, in temperance, in social reform and legislation, in health work including social hygiene, in world peace. She assisted personally in all of these causes and held numerous positions lof trust and honor in connection with them. They will remember Mrs. Spencer for her fine outlook and progressive views on the problems of the day, as she expressed them on the platform and in her writings, among which are the following interesting volumes: Woman's Share in Social Culture; The Care of Dependent, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Neglected, and Wayward Children; The Family and Its Members. They will remember her for her keen intellect, her power of discrimination, her ability to weigh and sift evidence on a mooted question; for her ability to assemble facts and organize a constructive plan; for her eloquence and power as a public speaker; for her sincerity and honesty; and for her courage and sense of humor which were so effective in times of discouragement. They will remember and appreciate her most of all, however, for her charming personality and her precious self—free from envy, jealousy and prejudice, and abounding in tender sympathy and love for her Father's other children. The following tribute was paid to Dr. Spencer by Dr. Valeria H. Parker, honorary president of the National Council of Women of the United States: "I count as one of the greatest blessings of my life the privilege of sharing work with Dr. Anna Garlin Spencer and of knowing her as friend. Her mind and spirit retained their radiance until she entered in her last hours of sleep. Her physical body never changed to the heavy potter of old age. Her last public appearance was as she would have wished it, at a great international gathering. "Her nearly four score years of rich and fruitful living and rare vision of the future will challenge the many who miss her earthly presence and who will forever cherish her bright and loving memory." Mothers' Day By Winona F. Thomas If I could give you just one gift, I'd try to make your dreams come true. I'd see that my life was so spent 'That I would be a monument, Commemorating you. Facing Facts on Mothers' Day MATERNITY DEATH RATES (PER 1,000 LIVE BABIES) | UNITED STATES......6.5 Canada 5.6 England-Wales 4.1 Denmark 3.1 Netherlands 2.9  MATERNITY CENTER ASSOCIATION, N. Y.C. Uncle Sam is troubled—16,000 mothers every year fail to answer roll-call on Mother's Day. They die having babies. Of these 10,000 could be saved, if people knew the importance of adequate maternity care. For information, write your health department, the Children's Bureau, Washington, 'D. C., or Maternity Center Association, 578 Madison Avenue, New York City. The Children's Charter President Hoover's White House Conference on Child Health and Protection, recognizing the rights of the child as the first rights of citizenship, pledges itself to these aims for the Children of America OR every child spiritual and moral training to help him to FE stand firm under the pressure of life. For every child understanding and the guarding of his personality as his most precious right. 3. For every child a home and that love and security which a home provides; and for that child who must receive foster care, the nearest substitute for his own home. 4. For every child full preparation for his birth, his mother receiving prenatal, natal, and postnatal care; and the establishment of such protective measures as will make child-bearing safer. 5. For every child health protection from birth through adolescence, including: periodical health examinations and, where needed, care of specialists and hospital treatment; regular dental examinations and care of the teeth; protective and preventive measures against communicable diseases; the insuring of pure food, pure milk, and pure water. 6. For every child from birth through adolescence, promotion of health, including health instruction and a health program, wholesome physical and mental recreation, with teachers and leaders adequately trained. 7. For every child a dwelling place safe, sanitary, and wholesome, with reasonable provisions for privacy, free from conditions which tend to thwart his development; and a home environment harmonious and enriching. 8. For every child a school which is safe from hazards, sanitary, properly equipped, lighted, and ventilated. For younger children nursery schools and kindergartens to supplement home care. 9. For every child a community which recognizes and plans for his needs, protects him against physical dangers, moral hazards, and disease; provides him with sane and wholesome places for play and recreation; and makes provision for his cultural and social needs. 10. For every child an education which, through the discovery and development of his individual abilities, prepares him for life; and through training and vocational guidance prepares him for a living which will yield him the maximum of satisfaction. 11. For every child such teaching and training as will prepare him for successful parenthood, homemaking, and the rights of citizenship; and, for parents, supplementary training to fit them to deal wisely with the problems of parenthood. 12. For every child education for safety and protection against accidents to which modern conditions subject him—those to which he is directly exposed and those which, through loss or maiming of his parents, affect him indirectly. 13. Lor every child who is blind, deaf, crippled, or otherwise physically handicapped, and for the child who is mentally handicapped, such measures as will early discover and diagnose his handicap, provide care and treatment, and so train him that he may become an asset to society rather than a liability. Expenses of these services should be born publicly where they cannot be privately met. 14. For every child who is in conflict with society the right to be dealt with intelligently as society's charge, not society's outcast; with the home, the school, the church, the court and the institution when needed, shaped to return him whenever possible to the normal stream of life. 15. For every child the right to grow up in a family with an adequate standard of living and the security of a stable income as the surest safeguard against social handicaps. 16. For every child protection against labor that stunts growth, either physical or mental, that limits education, that deprives children of the right of comradeship, of play, and of joy. 17. For every rural child as satisfactory schooling and health services as for the city child, and an extension to rural families of social, recreational, and cultural facilities. 18. To supplement the home and the school in the training of youth, and to return to them those interests of which modern life tends to cheat children, every stimulation and encouragement should 'be given to the extension and development of the voluntary youth organizations. 19. To make everywhere available these minimum protections of the health and welfare of children, there should be a district, county, or community organization for health, education, and welfare, with full-time officials, coordinating with a state-wide program which will be responsive to a nation-wide service of general information, statistics, and scientific research. This should include: (a) Trained, full-time public health officials, with public health nurses, sanitary inspection, and laboratory workers. (b) Available hospital beds. (c) Full-time public welfare service for the relief, aid, and guidance of children in special need due to poverty, misfortune, or behavior difficulties, and for the protection of children from abuse, neglect, exploitation, or moral hazard. For every child these rights, regardless of race, or coler, or situation, wherever he may live under the protection of the American flag. The Waste in Mothers' Lives By Mrs. John Sloane, President Maternity Center Association New York City number of mothers dying from childbirth came to the attention of members of the Women's City Club of New York in 1917. They were aroused to action when they realized that, during the decade preceding, typhoid fever had been practically eliminated; tuberculosis had diminished from first to second place on the roster of lethal diseases; smallpox had been controlled; but deaths of mothers in childbirth had shown no reduction whatever. And this was in the face of the fact that obstetricians advised that adequate maternity care could prevent a large part of these deaths. Something soon began to happen. In the summer of 1917 a maternity center was opened, financed by the Women's City Club. Then, in April, 1918, a group of women met and conferred with several prominent obstetricians. They were inspired by these doctors with hope that the skill and care which showed such excellent results among their own patients could be extended to women at large. This led to the organization of the Maternity Center Association. It was predicted when the Association was organized that as a result of the activities which were outlined, the deaths of mothers in childbirth would be reduced by 66 per cent, and of infants under one month by 40 per cent. This is how nearly the prediction has come true. Among 4,726 mothers cared for by the Association, the deaths were reduced to A\ number of m facts about the 2.2 per thousand live births, as compared with 6.2 among mothers in the same district not under the care of the Association. Infant deaths in the first month of life were 29.1 in the special group, while they were 42.9 per thousand in the general population. The records of mothers cared for were analyzed by Louis I. Dublin, statistician of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, who made this comment: 'This result is indicative of the saving of lives that might be accomplished were every mother to receive adequate maternity care. More than 16,000 women in the United States die every year from causes related to maternity—the highest rate of any civilized nation. If these mothers received adequate maternity care 10,000 could be saved." The situation existing in this country can only be explained by the fact that childbirth is so commonplace and the accidents attendant upon it are accepted as the will of God. The lack of care is due to an uninformed public rather than to the lack of medical knowledge. It is not indifference but ignorance that allows us to continue last on the list of nations in the maternity care we provide. "One of the most dramatic of all human events, the birth of a new being, is accepted casually, almost without concern, because it is so frequent—so commonplace." The cold, bare, terrible fact is that we, as a people, are not aroused THE WASTE IN MOTHERS' LIVES sufficiently to this national disgrace to take the necessary measures to remove it. Maternity hazards can be reduced by money wisely expended in any community when doctors, nurses and lay people will learn how to work together to provide adequate maternity care for every expectant mother. The need today is to set into op265 eration the machinery which will bring to doctors, nurses and the public what obstetricians have learned will save mothers' lives. Your State Department of Health and the Children's Bureau at Washington, D. C., will send helpful literature on request, or write to the Maternity Center Association, 576 Madison Avenue, New York City. What is Adequate Maternity Care? By Hazel Corbin, General Director Maternity Center Association, New York City the observation, care and instruction 'by doctors and nurses of pregnant mothers from the time the mother thinks she may be pregnant until she is able to resume her regular activities and to care for her new baby. The Maternity Center Association cares for mothers in one section of New York City by holding clinics where doctors examine those patients who, for one reason or another, would otherwise have no medical supervision; by sending public health nurses to visit mothers in their homes, and by conducting classes for mothers at the centers where they can see the model clothes and supplies for babies and themselves and practice bathing and dressing a baby-sized doll. Nurses urge each mother to register as early as possible with the private doctor or hospital physician who will deliver her so he may direct her care during pregnancy and know all about her when it comes time for the delivery and care of the baby. Each mother is helped to select, from the facilities ADEQUATE maternity care is available, what is best suited to her condition. The nurses, working with the doctors and reporting to them each time they see the mothers, see each mother at regular intervals during pregnancy to: 1. Help with every question or problem that may disturb her peace of mind or happiness or interfere with the health of the other members of the family. 2. Detect any discomforts, abnormalties or complications in time to have them corrected before they can hurt the mother or the baby. 3. Teach the mother and father about: (a) The mother's hygiene, diet, rest, exercise, elimination, bathing, clothes, care of breasts, care of teeth, and how these items may be fitted into the daily regime of the home. The preparation for the baby including clothes, bed, toilet supplies and the care of them. (c) The preparation of delivery (b) 266 supplies and planning for the mother's care when the baby comes and during the next few weeks. The care of the baby—bath, rest, exercise, food, habit formation—and how the best daily regime may be secured without disrupting the family life. (d) The nurses help the doctor or midwife during delivery and make regular visits afterward to give, or teach some responsible person to give, the necessary care to mother and baby, as well as to see that the household is running smoothly so the mother can rest as long as necessary, and gradually, as the doctor advises, resume her usual activities and increased responsibilities. When the mother begins to care for her baby, the nurse is right there to explain again all those points— each so. Important—that the mother has learned in the classes at the center. Then, she helps the mother to plan her day's work so she can RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have time for rest and other things and still give the baby the best of care. Before the nurse stops visiting 'she makes sure of three things— first, that the mother has seen her doctor for the last examination that is sO necessary to detect and correct at once any bad effects of the pregnancy, and. Second that the baby is registered with a doctor or a clinic for regular health supervision and instruction until he goes to school, and finally that father and mother both recognize that "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure," and that regular health examinations for the whole family are that ounce of prevention. The death rate among mothers who have had this care was twothirds lower than it was among those mothers living in the same district who did not have this care. If every mother in this country could have the care she needs, we would no longer have a maternal mortality rate higher than twentyone other countries. My Mother's Smile By Mary Petterson Did you e'er see my mother's smile When a little child was near? I cannot think of anything That to me is half so dear. Scent of violets on the air When spring breezes lowly blow A bit of blue that flashes by With secrets—none may know; A crevasse parting snow-drift clouds Disclosing a heav'nly view; Lines of Lombards 'gainst the sky, When the sunset's rays fall through; The meadow lark's glad call in spring When scarce the snow is gone; Cirrus clouds at early morn Rose dappling with the dawn—All these and some I cannot trace So elusive is their wile But far above them all I place My mother's loving smile. Mothers' Day By Ida R. Alldredge UST two weeks until Mothers' J Day," mused Mrs. Thurber, "Dr. Keate is to pay tribute to the mothers-who have passed away and they say he was ashamed of his own mother after he became so great a doctor. And she slaved over the washtub to educate him too." She died of neglect and a broken heart." "Ken Martin will sing "That Wonderful Mother of Mine.' His mother deserted her home and children." "Betty Jones will be sure to choose 'Love at Home' as the opening song. Her family do nothing but quarrel the whole time. And so it goes." Mrs. Thurber painfully rose from her knees, straightened up and wrung out her mop. "It seems to me like Mothers' Day is about as much a farce as anything could be. The real Mothers' Day comes every other day of the year, especially wash day, ironing day and Saturday. Here it is nearly sundown and I'm not through yet." "Lil must take her week end out of town. John must see the football game, and Ted's class is off on a picnic. Jean thinks she should practice all afternoon so there's only the two babies home. And then to cap it all John phones that he is inviting two of his old college chums home to supper." "You don't mind, Mumsie dear, do you? You see they're old pals of mine. Make things nifty, too, won't you? A fellow sort of wants to appear his best. Perhaps you might have time to make some of those lemon tarts like you used to fix. Goodbye until seven." "If that isn't just like John to hang up the receiver before I had time to refuse. He just took me for granted. That's what they all do." She emptied her bucket, hung up her mop, and looked at the clock. "Five already. Just exactly two hours to finish straightening up the house, bathe the babies, clean myself up and cook supper. If I only had two pairs of hands I might manage. But somehow I must get things done so John won't be disappointed. If they had only come some other day than Saturday." In spite of mother's misgivings supper was ready exactly on time. The tablecloth was spotless and the table was laid with the best silverware and china. She eyed her preparations with pride. The tarts looked unusually inviting, she had added an extra touch to her salad. Father would be late so the table was set for only three. "I do wish John would hurry before everything is spoiled from waiting," she said. The telephone rang and as she went to answer she said to herself: "That must be father. Perhaps he has decided to come home early after all. He's working altogether too hard lately." "Hello, is this Mother? I'm sorry Mom, but we've changed our plans and won't be down to supper after all. Hope it hasn't put you out. So long." Mother dropped into the nearest chair and covered her face with 268 shaking hands. The light of anticipation died in her eyes and tears filled them instead. A great weariness overcame her. She hadn't realized how tired she was until now. For a long time she sat there until the striking of the clock roused her. With lagging steps she crossed the room and slowly mounted the stairs that led to her bedroom. With aching limbs she climbed into bed and soon fell into a troubled sleep. The following morning, the first time in many months, mother remained in bed, after the rest were up and making preparations for the Sunday services. Her head ached and she was too weary to get dressed. Father couldn't decide which tie to wear without consulting Mother. And John couldn't find his socks. "Mother, could you tell me where my slippers are? I put them up last night but can't remember where," said Lil. "And would you hook my dress? I can't reach. Jean knelt by the bed while her mother assisted her. At last they were all off to Sunday School and Mother settled down under the cover with a sigh. Everything was in confusion but she was too tired to care. However, she was not too tired to think. All night she had tumbled and tossed trying to decide what she could do to shift a little of the responsibility. Why should she take it all when there were so many others to share it with her. After all had she been the right kind of a mother to become nothing but a door mat for the family to trample upon? Was the fault with her or the children? She knew that John had not purposely hurt her last night. "I hope I've not put you out, Mom," she said bitterly to herself. "Well, maybe it's a good thing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that it happened, for it waked me up anyway. I'm afraid something's wrong with my training. I must decide upon some plan and start all over. She got out of bed and went to the glass. "Dorothy Dean, you're not nearly as old as you look, only forty and anyone would think you were at least fifty. You used to be the belle of the town and folks said you were pretty. Now your face is wrinkled and you're getting stooped." She threw back her shoulders and a smile lighted up her face. "I have it! The very thing! It may be hard on the family but they'll get along some way and it's worth trying. I'll wire Aunt Alice today that I'm going to accept her invitation and pay her a long visit. It will do the family and me both good. I'll spend a few weeks in making myself over while the family learn a little about what I have to do. Perhaps they'll wake up, too." Mother hastily dressed, for she must wire Aunt Alice before they returned or she might change her mind. Already she felt younger at the thoughts of a real vacation. She'd have nothing to worry about and nothing to do. She laughed when she thought of her, Dorothy Dean, who always waited upon the whole family, eating her breakfast in bed. She could read all she wanted to and if she needed anything she could ring and her wishes would be granted. "A few weeks of rest will remove some of the wrinkles, and I'll have time to take proper exercise too, so I can limber up a bit." With springing steps she hastened down town to the telegraph office. With a smile of satisfaction she handed them the message. MOTHERS' DAY FATHER and the children were amazed, upon their return, to find the house still in confusion and instead of their usual Sunday dinner waiting upon the table, there were dirty dishes left from the hurried breakfast. Where could mother be? Perhaps she was really ill and they should not have left her alone. John, leaping three steps at a time, rushed to her room but returned with a puzzled expression upon his face. "She's not there. Maybe she decided to go to church after we left and we missed her." Lil shook her head. "That's not like mother and besides I'm sure she wasn't there. Jean, run over to the neighbors and see if she is visiting." "Dad, look again in her room. Maybe she's covered up so John didn't see her. He never could find anything or anybody." Father looked in the bed, under it, and even in the closet. He returned with the same puzzled expression. "Mother! Mother!" they shouted in chorus, but there was no answer. The children cleared the table, Jean made the beds and tidied up the front room, while John, Ted, and even father were pressed into service. Lil prepared dinner from the untouched supper. As they took their seats at the table mother's smiling face greeted them from the doorway. "Well, I'm just in time, and I'm hungry, too." "Mother, where have you been?" they all asked in a chorus. "We've hunted everywhere." "Well, I got to thinking and decided to accept Aunt Alice's invitation to visit her. So I went down 269 and wired that I would leave this evening. You know Father, I'm a little tired and I thought it might do me good. Lil can manage the babies, and you can all help." "But Mother, how can you leave us to do everything. Surely you will at least take the babies? You'd be worried about them," said Lil. "Say Mom, what will I do about that party I've planned? You'll just have to wait till after that," said John. "And my new dress; It's only half done. And I must have it ready to wear to the dance." Dorothy looked in consternation at her mother. "Just a minute children, said Father. Mother's right. She does need a rest, and I'm glad she has decided to visit Aunt Alice. We'll manage some way. John can do without his party. And Dorothy can get Miss Simpkins to finish her dress. We'll all help Lil. You go and have a good time, Mother." AUNT ALICE was waiting when Mother arrived. In a moment they were off, threading their way through the heavy traffic. "Well, Dorothy, I'm so glad that you changed your mind and decided to come, and that I'm to have you all to myself for a long visit. "I want you to get that tired look out of your eyes." Before she could realize what had happened she was standing in a large hall, brilliantly lighted. And a moment later was led up a broad stairway and into the loveliest bedroom she had ever seen. The dainty covers were thrown back and it looked so inviting after the evening trip that Mother could hardly wait to go to bed. "You are probably tired after your trip, so I ordered your dinner served here. I hope you will find nothing lacking, but if you should, 270 just ring and Isabelle will answer. I hope you rest well and tomorrow we'll have a real visit together. Good night." Aunt Alice kissed her and closed the door. "How thoughtful she is, just like she used to be. I am tired and that bed looks so inviting." The days that followed were one round of pleasure. With skillful hands Isabelle dressed her mistress' niece. With deft fingers she arranged her hair, until Mother could scarcely believe it was herself. If Father could see her now he might fall in love all over again. One more resolution took form. In the future she must try to preserve her youthful appearance, so that father and the children would be proud of her. AFTER a week of never ending pleasure Mother began to grow lonesome for the sound of baby voices and the touch of their little hands. She even longed to hear John calling her "Mom." She wondered how Lil was managing the family, and if Father was receiving the attention which he needed. The house seemed so still that she wanted to shout to make things seem more natural. How did Aunt Alice endure the quiet, sameness, of it all, with never a sound of baby feet pattering about, the call of baby voices, the slamming of doors, and the shouting of Mother! Echoing through the house. She had thought she was tired of it all but now she longed to hear it again. What would Aunt Alice think if she decided to go home a little RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE earlier than she had planned? But no, she must stay with her resolution. The second week dragged by, for in spite of all Aunt Alice could do Mother was homesick. It was the day before Mothers' Day. As she sat in her room writing a letter home Isabelle entered carrying a large box. Mother opened it with eager fingers. As she lifted the lid the perfume of home grown carnations filled the room. She hastily opened the note which read: "Dear Mother, day after tomorrow is Mothers' Day. We feel that it would be a most imperfect one if you were not here to be honored with our love. We have learned through your absence, what it would mean to be deprived always of your loving presence. From now on we will all help share the responsibility that you may take your rightful place and not that of a servant. "Do you think you could be content to shorten your visit and return for that greatest of all days? Signed, Lil, John, Ted and Father." All the family were waiting to greet Mother as she stepped from the train. That night after she had tucked the babies into bed she turned and slipped her hand into Father's. "I've had a wonderful trip and it has taught me the real value of Motherhood," she said. And father, putting his arm around her said, in a husky voice, "And it has taught us the real meaning of Mother." A Mothers' Day Observance Without Children By Olivia S. Waddoups A VISIT to Hawaii or a study of Hawaii and her problems would not be complete without some study and mention of the unique and in many ways beautiful little Leper Settlement on the Island of Molokai. If you were to take steamer from the peaceful harbor of Honolulu you would in all probability leave about 8 p. M. If you were fortunate enough to have a sufficiently smooth voyage to permit sleep and were a good enough sailor not to spend the night nursing your stomach, you would likely be awakened early the next morning by the crowing of numerous cocks, and upon investigation would find yourself quietly resting in the secluded little harbor outside the entrance to the Kalaupapa Leper Settlement. As soon as day was sufficiently advanced you would be lowered into a little row boat, rowed to shore, in the manner used by the boats in these little landings for a hundred years. At the pier you would be met by the genial Manager of the settlement, R. L. Cook, who would give you such a welcome that you would at once feel at home. The welcome shower and tasty breakfast of the manager's home would put you in perfect physical and mental condition to enjoy the many surprises which you would find in this one of the most unusual little settlements in the world. The purpose of our little visit was to lend help and encouragement to the members of our church living there, and of course our first concern was for them. To our perfect satisfaction, we found that the president of the branch had arranged a series of meetings in the commodious meeting house, so that we could present the principles of the gospel to the people, and lend whatever encouragement and hope we could to our dear saints residing there. Let me pause to say, that in all the branches of the church I have ever visited, I have never found more faithful and energetic saints than live in Kalaupapa. Perhaps they feel closer to our Father in Heaven because they feel so very dependent upon his mercy and love. ONE of the most interesting of all the meetings which we held was the meeting held in honor of Motherhood, on Mothers' Day. Not a child in the meeting house. Not a baby in any of the homes in the Settlement. In other churches in Hawaii, on this Mothers' Day the children place a lei or wreath of carnations lovingly around the neck of their mother, but here in Kalaupapa there are no carnations, the mothers request that there be none presented; perhaps they feel that they prefer no flowers if their own children's hands may not place them on their necks. In all it was a sad meeting, and yet there was a feeling of peace and contentment there, that I have never felt elsewhere. If children could not pay tribute to their mothers, mothers could thank God for their children. I wish you could all have the experience of visiting this little colony. As we entered the little chapel we were greeted with "Aloha nui, pehea oukou," "Good morning, how are you." The Hawaiian greeting is full of love and good will, no word I know of in any language expresses the meaning of the Hawaiian "Aloha." Every scarred face is wreathed in smiles, every swollen and disfigured mouth breathes a prayer to our Heavenly Father for you, every honest but often feeble beating heart is full of love for you and the Gospel, which means so much to them. My heart was somewhat heavy, as I was away from my own children, my mother, and the missionaries whom I love as my own, and who treat me as a mother. How proud the mothers at home should be of their noble sons, who are in the mission field. After the service is over, a service not unlike the usual service held for Mothers' Day in other places, except as noted above, we were invited by the Doctor, the Superintendent and their wives to visit, with them, the nursery, at the hospital. On arriving there we found thirteen beautiful babies less than eight months old, all babies of leprous parents, clean and perfect in body and mind. These babies are never touched by the mother's hands but are taken away at birth and cared for in the nursery. The reception room had in the center, serving as a partition, a large plate glass window. Through this glass partition the mothers sat and looked on their darling babies, never knowing the feel of their chubby arms, their lips at the breast, nor their wriggly little forms in their own arms, loving them at a safe distance, permitting them, as only RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mothers know how to sacrifice, to be separated from them, for their own safety. Truly mother love knows not self, but is sacrificed for the good of their children, how like the love of God. These mothers gazed with tear dimmed eyes, asking by motion of lip, which was her baby, if it slept well, if it liked the artificial feeding, if it was good natured, and other questions so close to a mother heart. After a half hour of this my heart was so full that my eyes overflowed, and I thanked God for my own children, all of whom I have personally fed at my breast, loved and through them been glorified. Motherhood through a plate glass window, yet all of them, outwardly, at least, were happy, smiling and thankful, that they could thus see their darlings. How selfish of me to complain that I am separated from my own for just this one day. Now when Mothers' Day comes round my thoughts and prayers are for the mothers who view their babies through a plate glass window, in the Leper Settlement of Kalaupapa. The Territorial government has amply provided for the care of these babies, until they are old enough to be either placed in the homes of their own relatives or cared for and educated in private homes, of honorable citizens of Hawaii. One very fortunate, and perhaps surprising thing about these beautiful children, is that so far as is known, few if any of them, during the past fifty years, are known to have contracted the disease from their leprous parents. They seem to be as free from it as the ordinary child. Just one of the mysteries of this oldest, and perhaps least understood disease. Bessie Potter Vonnoh By Jennie B. Knight MRS. BESSIE POTTER VONNOH, whose "Motherhood" is the frontispiece of this issue of our Magazine, holds a distinct position in the field of Art. An article furnished by the Ryerson Library of Chicago, gives us the following about Mrs. Vonnoh: "Her young mothers are essentially maternal, her young women delightfully feminine, her children are childish, lovable and sincere. Thus in her little group Mrs. Vonnoh touches upon those human relationships which are elemental and which stir emotions both deep and profound." Mrs. Vonnoh is an American, born in St. Louis, Missouri. She was a student with Mr. Lorado Taft and also of the Art Institute of Chicago. Her work, being original with a touch of delicacy and grace, attracted attention in her early years. She has chosen for her subjects the things of daily life and in a degree preserved for the future the costumes, the characters and habits of our time. This is particularly true of her figurines which emphasize the newest and oldest of all subjects, Motherhood and Child Life. In her statues she has truly expressed the contentment and supreme joy found in no other realm. The Columbian Exposition at THE SANDMAN'S TRAIL Chicago occurred during her student days, which gave her an opportunity of seeing some of the works of 274 artists from abroad. She had the opportunity later of spending some time in Europe. While she has a DAPHNE profound admiration for the great artists, there is nothing imitative in her work. Mrs. Vonnoh has the rare good fortune of enjoying the companionship of a husband who is also an artist. Robert Vonnoh is a painter of renown. In one of their joint exhibitions he presented twenty-six paintings, she forty pieces of sculpture, among them a Portrait Relief of her husband. She has held many positions in the field of Art and has been elected a National Academician which honor she shares equally with Mr. Vonnoh, whose works have been known in America for years. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE She is represented in the Metropolitan Museum of Art with eleven statues, in the Art Institute of Chicago with thirteen. Others are to be seen at the Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., The Brooklyn Museum of Art and Science, Newark Museum Association, Capitol Building, Washington, D. C., Cincinnati Art Museum, Carnegie Institute, Pittsburg, and the Art Museum at Tokio, Japan. The Roosevelt Memorial bird fountain erected at Oyster Bay in 1925, is one of her creations. Another fountain, Water Lilies—which was awarded the Barnett GIRL IN VENETIAN COSTUME prize of the National Association of Women Painters and Sculptors in 1920, is worthy of the praise it reBESSIE POTTER VONNOH 275 ceived. One who has seen it says: "Its beauty lies in the sweet simplicity of youth." The lines of the silhouette are beautiful in every turn. The poise of the figure is balanced by the outstretched arms. In one hand she holds a lily which serves as the water course whence the water drops through tiny holes when the bronze is used as a basin fountain figure. The "Girl Reading" has repose and beauty. The lines are excellent, the straight Mexican chair contrasting with the curve of the figure. Mrs. Vonnoh has done life size work. All of us are proud that through her, one more woman has added to the art of America, and that many other figurines in gold, silver and bronze have found their way into the homes of those who love and appreciate Art. Our Field By Martha J. Barnes We Relief Society members like the farmer must not shirk. In whatever field is ready, that's the field where we must work. There's a place 'round every homestead, though a small secluded spot, And a time that's right for planting of the sweet forget-me-not. It may be a branch needs healing where a bud was cut away, Or there's lack of pleasant sunshine 'cause the clouds hang low and gray, Or perhaps the gate needs watching lest the lethal knife should stray And the cruel hand, returning, cut more precious buds away, Or a field needs getting ready, out where cool green meadows roll, For the planting of true character and nobleness of soul. There's a place that's very lonely since the bird notes cease to ring; And there's some one there needs cheering—one to whom we well may sing. There's an isolated corner, slightly touched by blight of sin, We must spray with love and kindness and the thoughts of good bring in. There's a weed that's giving trouble—yes, more trouble than we guess— It's the weed we all are growing—the dread weed of selfishness. It is growing in our gardens, in our fields and orchards too; And the only way to kill it is to think and give and do. There's a plot of drooping flowers. If we want to bring them through, We must call down grace from heaven and must bathe them in its dew. If it's cold around the edges and the frost is threatening harm, We must call the hand of friendship to light smudge-pots on the farm. Now in judgment I am thinking what a slacker I would be If I failed, at least attempting, to perform what's asked of me. GIRL READING Growing Old with the Poets By Lois V. Hales WE must all grow old or die. It is important that we grow old successfully. Each one of us has an idea of the ideal way of growing old. We may not be conscious of it until we read books and poetry which arouse us either to agreement or disagreement. Then we become conscious of our own philosophy—what we would like to think, feel, recall, look forward to in our old age. Poets often help us to find ourselves. Generally youth is considered the golden time of life, the time of high thoughts, daring deeds, grand adventure. There are poets who look forward with dread to the time when they shall be old. Edwin Arlington Robinson complains that as he grows older the stars are not "quite so friendly, nor quite so near." To him we are nearer God in our childhood and youth. Heaven is far off in age. Stoddard mourns for his lost youth with which went something never to return. We are stronger and better in age, he says, but "Something beautiful is vanished, And we sigh for it in vain; We behold it everywhere, On the earth, and in the air, But it never comes again." Winifred Welles in her exquisite little poem "Lifetime," says that she must "grow old and sleep into indifference." There is no turning back. All she asks is to go onward close to the dark, sweet earth— "With the sky's mark hidden in my breast, And a star's shadow falling on my face." Death is the "beautiful and bitter sea." Some of us are so afraid to live "for fear that we may die." Often we hear our older people say that for them "life is over." They look back instead of forward and always with a sense of regret. However, there are many who see themselves growing old without any feeling of remorse or regret. Robert Browning at the age of seventy-seven, rejoiced that he had lost the rose-colored glasses of youth and could now look at the world nakedly, clearly, wholly. Old age, to him, was rich and good. "Come," he states, "Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made... * * * Youth shows but half; trust God; see all, nor be afraid." We need not lose our enthusiasms as we grow old. They change for we grow out of things—we change to finer things. "A well-ordered life," says William Lyon Phelps, "is like climbing a tower; the view half way up is better than the view from the base, and it steadily becomes finer as the horizon expands." "We live in deeds, not years; in thoughts, not breaths; In feelings, not in figures on a dial. We should count time by heart throbs. He most lives Who thinks most, feels the noblest, acts the best." John Masefield in his famous poem, "On Growing Old," says that now that he cannot sail seas, wander on cornland, nor hill-land, nor valleys, he asks only his old dog, his old book and his sense of beauty which is the "bread of the soul." "Give me but these, and, though the darkness close, Even the night will blossom as the rose." GROWING OLD WITH THE POETS To Sarah Cleghorn age is like a captain returning with a great sea-chest of treasure. She is content to climb the hill of life hoping that the other side "shines on a silver shore." Rupert Brooke in his little poem "Treasure" asks for some golden space in his life when he may unpack his scented store of memories and count and touch and turn them o'er as a mother, who "Has watched her children all the rich day through, Sits, quiet-handed, in the fading light, When children sleep, ere night." John Burroughs waits with joy the coming years for his heart shall reap where it has sown, and "garner up its fruit of tears." "Serene I fold my hands and wait, Nor care for wind, nor tide, nor sea. I rave no more 'gainst time or fate, For lo my own shall come to me." Sara Teasdale thinks that "the heart asks more than life can give." When she is old she will have learned this lesson and then the beauties of life will not hurt her. Symons feels that in this life we let slip so much, we are so little awake, and we shall sleep so long, that we should live this life consciously, fully, valiantly. In "An Old Thought" we see the difference between youth and age as seen by another poet. Old in the cavernous fireplace sits a boy, Watching the embers from his grandsire's knee, One sees red castles rise, and laughs with joy The other marks them crumble silently. To Robinson Jeffers old age is the time to gloat over one's treasures. "The Beads of strong old age are beautiful 277 Beyond all grace of youth. They have strange quiet, Integrity, health, soundness, to the full They've dealt with life and been attempered by it." "Praise Youth's hot blood if you will, I think that happiness Rather consists in having lived clear through Youth and hot blood, on to the wintrier hemisphere Where one has time to wait and remember." Some think that youth is not a time of life—it is a state of mind. Nobody grows old by merely living a number of years. People grow old by doubt; as young as your self-confidence, as old as your fear; as young as your hope, as old as your despair. In the central place of your heart there is a wireless station. "So long as it receives messages of beauty, hope, cheer, grandeur, courage, and power from the earth, from men, from the infinite, so long are you young." William Butler Yeats in his poem "When You Are Old" says, "When you are old and gray and full of sleep, And nodding by the fire, take down this book, And slowly read, and dream of the soft look, Your eyes had once, and of their shadows deep." Rosamund Watson says that as she grows old she will rejoice that the world is yet young, that spring will come again, that the birds will sing. It will be sweet to know "That though my meagre days be withering Still shall be wrought the miracle of spring." She will rejoice that others are doing the things she would like to have done—that there are always adventurers on the hazardous sea of life. Lizette Woodworth Reese asks only for an old quiet house away from the town, a clump of lavender with "small cross bees astir," a few 278 tall well-thumbed books and "old friends who from the village walk on Sunday afternoons." To her "Whether we climb, whether we plod, Space for one task the scant years lend To choose some path that leads to God, And keep it to the end." To Oliver Wendell Holmes the ideal way to grow old is told in his famous poem, "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea." Frances A. Kemble wants us to grow old in trust and hope. "Better trust; and be deceived, And weep that trust and that deceiving, Than doubt one heart that, if believed, Had blessed one's life, with true believing." Newman says there was a time when he loved to choose and see his path, but now "Lead, kindly Light, amid th' encircling gloom, Lead Thou me on: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The night is dark, and I am far from home, Lead Thou me on: Keep Thou my feet; I do not ask to see The distant scene; one step enough for me." Longfellow in his matchless sonnet likens age and death to the child who comes to love his toys and looks longingly back at them as the nurse takes him to bed. "So Nature deals with us, and takes away Our playthings one by one, and by the hand Leads us to rest so gently, that we go Scarce knowing if we wish to go or stay. Being too full of sleep to understand How far the unknown transcends the what we know." Ulysses, the great adventurer, gives us some of the most comforting and inspiring advice on growing old. "You and I are old; Old age hath yet his honor and his toil; Death closes all; but something ere the end, Some work of noble note, may yet be done, Not unbecoming men that strove with Gods." Maytime By Merling D. Clyde Noontime and sunshine, A breath of flowers on the breeze, A song of love and loveliness Murmuring among the trees; Gay little buds in springtime green Swinging to and fro, Awaiting the touch of the sun's caress Their full blown beauty to show. Down in the grass a shy white flower Sheds a fragrance in the air, Close where a baby's feet may pass And find it growing there. By the garden gate a winsome maid Waits for her lover so true, Hoping he'll come when no one's about And there'll be a kiss for two. Moroni the Faithful By Nora A. Davis ONE of the choicest gifts anyone can bequeath to the world is himself at his best. Each of us gives this contribution according to his opportunities, and to his ideas of values and ideals. Moroni thought more of his testimony of the Savior and of preserving the sacred plates of the Book of Mormon than he did of his own life. That was one way he gave himself in a super-gift. Everything else was secondary to these spiritual duties. No precaution or effort was too great for him to take in protecting the holy records. He was faithful in his care of them in life, in death, and in resurrection. Moroni was born and grew to manhood in the terrible civil war time previous to the final struggle between the Nephites and Lamanites. He was an officer under his father Mormon, and commander of a corps of ten thousand men in the last battle. In this war of annihilation all the Nephites were killed save twenty-four strong men, and a small number who escaped southward, and a few dissenters who joined the Lamanites. Moroni and his father were among the twenty-four survivors. Living in that wicked age and passing through the blood and destruction of the final battles it was singular for Moroni to place emphasis on spiritual things above all else. In spite of every opposition he was determined to obey the teachings of his faithful father, and always be true to his calling and testimony. He had the insight and vision of the value the records would be to a future generation and forgot himself in his resolute efforts to preserve them. Moroni's last days were anything but pleasant. The rigor of the northern winters, and the necessity of supplying himself with clothing, food, and shelter, added greatly to his difficulties. Then his very existence was in jeopardy. In fact, for the most part, his life was filled with great personal danger, and constant anxiety for the safety of the records. At first he had his father and companions for company, but sixteen years after the last battle he was the only faithful Nephite living. In 400 A. D. he wrote: "After the great and tremendous battle at Cumorah, behold, the Nephites who had escaped into the country southward were hunted down by the Lamanites until they were all destroyed, and my father also was killed by them and I even remain alone to write the sad tale of the destruction of my people." Mormon 8:2-3. During the next twenty years he lived alone, finishing up the Nephite history and abridging the Book of Ether. After he had finished this he wrote: "Now I, Moroni, after having made an end of abridging the account of the people of Jared, I had supposed not to have written more, but I have not as yet perished, and I make not myself known to the Lamanites, lest they should destroy me. "For behold, their wars are exceeding fierce among themselves; and because of their hatred, they put to death every Nephite that will not deny Christ. 280 "And I, Moroni, will not deny Christ; wherefore I wander whithersoever I can, for the safety of my own life." Moroni 1:1-3. Rather than sacrifice this" testimony he lived as an outcast, his life in constant peril for those last twenty years. During this time alone he must have longed for human companionship. But he refused to sell his soul for this association. He chose the harder but wiser course of remaining faithful and protecting the records at all hazards, His loneliness must have been trying at times and yet it was not as depressing as it could have been, as he realized he was sacrificing for a great cause. He knew what he was doing was tremendously worthwhile. Then he was sustained spiritually from heaven. On one occasion he and his father had a visit from the three Nephite Apostles. Then most of the time he was occupied in literary work connected with the plates. I wonder if he could have stood his solitude without an occupation, and without great spiritual fortitude and vision. In 420 A. D. Moroni sealed up the records and hid them away in a stone box in the Hill Cumorah. His earthly work was then done. In speaking of his passing he once wrote: "And whether they will slay me I know not. "Therefore I will write and hide up the records in the earth, and whither I go it mattereth not." How he met the final end we do not know, but we are sure he was always faithful to his trust as custodian of the holy things in his care; and although he died the last representative of a fallen race, his tenacity in giving his best to safeguard the sacred records in his charge makes one marvel at his great RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE strength of character and spiritual endurance, In the dramatic restoration of the Gospel in this dispensation, Moroni, as a glorious angel and resurrected being, was just as careful with the plates and the other articles with them. He wouldn't even allow Joseph Smith to touch them at first. Before he permitted the Prophet to remove them he required him to wait four years, during which time he yearly instructed him concerning their sacredness. He warned the boy many times that the plates could not be used for financia gain, that their value was greater than money, because they contained the fulness of the Gospel, and that he should make every endeavor to preserve them or he should be cut off. Joseph heeded the warnings and used many successful strategies in keeping the plates safe during their translation. After this was accomplished the angel appeared to the Prophet and received back the plates in his care. Moroni's watchful care over the plates fully tested him. It required more than his time in mortality. On this earth he gave his life to the cause, and now in a resurrected state still functions as custodian. But glorious has been his reward, for to him came the well earned honor of being the angel to fly from heaven bearing the everlasting (Gospel to the earth in the last days. Like Moroni, we are all faced with problems and ideals that test us, and to which we have to be faithful even though we stand alone. We all have sacred things entrusted to our keeping. Our lives, and the way we live them are holy charges. We also have our dear ones, our friends, our testimonies of the Gospel, and our ideals to protect from evil at all times. What Does Your Home Afford? By Jean Cox WOULD you like to measure your home with some of the measuring sticks suggested by the White House Conference? Have you often wondered what kind of a home you have and how it compares with other homes with which you are more or less acquainted? Have you a rather definite picture in your own mind of what constitutes a so-called good home? Have you wondered if there are other means of measuring homes than the indefinite terms used when the matter is up for discussion? Have you wondered if there is a way of rating some of the intangibles which make homes differ? Attempts to answer questions such as these were part of the objectives of the committee on Family and Parent Education which made its splendid contribution to the White House Conference. Some very unique studies were reported by these committees in their efforts to find a way of measuring, for instance, that elusive something called atmosphere. Their measuring stick was in terms of product or result. One study was made on the assumption that children from homes are symptomatic of the home. Dr. Rachel Seutzman of Merrill Palmer and her committee made a study of the homes of one hundred children. Fifty of these were considered well adjusted children, and fifty were poorly adjusted children. A study of the homes from which the children came showed that the first group came from well conditioned homes and had fewer troubles in their human relationships than did. Perience. The other group. Their fathers and mothers lived more harmoniously. There were fewer differences in religious and financial matters. Children from these homes had a more wholesome outlook. Another question demanding careful consideration is, what do homes contribute in developing independence of children. Too many children are over-mothered even into adulthood. The following story represents many only sons, The president of a southern college received this message from an anxious mother. "I fear a northern (cold storm) is coming. Will you please see that my son is covered up." The son a freshman at college was not known by the president, neither did he want to assume nurse guardianship to overcome lack of training which college youths should have had before entering high school or college. Efficient home training should establish ideals of responsibility for children for maintaining their own health. Children, as well as adolescents, should desire health. With the right home atmosphere the desire to be well, to be strong, to be good natured, to be helpful becomes a part of the family creed. Positive appeal rather than negative should be made. Strength is a more potent force than is weakness. Many families, however, have fine health standards and to them living becomes a pleasure, an engaging experience Unfortunately in other families children as well as parents, do not realize what good health is, and they know little concerning the resultant joys of radiant health. 282 Someone has said that a positive health ideal is worth more than a bank account. Health and illness have been equated in terms of dollars and cents. Loss of work, or extra expense, however, are less significant than lack of mental health or desire for joy in living. It has been said that the only fixed thing in regard to the home is the ideal, and similarly it might be said that the only fixed thing in our education for modern family living is an appreciation of this ideal. Children change from month to month, relationships between husbands and wives, vary as a result of other changes. Economic and social differences are reflected in the home and also in the individuals who contribute to the home. With a rather definite ideal, however, of what a home should contribute to the different members of the family, the function of the home remains somewhat constant even if adjustments in the physical plant vary. Trite as it may seem, from better homes will result better individuals, communities, and nation; and better individuals will insure better homes which may make bigger contributions to the social development of the communities and nation. In any child welfare program much must depend upon the home. While different homes vary in the physical plant the most important single factor, quoting President Hoover is, "that affection and devotion of the soul which is the great endowment of mothers." Because of this great love and understanding, she can supplement training from schools and church. Leaders do occasionally come from so-called poor homes. Doubtless the mother's influence compensates for other RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE unsatisfactory conditions within the home plant. Due to the economic and social conditions the homes of today have different problems as well as increased responsibility, than the childhood homes of the present parents and grandparents. Fewer responsibilities for children in and around the home plant have decreased natural opportunities for child training. The crowding of families into the cities have multiplied problems in child care and training. Delinquency increases with congestion. Physical disease frequently results from over-crowding. This, however, is not all of the story for when the child's natural playground is taken from him, his mind does not have opportunities for wholesome imagination and play, in a make-believe world. Flights of fancy and development of initiative respond to the stimuli of wood, stream, and field. The home must be a haven of safety for the child if physical, social, and emotional development are satisfactory. The average child is an acquisitive individual and delights in feeling ownership of toys, books, and playthings. For his best development he needs a sense of belonging to the family group, a feeling that he is necessary for their happiness as well as the repeated assurance that he is loved by those whom he loves. The sense of security, as well as freedom from worry, contributes to both physical. Mental, and social health. This feeling of security in childhood will contribute to the individual's poise in adulthood. It will help in the development of a personality which -will help its owner gain the big objective of joy in the art of living. N his White House Conference speech, President Hoover made WHAT DOES YOUR HOME AFFORD? The statement that "'Cheerless homes produce morbid minds." To produce happy individuals is one of the chief functions of the home. The happy hopeful personality fs a distinct asset to the individual and is largely the result of satisfactory home conditions. This results when there is love and understanding among the different members of the family group. The ideal family relationships stimulate courage, confidence, and self-respect which are all necessary for the well-being of the child and which will also contribute to his later success. There is little assurance for success if the human relationships in the home have made the person suspicious, fault-finding, self-effacing, and prone to carry the proverbial chip on his shoulder. Later success is also endangered if early years do not afford expression of love, understanding, and desire for, and satisfaction in the child, regardless of age or Sex. The query of the two year old, "Do you need me mother?" typifies his need for belonging to the group. Little children want to belong to a family. They desire appreciation, they desire their own toys and books. Are you over-serious in your responsibilities as parents? Does intelligent parenthood necessarily involve only seriousness in action and contemplation to the exclusion of happiness and joy for both parents and children? Successful homes are happy homes. Someone said the eleventh commandment is Do not take your job too seriously. Perhaps this applies to you. H OMES have many responsibilities. Does your home supply management and supervision in the control and prevention of illness? Frequent and _ prolonged _ illness 283 changes the home atmosphere, entails extra expense, and results in unnecessary human suffering. The White House Conference committee on management reported that in a study made of 355 families over a three year period, one-half of the group had one or more illnesses during the three years. Operations, whooping cough, and common colds were reported most frequently; constipation, diseased tonsils and adenoids, and various types of nervous disorders occurred less often. The homemakers admitted their inability to forecast the proportion of the income which is needed to promote health. They were concerned over the narrow margin left after other expenses were met which made the maintenance of health exceedingly important in the family of average income. Have you sufficient knowledge of child psychology to deal satisfactorily with problems of the younger members of the family? A better understanding of human nature was one of the needs listed by a majority of the three hundred and fifty six mothers studied. These women were also anxious to study books designed to give help in family relationships, including that of the parent and older child relationships. Additional emphasis was also given to the importance of providing training for fathers as well as mothers. Ideally, fathers as well as mothers should have pre-parental training in order to establish ideals and set standards for the kind of home and family life they desire. Too great differences in training bring the husband and wife to the responsibilities of parenthood with divergent ideas and standards. This demands careful consideration. One of the difficulties arising out of the child study groups which are attended largely by women is that the 284 increased training given the mother may increase these divergencies. Having material for father to read as well as free discussion between husband and wife of the problems discussed by the group will tend to break down these differences. One of the big responsibilities of homemaking is to make it a joint occupation of husband and wife by common understanding and consent. Mothers need health in order to carry on their many managerial and technical jobs as well as those entailing human relationships. Physical and nervous strain which results from the long hours as well as numerous duties make decided drains on the mother's vitality. In other words, long continued peak loads of work or responsibility and work may keep all but the very able from giving of their best to their husband and children. Further studies are needed to help determine better or Normal Curve 1................. Love and Understanding Managerial Ability Child Training Economic Stability Suitability and Efficiency of Home Plant Range in score: Does your home score average, above, or below? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organization of the work in the home as well as discriminate between essential and less essential tasks for different homes. This elimination would vary also with ages as well as outside demands on the time of the different members of the family group. There is evident need of more cooperative plans for accomplishing the necessary work of the home, and making it possible for the different members of the family to share free time together. The American home is in a way under fire. More studies need to be made regarding the present home for children who are growing up in the homes of today. More attention needs to be given to scientific studies regarding the so-called intangibles in order to more definitely determine what the individual home affords. You might be interested in scoring your home on the following chart. Notes from the Field Western States Mission: On Janurary 10 and 11, 1931, a most successful branch conference of the Western States Mission was held at Omaha and Council Bluffs. President and Sister Elias S. Woodruff met with the missionaries and saints of the East Nebraska Branch in the conference sessions, where the time was given over to the consideration of the Relief Society and Sunday School work in the mission. Bishop David A. Smith and Brother Robert L. Judd of. The Deseret Sunday School Union Board, and Sister Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary of the Relief Society, were in attendance, to represent their auxiliary organization work, and help interpret it to the local officers. On Saturday evening, January 10, the Relief Society conference was held in the chapel at Omaha. Where the accompanying picture was taken of the assembled group. President Woodruff and Sister Woodruff gave most inspirational instructions, which were followed by interesting reports WESTERN STATES MISSION, EAST NEBRASKA BRANCH from tthe local presidents of tthe Omaha, Lincoln and Council Bluffs Relief Society, after which Sister Lund spoke of the great objectives of Relief Society work and its place in the missions. On Sunday morning, January 11th, Sunday School conferences and special executive meetings of the Relief Society were 286 held in the Council Bluffs chapel, where much constructive work was discussed, and it was voted at the close of this conference one of great inspiration and assistance in the work. Australian Mission: MISTER HAZEL B. TINGEY, president of the Australian Mission Relief Society, gives the following interesting report of her mission: 'In traveling through the mission I am happy to report things in a very favorable condition. We now have six organizations of the Relief Society, and in visiting I find the spirit displayed by the sisters in each organization to be one of love and unity. It seems that our faith and devotion to the work is being increased day by day, and that we cannot be grateful enough to our Heavenly Father for the many blessings that He has bestowed upon us as a people. Due to the necessity of so many of our sisters having to earn their own living, also because of the great distance they are from the church, we do not have as many enrolled as we should like. However, we have changed the plan of meeting in the afternoon, and are now meeting in the evening when the Priesthood is in session. This. Plan seems to be far more successful, and will permit many more of the sisters to come, especially as many of them have young children, and these mothers are the ones who derive the greatest amount of benefit from the Relief Society work.. The organization course of study in all its various phases is being handled very successfully in most of our districts. The sisters are timid in their feelings in reference to their capability of handling the subjects and doing them justice. 'We also find that not as many of our sisters are taking RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Magazine as we should like, but trust in the near future they will see their way clear to do so, as the Magazine is indispensable in the lesson work. I trust that this letter finds all well at home, and J pray the blessings of our Heavenly lather may attend all in this great work." North Central States Mission: ROM the North Central States we have the interesting report that the work is going on very splendidly, and that one of the new organizations has among its members about twenty women not members of the Church. These women come to get the benefit derived from the wonderful lessons and discussions. They donate to the charity fund, and say that the Relief Society is one of the most pleasant organizations among women they have ever attended. The winter has been a mild one in this quarter, but the unemployment has made it necessary to do a great deal of charity work. The Lord has blessed the missionaries with good health, and even though their numbers have decreased, the good work has steadily gone forward. Portneuf Stake: T= first of the reports on the recent Annual Day celebration to reach the office comes from Portneuf. The secretary writes: "I am pleased to report that most of the wards in Portneuf stake observed Relief Society Annual Day with appropriate programs of songs, readings and papers on the first organization. Also a one-act play was presented. Dancing of old time dances was very much enjoyed by the old people, and delicious refreshments completed a very successful gathering. In some cases two or more. Wards made this a district affair, while others made it NOTES FROM THE FIELD a home celebration. The wards throughout the stake thoroughly enjoyed the day and did full honor to the occasion." Juarez Stake: OX of the most comprehensive and delightful reports of stake activities that has reached the office comes from our far away Mexican stake—Juarez. The president writes: "With the closing of the records and making of reports for the year 1930, we thought it fitting to report some of the accomplishments in this stake during the past year, and the means by which we have been able to do our work. We found it most interesting to check up on the aims we made at the beginning of last year, and see how nearly we have been able to accomplish them. When the work closed last spring we had a request from the ward presidents to permit them to hold Relief Society during the summer months. We were very happy to grant this, and submitted to them a uniform program that was carried out by all the wards, with very excellent results. This program consisted of two Work and Business Meetings a month, one Theology and one Testimony meeting, a topic for visiting teachers each month, and one lesson on moral training of children in the home, one on prenatal and postnatal care of the child, and one on the Magazine. With the closing of the summer work and the beginning of the Fall, we had a class leaders' convention which was well attended by class leaders and officers from all over the stake. The lesson work was carefully outlined and skillfully put over, and succeeded in imparting such enthusiasm at the beginning that the effects of it were felt in the class work throughout the year. The lessons planned are so wonderful and so broad in their 287 scope, that the women of this stake can ill afford to miss the possible benefits and development that may be derived from participation and study in these, and we have planned to devise ways and means of getting more women into actual contact with the lesson work. To increase the attendance we first had the presidents of the various wards write a letter to each member expressing appreciation for their support and cooperation, and pointing out the benefits that may be derived from regular attendance at the weekly meeting, and enclosed a record of their attendance at Relief Society during the past year. The letter closed with an urgent appeal -to improve their record during the coming year. We also had them write a letter of good will and cheer to the homebound in their wards. Next we made out blanks for a monthly survey of the ward Relief Societies. This gives us specific information concerning the attendance of the officers and class leaders at prayer meeting, Relief Society, Union Meeting, the Magazine subscriptions, and the grade of the teachers' preparation. It also gives specific information concerning the attendance at Relief Society of the visiting teacher, her monthly visit, discussion of the topic, her Magazine subscription and her efficiency percent, if she reads the lesson. We made a yearly outline for our Work and Business Meeting, and in it we planned for a larger variety of work to be done than ever before, this to increase the attendance at the meetings, and our plan has worked out so successfully that the attendance has increased from 52 to 60%. Our Union Meetings are our best means of putting over our work, but owing to the scattered condition of our stake, and the distance some of our wards are from each other, we 288 can always be assured of a full representation of all our wards only once in three months. To offset this difficulty we put all instructions given in Union Meeting, both in the executive and lesson departments, into a monthly bulletin, and mail it to the wards after each Union Meeting. In these bulletins we send each month a detailed plan for the Work and Business Meeting for the month that is to follow. We feel that if every mother in the stake will determine that every party given in her home, whether for children, young people, or adults, shall be well planned and well supervised, much can be done to improve and raise the standards of amusement, and to aid in this we send out games and suggestions for a party, for both children and adults. These have been enthusiastically received, and on the whole we feel that our bulletin has given us closer contact with the wards, and brought heartier and more immediate results than anything we have done heretofore. In spite of our scattered condition we are able to make quarterly visits throughout the stake, and keep in fairly close touch. As the outcome of our lesson work in the literary and social service departments, we have planned a story-writing contest. We feel that our country is rich in material suitable for short stories, and that whatever incidents concerning the settling and development of our colony can be written and preserved, will be worth much to the coming generation. It will also help develop latent ability and talent that may be in our midst. The project seems to have created great enthusiasm and we are hoping the 1st of May will see a number of stories in our possession. We feel that we are beginning to get results from our work with the Relief Society in the Mexican branch. We have on our board an officer of the Mexican Relief Society, and through her we have been able to get in closer touch with the people of this country, and to understand their difficulties and be better able to help them. Our mission in this land is for that, and great effort on our part is necessary to prepare us to be of service to them. We are planning a Work and Business demonstration for the Fall. The members of our stake board are zealous, efficient women, full of integrity and an intense desire to be of service, and most of all they love the Relief Society work and are anxious and willing to further it in every way in our stake."
Hope By Willamelia F. Barton
Sweet Hope you are welcome; I have been so sad and lone, So desolate and afraid. Come closer, Hope, That I may touch your robe. Now my heart seems A little nearer to God.
Relief Society Annual Report 1930 Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
FINANCIAL ACCOUNT
Cash Receipts Balance on hand January 1, 1930: Charity Fund................$ 37,701.46 General Fund................119,878.98 Wheat Trust Fund............11,810.88 Total Balance, January 1........$169,391.32
Donations Received During 1930: Charity Fund................$100,849.91 General Fund................123,184.32 Annual Dues.................22,984.18 Other Receipts..............59,092.39 Total Receipts..............$306,110.80
Total Balance on hand and Receipts $475,502.12
Cash Disbursements Paid for Charitable Purposes........$109,493.19 Paid for General Purposes...........143,745.33 Wheat Trust Fund Remitted to Presiding Bishop's Office...........817.25 Annual Dues paid to General Board and to Stake Boards................26,764.56 Paid for Other Purposes............29,877.34 Total Disbursements.............$310,697.67
Balance on hand December 31, 1930: Charity Fund................$ 38,229.58 General Fund................115,426.16 Wheat Trust Fund............11,148.72 Total Balance, December 31......$164,804.46
Total Disbursements and Balance on hand........................$475,502.13
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Assets Balance on hand December 31, 1930: All Funds....................$164,183.75 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office.......400,266.29 Other Invested Funds............56,275.81 Value of Real Estate and Buildings..227,853.94 Value of Furniture and Fixtures....79,979.85 Other Assets...................32,091.79 Total Assets..................$960,651.43
Stake Board Cash Balances on hand December 31, 1930..............$ 25,423.82 Other Assets...................59,637.49 Total Assets..................$ 85,061.31
Total Assets..................$1,045,712.74
290 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Liabilities Indebtedness..................$ 4,448.39 Balance Net Assets.............956,203.04 $960,651.43
Balance Stake Board, Net Assets.... 85,061.31
Total Net Assets and Liabilities...$1,045,712.74
STATISTICS
Membership January 1, 1930: Executive and Special Officers......10,417 Visiting Teachers..................21,267 Other Members.....................30,873 Total Membership January 1........62,557
Increase: Admitted to Membership During Year 8,678 Total Membership and Increase......71,235
Decrease: Removed or Resigned.............. 6,180 Died............................ 830 Total Decrease.................. 7,010
Membership December 31, 1930: Executive and Special Officers......10,619 Visiting Teachers..................21,765 Other Members.....................31,841 Total Membership December 31......64,225
The Total Membership includes: General Officers and Board Members..........................23 Stake Officers and Board Members...........................1,102 Mission Presidents and Officers.............................70
Number of Stakes............................................104 Number of Missions..........................................26 Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations......1,568 Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts.....................11,323 Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards......................115,725 Number of Relief Society Magazines taken..................26,639 Number of Executive Officers taking Relief Society Magazine..5,401 Number of Meetings held in Wards..........................55,973 Number of Stake Meetings Held..............................2,090 Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held...1,107 Number of Ward Conferences Held............................1,251 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings.......................24,521 Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers.....................763,918 Number of Families Helped.................................14,676 Number of Days Spent with the Sick........................43,672 Number of Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound.......185,436 Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial......................2,206 Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers...............5,678
RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORT 291
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS 1928 1929 1930 Paid for Charitable Purposes......$100,836.76 $ 98,925.02 $109,493.19 Total or Present Membership...... 62,550 62,902 64,225 No. Of Relief Society Organizations 1,452 1,501 1,568 No. Of Relief Society Magazine Taken 24,570 26,509 26,639 No. Of Days Spent with Sick...... 52,796 50,706 43,672 No. Of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound.................... 189,593 184,166 186,436 No. Of Families Helped........... 17,550 13,578 14,676 No. Of Visits by Stake Relief Society Officers to Wards............ 5,032 5,490 5,678 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Visiting Teachers............ 700,131 726,232 763,918
DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Stakes Missions Arizona........................1,618 Australia.....................68 California.....................5,324 Canada.......................147 Canada........................1,304 Europe......................4,469 Colorado......................1,130 Hawaii.......................711 Idaho.........................7,901 Mexico.......................215 Illinois......................1,230 New Zealand..................575 Montana.......................1,267 South America................267 Nevada........................548 South Africa.................97 Oregon........................641 Tahiti......................309 Texas.........................120
Utah........................26,687 United States...............4,689 Wyoming.......................2,047
Total Membership in Missions 11,667 Total Membership in Stakes...52,558
Total Membership in Stakes and Missions.................64,225
(Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various wards, with the exception of the annual membership dues.)
Notes to the Field
In order that our stakes may see how they compare with their sister stakes in Magazine subscriptions we print herewith the Stake Membership and the number of subscribers each had when the reports were sent in. Many have already added to their number. We heartily thank those who have given this part of our work such earnest effort and who have done so well. In spite of the financial depression many stakes have increased their subscription list over the 1930 figures.
January 1, 1931 Stake Membership Subscriptions Alberta..............617..........220 Alpine...............366..........214 Bannock..............290..........132 Bear Lake............421..........198 Bear River...........502..........256 Beaver...............360..........130 Benson..............1,110..........560 Big Horn.............506..........183 Blackfoot............645..........249 Boise................446..........184 Box Elder............948..........539 Burley...............365..........160 Cache................804..........411 Carbon...............557..........232 Cassia...............170..........103 Cottonwood...........888..........225 Curlew...............117...........73 Deseret..............584..........182 Duchesne.............364...........95 East Jordan..........640..........288 Emery................505..........216 Ensign...............718..........355 Franklin.............555..........272 Fremont..............555..........312 Garfield.............395..........136 Granite.............1,136..........405 Grant...............1,170..........574 Gunnison.............372..........141 Hollywood............542..........252 Hyrum................682..........259 Idaho................194..........110 Idaho Falls..........651..........256 Juab.................425..........147 Juarez...............169..........100 Kanab................304..........127 Kolob................435..........335 Lehi.................416..........171 Lethbridge...........288..........163 Logan................836..........367 Los Angeles..........695..........366 Lost River...........168...........62 Lyman................306..........170 Malad................530..........251 Maricopa.............645..........236 Millard..............527..........157 Minidoka.............378..........160 Moapa................406..........396 Montpelier...........515..........226 Morgan...............230..........100 Moroni...............508..........204 Mount Graham.........206..........172 Nevada...............119...........201 North Davis..........489..........140 North Sanpete........664..........221 North Sevier.........311...........83 North Weber..........729..........369 Ogden................872..........408 Oneida...............556..........221 Oquirrh..............420..........110 Palmyra..............623..........292 Panguitch............377..........114 Parowan..............635..........236 Pioneer..............648..........161 Pocatello............625..........205 Portneuf.............355..........139 Raft River...........182...........83 Rigby................619..........302 Roosevelt............413...........78 St. George...........551..........249 St. Joseph...........522..........421 Salt Lake............551..........357 San Francisco........395..........270 San Juan.............218..........176 San Luis.............284...........76 Sevier...............562..........226 Sharon...............327..........126 Shelley..............391..........189 Snowflake............411..........184 South Davis..........609..........194 South Sanpete........745..........224 South Sevier.........450..........134 Star Valley..........411..........170 St. Johns............244...........90 Summit...............546..........213 Taylor...............413..........168 Teton................348..........151 Timpanogos...........515..........148 Tintic...............111...........74 Tooele...............476..........168 Twin Falls...........183...........83 Uintah...............315..........168 Union................216..........157 Utah................1,351..........441 Wasatch..............531..........267 Wayne................276...........78 Weber................637..........260 West Jordan..........500..........253 Woodruff.............339..........120 Yellowstone..........451..........223 Young................502...........64 Zion Park............102
This interesting information came with the reports:
Alpine Stake offered a prize of $10 to the ward having the highest per cent of the families in the ward subscribing for the Magazine. The First Ward of American Fork carried off the prize, reaching 39%.
Cottonwood Stake offered a prize of $10 to the ward getting the largest number, based on their enrollment. Cottonwood ward had 31 enrolled and 27 subscriptions. The contest closed in February.
Grant Stake offered a prize of ten annual subscriptions to the ward that should get the highest percentage of its members as subscribers and five annual subscriptions to the ward that should secure second place in the contest. Burton Ward won the first prize with membership of 69, it secured 62 yearly and 10 half year subscriptions. Whittier Ward won second prize with a membership of 65, it secured 58 yearly subscriptions. Southgate won a third prize which was given for unusual attainment, with a membership of 41 it secured 23 yearly and 34 half-yearly subscribers.
Hollywood Stake, Mar Vista Ward, has a membership of 47 and a subscription list of 40.
North Sanpete Stake offered two prizes as an incentive to the wards.
San Francisco Stake, Martinez Relief Society, with 14 members, subscribes for 20 magazines. Burlingame, a new Society has 82% of its membership subscribing.
Due to financial conditions, some stakes urged neighbors to subscribe for the Magazine together.
Begin and Close on Time
Do you begin and close your meetings promptly? In visiting, we 293
note that some Societies close from fifteen to thirty minutes behind the scheduled time. The meeting is marred after the hour for closing has passed by restlessness and withdrawals. Some ward conferences are not timed carefully enough and run away beyond the time scheduled for the sacrament meetings. Let all Relief Society presidents be noted for beginning and closing on time.
Relief Society Handbook
The General Board of the Relief Society is pleased to announce the publication of a Relief Society Handbook which is now ready for distribution. This Handbook has been carefully prepared by an appointed committee and approved by the officers and members of the General Board. It contains a fund of information pertaining to the history and functioning of the Society, which has often been called for by both officers and members and which it is hoped will be beneficial to the organization. This information is now compiled in a neat little volume carefully indexed forming a ready reference. It contains a brief but complete history of the Relief Society, biographical sketches of its seven presidents and all the dates of organization with rulings and instructions from the time of organization, March, 1842, to the present time, 1931, as gleaned from the records of the Society and kindred publications; also other valuable and interesting material. In issuing this book the General Board trusts it will fill a long felt need, and find a welcome place in the homes of the officers and members of the Relief Society.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empe Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman

Vol. XVIII MAY, 1931 No. 5
EDITORIAL
Mothers' Day
As the activity of the Maternity Center Association of New York, Mother's Day this year is to have a new significance and an added factor of practical usefulness. Public-spirited men and women everywhere, educators, physicians, women's clubs, churches and civic organizations, are joining to center public attention on the fact that America's death rate from causes connected with maternity is the highest in the civilized world. The Maternity Center can speak with authority since it has been working on the matter for eight years with nearly five thousand mothers.
Louis I. Dublin, Ph. D., statistician of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, internationally known as an expert, has examined the records of 4,728 mothers cared for by the Maternity Center Association over a period of six years in a certain section of New York City. He compared the results with what happened to mothers in the same section of the city not receiving such care. This showed that those in the first group had about three times as good a chance to survive as the others.
The report says: "The result is indicative of the saving of lives that might be accomplished were all the mothers to receive the benefit of adequate maternity care, as more than sixteen thousand women in the United States every year die from causes related to maternity. This means that more than ten thousand deaths are preventable. In addition, 30,000 of the 100,000 babies who now
EDITORIAL 295
die in the first month of life, would be saved. Infants as well as mothers are protected by adequate maternity care."
Commending this campaign for Mother's Day, Surgeon General Cumming said, "The high maternal death rate in this country is a disgrace to our profession, and I am sure that efforts such as this will go far toward improving conditions."
Grace Abbott, chief of the Children's Bureau, endorsing the project, said, "There are no more tragic deaths than of mothers in childbirth, and I feel sure that if it were understood by people of the United States that to a very large extent these deaths are preventable they would be prevented."
Magazines and newspapers are to take up the campaign, radio talks from coast to coast are to be made by physicians and laymen, meetings of women's clubs are to conduct special programs designed to see what can be done to stop the waste in mothers' lives.
Dr. Ralph W. Lobenstein says: "An informed public opinion, demanding adequate maternity care, is a condition precedent to improvement." He points out that while typhoid fever, smallpox and diphtheria have yielded to scientific control in the last quarter of a century, and that tuberculosis has been reduced to half its toll, that the death rate from causes connected with maternity has not been lowered at all during the period for which records are available.
The Center points out that the essentials by which so many mothers' lives were saved who were taken under its care, are "a medical examination immediately upon the discovery that a baby is expected; frequent and regular examinations and instructions until the crucial time, adequate preparations for the birth itself, assuring the presence of the doctor and the nurse too; and remaining under the doctor's care for six weeks after."
Here is a wish for Mother's Day, May 10: "That every baby could be born healthy, and every mother escape the dangers which take 10,000 every year from preventable causes in childbirth.
"Something can be done to make this wish come true. Medical science, like a fairy Godmother, provides the means to reduce these ravages by offering modern maternity care as a gift to be had for the seeking."
Another Victory for Women
President Hoover has signed an amendment to the Cable Act, which was sponsored in the House by Ruth Bryan Owen.* This brings success to a twenty-five year campaign against laws that have deprived women of American citizenship when they married foreigners. By this act the United States has added its name to a list of thirteen nations that give women the same nationality rights with men. The Woman's Journal, of New York, gives this explanation of this amendment:
"The amendment to the Cable Act provides that an American woman shall not forfeit her citizenship, even though her alien husband
*Mrs. Owen once lost her own American citizenship rights through her marriage to a British Army officer.
296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
may because of race, nationality, or other causes be ineligible for citizenship.
"It permits women who have previously lost their citizenship by marriage to an ineligible alien to become repatriated without submitting to a long naturalization process.
"It also permits women married to aliens who have lived abroad for more than two years, and who have formerly been presumed to have lost their citizenship, to regain it."
The New York World-Telegram and the Buffalo Courier-Express give these interesting comments on the success of this campaign:
"The most important battle women have carried on since the suffrage campaign."
"A woman's right to her nationality should be equal to that of a man. So long as both have political equality, their rights to citizenship should rest on the same footing. This is so logical that anything to the contrary is absurd."
Twelve Outstanding Women
Good Housekeeping magazine recently invited nominations for a panel of the twelve most famous and greatest American women. A jury composed of such prominent men as Newton D. Baker, former secretary of war; Dr. Henry Van Dyke, the famous author and educator; Booth Tarkington, novelist; Otto Kahn, banker, and Bruce Barton, publicist and writer, made the final selections. This choice was made from a list of twenty-six women that had been culled from 2,786 nominations submitted by the readers of the magazine during a four months' survey.
Two interesting things about the results of the vote are that only four of the twelve women finally selected are married, and all of those chosen have shunned publicity, going about their work unostentatiously, working for an object, a cause, rather than for personal glory.
The list is arranged alphabetically, leaving it to individuals to place the names in the order of merit. Here are the twelve names selected:
Grace Abbott, Chief of the Federal Children's Bureau, and a leader in campaigns for child labor laws, children's clinics, and community nurseries; Jane Addams, whose work in Hull House and other pioneer achievements in social welfare work make her known the world over; Cecelia Beaux, an American artist, whose works hang not only in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, but also in some of the world's leading galleries; Martha Berry, whose work for mountain boys and girls of the South has led many to become successful because of the start that she gave them; Willa Cather, a novelist; Carrie Chapman Catt, the great woman suffrage leader and a worker for international peace; Grace Coolidge, whose endeavors to aid the handicapped have been so effective, and who is responsible for a million-dollar endowment for deaf mute children; Minnie Maddern Fiske, the noted actress, who is also famous for her
EDITORIAL 297
humanitarian work in behalf of animals; Helen Keller, who, though deaf, dumb and blind from infancy, has so developed her mind that she has won the highest educational attainments and honors, and has even learned to speak; Florence Rena Sabin, whose scientific work has brought her recognition from scientists all over the world; Ernestine Schumann-Heink, the noted singer; Mary E. Woolley, who as president of Mount Holyoke college for thirty years has influenced vastly the education of the women of the country.
Relief Society Handbook
Long and eagerly have our officers and members looked for the publication of a handbook. The April Relief Society conference of 1931 will go down in history as distinguished for the issuance of this greatly desired book. Much time and thought and efficient work have been put upon it, so that it comes forth attractively bound, clearly printed, comprehensive in its contents?a credit to the great Relief Society organization. It contains a brief, comprehensive history of the Society from its organization in 1842 to March, 1931, biographical sketches of the seven presidents of the Society, and the rulings, regulations and instructions that have been issued for the benefit of the Society from time to time. An interesting feature and one which the General Board has long felt necessary to be placed in the hands of the officers and members of the Society is a list of names of the charter members, the Nauvoo members, and all general officers and General Board members with the time of service from the first organization up to the time of its issuance. Every efficient officer will need to acquaint herself with what the book contains. It is worth re-reading many times. Every member should be happy to own a copy and read and digest the information it contains. Price: paper binding, 60c; cloth binding, 85c. Orders should be addressed to Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Hats Off
Several years ago a strenuous effort was made to get all women to remove their hats in places of public assembly. The law required it, church officials requested that women in church gatherings keep their hats off during the entire services. With the advent of the small, close-fitting hat, the vigilance relaxed and many women became law breakers, for the law was not revoked, the request was not withdrawn. There are so many reasons why women should remove their hats and so few why they should not that we are surprised how difficult it seems to get the majority of them to bare their heads in places of public assembly. It is much pleasanter for those who are behind to have all hats removed, and it is much more
298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
inspiring to the speaker who faces the women. Women thus show reverence for places of worship, those who remove their hats show consideration for the well being of others; they are law abiding, they show a readiness to observe the requirements of those in authority in the Church, and they add to the general appearance of public assemblies. What if removing the hat does disturb a few hairs? What if it is a little awkward to hold a hat on the lap? These are trivial considerations; the important thing is that we observe the law and cheerfully respond to the request of Church leaders.
"Mother Heart of Gold"
Theodore E. Curtis has issued his fifth Mother Day Booklet. The mothers featured this year are Julina L. Smith and Margaret McNeil Ballard?the tributes are beautifully written by their sons Joseph Fielding Smith and Melvin J. Ballard. A number of poems to be sung to well known tunes will be widely used. The popularity of the series is shown by the fact that 100,000 of the booklets have been sold during the past five years. Price 25c each. $1.35 per doz.
Mothers of Men By Vernessa Miller Nagle
Good Housekeeping Magazine recently conducted through its pages a contest for the purpose of determining the twelve greatest living American women. This contest has attracted nation-wide interest. The names of twenty-two women were featured representing twenty-two various walks of life. Front page prominence was not to be considered a test of their greatness, for such distinction often means only momentary fame. Among these twenty-two eminent women were the names of a consulting engineer, historian, composer, stateswoman, worker for the blind, singer, actress, athlete, sociologist, and wife and mother.
That among these many professions of life, that of wife and mother should be listed is significant. It appears to be the glorifying of the commonplace. It means that being a wife and mother is at last considered in the light of a business or profession. Ida M. Tarbell has written a delightful little book on "The Business of Being a Woman." She says, "The meaning of honor and of the sanctity of the principles of democracy and of the society in which we live, the love of humanity, and the desire to serve?these are what make a good citizen. The tools for preparing herself to give this training are in the woman's hands. * * It is not too much to say that the success of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution depended, in the minds of certain early Democrats, upon the woman. The doctrines of these great instruments would be worked out according to the way she played her part. Her serious responsibility came in the fact that her work was one that nobody could take off her hands."
Nancy Hanks, mother of Lincoln, was a woman of simplicity and strength. She had married his father because she loved him, and when Abe was born she was living with his father in the poorest kind of shack in the wildest part of Kentucky. But, even though she may have felt the pinch of poverty, she did her duty toward this boy tenderly and with the affection of motherhood. She taught him not only to read, but she awakened his imagination with fairy stories and legends that influenced his nature all through his life. His kindness, humor, humanity, and hatred of slavery come from his mother.
William Lloyd Garrison was a man of conscientious convictions that came directly from that mother of whom, in later years, he wrote in a letter to his fiancee: "I had a Mother once who cared for me with passionate regard. Her mind was clear, vigorous, creative, and lustrous, and sanctified by an ever-glowing piety. How often did she watch over me?weep over me?and pray over me."
Robert E. Lee's father died when Robert was but eleven years of age and the responsibility of rearing the lad fell entirely upon his mother. So many of the praiseworthy characteristics of this mother have found their counterpart in the life of her son.
It has been possible for the painter with his brush to transfer the
300 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
landscape to the canvas with such fidelity that the trees and grasses seem almost real; but perhaps one of the most perfect reproductions of a subject of life is Whistler's immortal portrait of his mother. In this picture we see all that Whistler so much adored in his mother.
One of the prominent speakers at the Women's Encampment last Summer spoke these words, "Happiness in life lies in its echo." I have often thought of these words as applying to this business of homemaking. The echoes of any successful mother's life are those splendid men and women with whom she enriches society. Many a little mother has foregone the self-satisfaction that comes from a successful career and has found the echo of her fame in the achievement of her boys and girls.
Theodore Roosevelt has said regarding mothers, "The mother who does her part in rearing and training aright the boys and girls who are to become the men and women of the next generation, is of a greater use to the community and occupies, if she only would realize it, a more honorable position, as
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 301
well as important one, than any so-called successful business man."
"A Lantern in Her Hand," by Bess Streeter Aldrich, is the story of a woman who found the happiness of her life in its echoes. As a young girl Abbie harbored great hopes of a wonderful musical career. All who heard her sing gave her encouragement. But there were so many things to interfere?the coming of the babies, the droughts of '78, '79 and '90. Through all the hardships and poverty she sang on and on. Oftimes it was a song of despair, but always she tried to make it a song of hope. At last Abbie realizes that her own ambitions must be sacrificed on the altar of love. The joy she found in the success of her sons and daughters was recompense for all.
The American woman has played an honorable part in the making of our country, and for this part she should have full credit. There are many women who through riches become idle, selfish, miserable, and anti-social. But they are not the women upon whom society depends; they are not the ones who build the nation?the mothers of men.
The Consumer's Responsibility to the Manufacturer and Merchant By Vilate Elliott, Professor of Textiles and Clothing, B. Y. U.
Ignorance and selfishness are two factors in buying; often it does not occur to a woman that she is affecting anyone but herself in what she buys. Yet it is a part of her responsibility to know how and where the garment is made. She must know something of the sanitary conditions, of the number of hours required of the workmen, if a reasonable wage is paid to them. Some people are heedless of these facts until they are told that little children wearing uninspected clothing may be endangered and exposed to disease. If a mother understands these conditions, she will insist on branded garments. These things help her to realize that the selection for her family takes her out into the world and into many homes not so pleasant as her own, where the living is scanty, where a starvation wage is paid, where the mother is not permitted to give her time to her home and family. She will know she must take her share of the responsibility of such places of garment making. She will be anxious to identify herself with the consumer's league or other associations for the betterment of working people. The woman who does these things, giving of her time and strength, usually profits by it: she has the satisfaction of knowing that other little children are being better cared for, that people are working in cleaner, lighter, and more sanitary buildings, where rest rooms and nurses are found, where a decent wage is paid, and where a limited number of hours is considered a day's work.
Where a woman trades at one store frequently, she may form the habit of trading with the same saleswoman. If she continually asks for certain lines of goods she will be shown that class of garment. In this way the habit of right choice will grow, she will have satisfaction in her knowledge of buying that which makes for the betterment of her home, which makes her a more competent spender in handling the money with which she has been provided.
The retail stores have given their customers many privileges and accommodations such as rest rooms, phones, credit, delivery. Some people have misused these privileges, they have taken advantage of them until the American woman has formed many bad shopping habits. Getting garments on approval without any or very little intention of keeping them, and then returning them, sometimes in a soiled or crumpled condition and showing marks of having been worn, is a practice to be condemned. Such garments are usually returned and sold at a discount. The manager does this rather than lose a customer or his reputation for being generous. This habit also makes it necessary for the store to keep a bigger stock of goods in order not to lose sales while the garments are out. There should be a time limit on a garment sent out on approval. It is morally wrong to permit an article to be sent out unless one expects to make a purchase, but there are people who deliberately plan to have them sent out, expecting to wear them on some
302 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
special occasion and then return them.
Free delivery is another much debated question. Delivery adds about five per cent to the cost of the merchandise and is paid by all alike. Would it not be better to make a small charge for delivery for those desiring it? Is it not fair for those who wish special privileges to pay for them? Should not delivery be limited to at least once a day? However, more packages would be carried if the time of waiting for the package could be eliminated.
Late shopping adds to the expense of the store and incidentally to the cost. Seventy-five per cent of the sales are made after two o'clock. Some stores offer a ten percent discount on all shopping done before ten o'clock. Early morning habits of shopping are excellent: the buyer is fresh and better able to judge what she wants. The sales people are not so busy and are anxious to show their materials, and can give
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 303
more time in helping the customer in her selection. It is well to be definite in your shopping. If you have not decided on what you want to buy, tell your saleswoman you are just looking. Don't feel vexed if she does not give you an unlimited amount of time. Be frank with her, tell her you may return after having looked elsewhere. If you do return, go to the same saleswoman, as the sale belongs to her. Many of them are paid a commission on their sales. If a customer takes up much of her time and buys nothing, her commissions are diminished. This is discouraging, you really have prevented her from making other sales. A customer expects courteous treatment; she should be willing to accord the same to the saleswoman. A kindly word carrying with it an expression of appreciation will throw an atmosphere of cheer around the saleswoman, perchance, for the rest of the day. A Tribute To Sister Georgenia O'Brien and her Board of the Taylor Stake Relief Society, Alberta, Canada, who are retiring after many years of faithful services. By Helen K. Orgill From crimson eve till break of dawn The mills of God go on and on, In silence never ending. And ah, I think within, that mill The cries of happy children will E'er blend with Heavenly music. And grateful glances sent above From "these the best" whom "God doth love" Will each one be remembered. "regions fair," "counts each For He who lives in Who knows us all and hair'; Rewards with joy eternal. ? But we'll not wait, we'll praise you here, Present our love, O sister dear; ~ From hearts that beat in union. To thousands in this far off land, A mighty rock of strength you stand; They rise and call you blessed. To you, and all, that faithful band, Who've worked together hand in hand, We send a heart-felt greeting. And may your days be multiplied To cheer the old, the young to guide; To succor still the needy. And may God bless your days with peace, From every sorrow find surcease; And javs be ever boundless. LDS. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request. 147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave.......$1.16 508 Ladies New Style Extra Lt. 82 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt............... 1.50 Wt. Combed Cot................: 1.25 208 Lt. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot... 1.35 802 Ladies' New Style, Rayo 2.50 222 Rayon Striped Combed Cot... 1.65 807 Men's New Style, Rayon... 2.76 258 Med. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot. 1.85 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt......... 2.00 628 Merc. Lisle Light Wt............ 2.00 164 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt.......... 2.25 908 Unbleached Cot. Ex. Hvy......... 2.75 1118 Wool and Cotton Mixed_......_.. 3.50 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH _L. D. 8. GARMENTS Direct From Factory You are guaranteed unusual! Wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns. No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Cotton............$.75 Non Run Rayon, Long Legs or Old Rb Lt. Wt. Style 2.00 a. LDS No. 76 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Lisle 119 No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton, bleached 1.98 No. 63 Lt. Med. Unbleached Double No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., unbleached Back 1.19 Double Back 20......... 1.98 No. 64 Ribbed Lt, Med. Cotton........ 1.19 No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool..|2.85 No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Bleached... 1.65 No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool.. 3.50 No. 82 Silk and Wool.......-........------3.95 No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. bleached 1.65 No. 67 Med. Wt. Part Wool...........1.69 Non Run Rayon, Elbow and Knee WHITE TEMPLE PANTS Length 1.50 8 0z.. Heavy Duck.............. 1.95 SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight. Sizes above 48-20% extra. Marking l5c. Postage Prepaid. Special?When you order three pair of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on third pair only. IN QUALITY The foods and items for sale in our store you'll agree are superior in quality. Everything dependable. Everything guaranteed. It is as though we had skimmed the tops of all good things and assembled this excellence in our store for your selection. P SKAGGS "A Surety of Purity" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine GARMENTS UNDERWEAR FOR --SPRING Painting Inside?Outside Use BENNETT'S Property Life, Insurance Paint Products Manufactured and sold by Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 61-65 W. First South, Salt Lake City Dealers Throughout Utah, Southern Idaho and Neighboring States. Sesgo MILK Puddings Pies?" Custards and Creams Rival At All Grocer's Seven Times Champion of the World Sent to you: on Free Trial For Sale by Utah Power & Light Co. D an Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 177 E. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City Complete Suits for Men and Women?Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily?9 a. M. To 5 p. M, Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SAVE TIME! SAVE MONEY! 