Uncommon Honesty By Milton Bennion People generally do not steal from their neighbors or other individuals, but many people of good repute will steal from a public service corporation as often as opportunity affords. This is so customary in railroad passenger service that conductors are surprised to find half fares and full fare paid voluntarily in accordance with ages. This is illustrated in a remark once made by a conductor to the head of a family, "You are pretty well ticketed, aren't you?' "I do not want to cheat the railroad company," was the reply. "Well," said the conductor, "You're one in a thousand, you ought to be in Congress." To carry through sttch a graft, it takes a lie to come to the support of its twin sister, theft; for innocent children must be trained to lie about their ages, in case the question is raised— so trained by the same parents and guardians who are responsible for training them in honesty and truthfulness. A somewhat more common form of the same sort of stealing is the traffic in streetcar transfers, indulged in both by adults and children; most of whom are wholly unaware of the fact that they are violating a contract between the public and the streetcar company. While the money value in each case is small, it is upon the accumulation of just such small values that the success or the failure of the company depends. This, however, is quite secondary to the fact that this illicit traffic involves the essential elements both of lying and stealing. The receiver is as guilty as the giver. Is not one's sense of honor worth more than seven cents? In case of the so-called "white lie," this lie may be customary in polite society, but from a moral point of view it is not different in color from other members of its species. This does not mean that in polite society, or any where else, people are morally bound to reveal bluntly all the brutal facts they happen to know. It is well to be polite and tactful, but this need not be at the expense of being truthful. Neither are people under ebligation to proclaim confidential knowledge committed to them, or other matters of a personal and private nature. Such mat: ters may remain secluded in the consciousness of those concerned. There need, however, be no attempt to conceal them with lies, Who has not received pleasant promises in response to a request, only to find later the giver of the promise 150 this is the habit of some people even in very responsible public places. Insincere promises and studied flattery, as means of securing the goodwill of others, ultimately react to the discredit of the one who adopts such methods. It does not pay, to say nothing of being dishonest. How often does it happen that unwelcome callers are met with feigned welcome and insincere affability, followed, after their departure, with expressions of quite the reverse nature. What may the children of the household think of such an exhibition on the part of the mother, whose business it is to teach them honesty? Do children reason? Much more than we give them credit for. Also they are more responsive to example than to precept. If uncommon honesty is not essential to their parents, why should children conform to the requirements of honesty at all?