The General Procession James H. Anderson In India, the insurrections became so general in January, as to be of extremely serious concern to the British government. An Irish world conference assembled in Paris, France, in January, being not only Irish but radically anti-British. 40,000 "bootleggers" were arrested in the United States in 1921, and 600,000,000 gallons of intoxicating liquors seized and destroyed. The Irish parliament ratified the treaty with Great Britain on January 7, thereby constituting the south of Ireland the Irish Free State. Banditry in the United States at the opening of 1922 had assumed larger proportions than ever before known in the nation's history. Numerous incendiary fires throughout the United States in January indicate a deliberate policy in some quarter of destroying property, especially that of public corporations. The Seventh-Day Adventists are to hold a conference in San Francisco, Cal., May 11 to 30, at which 110 states and rations are to be represented. The new revenue law in the United States is highly favorable to men with families, in lightening the burden of taxation, by exemptions. France and Great Britain developed their differences to a material extent in January, from distinct points of view over the German situation. Germany and Russia had diplomatic conferences in January, thus exciting western Europe to the view of a possible alliance against the latter. European nations at war in January were Greece with 156 Turkey, Russia with the Karelians, and Spain with the Moroccans. Standard Food grains were less in quantity in America in January than for several years, while the European supply had increased greatly. Scotland was being agitated in January, over the question of that country separating from and becoming independent of England. There were no violent outbreaks. Dr. Fritjoff of Nansen, of the Russian relief commission, reports in January that from twelve to fifteen million people in that country would starve to death this winter, despite all means of relief. The Juarez Stake L. D. S. Academy, Mexico, did not suspend its operations during the recent disturbances in Mexico, statements to the contrary taken from Salt Lake papers being incorrect. Viscount James Bryce, former ambassador from Great Britain to the United States died on Jan. 22, He was well known by many Utah people, to whom he was a staunch friend. Pope Benedict XV, supreme pontiff of the Roman Catholic church, died at Rome, Italy, on January 22, of pneumonia. During his control, the interests of the Catholic church were enhanced materially. Egypt was troubled in January with a serious upheaval against the British protectorate, and several hundred lives were lost at Cairo. Egypt probably will be given independence from Great Britain. Strikes of great extent are threatened in the United States in April, many of those who are urging workmen to strike also being quite free in declaring their purpose to "Russianize the United States.", Italy and Spain were at strained relations with France in January, even more so than is France with Great Britain. Their difference has a religious rather than an economic phase. In London, England, in January, a rule was adopted provid- THE GENERAL PROCESSION 157 ing that children under 16 years of age could not attend moving picture shows unless accompanied by mature guardians. William W. Riter, one of Utah's pioneers, who has been a pillar of strength in the financial, industrial, and educational affairs of the state, died in Salt Lake City on January 17. He came to Utah in 1847, then a young man. Rev. D. S. Tuttle, head of the Protestant Episcopal church in America, publicly declared in January that diplomatic world conferences would not bring international peace; his statement was that "pure Christianity is the only force which can attain the desirable end." In France, in January, the ministry of Aristide Briand was overthrown and a new ministry formed under Raymond Poincare, former French president. Thus far, the change has not improved the peaceful outlook for Europe. The ninetieth birthday anniversary of President Charles W. Penrose, of the First Presidency of the "Mormon" Church, and a remarkably capable and diligent preacher of the gospel, was generally observed on Sunday, February 5, by services throughout of the various stakes of Zion, under the able direction of the Genealogical Society of Utah. At Washington, D. C., on January 28, the roof of the Knickerbocker moving picture theatre collapsed with the heavy weight of two and a half feet of snow, killing 112 people and injuring 141 others. One of the killed was Guy S. Eldredge of Salt Lake City, brother-in-law to Senator Reed Smoot. At Jerusalem, on December 9, 1921, for the first time in more than 20 centuries, the Jews issued from there a proclamation of a joyous character, calling attention to the great progress in the "homeland" in the preceding four years, and noting the rapid course of events, as compared with the previous epochs of Israel's history. The National Geographic Magazine for February, 1922, in a series of interesting articles on America ancient and modern, commences the opening article with this significant statement: "During the first millennium before Christ, while yet our own forebears of Northern Europe were plunged in the depths of barbarism, there developed somewhere in Middle America, prob- 158 ably on the gulf coast of southern Mexico, a great aboriginal civilization called the Maya, which was destined to become the most brilliant expression of the ancient American mind." What Women are Doing A woman's bank has been organized at Cleveland, Ohio, all the employes and officers, from janitor to president, being women. The wedding dress of Princess Mary of England is made of cloth of gold from India, the material having been obtained by her mother several years ago. In figuring the length of time used in an average life in personal dressing, Dean Inge, of St. Paul's church in London, England, computes the time taken by women at ten years and by men at two years. Mrs. Margaret Reuff, an American society girl of New York, who married Andre Reuff, a prominent Frenchman, has issued a warning to American girls to "beware of foreigners as husbands." Mrs. Marx E. Oberndorfer of Chicago, national music chairman of the General Federation, has started a vigorous and persistent crusade against "jazz" music in schools and other public institutions. In Japan, at the present session of parliament, the question of equal suffrage has become markedly prominent, with the probability that the granting of suffrage to women will be deferred for several years. Miss Frances Nikawa, a young woman of the Cree branch of the Blackfeet Indian tribe, Canada, created somewhat of a furore in London, England, in January, by her remarkable dramatic talent in theatrical performances there. Mrs. Harding, wife of President Harding, made an impressive address to a large audience of women in New York on January 14, urging "effective and unremitting efforts at organization, education and civic training among women." Dr. Clara S. Seippel, the eminent woman specialist of Chi- THE GENERAL PROCESSION 159 cago, Illinois, in a public announcement made in January, says that "the sturdy type of American womanhood is becoming extinct through too much candy and a too flimsy garb." Dr. Amy Kankonen, 23, mayor of Fairport, Ohio, and the youngest mayor in the United States, "cleaned out" the numerous "bootleggers" in her town in a vigorous crusade in October, November and December by keeping at it relentlessly. Mrs. Thomas Wintringham, the first British-born woman elected to the British parliament, made her maiden speech there in January, on the subject of economy with public funds, giving a particularly strong showing of facts and logic. She has a clear, pleasant voice, and maintained the attention of her educated and critical audience., Mrs. Mary McFadden, mayor of Magnetic Springs, Ohio, 80 years of age and the oldest mayor in the United States, is meeting with success in driving "bootleggers" and male "vamps"' ott of the town. As to paucity of female wardrobe, she says that "if the girls come to wearing belts, they must wear wide ones." Miss Inez Chang, a Chinese young lady who has received a liberal education in a New York university, left for China in January. Her coming there is a topic of general discussion, for the reason that she is making a notable innovation in Chinese customs by engaging in the export and import business, ideas which she gained by practical experience in America. Evangeline Booth, national commander. Of the Salvation Army, in a public address at San Francisco, Cal., on January 25, gave much sensible and practical advice to women in the western part of the United States, saying among other things that 'skirts should be five or six inches above the ground," and that "too many women today destroy their true womanliness by immodest dressing, and have only themselves to blame when their characters are questioned."