Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman LEADERSHIP WEEK AT THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Leadership Week at the B. Y. U., January 23 to 27 inclusive, was most interesting and inspiring throughout. The attendance was remarkable, there being registered during the week between 1600 and 1800 stake and local leaders, from the adjacent stakes and wards. This gratifying response to the opportunity extended by the University, gives evidence of the desire on the part of stake and local Church workers, to raise the standard of the work of their organizations, and it also shows an earnest desire for spiritual and educational uplift. Such a feast of good things was offered that one was almost bewildered at the outset. There were general sessions where topics of interest to all were discussed by some of our ablest speakers; there were regular department meetings or classes where specialized instruction was given, under direction of the college professors; and there were delightful social entertainments, consisting of get-acquainted parties, musicals, theatricals, pageants and band concerts. Each day a delicious luncheon was served in the cafeteria, where most of the service was given voluntarily by the charming young women of the institution. The distinctive feature of Leadership Week was the spirited and faith-promoting address by President Heber J. Grant on Wednesday the 25, in College Hall. For over an hour the vast audience listened to him in breathless silence. His earnestness, sincerity, and convincing testimony, touched and thrilled the hearts of all wtho heard him, and they went away strengthened in determination, in faith, and in testimony. Many who came for this special occasion were unfortunate in not being able to secure seats or even standing room in College Hall, and it was necessary to arrange for an overflow meeting which was held in ~ the Library. There were nineteen departments in all, including a department for each of the Auxiliary Organizations of the Church. They were as follows: Priesthood, Relief Society, Sunday School, M. I. A., Primary, Religion Class, Teacher Training: Pre-Adolescent Section, Adolescent Section, Adult Section; Genealogy, ~ Social and Recreational Leadership, Scout Leaders, Bee Hive Leaders, Home Making, Public Speaking, Business Administration, Missionary Course, Pageantry, Health Work, Music, Pre-