[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 665 | Poem | I Wait and Wonder | Caroline Eyring Miner]
[I Wait and Wonder Caroline Eyring Miner]
The Stars Are There Grace Barker Wilson Across the desert sands will break the dawn, The silver moon fade out before the day; But beauty in my heart will linger on Of shining lights across the far sky way. The Pleiades and Milky Way hang tall, Polaris never leaves his ancient post; Though sun shines now, I know when shadows fall The stars are there when I shall need them most. I Wait and Wonder Caroline Eyring Miner You were so eager to be out the door — The minutes dragged for you on leaden feet. My last born, others have been six before, But with a difference, for you, my sweet, Are now my last. Alone I'll wait for you. But you will linger longer as the days Go by; the ties will stretch as shadows do As thin as mist, still there in evening's haze. Yet I was born for this to train you so To walk with help, and then to walk alone, Straight as a flint-tipped arrow free to go. And yet I hold to you in thoughts, my own. As Mary waited for her Son's return, I wait and wonder with my own concern. 665 Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, and his mother Tutu, and the children Philip, Pixie, Bo, and Benjy, who live on a pincapple plantation on the island of Maui, go to Honolulu to meet the eldest daughter Emma Lu, who has graduated as a nurse, and is returning home. Emma Lu tells her mother that she has two surprises. Margaret, Luana's sister-inlaw, a childless woman who has achieved success as an artist, has arrived with Emma Lu for a visit at the pineapple plantation. The other surprise is that Emma Lu has become engaged to a Sherman Grant in San Francisco. Ml "Bas is Waikiki," Ben explained to Margaret, as they all walked toward the dazzling white beach. They had rented a room at the Princess 666 Kaiulani Hotel so they would have a place to change into their bathing suits. Philip led the way, his eyes eager and excited. "Look, Aunt Margaret," he exclaimed, waving his arms. "This beach goes from the War Memorial in the lee of Diamond Head to the Yacht Club Harbor." "Such white sand!' Margaret answered. "Like glistening crystal." Pixie tucked her arm under Margaret's, as they hurried along. "We call it the mile of romance," she added with her cute little smile. "Fun, laughter, and music. You can hear every kind of rhythm on Waikiki from old Hawaiian to shuffling hula. Just listen, Aunt Margaret." She rolled her eyes heavenward, lifting her arms, too. "T love Waikiki," she said. "The sun is brighter, the moon is bigger, the sky is bluer, the waves are higher than anywhere else in our islands!" Tutu, who was holding Ben's arm, clicked her tongue reprovingly. "That is not quite fair, my Pixie," she said, gently. "Each of our islands has its own magic. None of them can claim to have more beauty or allure than another. You have only to stop and listen on any island to hear music. Always music. Even from the land-shells on the trees in some places." "But, Tutu, dear," Philip said, his eyes twinkling, "you have to admit that Waikiki has a magic all its own. Daddy permits us to come here only once a year, but that's something. We dream about it for the next twelve months. I'd like to live right here on Waikiki. One holiday here isn't enough." Luana looked at Ben. Grew serious. "Once a year is quite enough," he said. "You know, Margaret," he added, "most people on the Mainland think that life in Hawaii is all fun. All play and no work. Nothing could be further from the truth. The workaday world of a real Hawaiian family is just as demanding as anywhere else, and Latter-day Saint parents uphold a high standard for their children." "They certainly do!" Philip agreed. "And we try to live up to it."
