[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 671 | Poem | Slow Weather | Gilean Douglas]
(To be continued) Slow Weather Gilean Douglas Now is the slow time of autumn weather: Days made for dreaming, nights made for sleep. Here is the mist and a leaf and a feather; Here is the river, darkling and deep, With the gray cords of rain to bind them together. 671 smilie. Toa = — Placein Normandy — = Claire Noall = eerese Scenic Transparencies by the Author é —e Fa la mi Sosing the bells of Corneville. Pr ster the cxcitement of Paris, how my husband and I enjoyed the leather-apron atmosphere of a country inn in Normandy! In the city our hotel had been the former palace of a princess. The contrast between the hotel and the inn was enchanting. Before we retired in this half-timbered house on a knoll drenched with the perfume of cress and appleblossoms, we not only heard the bells, we saw them played in an Arcadian tower. The next day we would pursue our way to the sea to find the far-famed tapestry of Matilda, at Bayeux. In eight colors, the story of the Conquest of England by William, husband of Queen Matilda, is embroidered on a 231-foot long panel. On a morning of June, as we drove away from the heightened heartbeat of Paris, we sought the valley of the Seine. The river had been the first line of travel to central France. At the Ile de la Cité, it intersected the north-south land routes of tribal peoples. As we drove down the valley, we visited in Rouen the Square of Joan of Arc, with her lovely statue, and with our memory of her visions, of her voices. Again, in the timbered houses that face her square, we felt the march of time. 672 —- —— oa - Se IE an) HC iia I tar gs 'i Meare te. See ¢ Market Place on the Way to Rouen Raney As the day passed, I saw my husband's shoulders commencing to sag. I must say, however, that the fun of taking a car is that one may stop for the night whenever he finds the shadows lengthening. He may also get acquainted with the people of the country. I began to look around. "How is this?" I asked, glancing over my shoulder at an ancient-looking house above the highway. The upper walls were cobbled. A squat tower rose, time-seasoned and square, from one corner of the building. There seemed to be an atmosphere of quaint and charming hospitality. We drove up the slope of the embankment to the Hotel of the Bells, but we found no one around. Below the mound where we stood, separating the road from the field, an apple orchard in bloom cast its perfume. The descent of the land toward the tributary to the Seine was grass-green, fresh with uncut hay and unripencd wheat. The porch of the hotel overlooked a lawn and a few small flower beds. 'Thatched umbrellas were open above half a dozen red-painted tables. We caught the sound of a brook and its marshy odor. Even the silence of the house seemed inviting; but where was our host? 


 In rough dress and leather apron, a farmer ran up from the fields. In scanted French, on my part, we conversed. He promised dinner, along with a room. On the third story, we found things even more "ruffledcurtain" in style than we had expected. We also found cleanliness, our own washbowl, and hot running water. I While we were still abovestairs, two German girls took two rooms on the same floor. The intermediate floor must have been given over to the family, but downstairs again, I saw no one. Our host had disappeared. I could not smell the first flavor of dinner. I peeked into the indoor dining room. There was no sign of life, and so I entered the kitchen. There I discovered a lovely cheese; but the only inhabitants in that shining room were three or four red ants that seemed to be longing for the Camembert. It was screened. I heard the girls come down. I said, "Did you see any place along the road where we might eat?" 'They had arrived from a direction opposite to ours. They looked surprised. I spread my hands, indicating there was nothing here. The splendid copper pans and skillets in the kitchen were as bare as Mother Hubbard's cupboard. At this moment our master of the inn bounded up the steps of the porch. "Oui, oui, oui!" Yes, yes, yes, he assured us; but certainly we should have dinner. On the Crest of the Hills Above the Seine Hotel of the Bells, Corneville, Normandy "How?" I asked, with only half a smile. "Where, when?" "But now," he replied brightly. "Sit wherever you wish, indoors or My husband and I chose the garden, a little dubious, perhaps. The gitls took their table. We chatted across the lawn from beneath our respective umbrellas, as we sat in the yellow chairs. Evening was falling; the air was gentle, neither too cool nor too damp. Our host appeared, transformed in a white jacket. He brought a large pitcher of cider. "Le cidre, le cidre!"" He fairly glowed as he filled our tumblers. I glanced at the apple trees; I recognized the secret of this absolutely delicious, unfermented beverage. I The soup also struck the palate as something only the Normans could concoct. From where had it come? Who had prepared this creamy essence? What herbs had seasoned it so delicately? 'This I did not know. There was no one to ask. Our host had vanished again. But here he came again, quick as ever! 'This time he appeared from behind the hedge that concealed the brook. The sound of the running water had given its course away, but not its fruit. That was reserved for the host. "Les truits, les truits!'

our man boasted, with a rare smile. The trout, the trout! His triumphant note was supported by the leaping fish within the net. The wait for the entrée did not seem long as we listened to the stream out Detail From the Tapestry of Matilda a. Wet an?: ~ u. A.: ' ~ wt a. I _ The Countryside — Bread Basket on Wheels Ma ee Re and smelled the perfumes of the evening, as we compared notes with the girls on our travels in Normandy. 'They, too, were headed for Bayeux and the tapestry of Matilda, the Queen of William the Conqueror. But hush, here came the fish, browned in butter and served with new potatoes and green peas right out of the garden. We spread the French bread with sweet butter. We felt triumphant. To close the evening with a special courtesy, our host took us with him when he went to the tower to play the bells. 'They had been forged in a nearby foundry to commemorate the legend of the primitive bells of Corneville. 'These had been drowned in the Seine when being removed from the abbey during an invasion of the English in the Hundred Years' War. Legend declares that if one listens carefully, he may catch the sound of those first bells, where it rises today through the ebb and the swell of the waves of the Seine. Our host played his keyboard with felted hammers, like a marimba. In answer to his touch, we heard a deep-throated tune, altogether musical: fa la m it commenced. High, low, up, on a long pause. Tuer next evening we were at Bayeux, almost within sound of the sea, on the River Aure. We had lunched at the inn of the Golden Lion in Pont l'Eveque. Again our meal was like a miracle. We arrived late. We were served, piping hot, an unforgettable sole with cream sauce and fresh mushrooms heaped against parsleyed new potatoes and green peas. Another miracle of France! Toward evening we again stood hand in hand with history. In Bayeux the Romans had also built. But let us skip a thousand years and go to 676 Poppies Accent the Landscape with Color the glory of the Normans in 1066, Duke William's day. Around three walls of a museum built for the purpose, runs the 231-foot tapestry. 'The linen, brown with age, is twenty inches wide. Borders at both the top and bottom depict a series of fables quite apart from the Conquest. We even see Haley's Comet, as if the inevitable round of the seasons must take its planned course. The saga of the tapestry itself begins with the crowning of Harold the Saxon and his betrayal of William's trust. Infinitesimally fine, in eight colors of worsted thread, the details of the mission are vividly shown. In the battle for England we find archers with long bows, and those with short arrows. Horses plunge and rear. Palaces, cottages, rivers, bridges, courts are realistically pictured. 'Through individual earphones, in the language of one's choice, he may listen to the story as he moves slowly forward along the length of the incredible work. From this linen is taken the only known portrait of William the Conqueror. Legend says that Matilda herself took up the needle after the duke's death in battle. Legend is tricky, but the tapestry prompts the thought, what is history really for but to create works of art? The linen suggests the inevitable turning of conquest upon itself. England returned to France, victorious for a time. But time passes, while art remains. I should like to repeat that journey down the Seine from Paris to the sea. I sometimes see the Eiffel Tower at night, rising in luminous splendor for nearly a thousand feet. I see the tapestry of Matilda. I taste the food at Pont l'Eveque. I hear the bells of Corneville: fa Ja mi So sings their bronze on the quiet of the evening air. Color Transparency by Hal Rumel The Eating Club Louise S. Davis: DiS 5S GRC a tall cr pte Fon 5 ON eo Nat Left to right: Louise S. Davis; Lia Barendregt; Inga Johnson; Corry Z. DeMille; Annetta S. Mower. Food in the picture, left to right, front to back: Cherry Tarts; Lemon Snow; Ui Ansje; Rice Bavarian, with Sauce; Corry's Croquettes; Kai's Soy Chicken; Erwten Soep. Ce.. And when we're through rehearsing, I'll make croquettes for us like we ate in Holland." 'Thus, was formed, from this simple statement, "The Eating Club." My sister and I had decided to ask three girls who had recently moved into our ward, one from Holland, one from Denmark, and one from Sweden, if they would like to come over and sing together one evening. We knew they liked to sing from talking to them at our ward choir rehearsals, and thought this a good way to become better acquainted. At first we confined ourselves merely to singing (even entering the 678 MIA All-Church Quartet Festival two years—and winning both times), but, after awhile, the hostess for the rehearsal began to prepare a little food. Soon the food became the highlight of the evening, much as we loved to sing, so we dropped the pretense and began calling ourselves "The Eating Club." The object of the club is simple and contained solely in its title. Others have remarked on what a wonderful way to receive and exchange recipes and, it is true, it ls. But our purpose has been and is primarily eating. 'The meetings are held approximately once a month, and each person brings a dish which is something especially good — a new recipe she has been wanting to try or a tested favorite. 'The menu is rarely planned (despite furtive attempts on the part of some members), and enough is brought so each can have all she wants of everything. Sometimes we have mostly desserts, and sometimes mostly main dishes, but we have all had enough to eat by the time we go home. Once in awhile we have "Request Night," where we request each other to bring our favorites. High repeaters are Corry's Croquettes( which are sold and eaten in Holland as we eat hot dogs), Erwten Soep (Split Pea Soup), Citron Fromage (Lemon Snow), and Rice Bavarian. In making Rice Bavarian in Sweden an almond is included, and the one who receives it, is the next one to be married. THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT Often others attend the Club and are asked to contribute some dish. In this way we have obtained Kai's Soy Chicken from a Chinese student, Cherry Tarts, and Ui Ansjé (Onion Stew). About once a year we have an "Invitational," where guests are invited, without bringing food, and each member brings two or three dishes, so there will be plenty for all. 'This is the only time some sort of a menu is planned. After the dinner is over, the evening is usually spent copying recipes and singing. During the years the Club has met, some have married, some have moved, some have moved back, and new ones have been added (the only membership requirement being to cook good things). Through it all the Club has remained and has become an unending source of forming new friendships and cementing old ones. RECIPES Corry's Croquettes (Dutch) 3 tbsp. Butter % c. Flour 1 can (12 oz.) corned beef 1 c. Milk 1 tsp. Curry % c. Fresh parsley, chopped, or 1 tbsp. Dried parsley flakes Ya c. Flour 2 eggs, slightly beaten 1 ¢. Bread crumbs parsley to garnish Melt butter in large, heavy skillet. Add flour and blend until smooth. Stir in milk gradually and cook over direct heat, stirring constantly until thick, pasty consistency. Add corned beef. Continue cooking, stirring constantly until well mixed and bubbly. Add curry and parsley. Cover and place in refrigerator and chill very thoroughly. Approximately 20 minutes before serving, form into cylindrical shapes, roll in flour, then in eggs, and then in bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat at 375°F. Until golden brown. Remove to hot platter or keep hot in slow oven. Garnish with parsley. Makes approximately 15 croquettes. Erwten Soep (Split Pea Soup) (Dutch) 1 ham bone with a good amount of ham on it qts. Water pkg. (12 0z.) dried split peas celery stalks medium carrots bunches green onions 2 beef bouillon cubes % tsp. Nutmeg salt and pepper to taste NON A — Ww Put bone in soup kettle and cover with water. Cook over high heat until water boils. Lower heat, cover, and simmer approximately 1 to 1% hours. Add peas and about 2 hours or until simmer peas are 


 Chop celery, carrots, and onions, and add to soup. Add bouillon cubes and seasonings and let simmer 1 hour. Soup increases in flavor if allowed to stand overnight. Serve hot with homemade or Dutch bread. Serves 6-8. Mushy. Ui Ansje (Onion Stew) (Dutch) 4 tbsp. Butter or substitute 6 large onions, sliced 2 Ibs. Cubed stew meat 6-8 bay leaves salt, pepper Season meat with salt and pepper and brown in butter which has been melted in skillet. When brown, remove meat and add onions and brown. Return meat to skillet and simmer 45 minutes. Add bay leaves, simmer 45 minutes. When ready to serve, releaves and ladle over rice or Serves 6-8. Move bay boiled potatoes. Kai's Soy Chicken (Chinese) One 2 or 3 Ib. Chicken, cut up 2 green onions, chopped Ya tsp. Black pepper 1 tbsp. Sugar 5 tbsp. Soy sauce Ya tsp. Monosodium glutamate Vo tsp. Salt Place chicken in pan, add water, and cook on medium heat for 42 hour. Add remaining ingredients and simmer for about 1 hour or until it becomes almost dry. Remove bones and serve with rice. Serves 3-4. Citron Fromage (Lemon Snow) (Danish) 3 eggs, separated 1 ¢. Sugar 1 tbsp. (1 envelope) unflavored gelatin Yc. Cold water juice from 1 orange and 1 lemon 1 tsp. (scant) lemon rind, grated Y% pt. Whipping cream Beat yolks and sugar until lemon colored. Soak gelatin in cold water and put over hot water until melted. Combine with egg yolk mixture. Add juice and rind. Let stand until it begins to thicken. Fold in whipped cream and egg whites which have been beaten until stiff but not dry. Pour in bowl or 4-cup mold and place in refrigerator until set. Serves 8. 680 Rice Bavarian (Swedish) 1% qt. Milk Ya c. Rice small piece cinnamon stick 1 tsp. Vanilla (optional) 1 '¢. Sugar 2 tbsp. (2 envelopes) unflavored gelatin 2 eggs, separated 1 pt. Whipping cream Cook 1 qt. Milk, rice, cinnamon, and vanilla together in double boiler until rice is very soft and mushy. Remove cinnamon. Meanwhile, heat 2 qt. Milk with sugar and add gelatin when hot. Stir until dissolved. Add to rice mixture. Beat egg yolks until thick and add to rice. Cool. When cool add whipped cream and egg whites which have been beaten until stiff but not dry. Pour into bowl or mold and chill. Serve with sauce. Serves 8. Sauce 1 pkg. Currant-raspberry Danish dessert 3 ¢. Water jvice from small bottle of maraschino cherries or 2-3 drops almond flavoring Make Danish dessert according to recipe on package with 3 cups of water instead of 2. Add remaining ingredient and cool. Serve with Rice Bavarian. Cherry Tarts Crust: 1 ¢. Graham cracker or vanilla wafer crumbs Y% ¢. Sugar Y c. Butter or substitute Combine and press into 9" x 9" pan. Add filling. Filling: 1 8-oz. Pkg. Cream cheese Ya ¢. Sugar 2 eggs Set out cheese at room temperature until soft. Cream it, add sugar, and cream until smooth. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Pour on top of crust. Bake 350°F. For 25-30 minutes. Cool, then cover with One 1-lb. Can cherry pie filling. Cool several hours and_ garnish with whipped cream. Cut in squares. Makes 9 tarts. Rock Gardening Dorthea N. Newbold Transparency by Willard Luce LILY POOL IN A ROCK GARDEN Informality is the keynote of this lily pool-rock garden combination. The borders and center pieces of early spring bulbs have given way to pansies, violets, and forget-me-nots. The stones whicn make the rock garden are porous, thus helping to hold the soil and moisture. RR ocx gardening is a hobby demanding much of the gardener in time, effort, and knowledge. If the beginner is willing to work with plants, and study their needs, beginning with the more easily grown plants, then, as the gardener gains experience, progressing on to the more difficult and demanding plants, she soon becomes expert in her hobby. Much satisfaction is realized through the knowledge gained, and great pleasure from the beautiful pictures created through the use of plants, soil, and rocks.