[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 690 | General Feature | Bazaars Are Wonderful! | Louise W. Madsen]
[Bazaars Are Wonderful! Louise W. Madsen]

Louise W. Madsen wander foes bs Soek JACK AND JILL Distinctive, well-made children's clothes sold readily. The pictures shown were framed pages from storybooks, enhanced by putting real clothing on the characters. In the foreground may be seen several robes made of quilted material and knitted in a darker shade of pink and trimmed with bunnies. Coverall aprons and shift dresses are seen hanging in the background. Stuffed toys, such as the ""'percale animals' at the left proved to be appealing items. The hangers at the left have felt or knitted coverings. They are decorated with felt cutouts and knitted motifs. Transparencies by Hal Rumel — Displays from Monument Park Stake Captions by Velma N. Simonsen 685 QUILTS QUILTS At the right on the table are two crib quilts attractively decorated with applique designs. The red, white, and blue quilt at the extreme right was especially designed for a boy's room. The fullsize quilts were made long enough so they could be used as bedspreads. The quilt hanging at the right has a border of the same pale blue percale as is used for the lining. The center is printed percale. The quilt in the middle (with matching pillow cases) is made of border-print percale and the effective design is obtained by a special method of cutting the material. The beautiful white cotton quilt at the left was one of the outstanding features of the bazaar. Its unusual design and exquisite stitching appealed to all who value expert craftsmanship. The Burgundy colored quilt hanging at the left is lined with ecru-colored rayon satin. The fancy pillow at the left is made of styrofoam cut to resemble a many-petaled flower. It sold readily. Ire ELIEF Society bazaars are wonderful occasions! The talents and skills of large groups of women are utilized to achieve these significant events. One of the most attractive aspects of a Relief Society bazaar is the originality of many of the articles. The creative talents of many women are used to produce new items and refurbish old ideas, to create something no one has thought of before as well as to put new and orginal touches on such ordinary things as aprons. Various kinds of things are featured: from handmade clothes to loaves of bread, from house plants to "white elephants," from knitted sweaters to children's toys, from aprons, party and practical, to quilts too beautiful to be hidden so they become bedspreads. Quality items, handicraft and cakes and pies, homemade candy and decorated soap, delicious preserved fruit and sparkling Christmas decorations, embroidered dishtowels and dainty doll clothes — all are part of a ward Relief Society bazaar. 686 APRONS Monument Park Stake literature class leader Velma N. Simonsen, a former counselor of the Relief Society General Board, holds one of the many beautifully embroidered aprons. The apron is made from red percale and embroidered in white to resemble an original Swedish design. Hanging in the background are several shift dresses and coverall aprons. Some of these are variations of one pattern. Several of the aprons are beautifully decorated with hardanger embroidery. An _ elderly sister from Denmark instructed the women in this ancient and lovely art. Hardanger embroidery was also used to trim a number of summer dresses. The striped coverall apron on the right may be used also as a shift dress. The yellow-flowered dress at the right was made from the same pattern. Bazaars are fun! No occasion brings more delight to the whole membership of a ward or branch than a beautifully presented bazaar, with articles and activities to please everyone. Frequently dinner is served at bazaars and families have a night out together. The sisters find joy in working and learning together through the months of preparation. Each one contributing to the success shares a feeling of satisfaction and happiness in being part of an important work. What fun to choose from tastefully displayed, attractive worthwhile articles! What fun to find just the right presents for just the right prices! What fun to buy something you have wanted or needed, and at the same time support your Relief Society. Some bazaars have a theme, and booths, tables, and wall displays are keyed to this theme. There have been Holiday Bazaars, Harvest Fairs, Spring Homemakers Festivals, Christmas Sales, Back-to-School RoundUps, and many, many others. 687 THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT Bazaars are work! Bazaars are lots of work, but what group of Latter-day Saint women is afraid of work? Many hands make light work, and the achievement is worth the effort. Bazaars are good business training. 'They teach money management, wise spending, and wise buying. 'They teach the great practical arts of organizing, planning, and delegating. 'They involve large numbers of people working together toward a worthwhile goal. They use the special abilities of some sisters as chairmen of projects, the talents of others as heads of committees making certain articles. Effective advertising to gain the greatest possible interest and support is necessary. Attractive posters placed in stores, launderettes, and other public places as well as in the foyers of meetinghouses are helpful. Some sisters have been given some television time to display a few articles. Publicity is necessary. Techniques of merchandising, packaging, and pricing are employed. The sisters have learned to cater to the wants and needs of those to whom they expect to sell. Articles attractively displayed are half sold. There must be eye appeal, not only in the individual articles but in the whole arrangement. Artistic displays, well designed, with a flair for color and convenience of customers are characteristic of most Relief Society bazaars. Bazaars are traditional! Bazaars are traditional with Relief Society. Relief Society has always had the privilege of raising its own funds and much of the money raised has come from bazaars. Relief Society sisters, through long years of experience, have become expert in this undertaking. The art, the know-how, have been passed from generation to generation, from one group of officers to another. Each society may learn from and build upon the foundation laid by others, yet each may add original ideas and practices. One of the great traditions of Relief Society is teaching the women to produce beautiful handwork. Another is to keep the lovely old arts, such as quilting, alive. Both of these traditions are maintained in bazaar preparation. Reiief Society bazaars have purpose! They are successful because they have been carefully planned and have used the creative talents of devoted homemakers. Most Relief Societies have won such a reputation for beautiful articles, reasonably priced, that their bazaars are eagerly anticipated whether they take the form of street'sales in Australia, are held in a rented hall in Europe, or are an annual event in a cultural hall of a ward meetinghouse. A successful bazaar is much more than a money-making venture. 689 Charlotte B. Richards —Keeper of Records Cuartorre Baker Richards, Mendon, Utah, has enriched her own life and contributed greatly to the temporal and spiritual welfare of her family by keeping accurate and beautifully arranged records. Mother of three children, and grandmother of twelve, she has kept illustrated life histories of each of her children and grandchildren from birth to the present time. She has made two family record books and many scrapbooks containing such items as notices of birthdays and birthday observances, family obituaries, poems, and choice selections of prose. She has served as ward Relief Society secretary for twenty-seven years, serving under five presidents. The Relief Society of Mendon Ward is proud of the remarkable record Sister Richards has kept of this organization from 1868, when it was first organized, to the present time. The record contains pictures, names, and dates of the work of the officers and class leaders, and gives resumes of their most outstanding accomplishments. She has worked in the Logan temple for eight years and has held many positions in the auxiliary organizations of the Church. Her enthusiasm and devotion have endeared her to her family and her many friends who have also become happy and efficient keepers of records. 


 North Sacramento Stake (California), Arcade Ward Unveils Painting At Anniversary Social, March 23, 1963 Rose Smith, right, President, Arcade Ward Relief Society, is seen congratulating Elva Nelson, who painted the lovely mural in the background. Kerma D. Jensen, President, North Sacramento Stake Relief Society, reports that this painting and two others were unveiled at the ward anniversary social held March 23, 1963. Sister Nelson was asked by Sister Smith to portray The Book of Mormon in an unusual way. "This is indeed a worthy creation for their Relief Society room. The painting shows the talents of Sister Nelson, who also enjoys wood carving and ceramic sculpturing." Willamette Stake (Oregon) Relief Society Conducts Fashion Show April 6, 1963 At the left, Patti Flower modeling a hand-knit wool jumper, and at the right, Mirial Gardner, wearing a beige linen sheath dress with a hand-knit sweater. Dora I. Hines, President, Willamette Stake Relief Society, reports: "The stake board of Relief Society felt a challenge last fall while attending conference and listening to the talks by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen.

The stake board of the YWMIA was also interested in a project where modesty in dress might be stressed and joined the Relief Society in sponsoring a fashion show where the sisters of the stake might model clothing of their own making. "A committee headed by Miriam Lee of Relief Society and Juanita Allen of the YWMIA formed committees for modeling, publicity, decorations, and music, and designed a special type 'Pattern for Living' which was printed and given to each one attending the fashion show. Special decorations with sewing ideas built around 'Patterns for Living' made a perfect background for the sisters as they modeled their fashions for an audience of about 275 people, of whom about twenty-five were nonmember guests. "There is no doubt but that each one who participated was impressed with the thought that we may be smartly dressed in modest attire, and we feel richly rewarded by the results of this activity." Granger Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Who Present Two Concerts Annually — A Thanksgiving Service and an Easter Cantata Virginia Paulk, chorister, stands in the center; Carol Lehman, stake organist, is seated left at the piano; seated at the organ, Idell Larson, guest organist; standing behind Sister Larson is Jenna B. Holmberg, President, Granger Stake Relief Society; second tow left is Val Jean Jones, representing the Statue of Liberty; second from the left ls Faye Royer, author and reader. Sister Holmberg reports: "For the past six years the Granger Stake Singing Mothers have presented two concerts annually — a Thanksgiving service and an Easter cantata. The five wards in the stake have participated in the concerts, which have been under the direction of the stake Relief Society presidency, with Virginia Paulk, chorister, and Carol Lehman, organist. These concerts have been a wonderful cultural and spiritual experience for the singers and have been a means of bringing some of the nonactive members into activity. Also, those of the membership of our stake who have attended have felt the true spirit of these special days through the music of the chorus. An outstanding feature of our Thanksgiving program this past year was the patriotic theme carried out with Val Jean Jones portraying the Statue of Liberty. A medley of patriotic hymns was rendered by guest organist Idell Larson."