[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 662 | Editorial| An Understanding Heart]
M^L FOND dream of childhood is to be allowed to have one wish granted.
Aladdin and his wonderful lamp and fairy tales of many other countries
hold forth this tantalizing promise. But one learns that care must be
exercised in making the wish, for the fisherman's wife was so dissatisfied
and greedy that after her wishes were granted she ended up with just what
she had in the beginning.
Holy Writ teaches a lesson to everyone who would have one wish
granted. In a dream Solomon was asked the gift he would seek from the
Lord. The wish he made indicates that he had evaluated his strengths
and weaknesses. He had carefuly considered his position as the new king
of the numberless people making up the kingdom his father David had
left him.
As Solomon began to state his wish to the Lord, he first expressed his
filial piety, and then pleaded with the Lord, "Give therefore thy servant
an understanding heart to judge the people, that I may discern between
good and bad . . . ." This wish was one of selflessness, one to help Solomon assist others
in truth. We read ''the speech pleased the Lord/' and he gave to Solomon,
in addition to a wise and understanding heart, riches and honor and long
life if he would walk in the path of the Lord, all of which wishes Solomon
had not asked for himself.
A wish cherished by a Latter-day Saint mother would also be to have
an understanding heart to guide her in the rearing of her children — to
see below the surface of their words and actions, to know when apparent
rebelliousness needs curbing and when it manifests a hurt within the child
which cries out for an extension of love and appreciation and encouragement.
An understanding heart will lighten the service of a Relief Society
officer who will overlook any weaknesses and failings of those whom she
is called to serve, and who will appreciate their strengths and struggles
instead. An understanding heart will encourage a Relief Society sister
to be a better neighbor, to dismiss hurt feelings, to look for the good and
never expose the weakness of another.
Christ possesses the perfect understanding heart. In his ministry he
condemned the evil but not the sinner, holding forth forgiveness through
repentance. When Peter denied knowing the Christ, the account reads,
''And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter." What a depth of love and
sorrow and understanding must have been in that glance, for the account
continues, "And Peter went out, and wept bitterly."
How can a Latter-day Saint woman gain an understanding heart?
Solomon showed forth humility, prayer, and a desire to serve. He "loved
the Lord." He said, "I am but a little child: I know not how to go out
or come in." Too often today one does not know "how to go out or come
in." An open mind, a prayerful spirit, humility, patience, and love are
all to be found in an understanding heart — a precious gift of the Lord
to the dedicated seeker. — M. C. S.