[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 662 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
Mrs. ETHEL PERCY ANDRus, President
of t he National Retired Teachers
Association and the American
Association of Retired Persons, in
June at an area conference in Salt
Lake City, Utah, presented a citation
for ''significant and valued contributions
to t he enrichment of retirement
living," to the Relief Society
of T he Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints. President
Belle S. Spafford received the citation
for Relief Society. In addressing
the conference, Mrs. Andrus declared
that older people should be
recognized as constructive citizens
who have much experience, knowledge,
and pioneering spirit to give
to their communities.
A RECENT ISSUE of thc Saturday Review
devoted a special section to
''The Education of Women," with
articles by a number of male and
female educators. Statistically it
was noted that women in the United
States receive thirty-six per cent
of all bachelor's and first professional
degrees, thirty-one per cent of all
master's degrees, and eleven per cent
of all Ph.D. degrees. However, it
was pointed out, only six per cent of
the medical doctors in the country
are women, and two and one-half
per cent of the qualified lawyers are
women. This is a much lower percentage
than the ratios of women
doctors and lawyers in Canada and
several European countries.
Mrs. leona huber. Mesa, Arizona,
received the "Mesa Artist of the
Year" award in May 1963. Mrs.
Huber is a noted violinist and a
former member of the Women's
Symphony Orchestra of Los
Angeles, California. Her musical
activities in Mesa have included
participation in organizing a musicians'
club, being a partner in a
music store, and playing violin solos
for church meetings, community
events, and wedding receptions. Mrs.
Huber is a Latter-day Saint, and her
string ensemble has played over the
Church radio program in Phoenix
for over two years.
I R ITA VAN doren, eminent literary
critic, who has been editor of the
New York Herald Tribune section
on BookSy since 1926, has now become
Editor Emeritus, and has
joined the publishing firm of William
Morrow and Company as editorial
consultant, where she will continue
her lifetime role of encouraging
good writing and good writers.