[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 672 | Special Feature | Thoughts of a New Member Rosina | Victoria Risley]
Thoughts ofa New Member Rosina Victoria Risley Wriry shortly after my family joined the Church, I was met in the hall one Sunday morning after Sunday School by Sister Mary Collins, President of the Columbus Ward Relief Society. Sister Collins introduced herself and invited me to attend the Relief Society meetings. I answered with all the pet excuses at my command: "I have small children, you know." "My husband's work takes him out of town frequently, and I have no one to leave the children with." "Your meeting day is a bad day for me anyway, since my Girl Scout troop meets that afternoon, and by evening I'm just too tired to attend a meeting." Sister Collins was undismayed by my excuses and invited me to come any evening that I was free to do so. Then, one meeting evening, the opportunity presented itself, and I attended a meeting. I came with foreboding; I left with joy. I spent a delightful evening in the company of good-hearted, friendly sisters. I was surprised to learn that the lesson for that evening dealt with the life and poetry of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Every sister present joined in the discussion which followed the lesson. Here, unbeliev- 664 ably, I had found an ideal women's organization. But my surprises were not over. As I continued to attend the meetings, the story of the Relief Society unfolded before me. I learned of the work of the visiting teachers; at testimony meeting I saw sisters rise and thank each other for the helping hands extended to them during illness, childbirth, and bereavement. I soon learned that I could strengthen my faith by the theology lesson, return to my college days with the literature lesson and the beautiful poetry that had once meant so much to me, but had since been forgotten in the rush of mothering two children. The social science lesson, the lessons on Attitudes and Manners — all seemed to be devised to help me become a better person — a better Latter-day Saint. This then is the Relief Society, named with the most appropriate of names. For if you look up the word relief in the dictionary, you will see that it means "... The lessening of, or freedom from, a pain, burden or difficulty; something that makes a pleasing change or lessens strain." All of this is the Relief Society to me. To the meetings I bring the cares and worries of the day — but I leave them at the door. Here my burdens seem lighter, as I join with my sisters in working together to aid a less fortunate one. Here I make that pleasing change from a housewife to the relaxing and stimulating environment of a theology, literature, or social science lesson. Here I lessen the strain of the modern-day life I lead. THOUGHTS OF A NEW MEMBER The Relief Society has meant a great deal to me in the past few months, but of greater importance to me are the years that lie ahead yet to unfold for me, wherein I may, with my sisters of the Relief Society, serve those who need our help, while we learn, while we listen, while we grow — aS women, as wives, as mothers, and as Latter-day Saints.