[Vol50 | September 1963 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science — Lesson not Included for December]
717     Social  Science  —  Lesson  not  Included  for  December 
Poetry 
641     Yesterday's  Gold  —  Frontispiece       Dorothy  J.  Roberts 
Dusk  Gold,  Christie  Lund  Coles,  653;  The  Stars  Are  There,  Grace  Barker  Wilson,  665; 
I  Wait  and  Wonder,  Caroline  Eyring  Miner,  665;  Slow  Weather,  Gilean  Douglas,  671; 
Autumn  Beauty,  Zara  Sabin,  703;  Shut  Out,  Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard,  707;  Forever, 
Florence  S.  Glines,  715;  Mother's  Hands,  Linda  Clarke,  716;  Pathway,  Catherine  B. 
Bowles,  716;  Autumn  Wind,  Rowena  Jensen  Bills,  719. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  ©  1%3  y 
the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office:  76  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111;  Phone  EMp.  ^ 
4-2511;  Subscriptions  2642;  Editorial  Dept.  2654.  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20c  a  copy,  payable  in  co 
vance.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies 
will  be  missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914, 
at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided 
for  in  section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is 
enclosed.     Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  >     /.     The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts.

f 
Wd  ^ 
O.  IVIcKay 
President  Belle  S.  Spafford 
CLiEF  Society  members  join 
with  other  members  of  the  Church 
in  extending  to  President  David  O. 
McKay  best  wishes  for  a  happy 
ninetieth  birthday  on  Sunday,  Sep- 
tember 8,  1963.  May  the  love  and 
esteem  felt  for  him  by  members  of 
the  Church,  as  well  as  by  countless 
nonmember  friends,  help  to  gladden 
the  day  for  him  as  he  meets  with 
his  loved  ones  in  the  intimate  family 
circle.  May  his  glorious  past  ac- 
complishments, coupled  with  his 
magnificent  present  leadership,  serve 
as  an  encouraging  indication  to  him 
of  future  growth  and  expansion  of 
the  Church  under  his  inspired 
guidance. 
Nearly  two  million  members  of 
the  Church  residing  in  many  parts 
of  the  world  revere  President  McKay 
as  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator,  and 
God's  chosen  servant  to  preside  at 
this  time  as  President  of  his  Church 
on  the  earth.  To  President  McKay 
have  been  given  all  the  keys  of 
authority  of  the  Priesthood  and  of 
the  Church  upon  earth.  By  the 
word  of  the  Lord  he  is  President  of 
the  High  Priesthood  of  the  Church, 
and,  as  such,  he  presides  over  the 
Priesthood,  and  every  office  in  the 
Church  is  under  his  direction  while 
he  himself  is  directed  of  God. 
As  the  Prophet,   he   is   the   one 
chosen  and  inspired  by  God  to  speak 
in  his  name  regarding  future  events 
and  happenings  pertaining  to  the 
Church  and  mankind.  As  the  Seer, 
he  is  the  one  who,  with  divinely 
inspired  discernment  and  insight, 
foresees  that  which  is  necessary  for 
the  onward  movement  of  the 
Church  and  the  righteous  progress 
of  its  people.  As  the  Revelator,  he 
is  the  only  one  on  earth  at  this  time 
authorized  to  receive  revelation  for 
the  Church.  He  is  the  living  oracle 
of  God  to  whom  the  Lord  reveals 
whatever  is  necessary  for  the  con- 
duct of  the  Church.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  declared  this  to  be 
''the  order  of  the  Church"  {TQ-^ch- 
iiigs  oi  iht  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
page  111). 
In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
Section   107,  verses  91-93  we  read: 
And  again,  the  duty  of  the  President  of 
the  office  of  the  High  Priesthood  is  to  pre- 
side over  the  whole  church,  and  to  be  like 
unto  Moses  — 
Behold,  here  is  wisdom;  yea,  to  be  a 
seer,  a  revelator,  a  translator,  and  a  prophet, 
having  all  the  gifts  of  God  which  he  be- 
stows upon  the  head  of  the  church. 
As  the  chosen  one  of  the  Lord  for 
this  day  to  be  head  of  the  Church, 
serving  in  the  office  of  President, 
accepted  and  upheld  as  such  by  vote 
of  the  Priesthood  and  laity  of  the 
644

Church  assembled  in  a  General 
Conference,  President  McKay  holds 
an  extremely  taxing  and  responsible 
office.  Office  within  the  Church  is 
not  part  of  the  Priesthood,  but  it  is 
from  the  Priesthood  that  the  office 
derives  its  authority  and  power. 
Office  is  the  service  or  duty  to  be 
performed;  the  line  of  work  to  be 
followed. 
As  we  consider  the  rapid  growth 
and  expansion  of  the  Church  today, 
the  duties  incident  to  the  office  of 
President  are  overwhelming,  and 
the  responsibilities  resting  upon  the 
President  are  beyond  comprehension 
to  most  of  us.  One  almost  wonders 
how  mortal  man  can  meet  the  end- 
less requirements.  Yet,  President 
McKay  meets  the  duties  of  each  day 
with  poise,  graciousness,  wisdom, 
and  diligence,  coming  to  his  office 
in  the  very  early  hours  of  the  morn- 
ing and  often  remaining  past  the 
ordinary  working  day. 
The  General  Presidency  of  Relief 
Society  has  been  favored  in  having 
frequent  opportunity  to  see  Presi- 
dent McKay  impressively  exercise 
the  varied  functions  of  his  calling  — 
Prophet,  Seer,  Revelator,  and  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  —  in  behalf  of 
Relief  Society  and  the  sisters  who 
comprise  its  membership.  We  have 
stood  awed  by  his  insight  and  under- 
standing, his  counsel  and  direction; 
645