[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 654 | Special Feature | He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith - Part IV President Lorenzo Snow | Preston Nibley]


L ORENZO Snow, the fifth President of the Church, was born in Mantua, Portage County, Ohio, April 3, 1814. He was the son of Oliver and Rosetta Snow.

Lorenzo's sister, Eliza R. Snow, joined the Church when Lorenzo was a youth; when he reached the age of twenty-two, he also allied himself with the organization.

He went to Kirtland and became a close friend of the Prophet Joseph Smith; he also filled a mission in Ohio, Kentucky, and Missouri.

In 1840 he filled a mission for the Church in England, which continued for nearly three years.

After the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in 1844, Lorenzo followed the leadership of President Brigham Young in the move to the West. In 1849 he was made a member of the Quorum of the Twelve. He then filled a three-year mission for the Church in Italy.

In 1853 Lorenzo moved to Brigham City, Box Elder County, Utah, where he made a permanent home. He remained there until he was called to be president of the Salt Lake Temple in 1893.

After the death of President Wilford Woodruff, in September 1898, Lorenzo Snow became the President

of the Church. He presided until his death in October 1901.

In a sketch of the Prophet Joseph Smith, which Lorenzo Snow wrote in 1850, when he served as president of the Italian Mission, there is a brief description of the early life of the Prophet, as follows:

"Joseph Smith, Junior, whom it pleased the Lord to select and appoint to restore the primitive gospel, and apostolic priesthood, was born in 1805, in Vermont, United States. When about fifteen years of age, being seriously impressed with the necessity of seeking the Lord and preparing for a future state, his mind became much perplexed through difficulties thrown in the path of his researches by the multitude of religious sects and parties with which he was surrounded. Each system required belief, and gave hope, but none could communicate a knowledge of its divine authority. In comparing them, one with another, there seemed to be too much confusion; the same appeared in looking at each separately.

"Turning therefore from these clashing systems, and being encouraged and inspired with the following passage in St. James, 'If any of you lack wisdom let him ask of God, he retired to a grove a little distance
from his father's house, and in fervent
prayer besought the Lord to
communicate with him and reveal
the way of salvation. While thus
engaged, a light brilliant and glorious
appeared in the heavens, gradually
descending towards him till he was
enveloped in it and wrapped in celestial
vision; when he beheld two
glorious beings, similar in dress and
appearance, who informed him that
the religious sects had all departed
from the ancient doctrine of the
apostles, and that the gospel with
its gifts and blessings should be
made known to him at a future
period. Many important things were
manifested in this vision which the
brevity of this work will not permit
to notice.
''On the evening of the twentyfirst
of September 1823, having retired
to rest, his mind became filled
with anxious desires to receive the
information which he had been previously
promised. While engaged in
prayer and striving to exercise faith,
the room became filled with light
far surpassing that of noonday, but
in the midst thereof appeared an
additional glory surrounding a person
whose countenance was as lightning,
yet so full of goodness and
innocence and of such a glorious
appearance as to banish all apprehension.
He announced himself as
an angel of God, commissioned to
inform him that the covenant with
ancient Israel touching their posterity
should soon be accomplished
— that the great work preparatory
to the second coming of Messiah
should speedily commence, and the
plenitude of the gospel be made
known to all nations. HE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW He also in formed him that the aborigines of America were a remnant of Israel who, when they first inhabited that land, enjoyed the ministry of inspired men; that records of the most important events in their history had been preserved from their first settlement down to the period of their national degeneracy; that these records had been concealed in the earth by one of their last Prophets, and a promise of the Lord given that they should be revealed in the last days. "The following day the angel returned and instructed Mr. Smith to go to the place where the sacred records were deposited" (The Biography and Autobiography of Lorenzo Snow by his sister Er1za R. SNow, pp. 136-138).

