Art By Annie Pike Greenwood HARRIET BIRD laid her head on her hand on the table and wept silently. The sunlight fell passionlessly across the shabby brown cover on which Harriet's hands were clenched. It was a bitter, terrible moment for Harriet, a moment which epitomized the failure of her life. She had been born with the passion for writing, born reaching for a pencil. Dreams, dreams, dreams. All her life had been dreams. That is, all her inward life, and all her outward life had been the hardest kind of reality. Harriet Bird had been born with a spirit as blithe as her name. Her father had insisted on taking his family of two boys and a girl and his wife to a forty-acre tract out in the sagebrush of Idaho. Fair acres they are in the future. Killing acres in the pioneer present. It required every moment of Harriet's time in labor, for her mother had been an invalid when they had come to the farm, and without any medical care so far from a doctor, she was even more helpless. The boys, too, one older, and one younger than Harriet, did not adapt themselves to the new life as Harriet did. There were many moments of rebellion on their part when they ignored the work to be done, allowing the burden to rest upon Harriet's shoulders. For there is one fact in life, if your shoulders are willing, there will be plenty of burdens thrust upon them by those more shiftless, and even heartless, than yourself. Harriet milked the cow; Harriet raised a garden sufficient for the need of the family both summer and winter; Harriet cared for the house, for her mother, and for a large brood of chickens. Harriet pitched hay in case of necessity; took care of the irrigation if the men left the farm for Maryvale. And inside herself Harriet was a writer. She was a writer dying daily of the starvation which a born writer must know who is not permitted by fate to write. It is a suffering beyond the imagination of any but another writer so born. The heat was terrible in the tarpaper shack in the summer, and the cold was almost impossible to bear in the winter with only sagebrush to burn. If the men neglected to get a load of brush in time, Harriet found of necessity that she must go out and do it herself. She learned to swing the axe with strength and desperation. She did not do it for her brothers and her father, against whom there smothered a resentment born of injustice, but all her nature yearned over the poor mother who had been forced to leave the comfortable city for a whim of her father to make his fortune by farming. Harriet had a straight, fine look in her brown eyes between level brows. Her lips met too firmly for the lips of a young girl. They had not always met so. In her childhood they lay softly upon each other as she dreamed of that great future that would be hers when she should write the things she knew would lay within her power. She had no time to give attention to the heavy mass of rich brown hair that swung back from her high, broad forehead. Even neglect did not rob it of a wild, shining beauty.
ROBERT EMORY and Henry Strange looked upon Harriet. Robert had some acres of his own, and Henry was farming in partnership with another man. Their farms lay on either side of the farm on which Harriet lived. Robert was quiet and careful. Harriet was too heavy-burdened to give him a thought. Henry could not be so ignored. He was vivid, flashing, full of song and life. One day when Harriet had been left alone on the farm with her mother, she was pitching hay for the evening feeding of the stock. Behind her, unnoticed, came Henry. He held back the arms which she had uplifted, making her drop the fork, and as she lifted an astonished gaze, Henry bent masterfully over her face and kissed her, smiling. Infatuation is a queer thing. It is not a bad part of the education of a well-rounded being to have experienced it. The wise person will feel no shame regarding it when it is over. Nature demands reproduction at any cost. Pitiable the life that is wrecked by it. Harriet felt glow through her veins a warmth that would never come again. But there are other sweetnesses in life whose cost is not so devastating. The work was not so difficult after that. All desire to write was lost in this new passion. Henry made a point of dropping around to inquire the proper way to treat a sick cow, or to get a loaf of Harriet's good bread. She never baked but with the thought of him in the back of her mind, allowing enough dough in the batch for an extra loaf. To her it was a period of delirious joy. This was not lost on the grave Robert. He watched the progress of events. He, too, had a habit of dropping around Harriet's household. He spoke very little, watching her every movement, or else appearing not to notice her at all. Harriet's mother saw. As mothers will, her heart went out to Robert, and set up antagonism to Henry. There could not fail to result a kind of friction because of this condition.
"Yes, Mother," said Harriet, "I know that you think Robert is perfect, and I know why you do not care for Henry. Robert is always doing things for you. Well, let Robert do things for you, Mother. That is all right. But don't condemn Henry. It's not fair. If Robert liked me as much as Henry does, he would be doing things for me instead of for you. Robert is not a man who could ever care much for a woman." But Henry—magnificently virile Henry—here was a man to care for a woman. Something sweeping, something surging, had come into Harriet's life. She did not need to write any more. She could not write. She was living too intensely in her emotions to be able to write. Poetry and prose are the outcome of emotion when the ebb begins, not at the peak of the tide. She would have something to write some day, would Harriet; now she could only live.
Flora Gerritt was a queer sort of person to come clear from Chicago to visit on her aunt Selina's eight-acre pioneer farm. She was fluffy of clothes, fluffy of heart, and fluffy of soul. Fluffy women are a perpetual fascination to men. Generation after generation men waste their lives on fluffy women. Contrast probably accounts for this. Perhaps Nature wishes to perpetuate the fluffiness of human nature lest we grow too heavy in our outlook on life. But fluffiness is always the concomitant of pretty selfishness which a man in love is too blind to see.
THERE was one of the first dancing parties in one of the first real houses erected. It was necessary to remove the stove in order to make room for the young people and the old people—none over sixty—and the babies, plenty of babies. Robert, knowing that Harriet would go with Henry, slipped over to be with Harriet's mother. He also knew that Harriet's father and brothers were likely to leave the mother alone on the farm. Why not? Was she not in bed where no harm could befall her? Robert had discovered that Harriet's mother still retained a love for Dickens, so somehow he had obtained David Copperfield, and on such evenings as this he sat beside her bed, reading to her, her quiet eyes which had accepted her hard life, resting upon his face as though drawing a strengthening comfort from it. She loved her boys. She was their mother. She no longer loved Harriet's father. She had never even confessed this to herself, but there was a sad, barren place in her heart which meant the discovery that she was married to a man whom she could not respect, a hard, selfish man. But for this Robert who had come so quietly into her life, with the steady eyes and tender touch, was a love which she could not define. She did not need to define it. God had sent a compensation in time of need, for much as Harriet loved her mother deep down in her heart, at this period of her life she was absorbed in her passion for Henry. Even the thought of her mother was made subordinate. Infatuation works so. True love never. But Harriet did not know this.
Henry came with his wagon for Harriet just as Robert appeared with his volume of David Copperfield. Robert scarcely smiled at Harriet, looking her gravely, searchingly, in the face. It struck her suddenly, and oddly, that she did not know him at all. A faint curiosity as to what lay back of his eyes crossed her mind. But this was soon dispelled by the pressure of Henry's hand on her arm as he led her to the wagon. He could drive the steady work horses with one hand, and one of his arms was around Harriet. How happy was that journey through the summer night, the stars shining down upon them! There was enough chill in the Idaho air to require the jacket she was wearing, and Henry's arm added a thrilling warmth. He sang some popular air as he drove the horses, and Harriet could think of nothing in the world to trouble her. So she entered the house of the party, and she caught with fearful premonition the look which came into Henry's eyes as his gaze lighted upon the fluffy Flora Gerritt in a fluffy white dress. Of course Flora was surrounded by the youths from the farms. And she showed a charming unconcern of their worshipping attitudes. The other girls were grouped in giggling twos and threes, pretending indifference to the little lady who was absorbing all the attention. With characteristic directness, Henry pushed aside the adorers and appropriated Flora. Occasionally, and quite absently, he returned to dance with Harriet to the tune of a wheezing accordion which had been brought to farm life by its devoted master. And thus Harriet's world was blotted into blackness as a coin can shut out the light of the sun.
When the party broke up there was some discussion as to who was to take Flora to her aunt's. What provision had been made Harriet would never know. Flora was very clever at maneuvering. The outcome was that Flora had her place between Harriet and Henry on the wagon seat, and that Henry drove first to Harriet's farm, leaving her there without the usual goodnight kiss and embrace, and continued on his way to return the fascinating Flora to her aunt. Harriet could not forbear to cast one stricken glance backward at them as they passed, and was rewarded by seeing Flora's head resting upon Henry's shoulder, and the very arm that had been pressed about her so fondly going to the party, now pressed just as fondly around Flora Gerritt.
Harriet could not go into the house at once. She stood on the doorstep trying to grip herself together. Robert, wondering at the pause after the sound of the retreating wagon wheels, opened the door suddenly and was surprised at the look of suffering on her face. Robert was not a man from whom you could hide anything. He was quietly glad that this thing had come to Harriet before instead of after. He had long known Henry. He was the only person who had really seen to the bottom of Henry. He had done it without malice or jealousy, and with no desire to interfere in Harriet's fate. Robert was possessed of that greatest strength that forbears to meddle in the life of another. He simply looked into her face with a full glance, holding the door open for her entrance without a word. She had just strength enough to cross the sill and get to a chair. He left mercifully as soon as she was seated. But looking backward, he saw through the window the prostration of her figure, the tears that dropped from her wide eyes. He had seen his beloved father killed in an accident in the city of Detroit—a car driven by a careless hand. He had seen his mother die a long-drawn, agonized death. He stood watching Harriet, forgetful of self, suffering with her. The thought came to him that she would be more hurt if she knew he were watching. He turned and walked to his shack with bowed head.
THEY all watched the progress of Henry's affair with Flora. They also watched the unsatisfied Flora attempt to draw the grave Robert into her toils. Everybody prophesied over the cook stoves, or in the hayfield, that Flora would get him. But sometimes calculations fail. Flora turned from blandishments to tears and from tears to rage. She walked the two miles from her aunt's home to the shack which housed Robert, surprising him at supper. He invited her in, gave her a seat, and fried some more eggs and bacon. He was neither flustered nor flattered by her appearance. When she took his hand, resting her pretty white fingers in his, he left them there, and when she decided to go home, he hitched his horses to the wagon and took her there. He made no objection to the fluffy head on his shoulder, and placed his arm around her at her request. And when she put up her lips to be kissed, he answered with the desired gesture. On the way back to his shack he smiled to himself. But it was not the smile of a lover.
Thus began the wooing of Robert by Flora, and the bitter rage of Henry. He could not vent his spleen on Robert, for it was so obviously an affair engineered by Flora, but Flora was forced to meet his invectives alternated with his endearments. Henry no longer sang buoyantly under the star-shine. He no longer laughed his hearty laugh while pitching hay. He had become morose. And he had totally forgotten Harriet.
At first Harriet was too stricken to know what to do. Then one day Robert remarked to her the failing of her mother. If she should lose her mother—this would be too much to bear. She felt that terrible, lonely feeling which follows a love unreciprocated, even when waiting devotedly upon her mother with the remorse for the neglect which Henry had occasioned. A sigh of relief would burst from her lips at sound of Robert's step. But she did not love him.
ONLY once, in one of their first meetings, had Harriet revealed to Robert her passion for writing. But he had not forgotten. He came one day with a woman's magazine, a heavy pencil line drawn around the announcement of a prize for the best novel on any subject. Harriet's sick heart bounded. Here was a way out. She would win the prize. She would lift her mother out of this hard life. She would somehow begin again herself. She wrote a story of life, but of life triumphant, not of life defeated. There had come into being these latter days a cult of the morbid which is called being true to life. It is true to the defeat of life. It has no power to lift life higher than before. It has only power to drag backward. It is called Art. In a passion of rebellion Harriet resolved never to create a thing which did not end in a triumph of some sort, either to the heart or to the soul. So she wrote. And the healing of her life began as she wrote. Robert watched the change taking place in her, reading Dickens to her mother as Harriet wrote in the next room. Flora did her disconsolate best to lure him away, even coming to Harriet's shack to chatter and laugh when she found that Robert had a frequent mission there. She was not discouraged by Harriet's cold indifference. She was not coming to see Harriet. She always waited for Robert to take her home. Harriet watched, at first with indifference, and then, when she felt a resentment against Flora's attempt at conquest, she resolutely suppressed any growing interest in Robert. Once was enough to suffer. She was feeling her disappointment still under all that she wrote. Then, with high hope, she sent the manuscript on its way—and waited.
TO wait is one of the hardest things that mankind must endure. But the waiting had its ending. Harriet wept silent tears on her clenched fists which rested against the shabby brown cloth covering the table. Robert came in without knocking, very quietly, picking up the open manuscript, and letting his eyes rest upon it. Harriet gave a start, and hid her face again. What did it matter? Robert held the manuscript, but was not reading, although his eyes rested upon it. Suddenly Harriet looked up with a smile of scorn, cheeks wet from her tears.
"Why are you holding it? It is not true to life. It is not art. It has a happy ending."
"Then it is mine," he said, placing it, as he spoke, on the table. "Harriet," he said, "don't you know that art is always happy? Not happy in process, but happy in result. Life must have a happy ending. There must be triumph of heart or soul. Preferably soul. Harriet, the day is coming when you will write great things. You are living now."
Harriet looked at him with eyes awake for the first time. "Flora?" she murmured, not knowing that she spoke.
"No," he smiled into her eyes, "even life has art, just as books must have art to live, and it is the same art, Harriet. It is keeping steadily on, and out of pain to bring the happy ending."
Robert looked into her eyes and she looked into his. "Are you ready to bring your mother over to my place to live?"
Harriet could only look into his eyes. "For weeks I have been getting ready for the happy ending, Harriet. I was not sure. No one can be sure. True art is in preparing for the happy ending. True art is in bringing some sort of triumph out of pain. I know, Harriet."
"O Robert! I trust you so!" She laid both her hands in his. He who had always been so grave smiled into her lifted eyes. "Now you can write, Harriet. You have learned the lesson."