Notes from the Field Tintic Stake. Reports from Tintic stake indicate that the Relief Society has been very successful during the year, with ward conferences throughout the stake, and in September a noteworthy Class Leaders' Convention at Goshen, in which the wards all participated. A preview for the coming year's work was given by the different class leaders, inspiring talks were given by the president, and others of the stake Relief Society, and by the Priesthood president. In this late Summer, the Stake Presidency and Bishops entertained the aged and the widowed of the stake?nearly two hundred guests?at Provo, with movies, followed by a delicious supper, at the home of President and Mrs. E. Frank Birch. Enthusiasm marked the fall work in all the ward Relief Societies. The feeling of the leaders is one of real gratification. St. Joseph Stake. The Secretary-treasurer of the El Paso Ward writes: "We are pleased and happy to report a substantial growth, with increasing development in the spirit of our El Paso Ward Relief Society. We are keeping in mind the mission of the Relief Society as the Prophet Joseph Smith outlined it?to look after the wants of the needy. Very efficient women we have in our organization, having excellent support by the officers. Over the lesson work the women are enthusiastic, and they enjoy the opportunities it gives for discussion and self expression. A majority of our members attend the meetings regularly. And are active in the various phases of the work. It is remarkable to note the personal development that takes place. The sisters become more efficient as home-makers, and better able to manage their children. The Relief Society Magazine is greatly appreciated. Along with our regular work we provide special entertainment, and wherever possible secure able lecturers on problems of vital interest to our members. Patriarch Harry M. Payne of the St. Joseph stake recently visited us giving many of the sisters wonderful blessings during his stay. For old-time's sake, and as a help in developing the spirit of Relief Society work among our Mexican Latterday Saints, the association commemorated Mexico's National Independence Day, the 16th of September, with decorations, program, and special refreshments featuring a Spanish theme. Spanish-speaking missionaries enjoy themselves with us. Along with our Social Service lessons we have had the  pleasure of hearing Mrs. D. H. Huffaker, a very efficient leader, in a wonderful presentation of Child Welfare." Weber Stake. Weber stake, reorganized during last Summer, has shown that the officers, though but recently called to leadership, are veterans in the cause of Relief Society service. On August 27, in the nineteenth Ward hall a brilliant Flower Show was held, eight wards offering beautiful exhibits. Hooper Ward received first prize, the Eleventh Ward second, and the Ninteenth 'Ward, third. There were also ninety-four special exhibits, for which special awards were made. Three times during the past year the stake board has received a great deal of joy and satisfaction from visiting the County Infirmary. To each inmate they sent a Thanksgiving and a Christmas box, feeling that the real Relief Society spirit exists where joy is brought to those who are not able to do for themselves. In September at the Eleventh Ward rooms the board entertained, in honor of the ward executive committees and the retiring Stake board members and officers?President Marianne Browning, First Counselor Ellen H. Tanner, and board members Isabell Garner and Ada Quinn. It was a delightful afternoon with a lovely three-course luncheon served to forty-eight sisters. Gifts and expressions of appreciation were presented to the retiring stake members. North Sevier Stake. The North Sevier Stake Annual Flower Festival was held on August 20, 1929, at the Salina Second Ward. The opening program consisting of speeches and greetings and appropriate musical numbers, was furnished by the various wards. The-concluding event was a one-act play presented by the Redmond Ward. A profusion of beautiful flowers adorned the banquet room where light refreshments were served. Judges, chosen from the Gunnison Stake,. Awarded prizes for the best ward collections, and the best individual displays of the following flowers: Sweet Peas, Mixed Boquets, Roses, Zinnias, Dahlias, and house plants. We feel that flower festivals do much toward the beautifying of our communities, Hyrum Stake. The Annual Stake Relief social and testimonial was held on Thursday, August 22, 1929, in the Third Ward Meeting House. The event was in honor of the retiring executive officers: Sisters Susannah Nielson, Emily: Savage, Hazel Peterson, and Millie M. Peterson. A color scheme of yellow and green was carried out Malad Stake. Malad stake is endeavoring through public lectures to stimulate interest in the Book of M ormon. At one of these lectures a rather of Lamanite sisters gave a hymn, taking all the parts, One of the Lamanite sisters garbed in her native costume, stood beside another dressed in present-day clothing, giving a striking illustration of the contrast between what the Indian was, and what he now is. An able address on the characters of the Book of Mormon, by Elder John Henry Evans, followed the prologue. Minidoka Stake. In Rupert, Idaho, on September 14, Minidoka stake Relief Society held a splendid exhibition, combining literary features with exhibitions of handwork. Nine wards participated. The exhibition opened at noon, with displays of a most attractive array of art and crafts, showing what the various wards had done during the summer and early fall. The display was so arranged that each ward had its own section. Beautiful features of handwork, exhibiting a wide Tange of articles that combine utility and was an abundance of Tugs, pillows, and other articles of house furnishings. Of special merit was the display of children's wearing apparel. Altogether, the display was a triumph of art, coupled with a feeling of thrift and good taste in industry,?all developed within the Relief Society. The literary program that followed was especially fine. The theme was the home; and short talks were given on the following subjects: "The Home," "What Mother Teaches and Her Influence in the Home," "Music and Reading in the Home," "Honesty and Loyalty in the Home." "Prayer, a Divine Guidance," "Reverence for Parenthood,"  "Beauty in Every Day Life," "Opportunities of Old Age," "Spirit of the Master." Appropriate music and an hour of informal recreation with games and other delightful features, made this program a very injoyable feature of the organization work?a combination of social activity and real achievement. Porineuf Stake. In connection with the annual Stake Relief Society Conference in September a unique exhibition of art work was given. Ten wards were represented. The display was a revelation of what may be accomplished by the industrious Relief Society sisters. The stake showed its appreciation for the splendid efforts of its wards in the exhibit by giving to each a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine. The conference itself was an inspiration, from the presence of President Louise Y. Robison, and was an incentive to the sisters to make this year one of signal achievement in our history. Granite Stake: During the season of 1928 and 1929, Granite stake has stressed particular activity in regard to the Relief Society Magazine. 'With a view to promoting more intelligent interest in class work' a slogan was adopted: "Read the Magazine from cover to cover, and re-read each week's lesson on the day before the lesson is given." Agents, in securing subscriptions, have urged members to devote the equivalent of ten minutes a day to the Magazine. To bring before the women of our Church the high cultural value of subjects therein, the last Thursday in October was designated as Magazine Day, when a revue and pageant dramatizing one article from each month's Magazine during the year, was presented in every ward. Beautifully typical of our publication, this pageant conveyed by picture, prose, and verse, the scope and variety of subjects contained in each issue. The setting for the presentation of these subjects was a large frame representing the cover? the Relief Society Magazine, with the lettering done in black and gold. Those taking part on the program appeared behind the open oval in the center of the frame, and special lighting effects made a very effective demonstration. The number of subscriptions has noticeably increased. The following slips were handed to every woman attending the meeting: Granite Stake Relief Society Slogan: Read the Magazine from cover to cover, and repeat the reading of each lesson before the day on which the lesson is given. Are you a subscriber?......... Will you subscribe?