[Vol17 | February 1930 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Editorial | Title: EditorialTobacco]

EDITORIAL
Tobacco
A recent report published in the daily papers of the State,
shows a marked increase in the sale of tobacco in Utah during
the past year. We wish we could be sure that no women of the
State were adding to this increase. Particularly are we anxious
on behalf of women who have been reared in Latter-day Saint
homes and have been taught the value of the Word of Wisdom.
Yet reports occasionally come to us that seem to indicate that
Latter-day Saint women are not 100 per cent strong on this point.
Last year a public official refused to eat at a restaurant in
one of our towns south of Salt Lake because he said women
smoking there offended him. As the population of that town
is overwhelmingly Latter-day Saint, the chances are that some
of the women who gave offense to that official are from Latterday
Saint homes.
One of the amazing facts of recent years is the way women
have taken up smoking and we regret to say that frequently these
women have been encouraged by their husbands to smoke. There
are persons in official positions who think it just as intolerant to
bar a woman from teaching because she smokes as because she
has short hair or skirts of the prevailing length, but we are not of that opinion. We think smoking is a habit that interferes with
physical, mental, and spiritual growth, and that it is detrimental
to motherhood.
Recently a group of American scientists were making their
way by train through Continental Europe. A woman was with
the men in one of the non-smoking compartments- She was a
smoker, and consequently grew restless. She offered the gentlemen
cigarettes, which they refused, saying, they did not smoke.
She replied to their refusal, "This is embarrassing; do you mind
my smoking?" This certainly looks like a case of tables turned;
as we view it, — turned in the wrong direction.
Not long ago a woman riding on one of our railroads, found
herself the victim of her own bad habit. She wanted to smoke ;
she said she had to smoke, but added, "If I do, I shall give offense
to every man and woman on this train". However she went into
the smoker and began to smoke, and, as she had anticipated, there
was a fuss. The conductor said that every woman in the car
was scolding him for letting her smoke. She certainly was unpopular
in t hat company, and very much to be pitied. Perhaps
she took up with this undesirable habit by associating with men
and women who urged smoking, and led her into it. Hence her
trouble. Compared to the embarrassment of this woman the
perverbial fish out of water is to be envied. W|e trust that Utah
standards will not break down. Let us hold the line, even as
the French held it at Verdun. "Thou shalt not pass," is as important
a slogan in the spiritual realm as it ever could be in the
realm of the physical.
The Women in the Case
In our New Year's issue we paid tribute to President Herbert
Hoover and Premier Ramsey MaDonald. These two men
deserve the support and confidence of all people who believe in
the possibility of a better world — a world no longer torn by national
prejudice or by such strife as wars are made of.
And here we wish to pay tribute to the women who are
officially hostesses for these two great men. Lou Henry Hoover
is a college trained woman with fine American traditions behind
her- She is socialized in the real sense. For years those close to
her know how sincere have been her efforts to better untoward
conditions in the world, and how generously she has given of
her means to foster such movements- The Twentieth Century
with its program of betterment for children and peace for humanity
has in her an intelligent and sympathetic supporter.
The hostess of Premier Ramsey MacDonald is his daughter,
Ishbel, a very serious minded young woman interested first of all
in social work. While in America with her Father, she spent much of her time in settlements and other places where up-to-date
social work is being done. She and her father attended a social
work Conference in New York City ; afterwards they were guests
of Miss Lillian Wald of Henry street Settlement fame, of the
Settlement Workers' Home in Saugatuck, Connecticut. This is
the second time Miss MacDonald has been her father's hostess at
No. 10 Downing Street. During Mr. Stanley Baldwin's term
of office she devoted herself very actively to Social Work in England.
Surely the world is growing better. It is a far cry from the
time when the poor little ignorant Queen of France, Marie Antonette,
hearing the murmurings of the mob in front of the Palace,
asked why they were protesting; when told that they were asking
for bread, she exclaimed, "Why don't they eat cake?"
Mrs. Hoover and the young Miss MacDonald are each zealous
that their grasp of present day situations shall be in a high degree
intelligent and comprehensive.
