[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 906 | Fiction | A Story for Christmas | Jody Shields]
The glass had been broken out, but there were A Story for Christmas still the backing pieces of cardboard and a torn, yellowing piece of paper in it. I recognized it immediately, and it gave me a sharp twinge of regret when I remembered how it had come to be hidden away in the scrap box. On the paper was a poem, surrounded with drawings of flowers, birds, a small house, clouds, and grasses. It had hung in the kitchen ever since I could remember, and we children had read and re-read the poem so many times we all had it memorized. Then, one day, we had been fighting and chasing each other with the broom, and I had accidently knocked the picture to the floor. The glass broke into a hundred pieces, and some of them had torn the paper on which the poem was written. Mom had come quickly. At first she didn't say anything. She just stood for a minute with a strange look on her face. Then she quietly shooed us out of the room so we wouldn't get cut on the broken glass. It was so unusual for her not to say something that we went in a hurry but lingered at the doorway. We looked back to see her on her knees picking up the broken pieces of glass, and we could tell that she was crying. She never said anything about it. Not even when Daddy got home from work that night. He didn't seem to notice its absence from the wall, either. All during dinner we could not keep from stealing guilty glances at the spot where it had hung, all the time expecting Mother to mention it and Father to take proper dis- 

907 December 1968

 ciplinary measures. But nothing was said, and the frame and torn paper had just disappeared as if it had never existed. Now, as I held them in my hands with a wave of memories sweeping over me, I knew what I was going to do for my gift to Mom this year. Very carefully I wrapped the frame in the scraps I had picked out for the book tote and carried it to my room. I hid it in the bottom of my drawer, underneath my pajamas, until I could assemble' the materials I would need. I would have to have Daddy or Wayne, my oldest brother, cut a new glass for me. In order to get the right size, I would have to measure the cardboard backing. I made a mental note to do that first thing. Then I would have to have a piece of paper to do the printing and drawings on. It had to be special paper, heavier than most, with a silky finish. It never occurred to me to doubt if I could copy the printing and the drawing accurately enough to be acceptable. I just knew that this was what I had to do for my mother for Christmas. The next time we went to town for groceries, I went away from the family and hurried to the dime store where Mom did much of her shopping. I knew they had a stationery department, and I was sure that was where I would find the paper I needed. The clerk was very helpful and, together, we tound just the right piece of paper. But it came in a package, and if I bought the whole package, I would not have enough money 908 for the gold ink I would need. I had to have gold ink, because that is what was on the other one. It was such a good idea that only to do it half way would be worse than not to do it at all. I would just have to get more money. But how, this close to Christmas? A fat, wet tear slipped from my eye and ran down my cheek. "What's wrong?" asked the kindly clerk. "Isn't this paper what you wanted?" "Yes, yes," I replied, trying vainly to hold back the other tears that were pushing to spill out after the first, "only, only I don't have enough money to buy a whole package and gold ink, too." I sobbed. "Hmmm." The clerk tapped her chin with a forefinger. "Would it help if you bought only one sheet?" She smiled. "I could sell you one sheet for a nickel." "Oh, yes!" I breathed happily, wiping my tears on the sleeve of my coat. I handed her my money, and she took one sheet of paper from the package and put the rest of the package in a special place under the counter. She got a small jar of gold ink and rang up the sale on her cash register. Clutching the sack she had handed me, I hurried back to the grocery store just as the family was about to launch an all out search for me. "Where have you been?" they asked. "We were terribly worried about you." "I was just doing some shopping," I said. Since everyone was feeling the spirit of Christmas, no one said any more about it, and we went home. I went straight to the bedroom where I had been assembling all the things I would need. I had only two days left until Christmas. I would have to hurry. I would also have to be very careful in my haste to keep from spoiling it. To make mistakes would be worse than not to do it at all, I told myself as I got out pencil, pen, and scrap paper. School was out for the Christmas holiday, so I would be able to spend most of the day working on my gift. Marcia had finished her hot pads and had them wrapped and hidden away until Christmas. She was free to play in the snow, or ice skate, or whatever her fancy dictated. And her fancy certainly did not relish watching me prepare my gift. She did not know what it was going to be, and I did not want her to know. I didn't want anyone to know. I wasn't sure they wouldn't laugh and say it was silly. Very carefully I practiced each drawing over and over until I felt I could do it well enough to set it down on the silk-surfaced sheet. I drew them lightly in pencil and then outlined them in India ink. The gold would provide accents and be the finishing touch. The next day I began the lettering. First I practiced copying each line over and over until my fingers hurt. Then I rested for awhile before I started lightly penciling the letters on the sheet with the drawings. I had had some doubt about my ability to print the letters small enough and neatly enough, A Story for Christmas but as I stared at the torn original, I realized that it, too, had been printed by hand, and I felt that if they (whoever "they" may have been) could do it, so could I. "Please don't let me spoil it now." I dipped the pen in the ink and sent up a silent prayer, "Dear, dear God, please let it be neat.... Please don't let me spoil it now." I drew the first letter with its fancy curlycues and thicker lines, and sighed audibly as it came out perfect. The other letters were plainer, but smaller, and they must be kept of uniform size. I paused to rest, dipped the pen, uttered my prayer silently in my mind, and set down the other two letters in the first word... Then the rest of the letters in the first line... And so on. Very carefully and cautiously I drew over each letter with black ink, praying that it wouldn't smear; praying 

909 December 1968

 that it wouldn't drip; praying that the lines wouldn't waver; praying that it would be a worthy gift. At last it was finished. I put on the touches of gold and left it to dry for a minute while I got out the frame and the new glass and the wrapping paper. Then, I slipped the glass into the frame, set the sheet with the poem against the glass, placed the cardboard backing in place, and tapped the small nails into the holes to hold it all in place. I wrapped tissue paper around it, then placed it in an emptied Christmas card box and wrapped it. It was Christmas Eve and my fingers hurt, my shoulders ached, and my eyes burned from the strain, but my gift for Mom was ready, and my heart was light as I left the bedroom and closed the door softly behind me. "The next morning I could hardly open my presents, I was so excited and somewhat apprehensive. I kept close watch on Mom as she opened her gifts. She smiled a big smile and gave Marcia a special hug when she unwrapped the hot pads. They really were something, I thought with a twinge of uncertainty. At last she was opening the package that held my gift. My breath caught in my throat. It seemed everyone was watching, and I couldn't help wishing they wouldn't pay any attention. Mom carefully drew aside the tissue paper and looked at the framed poem, the crude drawings, the rough printing. For a_ long moment she sat staring at it, then she slowly threw back her 910 head and I sensed, more than heard, a sob catch in her throat. I was intently avoiding looking at her. My full attention was concentrated on the new pair of ice skates I had received for Christmas, yet I knew that she threw me a look out of the corner of her eye, as she rose and carried the gift, box and all, into the kitchen.. "She's crying," softly, "why?" "I don't know," Fred answered easily, not bothering to take his eyes off the electric train set he was trying to assemble around the base of the Christmas tree. I assiduously avoided answering and I looked the other way as I wiped a tear from my own cheek. Suddenly, I couldn't stay there any longer. I grabbed my new skates and my coat and ran outside. Everyone would think I had gone to try the skates out. I ran through the snow with tears blinding my eyes. My precious, rotten, horrible gift had been rejected, and it served me right! I collapsed sobbing on the tree trunk where we sat to change our skates, the image of Mother throwing my gift, box and all, in the trash vivid in my mind. Daddy found me there. He had followed Mom into the kitchen, then had followed me outside. "What's wrong, Kitten?" he asked gently as he pressed my head against his shoulder so the rough weave of his jacket could absorb my tears. "She didn't like it!" I sobbed in my misery. "Nonsense!" he replied, quickly, "Honey, she loved it. Believe me, Marcia _ said Kitten. I don't think she has ever received a gift that pleased her more." "Then why is she crying?" "J doubt you'd understand." He paused so long I was afraid he wasn't going to try to explain. After a long minute which I spent drying my eyes and blowing my nose, he went on, "You see, Kitten, that poem was given as a gift to your grandmother many years ago. When our first baby was born, Grandma gave it to yo
