[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 2 | Fiction | Welcome the | Task Chapter]
[Welcome the Task Chapter]

Throw Down the Gauntlet

"Sashimi's all right if you like the smell of raw fish," Charles Mortensen said, "be-cause that is exactly what it tastes like."

"I'll take you shopping to-morrow," Francine said. "The Ladies' Welcoming Committee left enough food in the quonset for you until then. So you can just take it easy today."

"Listen," Charles said, turn-ing a bit in the car seat to glance back at Nancy and Grant, "about the quonset. I hope you won't mind it. But since school has already started, the houses are all full."

"We're quite used to quonset living now," Nancy laughed. "Besides—people need things to look forward to. And we can dream about teachers termin-ating and leaving empty houses next summer!"

"Now, that's the right attitude to have," Francine said. "I can tell right now, you two are going to get along here just great!"

Amy and Skipper watched wide-eyed out of the windows as the car sped along Beach Road.

"It's much more jungly here than it is on Truk," Nancy said.

"Oh, that's just our boonies," Francine laughed. "Tangen-tangen, actually. But back in Nauru days, I guess someone started calling it the 'boondocks,' and now even the Saipanese call it the boomes. There really is other growth back in there. Tangen-tangen is not native to Saipan at all. But the entire island was so devastated and burned off by flame-throwers in the war, that the Government seeded this stuff by air to keep the soil from eroding. Now it's twenty feet high, and so dense one can't walk through it except with a machete. But it does provide the Saipanese with lots of good fire-wood for their outdoor cooking. And privacy? Well, you'd never know there was a house on the island!"

"Look, Mama!" Amy said. "Chickens!"

"Yes," Charles said. "Our one and only chicken farm on the whole island, where eggs are large, fresh, and only one dollar a dozen."

"Oh, not here, too," Nancy said. "That's one thing I am still wondering about. Our food budget has exactly doubled."

"There's one way to beat that," Charles said, "get used to local foods, and forget those canned and frozen imports. Now Francine puts together a salad of fresh pineapple, papaya, and avocado that will make you forget what lettuce even was!"

"I also know 199 ways to prepare rice," Francine teased. "And that reminds me, Nancy, better put rice and soya on your shopping list. Your house girl will eat it every day for lunch." Then she laughed to herself. "You know? Before we came out here I had one tiny bottle of soy sauce that lasted four years, and it was still only one-third gone. Now we go through one quart a month! Honestly, some-times I think Olympia drinks it! But then, I shouldn't say anything. I use a lot more of it now, myself."

"Excuse me," Grant said, "but did you say our house girl?"

"Oh, yes. I hope you don't mind. I went ahead and lined up

47

a maid for you. Actually, I don't refer to Olympia as our maid, even though that's what the girls call themselves. Somehow, the word maid always brings to my mind a uniformed servant drawing a bubble bath, while her lady eats breakfast between pink satin bed sheets! And it's nothing like that out here at all. In the first place, the Saipanese expect you to employ them; and in the second place, these girls are used to the climate and don't mind one bit standing over a hot ironing board all day."

"I have noticed my ironing increase," Nancy said. "It seems we are forever taking showers and changing clothes."

"Right. So I hope you'll forgive me for employing Soledad."

Nancy rested her head back on the seat of the car and closed her eyes. Maybe it would be nice having help, after all, especially with twins. It seemed such a long time since the day Grant had thrown her life into a turmoil by asking if she had ever heard of Micronesia. She hadn't really rested her mind since. Maybe, with a house girl, she would be able to unwind from the whole overwhelming experience of being uprooted so abruptly. And it would give her more time to spend with Amy and Skipper.

But the first thing I want to do when I get home, she thought, is just to sleep, and sleep, and sleep.

The Mortensen car climbed the long winding road to the top of Navy Hill, made its way around a broad clearing marked off as a ball field, and stopped in front of a bright yellow garbage can decorated with oversized daisies. In the doorway of the quonset stood a short, but large, Saipanese woman.

"Soledad," Francine said, as they got out of the car, "this is Mr. and Mrs. Jackson, Amy, and Skipper."

Soledad leaned over, wrapped her huge brown arms around Skipper and whisked him up into the air.

"I like babies," she said.

Skipper screamed and kicked. "I not a baby! Put me down! Put me down!"

Soledad complied with his wishes, shaking her finger at him. "Baba patgon lahe!"

"I'm terribly sorry," Nancy said. "I hope he didn't hurt you. He's probably just tired from the trip."

"Baba patgon lahe!"

Then she waddled toward the car to get the suitcases, as the rest of them went into the quonset.

Nancy whispered to Francine, "Doesn't she speak English?"

"Oh, yes. What she said was that Skipper was a bad boy. She speaks English all right—but gets frustrated in pure Chamarro!"

Then Charles reached out and put an arm each around Grant and Nancy.

"You don't know what it means to us to have you here," he said. "You'll never know. We've been the only Latter-day Saints on the island for six years. This is a very special day in our lives."

"Which reminds me," Francine said, "I usually hold Primary

48

with our girls on Wednesdays after school. So why don't I take your children home with me and bring them back afterwards, and you can rest."

"Don't you want me to come to Primary?"

"Take it easy today," Charles laughed. "Next week you can be president! And let's see," he began counting on his fingers, "with Francine playing our piano for Sunday School, we can also use a chorister. And with more children, we will need a new Sunday School teacher so we can split the membership into age groups. Then we have made it a practice to hold our Family Home Evening on Sunday afternoon to discourage the children from wanting to go to the beach with their friends. And after they're in bed Sunday evenings, Francine and I usually read the lessons in The Relief Society Magazine and discuss them. Anyway, rest today. You'll have lots to do from now on."

"Sounds marvelous!" Nancy said. "For the last month, I have felt totally inactive."

As Grant stood at the window and watched the Mortensens drive away with Skip and Amy, Nancy opened her suitcase and began to look around for places to put things.

"I do dat!" Soledad said, grabbing a pile of clothes.

"But I don't really know where I want to put them yet," Nancy said.

"I show you."

And away she went down the hall to the bedroom.

Grant turned around smiling. "I guess she told you."

Nancy shrugged her shoulders and continued sorting through the suitcases, while Soledad came back for more.

"I saw a box of soap powder on the washer," Nancy said. "Would you mind washing these few soiled clothes we brought with us, Soledad?"

"You buy soap in yellow box!"

"What's the matter with the soap in the blue box?" Nancy asked.

"Yellow box get clothes clean! American magazine say so!"

Grant turned his head and tried to keep a straight face, while Nancy walked out to the kitchen to wash the clothes. Then Soledad began singing "I Wanna Hold Your Hand," at the top of her voice, as she dragged the heaviest suitcase toward the bedroom and then returned.

Nancy lifted a root-bound Philodendron, resting in a foil-covered jar, down from the top of the refrigerator.

"This thing needs water," she said, holding it under the faucet.

But as the water spilled up over her hand, so did something else. And as two black, beady eyes stared up at her from the back of her hand, Nancy screamed, dropped the bottle, and shook all over.

"Nancy!" Grant said. "It's only a harmless little gecko!"

"It was a lizard!"

"You scare him!" Soledad accused. "You scare him! Gecko good luck. And you scare him!"

Nancy looked at the two of them, shrugged her shoulders in defeat and walked toward the

49
