[Vol16 | April 1929 | Sequence: 17d | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for June]
Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in June) LOYALTY: ITS MEANING AND NECESSITY Loyalty is faithfulness.

In its highest form, it has behind it confidence, respect, and love.

Inner loyalty is a mental attitude of enduring faithfulness that holds out against approach of all impulses leading to desertion of accepted principles, espoused causes, adopted ideals, or worthy persons.

Outer loyalty is conduct in keeping with inner loyalty.

It is faithfulness expressed in word and action.

It is good will in operation toward an objective.

There is more character in full loyalty to a fable than there is in part loyalty to a fact.

Disloyalty cannot be transmuted into any form of goodness.

Out of loyalty to an error may develop power for loyalty to truth.

In his conscientious persecution Paul was loyal to the light he had; and this loyalty made him the fighter of the good fight, the winner of the life race, the keeper of the faith.

His loyalty was true in both cases; true to an accepted error, true to a discerned truth; true to a foe, true to a friend.

Loyalty is love's most precious gift; it is friendship's final proof; it is humanity's strongest lifting lever.

Endurance faithful to the end, Links up the man to God as friend, Earth loyalty of day-by-day Illuminates the heavenly way.

Loyalty and Law: Jesus declares his loyalty to law and to the prophets who had proclaimed it.

He points out the relative value of word loyalty and action loyalty.

See Matt. 5:17, 18, 19. That he Had regard for the civil law is plainly set forth in Matt. 22:17-21. Christ's loyalty to law was shown to the wife of Pilate in a dream.

In the face of a multitude of accusers the Roman Governor pronounced the "Man of Galilee" not guilty, reminding the mob that he and Herod, the King of Judea, agreed as to verdict of innocence, and thus making it unmistakably clear that Jesus had been loyal to the laws of the Kingdom of Judea and to those-of the Roman empire. (Luke 23:13, 16.) In the 12th Article of [Faith the Latter-day Saints proclaim to all the world that true to the faith includes loyalty to law, a loyalty that consists of "obeying, honoring, and sustaining," by living the law, defending the law and backing up the enforcement of the law.

The constitutional law of any country has first claim upon the civic loyalty of everybody in that country be they citizens or visitors. (See 12th Article of Faith.) Loyalty to One's Word of Honor or One's Covenants: A word of honor to stand.

By righteousness is an aid to the elevation of standards, but a word of honor given in support of evident unrighteousness is, conspiracy against human happiness; there is no honor in a pledge of that kind.

Such a promise is conceived in dishonor, born of dishonor, and kept with dishonor.

It is one of the most tragic forms of disloyalty.

One's word of honor is a part of one's sacred self; it cannot knowingly be given to degrading causes without taking the giver downward.

An oath of office is one of the highest words of honor; it cannot honestly be taken without an inner loyalty to the law.

Loyalty to one's word of honor lifts one's self respect and wins the respect of others.

Loyalty to Causes: The espousal of some great cause is esential to an abundant life, and loyalty to a great cause develops greatness of character.

The greatness of an individual or of a group is measurable by the greatness of the causes espoused or the projects projected by them and by their loyalty to these causes in the carrying out of the project.

The lasting lifting power of loyalty to a good cause is immeasurable.

From such loyalty came freedom, and through such loyalty the era of good will shall come, when the "Goddess of right and the Champion might shall meet at the altar of love." The causes constantly calling for loyalty are freedom, education, temperance, peace, health, justice, tolerance, purity—all included in the great cause of Christianity.

Loyalty to Ideals: Ideals are character rainbows.

As we approach them they move on, but their lure is lofty; if we turn our backs upon them they are no more to us.

For the soul that is loyal to an ideal there is no deluge.

My rainbow stood on the top of a hill And beckoned me to the golden till; I climbed, and it sped to the mountain-side, All I had gained was a vision wide; I was left in the shadow.  My rainbow lured me higher still, I climbed and felt the climber's thrill; My rainbow fled to the mountain top, I climbed, I would not, could not, stop— Thank God, I said, for my rainbow.

Family Loyalty: "Blood is thicker than water'—yes, and it should be.

"I came to my own," said the Savior.

The close-knit families are the enduring ones.

The family tree is under the special protection of every member.

Family loyalty forbids hacking it with the hacker's envy or cutting it with tongues of slander.

Cousins cannot speak evil of each other without a rebound of their depreciation of each other's values.

Sisters-in-law do themselves and their children a good turn when they take good care of the reputation of each other.

Family loyalty increases the sun-kissed output of the family tree.

Better brag a little on one's brother than to belittle him; for the more belittling, the bigger the burden of a relative.

Family loyalty will foster family friendship and develop family love.

Notice the family member who is full of family loyalty, and usually he or she is the center of family confidence, admiration, and good will.

The lack of loyalty in a family points to domestic decline and is a signal of the approach of unfitness to survive.

Family loyalty is not limited to praise of good qualities; it goes over into the field of helpfulness.

Members of a family should be as glad to lift on the unfortunate as they are to share with the fortunate members.

Charity should not only begin at home, but should be loyally followed up within the family circle; and the helpers should know that it is harder to be helped than it is to help.

Family loyalty fights the wolf of want; holds back the hand of hate.

It finds means and ways for home happiness and kindred friendship.

Its limitations are bounded only by higher loyalty, of which loyalty to righteousness is the highest.

Religious Loyalty: This form of loyalty includes loyalty to the beliefs and the ideals for which the Church stands and to the Church leaders.

It is a loyalty that suggests the slogan, "Everything to boost and nothing to belittle." No religion is so complete nor any ideal so perfect nor any officer so infallible that improvement may not be thought of and spoken about in a build-up spirit; but all of these are too sacred to be made the object of faultfinding with destructive disloyalty behind it.

In this age of unlimited religious freedom, consistency suggests that people should not belong to a Church to which they cannot be loyal in their works.

Church loyalty leads to doing one's "bit" for the Church; not only the little bit, the "get-by" bit, but the "full-share" bit—the share indicated by the law of the Lord.

For a religion without belief i# and obligation to God is nothing more than a social organization and is not entitled to the name religion.

Religion is the application of theology; and theology is a code of beliefs concerning God and his relation to man.

The life of Job was more than an example of patience; it was an example of perfect loyalty; for while his patience did not prevent him from speaking of his birth as an event to be regretted, his loyalty to the Lord led him to exclaim: "Though he slay me, yet will I trust in Him." (See Job 10:18, 19-13:15.) Questions and Problems 1. Into which topic of this lesson does the last part of the final stanza of "The Star Spangled Banner," fit? 2. Arrange in the order of their claim upon our.

Loyalty the following named causes: freedom, temperance, justice. 3. Explain what is meant by inner loyalty. 4. Give evidence that the life of Jesus was an object lesson in loyalty to law. 5. Show that the Latter-day Saints are particularly committed to this form of loyalty. 6. Name some men and some women to whom fame and honor have come through their loyalty to causes. 7. Mention two or more great causes that are calling for the loyalty of Americans, and tell which you think is entitled to the most immediate attention. 8. Explain what loyalty to an ideal means to you. 9. What limitations should be put on family loyalty? 10. What habit in conversation proclaims one's loyalty to the Church?

What habits advertise one's disloyalty to his religion? 11. Present evidence to prove that Job's loyalty was greater than his patience.  Work and Business LESSON II (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in June) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE—ACTIVITIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 4 Wuy THE CHARITY COLLECTION?

I. To provide, by helping those who need that help, an opportunity for an expression of appreciation for our own blessings.

II.

To avoid the prayers of widows and fatherless ascending against us.

Ill.

To offer, in disaster, bereavement, sickness, a means of support for the unfortunate.

IV.

To supply means to educate or otherwise to aid some people to help themselves.

V. To train each member of every household by encouraging him to put by and contribute a small amount each month to help others.

You may find it useful to learn the amount contributed per family in your Ward during the past year.

It would appear that some of our literary class leaders, and some other people deeply interested in the literature lessons, have not yet learned that it is impossible to obtain a copy of "Joseph and His Brethren." The entire edition has been exhausted, and the book dealers are unable to obtain any further copies of the book.

LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) THE DOLL'S HOUSE By Henrik Ibsen Henrik Ibsen was born March 20, 1828, at the little seaport town of Skein, where one may purchase a good deal of: silverware, for which the Norwegian market is famous.

Ibsen came of Scotch, Danish and German descent.

His early years were Spent in penury.

When he was fifteen years of age his family moved to Grimstad, a town of eight hundred inhabitants.

In 1850 he went to Christiania, now Oslo, to prepare to enter the university.

Having had the good fortune to meet Ole Bull, the great violinist, he was called to be threatre poet at jhe modest little national theatre at Bergen.

There he remained until 1857. From Bergen, he later found himself again in Christiania, where he remained until 1864. While here, he acted as theatre poet for the Norwegian Theatre in Christiania.

Ibsen had been writing plays since his Grimstad days.

After his return to Christiania, he devoted himself actively to writing.

After many efforts, he obtained a grant of money for traveling.

His way Jed to Italy, and now for twelve years he was away from his native country, spending part of the time in Rome, part time in Munich, and part time in Dresden.

By 1875 his European fame was established.

He returned to Christiania for the remainder of his life.

He died in 1906. His contribution to literature was that of a playwright, as he never wrote a biography or even a preface to his plays, nor did he enter into business or other public affairs, but devoted himself solely to writing.. It has been said on good authority that The Doll's House is the greatest of Ibsen's plays.

Thomas H. Dickinson says: "With The Doll's House begins Ibsen's gallery of enfranchised women.

Ibsen's distrust of the majority of average men had its complement in his faith in the superior man.

And it is among the superior men that he places women.

From his earliest playwriting he had treated women as of a superior order of humanity, superior in intuition, in steadfastness, in unselfishness." In The Doll's House Ibsen gives us the story of a woman who had been trained for entertaining in her father's home, who had been petted within the home and sheltered from the world outside of the home.

She married a business man who accepted her very much on the same terms as her father had  done before him—as a play thing.

Finally, she was brought face to face with a very serious situation.

Her husband was ill, the doctor told her in confidence that if he were not taken to another climate, he would lose his life.

She had no money and knew that her husband was averse to borrowing money.

She promised to obtain her father's signature to a note for a loan, but her father died before the signature was obtained, and she forged his name.

Then, having obtained the money and thereby having provided the means whereby her husband's 'health was restored, she set to work to make the money in such little ways as were at her command.

She copied manuscripts, deeds, and such like.

Finally, in order to get the time, unbeknown to her husband, she told him that she was locked from him, hour after hour, preparing things for the Christmas tree.

Finally, on Christmas Eve, she said the cat got into the room and destroyed all the things she had made.

Difficulty arose between Nora's husband, Torvald Helmer, and the man from whom Nora had borrowed the money.

His position was threatened at the bank where Helmer had been advanced and he wanted Nora to use her good offices to keep him in the place.

Nora protested the thought of her having any influence with her husband, but Krogstad said he had known her husband since his school days and thought he was as susceptible as other men he had known.

Nora was so optimistic over her husband's future that she did not think it necessary to be in any way especially considerate of Krogstad.

Nora finally assured Krogstad that it was really not in her power to help him.

Krogstad replied, "Because you will not; but I have the means of compelling you to help me." Nora said, "You don't intend to tell my husband that I owe you money?" Krogstad: Hm!

Supposing I were to tell him?

Nora: It would be scandalous of you (with suppressed tears.) This secret, which is my joy and my pride, he shall not learn in such a vulgar, blunt way—and from you, too.

You want to put me to the most terrible annoyance.

Krogstad: Only annoyance?

Nora (hotly): But just do it; the consequences will be worse for you than anybody else; for then my husband will see clearly what a bad man you are, and then you certainly will not keep our post.

Krogstad: I asked if it were only domestic unpleasantness that you were afraid of?

Nora: If my husband gets to know about it he will, of course, pay the rest without delay; and then we have nothing more to do with you.

Krogstad (stepping a pace nearer): Listen, Mrs. Helmer: either you have rather a weak memory, or you don't know much about business.

In that case I must get you to go more deeply into the matter.

Nora: How will you do that?

Krogstad: When your husband was ill, you came to borrow £300 of me.

Nora: I knew nobody else.

Krogstad: I promised to find you the money.

Nora: And you did find it.

Krogstad: I promised to find you the money under certain conditions.

You were just then so excited about your husband's illness, and so anxious to get hold of the money for your journey, that you probably did not think twice about the difficulties it involved.

It is therefore not superfluous for me to remind you of them.

Now, I promised to find you the money in exchange for an acknowledgment which I drew up.

Nora: Yes, and I signed it.

Krogstad: Very well.

But then I added a few lines whereby your father became security for the debt.

Your father was to sign this.

Nora: Was to?

He did sign.

Krogstad: I had left the date blank; that is to say, your father was to insert the date on which he signed the document.

Do you recollect this, Mrs. Helmer?

Nora: Yes, I believe.

Cede Krogstad: Thereupon I gave you the piece of paper that you might send it to your father.

Is not that so?

Nora: Yes.

Krogstad: And of course you did so without delay; for within five or six days you brought me back the acknowledgment duly signed by your father.

Then you received from me the sum promised.

Nora: Well, to be sure; have I not paid it back punctually?

Krogstad: Very fairly; yes.

But let us return to the matter we were speaking of.

You were in great trouble at the time, Mrs. Helmer?

Nora: I was indeed.

Krogstad: Your father, too, was very seriously ill, I believe.

Nora: He was on his death-bed.

Krogstad: And died soon after?

Nora: Yes.

Krogstad: Now, just tell me, Mrs. Helmer, whether by any chance you happen to recollect which day he died—which day of the month, I mean.

Nora: Father died on the twenty-ninth of September. 222 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZIN# Krogstad: Quite correct; I have made inquiries about it.

That is why I can not explain a remarkable circumstance (draws from his pocket a piece of writing.), Nora: A remarkable circumstance?

I do not know. * Krogstad: The remarkable circumstance, dear Mrs. Helmer is, that your father signed this acknowledgment three days after his death.

Nora: What?

I don't understand.

Krogstad: Your father died on the twenty-ninth of.

September.

But just look here.

Here your father has dated his signature October the 2d. Is not that remarkable, Mrs. Helmer? (Nora is silent.) Can you explain that to me? (Nora continues silent.) It is also striking that the words "October the 2d" and the year are not in your father's handwriting, but in one which I believe I know.

Now this may be explained by supposing that your father forgot to date it, and that somebody added the date by guess work before the fact of his death was known.

There is nothing improper in that proceeding.

But it is the signature of his name that my question relates to.

And is it genuine, Mrs. Helmer?

Was it really your father who with his own hand set his name here?

Nora (after a short silence throws her head back and looks defiantly at him): No; it is I who wrote papa's name there.

Krogstad: And are you aware, moreover, that that is a dangerous admission?

Nora: Why?

You will soon get your money.

Krogstad: May I be permitted one more question: Why did you not send the document to your father?

Nora: It was impossible.

Father was then dangerously ill.

If I had asked him for his signature I should also have had to tell him what I wanted the money for.

But in his condition J really could not tell him that my husband's life hung by a thread.

It was quite impossible.

Krogstad: Then it would have been better for you to give up the journey abroad.

Nora: That was impossible, too.

My husband's life depended on that journey.

I could not give it up.

Krogstad: But did you not consider, then, that it was a fraud on me?

Nora: I could not take any heed of that.

I did not care in the least about you.

I could not endure you on account of all the hard-hearted difficulties you made, although you knew how ill my husband was.

Krogstad: Mrs. Helmer, you have evidently no clear idea what you have been really guilty of.

But I can assure you it was nothing different from this, nor worse than this.

that I once did, and that destroyed my entire position in society.

Nora: You?

Do you want to make me believe that you would have dared to do a courageous act in order to save your wife's life?

Krogstad: The laws inquire little into motives.

Nora: Then we must have very bad laws.

Krogstad: Bad, or not bad—if I lay this document before a court of law you will be judged according to the laws.

Nora: That I do not believe.

Do you mean to tell me that a daughter has not the right to spare her old father, on his death-bed, care and worry?

Do you mean to say that a wife has not the right to save her husband's life?
