Notes_from_Field | Title: Notes from the Field]

perhaps I could return the favor sometime. There was no time for conversation for we were barely in time, but as Dr. Douglas hurried me into the car and my suit-case after me, he asked if he might write. So there's that to look forward to when the children get too dumb, and life looks too drab. January 8?One week of the second semester gone. The children were little fiends after their week of merry-making, late hours, and too much candy. I should have sent the whole roomful in to Mr. Dixon en masse, I was so provoked one afternoon, if he had not looked so harassed with his own set of young ideas. I have been so busy with my own private problems that Mr. Dixon had failed to make much impression on me before; but today I got to wondering what his story is?perhaps something interesting enough for one of my romances, For that's my secret ambition. I'm trying to write?and making a sad failure so far. I believe I might be able to accomplish something at it if my time were my own, but if I get out of bed just teeming with bright ideas the school-bell is sure to ting disgustingly early; and by the time I am free again, every bit of inspiration has fled. Then if I plan a quiet evening at my scribbling, Mrs. Lowell is sure to get up some sort of "Do," and insist on "teacher" coming clown to be the life of the party. But I am not going to give up till I find, like Joe, whether "genius burns" or not. Still, if I devote all my spare time to this Journal, what is to become of my "literary career?" Haven't heard from "anybody" at home, but had a letter from mother saying that Lisbeth is much better, and she and the professor will be home in another week. Easter Thoughts Elsie E. Barrett Glad Easter Morn'. Break forth in song! Sing praises to your King! The clouds of doubt have rolled away, And death has lost its sting. How soul-inspiring just to think That Jesus died for me; So wonderful to have the thought That He'll provide for me; That He has risen from the tomb For such as I?robbed death of gloom. O Jesus, help my faith to grow, Help me to feel my debt; Though I can never, never pay, Help me, lest I forget. Elvira Lathrop By Fay Ollerton Elvira Lathrop did not go back to the store that afternoon before Thanksgiving. She hurried back and forth in her adobe house with its lean-to, getting the rooms cleaned in preparation for her absence tomorrow. Alone she still had the stooped gait of a woman whose head had first leaned forward in expectancy, then drooped with resentment, and later grown careless. She was a spinster in a town of almost unanimously married women, and she had grown to show a surface acceptance in her kindly timid eyes of being the butt of Red Water's jokes on feminism. The Co-op's superintendent, Hans Nielson, knew that the next day was the yearly gathering of the Lathrop clan, and that Elvira would value the extra time. He could, she realized, be generous when it did not inconvenience him, and there would be few customers that afternoon; they would be home cleaning turkeys and chickens, baking pumpkin pies, and dusting rooms only opened for great occasions. "I feel like maybe you would want this afternoon to make a potato cake," he teased, showing his yellow teeth. She nodded back, pleased in spite of her dislike for the sleek little superintendent. She did not like his patronizing smile; every time he spoke she felt more poignantly than ever her thin spinsterhood, now growing into its forties; and her fight to retain her self-expression in the little sage-brush town with its red streets and its open contempt for any unwanted woman. Yet, she was flattered about the potato cake. His mention showed that the town recognized her supremacy in one line usually dedicated to wearers of the ring. Every person must have some reason for existing, outside of the mere routine of eating and sleeping, something no matter how small that he feels he can do better than his fellows, that he can use as a barricade against the forces that would level him with the rest of his creatures. Potato cake was Elvira's weapon in Red Water's battle. No wedding supper, no pioneer day celebration, canyon outing, or woodhauler's banquet was complete without this cake. Not another woman in town could compete in the rich, moist brownness and delectable flavor of her masterpiece. Husbands invariably called for more. Often they turned to their wives with: ?Why can't you make cake like this? I wish you'd get Elviry's receipt." And their failure to get the recipe was in no way due to their lack of zeal. They had tried, after Elvira had first produced her triumph, but ineffectually. All she told them was that a friend of hers in Salt Lake had obtained the recipe from an English aunt. The shy woman had found the sweet pleasure of excelling and she guarded her secret well. If Red Water's housekeepers had been more in touch with the world that lay beyond their sagebrush trails and low, red hills; if they had subscribed for women's magazines now becoming practical, or even bought cook books, they might have found a potato cake recipe similar to Elvira's, but they went on handing down cooking rules from mother to daughter, and exchanging methods over back fences and at Relief Society quilting bees. Some of the wives, spurred on by their husbands, had taken recourse to experimentation; their delvings into the realms of science were sorry failures. Because their "menfolks" liked the cake, they called for it on every occasion, and Elvira would come home, her tight little heart that was carefully schooled against emotion, warmed and expanded. At such times she would chat brightly with her taciturn brother, Ward, who was a bachelor. "You ought to have been there, Ward," she would say to the tall, spare man sitting in front of the box stove with his stockinged feet resting on the red checkered tablecloth; "they had some right nice speeches and music, and the supper was real good." Ward would lift his somber eyes from the. Semi-weekly he was all week reading to say in his halting voice: "I'm glad, Elviry, that you enjoyed it," and relapse into silence again; but he knew that someone had been exuberant in his praise of the cake. It meant a great deal to his sister, this family reunion. Some twenty years ago Elvira's skin had been smooth and clear and faintly touched with pink; her light brown hair had curled over her high forehead instead of being drawn back in its tight grayness, and she had been in love with Eric Kelner, now married to her cousin, Delia Lathrop. There had been no formal announcement; that was not Red Water's custom even now in the beginning of the second decade, but the town had known there was something serious between the two. Had he not taken Elvira to Sunday night Mutuals for two years past, ever since she had returned from the Academy at Provo, to care for her declining mother? And had he not been seen walking home from Lathrop's on wintry days with books that Elvira had loaned him? Summer evenings, too, when the fragrance of freshly cut alfalfa and garden flowers vied with the sage and rabbit brush for supremacy in the breezes, they had gone buggy riding in the weedy and brush-lined streets towards the meadows on the south, or to the East canyon. And Elvira, who had been working in the Co-op store for a year, was known to be putting away material for sheets and tablecloths. This last alone would have been proot sufficient for any fown; and in Red Water no one left his back door ajar but the neighbors knew the reason. Girl, and at the height of her timid rage, Elvira had left the dance hall afone, and her lover in willing hands. Later she blamed Delia entirely. How could gentle, awkward Eric, who had lived more fact! And in her stupid pride, Elvira had continued to leave Not knowing how to forget, or to substitute, which is much the same thing, Elvira had grown thin, gaunt-eyed, and more retiring. She was already looking old when next spring Eric returned of giving a linen tablecloth to a mere cousin. As time passed, it pained her to see that Eric no longer had time to read, or to think of the school plans they had talked about. He was a busy man now, working his small farm, doing odd jobs of hauling freight and loaning out himself and team to keep Delia supplied with the silk dresses she demanded; her pantry piled with materials for her bounteous table, and later providing for the regularly increasing Kelnars. It did not heal Elvira's wound any to see the ample Delia each year becoming more sharp tongued. She felt too keenly for Eric, unnecessarily stooped and worried looking, and she was growing thinner and worn herself. Yet there were times when she could do something for her old lover and she eagerly anticipated these occasions. There was the annual birthday party for Aunt Sarah, now grown feeble, the Lathrop weddings, the holidays with their interchange of family dinners, and the Thanksgiving reunions, where Eric always sought her for a few minutes of desultory talk, and ate prodigiously of her potato cake. "No one," he often said, "can make such good cakes as you. Elvira. I just wait for these dinners to come," and turning from the glowing spinster to his wife, "Delia is a good cook, but her cakes can't come up to these." Elvira cherished these compliments, even though she knew they were his futile attempts to cover old sorrow, and enjoyed Delia's retort that, "she'd get that receipt or bust." The secret was too much a part of the spinster's self ever to be disclosed now. The coming family reunion was the one oasis in an otherwise arid and disappointing year. Ward, a few years her senior, had been more crippled with rheumatism than was his wont, and had had a hard time harvesting his small crops and hauling in the winter wood from the cedar and pine-covered hills. Wool had shot down in price, until their tiny income from it would not pay for the magazines Elvira subscribed for. The brother was growing more dependent upon her: he had few pleasures, and it had been years since he had mingled in the town activities other than to attend Sacrament and Priesthood meetings. To make matters worse, Elvira was having trouble with her left leg. "You're on it too much. You ought just to sit down and do nothing else for months," old Dr. Dunn had told her. "If you aren't careful, you'll have some serious trouble soon." She knew, too, that Hans had seen her slight limp, and was only waiting for some slacking in her work to take on a younger, prettier girl. "You're not so spry as you used to be, Elviry," he had said only a few days ago. She knew he had in mind his wife's sister, a strong young thing, and pretty in a blousy, coarse way, and who wanted a chance to clerk; but he would not dare to discharge the older woman without some serious reason. The Lathrops were too strong in the community; though they were letting their stock in the co-operative store slip to enter other ventures. Frightened, Elvira had worked when she should have been home asleep. She wondered now as she scurried around in her low-raftered, whitewashed kitchen and gathered her cake materials about her, if Hans had given her the free half-day so: that he could report her inability to work full time. Orderly as always, Elvira placed the ingredients in exact amounts on her brown oilcloth tablecover, and started creaming the butter and sugar. She had no more than begun her strokes when a rap sounded on the kitchen door. Because her hands were dusted with flour, she called, "Come in." Panting and robust, Delia Kelner stood in the doorway, an old brown coat thrown hurriedly over her pink gingham dress. "Hello, Elviry," she called, loudly excited. "I saw your smoke and knew you was home, because Ward is in the cattle pasture. I been waiting to tell you the news!" "What news?' Elvira paused in her creaming. She knew Delia's ways. She was more worried how she could get rid of her cousin, or take her into the front room. The potato cake was too much in evidence. "What news is right, Elviry," the cousin declared, not a whit dampened by the response. She seemed all the more pleased for a chance to extend her climax. She opened her eyes in an attempt to be mysterious, and sat down uninvited in Ward's congress chair. Elvira waited, her hands fluttering helplessly about her work. As if she would burst if she contained her story longer, Delia leaned forward and said in a stage whisper, "Esther's home again, and she ain't alone! She's got a fourth husband, and they say," here the informant lowered her voice, screwed her eyes, into a semi-closing, "they say she's going to bring him to the reunion tomorrow!" She was not disappointed in her climax. Elvira dropped her cake spoon, her eyes and mouth opened wide, and had to catch her gold-rimmed spectacles with trembling hands. "Great Scotland!" was all she could say at first. The spinster was not given to expletives. Esther was a second cousin by marriage, the result of a Lathrop's mesalliance; she was the one unfettered spirit in a long line of staid, emotion bound, and duty thinking citizens that made up the family of Lathrop. Her first husband had died, and six months after his funeral, she had married a young Lathrop who was in the early stages of rebellion against the conventions of his family. But, true to his heritage, he found life with the irrepressible Esther unbearable, and quietly divorced her after two years of misery. Not daunted in any way, Esther had married again; this time she did the divorcing herself, and in a day and town where a woman divorced once had as well wear a scarlet letter. Unable at last, to stand the town's and the Lathrop's steady rebuffs, she had gone to a coast city. The mention of her name was always a flagrant signal in Red Water, and her return with a fourth would not diminish the gossip. "When did she come?" the now thoroughly alert Elvira demanded of the righteous Delia.; Delia removed her coat, preparatory to a lengthy stay. ?Why, she come on the stage last night," she began in her high, discordant voice, her deep flesh glowing; while Elvira, all caution forgotten, went on with her creaming, a high spot of color in her sunken cheeks. It had been a long time since she had had a chance to forget herself in a choice bit of gossip. "Eric was up at the post office this morning, and they come right in for their mail. She was just as brazen as anything, introducing him right and left to her 'old friends.' Cousin Tom's wife was there too, and Eric had only started telling me, when she run in with more news. She said that Esther was bragging she'd walk into the Lathrop reunion and give 'em the surprise of their lives." Delia folded her lips into a pudgily tight line. She was the essence of satisfied virtue. By the time she was through with all that she had heard and surmised, the cakes were in the oven and the fire adjusted to their needs. She arose still bristling with importance. I got to be getting on. Old lady Henry's bedridden this week, and ~ I know she'd like to hear about Esther, and then I've got to get home and get supper for Eric and the rest of the family. He's been hauling hay to the cattle pens all day and he'll be hungrier than the threshers." She took up her coat, this time taking care to run her arms through the sleeves. The short November day was fading into a gray evening and the air was chilly. "I?ll be seeing you at the Relief Hall when the women folks bring over their vittles," she called good-naturedly from the back stoop, and energetically waddled around the graveled path to the unpaved sidewalk, Elvira watched her from the front window, puzzled to see the cousin turning towards home instead of Mrs. Henry's. "I expect she's decided to let the old lady wait," she thought, letting her eyes rest on the dried branches of the still trees. She felt quite kindly towards Delia. Outwardly they had kept up appearances, true to Lathrop traditions, but the old rancor had kept them from becoming intimate in spite of their living but two blocks apart. Later, when the first glow of the gossip had worn off, and she sat in the darkening twilight with the singing kettle, waiting for Ward to return, she wondered if Esther's sudden appearance would detract from the coming of her favorite cousin, John Lathrop. John was the son of Jedediah, the oldest member of the clan, and had gone East, to New York, and become so noted in his law profession that his name sometimes appeared in the metropolitan papers. He had come all the way across the continent with his wife, whom none of the family had seen. The cakes had baked without a flaw, and the little spinster was content in her anticipations.
Elvira was one of the first to meet at the Hall. She knew that the women depended on her to help with the arrangements and the cooking. They said she was right handy at fixing the flowers?mostly potted plants?and telling the men where to put the chairs and rugs; then there was the paring of the vegetables. Making room for the turkeys, and the dishes, and she didn't have any children to bother her. As she scurried around on her sore leg, helping to place the horsehair sofas, the buttoned leather lounges, and the nondescript rocking chairs, she could not forget her cakes. Her pride in them was almost indecent. Each year she tried to make a different icing. This time the smooth, white surface had an "L" with flourishes in every direction. With that "L" there could be no mistaking her cakes!
About one o'clock the families began to assemble. The older ones and a few of the youngest had been to the Thanksgiving services in the Meeting House. The Lathrops were a large and important part of the town, and they all bore the marks of their English and Scotch-Irish ancestry. In their number was Charles K., bald and rotund, and president of the one bank. He drove up in his car, the second one in the town, with instructions for his son Frank to spare no gas when errands were to be run. Then there was Ralph K., also of the older generation, who was stake president and had invited both his counselors and their families. Bishop Madsen had been invited, too, because David Lathrop, just returned from a mission and newly married to Red Water's belle, was his first aid. Lean and lanky Rod, standing six foot two in his bare feet and more typical of the clan than Charles, was there, looking as if the weight of his great sheep herds was more than he could bear. And that was Howard, by the door. Howard, was a younger one and taught school at the State University. All the town was proud of Howard. Wasn't that Ellen, the only business woman in the family, walking in with her husband? She lived in the capital city also. The wives were noisily in evidence; mostly plump they were, except the older Lathrop girls, flushed and energetic. The sunbrowned husbands of the Lathrops stood about, abashed in their Sunday clothes, for all the world as if they were not yet used to contact with the powerful clan. There was no sign of Esther and her fourth.
The women glanced apprehensively at the door and then at each other. There was a hush over the laughing back-slapping crowd at his entrance, then a pleased little burst of welcome, and after that everyone talking at once. With him was his New York wife, whose accent they would never forgive, nor cease in their talk about her stylish clothes. John was tall, distinguished with the straight Lathrop nose and dark hair. He had always had a part of the gracious dignity that was so evident now, and his pleasure at being home was not feigned. She wanted to rush to him, but her self-consciousness held her back. One time he had been her only confidant, and he knew of the plans she and Eric had made. Eric was to live with the cousin, and Elvira was to supply part of the money needed for an education. John could put his emotions into words, and was the only help she had accepted. She hated to have him see her a faded part of the background, only made welcome because blood ties were no slight thing; she had to speak to him some time. There he was, smiling in her direction. He broke through the crowd, his hands outstretched. She felt her old dress, aware that even her best silk was years behind the styles, and then the tables, concocted of lumber and trestles, ran the length of the long hall. Every Lathrop, large or small, was seated. Most of them came from the farm home from school before supper was finished. Elvira and Ward were seated next to Delia and her sprawling family and near enough to John to reminisce with the banker. The two lone members ate with hearty appetites, their eyes opened wide as if to retain the excitement and genial contact until a quieter day.
After the prayer came turkey, roast pork and beef, chicken smothered in flaky tan crust, salad and vegetables with the dried fruit the Lathrop men spent August days in paring and slicing; shivering jellies, pickles and yellow rolls, all shot with the lemon glow of the sun drifting through the newly washed Relief Society curtains. For dessert there was squash pie, piled with whipped cream, plum pudding, and heavily iced cakes, with a special treat of bananas and grapes brought from Salt Lake by John.
Elvira was animated with pride when she saw her two cakes, cut in small pieces, the "L" still visible, and topped with red rose buds that had come from Provo only this morning. Eric's voice, made content by the food and companionship, was heard asking if he might have cake before pie or pudding. Happily flushed, she pushed one of her platters his way. Before she could see it reach its destination, John called to her from his seat near the head. Something had reminded him of an experience at the Academy and he wanted to share it with her.
"Do you know, Elvira," he half shouted above the buzz of Lathrop talk, "that I saw the same Fanny Davis who had a room at our place in Provo on Fifth Avenue a week ago."
Flattered, Elvira chatted back, anxious to know why Fanny was in the East, but at the same time straining an ear for Eric's comment. She hoped, too, that John would hear and take pieces for him and his wife.
"She and her husband," John was explaining, his long, white fingers stretched on the linen cloth, when she heard Eric addressing the group at large.
"Yes sir," he was saying, "Delia beat Elvira at her own game. She got the receipt to the potato cake, got it made, and you'd better taste it before you go on to the pie."
In a daze Elvira looked at the chocolate mound disappearing on Eric's plate, then back to her platter with its festive roses and untouched pieces; and back to Eric's proud gaze and Delia's triumphant one. There could be no mistake; in front of him was a chocolate cake, on a platter not her own and dressed in brown icing. Slowly the color receded from her face and the life from her eyes. They became old and tired and she dared not lift them from her plate. Her work-hardened fingers clutched at the handkerchief in her lap?she wished the table had a leg she could lay hold to; but she wished more that she could disappear, under the board table, into the kitchen, out the side path, or any place just so she did not have to sit here and pretend to smile.
The relatives were talking and laughing now, asking Delia how she managed to get the recipe. Even before Delia began her willing explanation, Elvira knew. It came to her in one clear picture how Delia had watched every move in the cake making. "Fool!" she called herself, to be caught that way. Anyone who knew anything about measurements could tell from the array, and she had been slow in mixing the batter; slow while she listened to Delia gossip! All props to her shrinking self were being torn from their groundings, and in a few minutes she would be standing there naked and quivering to face the ruthless Lathrops. Her face was the color of wood ashes and her chin was beginning to tremble. In an attempt to appear at ease she glanced around the table and saw Eric, all the merriment gone from his face. His hands fumbled with the bright silver, while his eyes beseeched her to understand that his part in the downfall had been unwitting. He had meant only to have a little joke. She felt sorry for him, but she could not summon assurance to her eyes.
"And I," Delia went endlessly on, "didn't think of it till I got out to the gate and started for old lady Henry's," "Liar," Elvira wanted to scream. The cousin was not telling the whole truth; she had used the gossip as a pretext for coming when she felt certain the cake was in the making); "and then the idea struck me, and I rushed home. I got the thing made before Eric come home for his supper, and I defy any of you to tell it from Elviry's own. And what's more," she finished with intentioned malice, "if any of you want the receipt, you can have it for the asking!"
In the laugh that followed, the spinster, regardless of questioning eyes, or knowing giggles, and the Lathrop tradition of never disclosing feelings in public, slipped away from the table and out of the nearest door. There were three blocks between the Hall and her home, and she ran them without a coat in the thin, cold November light. Few persons were on the street, but these she did not see. Her aching leg was forgotten until a sharp reminder from it stopped her near the gate. Once home she slipped off her best dress, only half conscious of a new rip in the carefully darned armhole. She started a fire in the box stove of the sitting-room, and with elevated leg took up her knitting; it always soothed her, and Ward wanted his woolen socks for winter.
As the needles clicked she wondered if they had ceased talking and snickering over her sudden exit. Soon it would be time for the men to go home for hurried chores. And after that the program would change attractions. There would be music, such as her starved ears seldom heard: Lizzie's oldest daughter who was studying "voice" in Salt Lake would sing; Hardy Jones, known all over the West for his violin playing, would give repeated encores, and the Lathrop male quartette would sing "Lucky Jim" and "Happy Days." After that would come dancing, old-fashioned quadrilles and reels that Elvira would love to have danced. Also there would be waltzes and fox trots and two steps as a concession to the youngsters. Yet she was glad that she was away from it all, the pitying glances, the stinging wit, and the condescension of persons who would be kind, "because poor Elviry, she's not got a soul but Ward, and he's no more company than a sheep."
When she could knit no longer, she turned on the light to read, but the pages blurred and her thoughts would revert to the afternoon. Eyes on the red-checkered cloth, she rocked, thinking, thinking. Soon she might lose her place in the store, and that would mean help from the relatives, maybe Eric and Delia. "Never!" she hissed to the crackling fire. The shame of Delia's disclosure came to her in hot waves, making her clench her teeth and shudder. It was not the loss of the recipe that troubled her so much now, it was the degradation of being laughed at, made a joke before John and the clan assembled; and it was Eric to whom she had given all fidelity who had bared the loss of her pitiful secret. She was worse than Esau, for he at least had received a meal. She felt a sickish feeling in the pit of her stomach, but she sat there rocking. If Ward had only not arranged with the Hansen boy to milk the cow, she might have had something to do. But as the twilight deepened the comfort of familiar things came to her: The faded rag carpet, the walnut and marble mantle with the loud ticking clock that had been hauled across the Plains, the homely furniture made in the days of Red Water's co-operative manufacturing, and the looped curtains of Nottingham lace. Past skill with the needle was recalled. "I do believe I could pick it up again, if I have to quit my job. It would help my leg, and Charles' wife is always after me to make her a dress." Once the banker's wife came, others would find the way. Perhaps they would compensate in part for the life and gayety she would miss at the store. She'd be glad to get away from Hans anyway. Clarity and peace were returning. Even if Ward did become crippled, they could rent out the farm, and still have enough to feed them.
When Ward came in after eleven o'clock, she was sitting quietly, knitting. He was as inarticulate as ever, but as he awkwardly took the cane-bottomed rocker on the other side of the box stove, his fumbling gestures betrayed his desire for words. Twice in the same day she felt sorry for men.
"Did you have a nice time?" she asked, trying to keep the tremor out of her voice that had sprung up at Ward's sympathy.
"Yes." He struggled to tell her how he had enjoyed the old friends, the hours of forgetting himself. "Some of the girls even asked me to dance a reel with them," he boasted deprecatingly.
Elvira knew the sad figure he had cut, with his stiff legs, long hair and rusty blue suit, but she only said, "I'm glad," and tried to smile. Stirring in his seat, Ward looked at her hopefully, then relapsed into a tense silence. They sat there, she rocking, and only the loud ticking of the clock, the roar of the newly stirred fire disturbed them. Her eyes were suspiciously bright; her thin lips closed like a vise.
"We ought to be getting to bed," Ward suggested, breathing heavily, but neither moved. Suddenly he sat erect in his chair. He relapsed again, but the start had been made.
"It was a mean trick of Delia's about the cake," he blurted out, the words tumbling over each other in their unaccustomed speed. "There was a lot of people thought the same, though they didn't say so at the table, because they was afraid of her tongue. John's wife come right up to me and she says, 'Tell your sister that was one of the most delicious cakes I have ever eaten!'" He was surer of himself now, a pride entered his speech and a faint reminder of Mrs. John's softened r's and shorter vowels. "'John and I are going to call on her tomorrow night, after the store is closed, if she will permit us, and if she would let us have the recipe, I'd think it was the kindest favor'." He wiped his brow and went on, not noticing that his sister's eyes were gleaming with the first of the held-back tears. "And during the program Eric came up, too, kinda nervous, to tell me he didn't countenance his wife's actions. He said he never in the world would have said what he did, if he'd a knowed Delia was going to say what she did. And besides," Ward was almost winded now from the effort, and there were beads of moisture on his lean face, "she said her cake wasn't near as good as yourn."
Elvira's tears halted him now, and he watched her, embarrassed at their volume. She was shaking from chin to toe, but it was good to know that Eric understood; that Delia had not dulled all his old kindliness. She was glad, too, John remembered and would come. Not many of the Lathrops would be favored with such a visit.
"It don't matter none," she told her helpless brother, as she gathered up her scattered knitting. She carefully wiped her eyes and nose while Ward closed the stove draughts and locked the doors. The tears were stopping now; the relaxation that comes with their outpouring was beginning to be felt. "It don't matter none," she repeated, "besides," a light broke over her face, and the tired lines faded, "I got that pineapple conserve recipe that no one's ever tried before. I guess that'll hold Delia when I spring it at the Relief Society bazaar this coming December!"
Without calling goodnight, for that would have been sentimental foolishness, they turned off the lights and went into their cold bedrooms.