* * * I have been greatly wronged, Torvald. First by father and then by you. * * * Nora: Yes, it is just so, Torvald. While I was still at home with father, he used to tell me all his views, and so of course I held the same views; if at any time I had a different view I concealed it, because he would not have liked people
with opinions of their own. He used to call me his little doll, and play with me, as I in my turn used to play with my dolls. Then I came to live in your house. * * * Here I have been your doll-wife, just as at home I used to be papa's doll-child.
Problem
Nora thinks that there must be something wrong in a world where a woman may not be permitted to save her husband's life. She knows that she has been punished severely for doing the natural thing, and so she wonders what is the matter with the laws. At least, she has learned one thing, that if a woman is to have freedom to do the good that is within her soul, she must understand her world. So she leaves Helmer with the children. She rather accepts his verdict that she is not prepared to make them the mother they should have or to make him the wife he should have until she has learned more of her world.
The Doll's House is a satire against keeping a woman in ignorance, or the old belief that a woman is all right provided her husband is well informed. The husband may be in the condition Helmer was in, so near to death's door that he cannot be communicated with, and the father may be on his deathbed, or even dead, as Nora's father was at the time she needed his help. Ibsen has been careful to give us a situation where both the husband and the father are unable to give the woman advice, and as a consequence, she disobeys the law and becomes liable to a severe penalty because of her ignorance, which this time means a lack of knowledge of the law.
Questions
1. What opportunities offered women of today make it possible for them to keep out of Nora's difficulties?
2. Do you think Nora was justified in feeling that she should be trained to be a real companion to her husband?
3. What characteristics of Torvald Helmer made him shrink from assuming Nora's guilt, as she believed, at first, that he would?
4. Do you think it was natural for Nora to refuse to be friendly with her husband after he had spoken to her the harsh words that he did speak?
LESSON IV
Social Service