Books Married Sweethearts Somehow | feel that when the average reader picks up "Married Sweethearts," by Alfred Osmond, and especially if he knows the author to be a poet, he will suspect that he is to read something mildly sentimental in praise of wedded home life; and he may be inclined to lay the book aside with the thought "A good book surely, which I shail read some day when I get more time." But let this reader open the lids of the book and he will not read it at some other time but right away—at once, scarcely laying the book down after he has begun it.

Lor the entire story is gripping, and holds the reader with fascinating interest from first to last.

The story is a succession of real thrills; and while it does contain many fine sentiments well expressed, it never slops over in this respect but brings in the sentiment with skill and ease just where it belongs.

The book deals with bandits, robbers, murderers, outlaws, sweethearts, married and unmarried, captured and uncaptured.

For the outlaws capture some of them; and the record of their adventures forms a series of pictures comparable with the best Indian stories of former days.

There is a good deal of shooting, of combats, of adventures in the mountains amid snow and storms, among wolves and savage men who know chiefly one thing well—how to shoot with deadly effect and to do so upon slight provocation.

Thus the book is one that makes a strong appeal to both youth and strong natures, who love action and tense scenes and situations.

With all this the book is yet true to its title.

While it contains the required materials of dramatic plot and the hairbreadth escapes which hold any reader's interest, it also sets forth the higher beauty of the spirit and the dominant part which the spirit takes in governing the actions of normal and abnormal men and women.

It is a love story throughout with several sets of lovers, and so has the charm of romance for all those not too old to remember the glorious days of youth and for the youth who is just about to experience these delights.

At the same time there is running through the tense and exciting narrative, like a golden vein in a layer of quartz, a religious philosophy of life and of the power of love to redeem men and women from even their lowest and most deeply fallen estates.

That the author can make his book preach a sermon while relating the incidents of thrilling adventure is a high tribute to his genius and ability as both philosopher and story teller.

The book is filled also with description of the beauty of western mountains, yet there seems to be little description in it since the scenes are a vital part of the drama itself, not being brought in for the purposes of descriptive writing.

The characters, too, follow the Homeric rule of acting and speaking for themselves, so that there is not much need to label them as this or that type of human being.

Each one is a true and distinctive species of the human race, and each describes himself mainly by what he says and does.

The story is laid.

Somewhere in Utah, at a not very distant day, in a village near the mountains; it has many characters of plain, average people.

The home life of several couples is set forth with a trifle of exaggeration, as if in order to make sure that readers shall see the point.

Of the heroines there are quite a number—Nell Foster, Lily Williams, Samantha Wolf and Vera King, all being conspicuous, and each taking a rather heavy part.

The men are Sunny Brown, Badger Wolf, Hen Fox, Dave Holmes, Butch Cassidy, the notorious western outlaw, and several of his men.

Neil Foster is knidnaped and carried to robbers' roost in the mountains, not for a ransom, but for a test of her supposed love for an old sweetheart Stanley Black, whom she had dismissed a year or so before.

She is remarkable but rather less so than the obscure girl, Lily Williams, married to slovenly but good hearted Vern Wiliams, who is untidy and uncultured.

Lily goes in search of her kidnaped friend, Nell.

She is guided by the mail carrier for the robber, who turns out to be of first magnitude as a man of iron and of honor, and accompanied by Sunny Brown, a young man of the village not in love with anyone, who at length becomes a real hero and falls in love with an ideal woman, the picture of his own fancy.

He finally meets her in these mountains with the usual result.

Nell discovers that her discarded lover had no hand in her abduction but that on the contrary he has become a man of high ideals and lofty character, writing a book on the philosophy of life.

The story ends right, and is a good one.