THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS.
	(A plea for it in the home.)
EDITH IVINS LAMOREAUX.
	While so much is being said and written
in favor o[-] the Doctrine and Covenants as
an aid in the study of the Gospel among our
young people, both in Sunday Schools and
Mutual improvement Associations, as well
as in the different quorums of the Priest-
hood, I wish to make a plea for it in the
home—in the hands of the mother.
	To some mothers this may seem a difficult
task and of little use, as many of us have
felt heretofore that the book is beyond our
comprehension and never intended for our
use. But an interested attempt at study of
its contents has made it appear in a far dif-
ferent light to me. The inspiration to take
up this line of work is due largely to the
influence of the splendid talks I have heard
given in its favor by those who have made


[Column 1]
an exhaustive study of it, and to the lec-
tures given in the Young Woman's Journal
as used in the Y. L. M. I. A. throughout
the Church.
	If I should borrow their ideas too much,
my only excuse is that they are a little bet-
ter than any I have yet heard or read, and
still the mothers whom I wish to reach do
not often come in contact with those who
are now pushing forward this grand move-
ment, nor the work itself as taken up in
the different organizations
AS TO THE BOOK ITSELF AND ITS MISSION.
	Its fly leaf tells us it contains the revela-
tions given to Joseph Smith for the building
up of the kingdom of God in the last days.
Surely if you and I as mothers in Israel ex-
pect to help build up the kingdom we need
these instructions—revelations—as much
as any one.
	The idea that the book is only for the
wise heads and those holding the Priest-
hood, being too strong food for women or
the young, is an old prejudicial one, which
is fast being removed by our young people
themselves.
	“Its mission is to reveal the mind and will
of our Father in answer to questions which
arose from time to time in the Church, and
to explain other doctrines as the Lord saw
that they were needful for the Church.” Its
teachings too are fitted for our daily lives
now if we will but seek to find them.
	On one occasion I heard an enthusiast on
this work say, “It is especially adapted for
women, because the nature of woman is
such as to enable her to fathom the truths
contained therein.”
	But, says the mother, how shall I go to
work to study it, to find what there is in it
for me?
	The very fact that parents use it so little
in the home proves that they have not yet
realized the value in enabling them to train
up their children before God. Various sug-
gestions as to the study of it are given in
the Outlines for both Sunday School and
Mutual Improvement work, as well as a
splendid article on the subject in the Nov.
number of the Improvement Era by Dr.
John Widtsoe.
	The mother, if deeply interested as to
how to become really acquainted with the
book will find all she needs here, choosing
for herself that which seems most suitable.
As far myself, not always having with me
the references which classify the subjects in
topical form, and not finding it interesting
to read the book page by page, I have found
great joy in studying it in connection with
the life ot the Prophet Joseph Smith as writ-
ten by himself in the old bound volumes of
the Millennial Star, beginning with Vol.
xiv. It is also found in the new Church
History.
	In reading this way I have found the
reason why, and the circumstances under
which each revelation was given. We find
too that the Lord did not tell Joseph all
concerning one principle at once, but gave
knowledge as we as a people were able to
receive it

[Column 2]
	While many of the revelations seem to be
given expressly for the edification or chas-
tisement of individuals, they nearly all con-
tain advice equally applicable to us in our
day if we but read with the spirit.
	For those who hunger for light on the
glorious principles of the Gospel and desire
an increase of faith in God, no better treat-
ise is given than in this holy book. Truly
in these days we need to understand the
signs of the second coming of our Lord and
the preparation necessary for us to meet
and dwell with Him, all of which is more
fully given here than anywhere, and so
simple as to be easily explained to our chil-
dren, who really hunger after these things.
	What child among us would not prefer to
give an intelligent reason (having learned it
from mother) why they are baptized into
the Church, and on the exact age of eight
years—that our Father revealed it to the
Prophet Joseph Smith in Hyrum, Ohio, in
1831, one year after the Church was or-
ganized (Read sec. 68). And to parents he
says at that lime if they do not do their
duty iu this regard the sin will rest upon
their heads.
	Since our reverence for holy things in-
creases as our interest is awakened in them,
so, too, will the child as it older grows have
increased reverence for the sacrament if
taught by mother of its institution by Christ
and again revealed to Joseph Smith in our
day, and the reason given why we use
water now instead of wine, as in the Sav-
ior’s time. In the Millennial Star, Vol. XIV,
page 37, Joseph tells us that while on his
way once to procure some wine that him-
self and some others might partake of the
sacrament, he was met by a heavenly mes-
senger who told him not to use wine unless
it was made by or among themselves. (Sec-
tion 27, first four verses only were given at
that time) He accordingly went back and
they made their own wine, partook of the
sacrament, after which the evening was
spent in a most glorious manner praising
God. I mention these as illustrative of
much that Is interesting matter for our chil-
dren.
	Section 121 given while the Prophet was
in Liberty jail is full of instructions to par-
ents. For instance verse 43 says, ‘‘reprov-
ing betimes with sharpness when moved
upon by the Holy Ghost, and then showing
forth afterwards an increase of love towards
him whom thou hast reproved, lest he es-
teem thee to be his enemy.”
	What a beautiful principle for our guid-
ance, yet how often it is violated in the
home and among us as Church members.
	We all need reproof—children, in the
cause of Christ, but many a child has drifted
from the home, from mother’s loving care,
and many have gone from the Church be-
cause parents and those with authority to
chastise, did not observe the latter part of
the advice contained in this verse.
	In reading a sketch of the life of the “boy
Apostle” Hyrum M. Smith (in Cowley’s
Prophets and Patriarchs) we find: “He
was safely tucked away in bed long after he
reached the age of hundreds of the boys—
and girls too—that we now see playing in

[Column 3]
the streets late at night.” And I ask my-
self why it is that this mother did her duty
in this regard, while many other mothers
seem to utterly disregard it? I take it that
she knew from reading that it was a positi v
command of God that we retire and arise
early, that our bodies and minds be invig-
orated. (Sec 88, verse 124). Oh, what a
vast amount of sin and sorrow is brought
into the world under cover of night, when
our sons and daughters should at least be
at home with us, and in bed at decent
hours. Yet I am quite sure that many of
our young qeople who habitually keep late
hours to the detriment of their health and
morals, would not have contracted such a
habit if taught from early childhood that it
is in violation of a command of God, just as
much as the drinking of strong drinks. And
even now most of our dear girls are con-
scientious enough to appreciate the necessity
of a reform, and their influence is great in
other good or bad practices among the
young, if they were lovingly shown this
passage and impressed with its importance
by a wise parent.
	So too, the suggestion in Section 42,
verse 40 in regard to the making and wear-
ing of our apparel be pondered over by us
as mothers and taught to our daughters
with profit. Thus I might go on, but space
will not permit.
	Let me say in closing that we who now
have equal rights with our husbands should
not be afraid to stand along side by side
with them in the study of this important
work. Let us read it with a prayerful heart
and God will increase our interest in it and
our power to understand and live up to the
glorious principles contained therein.


