			BOX ELDER.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Box
Elder Stake convened in the Tabernacle,
Brigham City, Dec. 13, 1904. On the stand
were the stake officers and Stake President
Charles Kelly. President Susannah P.
Booth, presiding.
	Singing, “We thank thee, O God for a
Prophet.”
	Opening prayer by President Charles
Kelly.
	Singing, “Now let us rejoice in the day
of salvation.”
	President Booth was pleased to meet
again with the sisters in conference. Felt
the Lord would bless us. Prest. Annie C.
Jensen of Mantua society reported. Prest.
Hannah Harper reported North Ward.
Prest. Annie C. Johnson of First Ward,
Brigham City. Sister Grover reported the
Garland society. Prest. Sarah Fridal re-
ported Bear River City. Sister Thompson
reported the Elwood society. Emma Lee,
president of the Third Ward, Brigham City,
reported.
	The hymn, “Glorious things are sung of
Zion,” was sung by the congregation.
	Mary E. Ward, president of Willard, re-
ported. Sister Lizzie Wright reported the
Fourth Ward. All the reports were favor-
able and denoted a spirit of love and har-
mony.
	Sister Emma Pratt reported the Scandi-
navian society. They go around and visit
the elderly and sick people and encourage
them by singing the hymns and leaving
them a little money to help them; knew the
Lord helped and blessed them in their work,
and they appreciated His blessings to them.
	Prest. Booth made a few remarks and the
meeting was adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Singing, “Guide us, O thou great Je-
hovah.” Benediction by Counselor Emilia
D. Madsen.

	2 p. m.—On the stand were Stake Presi-
dent Kelly and his Counselor L. Snow. Bish-
op Grover and Bishop Larsen of Garland and
East Garland, and Stake Relief Society
officers. Prest. Booth presiding.
	Singing, “The sun that declines,” etc.
	Opening prayer by Counselor Lucius
Snow.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sinc[-]re de-
sire” Roll call and minutes read, etc.
	The officers of the General Board, also
stake officers were unanimously sustained.
	Prest. Booth felt pleased to meet with
the sisters, felt to mention the absence of
Counselor Peters, who was detained at
home on account of sickness. She and her
counselors had visited every society in the
Box Elder Stake, and were going to organ-
ize the East Garland Relief Society on the
following Saturday. She took great pleas-
ure in visiting the sisters, felt we were en-
gaged in a grand and glorious work. Spoke
upon the storing of grain, and the great
responsibility President Young had placed
upon the sisters, thanked the sisters for the
interest they were taking in storing grain.
Represented Park Valley society; spoke of
sickness and death in some of the settle-
ments; was p[-]eased to have the brethren
visit with them; felt they were interested
with us. Asked the blessing of the Lord
upon the people.
	Sister Rohwer represented the Second
Ward, Brigham City. Sister Young re-
ported the Perry society. They had had

[Column 2]
considerable sickness and several deaths in
their ward.
	Counselor Emelia D. Madsen talked most-
ly to the teachers; spoke of the duties of
the teachers, thought as a rule, they did not
take time enough to visit with the people;
thought if more time was spent in visiting,
they could better find out the true condition
of things; encouraged them to look well
after the sick, and the wants of the poor,
said we should use every effort to try and
get the sisters into our society; said we
should be big-hearted and not narrow-
minded. Let us be true m thers to those
in need.
	Bishop Grover of Garland had been deep-
ly interested in the reports and instructions
given, thought how beautiful the organiza-
tion of this Church was; spoke of the good
the Relief Society was doing, related an
ncident which happened in their ward,
where the Relief Society was appreciated;
said if they would ask the assistance of the
Lord, they would have joy in their labors.
	Bishop Larsen of East Garland had been
edified in listening to the reports and in-
structions given; felt the Spirit of the Lord
was with us, had been interested in the talk
in relation to the teachers and their calling,
said the sisters who were filled with the
Spirit of the Lord always carried a good
influence with them; felt to ask the Lord
to bless the sisters in their patience and
good works.
	Prest. Kelly was pleased to be able to at-
tend this conference; wondered why there
were not more present; felt an extra effort
should be put forth to attend conferences as
they were business meetings; had been
very much interested in the reports given
today, said the Relief Society was a very
important organization, the Lord had sanc-
tified the labors of the sisters in the great
amount of good they were doing, he appre-
preciated the labors of the Relief Society
in this stake and asked God to bless them.
	Prest. L. Snow felt very much impressed
in this meeting, thought that there were
unseen beings here if our eyes could only
be open to see them. Spoke on the storing
of grain, and referred to prophecies given
by President Young, felt the sisters were a
great help, and asked the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Prest. Booth made closing remarks and
said a few words on the Mother’s Work.
	Singing Doxology. Benediction by Bishop
Grover.
		Cor. Sec’y. Lettie G. Fosgreen.


