ABBIE CRAM HAVEN.
	Sister Haven, who recently passed to the other
side,” was born July 14, 1825, in Stoddard, New
Hampshire, and of New England Puritan parent-
age. She embraced the Gospel and was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints about 1844, and came west to Salt Lake
City in 1860, arriving about the middle of October,
and married Elder Haven soon after. They lived
in Salt Lake City a number of years, then moved
to Morgan county, being one of the first families
to settle there in a place that is now known as
Peterson.
	Sister Haven was always a member of the Re-
lief Society of Peterson, from its first organization
in that ward, and was treasurer for many years,
faithful and true to her duties in that important
office; indeed, she was a thorough Latter-day
Saint in her every-day life—her religion always
first; a woman of strong character, sterling integ-
rity and devotion to principle.
	Sister Haven had one son, Jesse, named for
his father. This young man died some years ago.
leaving two children, a son and daughter—their
grandchildren, and at the time of her demise there
were five great-grandchildren; to all these dear
ones she was fondly attached, and they were very
dear to her. Sister Haven, also raised two moth-
erless children (a girl and a boy) to manhood and
womanhood. They have greatly appreciated her
kindness, and have been kind to her in return.
	Sister Haven departed this life Sunday, Decem-
ber 11 1904, the cause of her decease was pnuemo-
nia. She leaves an aged husband, who deeply
mourns his great loss he has been blind for sev-
eral years, and she has been his constant solace
and attendant. In March next he will be ninety
years of age.
	The remains of Sister Haven were brought to
this city and she was buried in the Salt Lake City
cemetery, She was a noble woman, industrious
and a fine housewife and homemaker; beloved by
all who knew her for her sterling qualities of head
and heart. Our Father in heaven bless the aged
husband and all their posterity and increase them
in the land.
	Sister Haven has one sister living in this city.
now over eighty years of age widely known and
well beloved, Relief C. Atwood; wife of the late
Bishop Millen Atwood, of tke Thirteenth ward.
May her heart be comforted in the loss of her
only sister, and may the Holy Spirit comfort those
bereft, and may they feel in their hearts,
		“She is not dead, but sleepeth.”
								COM.


