GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The October Conference of the General
Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, Wednesday, October 5,
1904, commencing at 10 o’clock a. m.,
President Bathsheba W. Smith presiding.


[Column 1]
Meeting opened with singing, “Come, let
us anew.” Prayer was offered by Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards. Singing, “Now let
us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
	President B. W. Smith gave the sisters
an informal, sympathetic greeting, express-
ing her delight in seeing so many of the 
sisters present, and especially those from a
distance, knew how hard it was for them to
come so far, and hoped they would feel re-
paid; she loved the Relief Society and the
work the sisters were engaged in, there is
no better work in the Church, and we do
help the brethren, and the Lord blesses us
in our labors in what we have to do for the
sick and the afflicted; “may we increase in
love and have patience with each other, and
may we have strength to do all that is re-
quired of us.”
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde was so re-
joiced to see so many assembled and felt
she knew them all; it was like seeing mem-
bers of her own family; “these sisters are
so self-sacrificing and work so hard to do
what is necessary to promote the work of
the Society. The nurses work is doing
so much good;” and she hoped to see the
time when every young girl would have
this work included in her education for
motherhood, and she felt also that the moth-
er’s work in the society was helping all to
progress and improve; “this is a day of
progress and not a station where we stand
still.” She thought we should “mother”
the Mutual and Primary and we ahould
look after them and be one with them.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry felt
when she drew near to the audience she
seemed much better acquainted with the
sisters, and with those who come from a
distance, thought we should try to get
near to each other. She had been request-
ed to report some of her experiences while
away, and so forth, she had enjoyed visit-
ing the Relief Society and meeting the
Saints, had been in Chicago recently and
visited the Relief Society there, held a
meeting with the sisters before the regular
Sunday evening meeting; also in New York
in the meeting of the Relief Society, had an
excellent time there, she had never felt a
better spirit; said in Zurich, in Switzerland
there is an excellent young woman mis-
sionary, very faithful and energetic and also
in Berlin; there the sisters have a good Re-
lief Society the hall where they meet is
poor and not very large, but every seat was
filled and it was an interesting meeting, the
good spirit was manifest, and it was most
enjoyable. “I pray that we may have the
spirit of love and humility and be blest in
our labors that we may live near our Creat-
or and do what is right.”
	Stake reports were called for, beginning
with those far-off. President Mary L.
Woolf, of Cardston, gave an excellent,
though brief report of Alberta and Taylor
stakes; referred to the prosperity of the set-
tlements, in Canada and mentioned the new
wards farther north, Calvary, and Edmon-
ton, they had visited recently, all the or-
ganizations in Canada were in good condi-
tion.
	Counselor Mary A. Bagley reported Bear
Lake Stake, the society had recently built
two new houses and all was prosperous, re-
ferred to the aged president, Sister Julia P.
Lindsay, a veteran in the Church; over 80
years of age; she still visited the branches
in the Stake and attended to her duties in
the society.
	President C. C. Shepherd represented

[Column 2]
Beaver, was proud to mention they had a
granary in such ward and were doing good
work in other respects.
	Miss Emma Ramsey, one of the sweet
singers of Zion, favored the conference with
a solo, “Fear Not Ye For Israel,” Elder
Tracy Y. Cannon accompanying her upon
the organ. The music was greatly appre-
ciated by all present.
	St. Joseph Stake was represented by
Sister Sarah T. B. Folley, she felt the soci-
ety work was making great progress in that
far away locality.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, of St.
George, made an eloquent address upon
practical matters, and zealously exhorted
the sisters to diligence and faithfulness.
	Cassia Stake was represented by Counsel-
or to Sister Haight, who gave a good re-
port of actual conditions.
	Counselor Mary A. Rich reported Fre-
mont Stake, spoke specially of the amount
of grain on hand in good condition.
	Sister Emma Wright, recently home from
New Zealand, gave an exceedingly interest-
ing account of the Relief Society work in
that far off land, she felt this work had
been a great blessing to the native sisters.
	Sister Lexia Harris from the City of Mex-
ico outlined the Relief Society work in that
far-famed city and suburbs, which was most
entertaining and encouraging, when one
realizes how far-reaching aud uplifting this
benevolent work is among the sisters in
whatever part of the world it is commenced.
	President Julia A. Richards of Malad
Stake spoke well of her labors and the great
desire the sisters had to improve in good
works, referred particularly to the Lamanite
sisters and the improvement among them
and their advancement in the organization.
	Maria Makaula spoke in the Hawaiian
language of the society at Iosepa and Sister
Julina L. Smith interpreted what she had
reported to the conference. The native sis-
ters in the Hawaiian colony were striving
in the same kind of charitable work as the
other sisters who had been more accustomed
to assist the poor and the sick.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. by
singing Doxology, and benediction was
offered by Sister Maria Y. Dougall.
	Afternoon session, President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding.
	Prof. C. J. Thomas and members of the
Temple choir were present and had charge
of the musical exercises.
	Conference opened with singing “Praise
to the man who communed with Jehovah,”
prayer by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, sing-
ing, “How blest was the day when the
Prophet and Seer.”
	President B. W. Smith made a few open-
ing remarks, welcoming the large audience,
and expressing her pleasure that so many
were present, and announced the Treasurer
of the General Society, Sister Clarissa S.
Williams, who in a few well-chosen words
also expressed the great pleasure it gave her
to see such a numerous congregation of the
women of the Latter day Saints, after which
she read the annual report of the 17th of
March donations and the disbursements,
and then stated the amount on hand for the
Woman’s Building.
	Sister E. B. Wells moved that the report
as read be accepted, seconded by Sister
Julina L. Smith, and Sister Susan Grant
and carried unanimously.
	The Temple choir then rendered the
beautiful hymn, “O, Jesus, the Giver of all
we enjoy.”

[Column 3]
	Reports were then given from San Juan
Stake by President Mary N. Jones and from
Mexico Juarez Stake by Sister Elizabeth
Snow Ivins, both gave excellent accounts of
the work in the respective localities, that
were of great interest to those present.
	The choir sang Sister Emily H. Wood-
mansee’s hymn, “Daughters of Zi[-]n, the
Friends of the Poor.”
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne gave a brief
sketch of her trip abroad and of the Quin-
quennial of the International Council and
Congress in Berlin she felt it a great privil-
ege to be at home after traveling 14,000
miles by land and sea; she testified that
there were many honest people in the world
yet, and that we should get rid of the idea
that they hate us, she stated that before go-
ing away she had been blessed by all the
General offieers of the Relief Society and by
Apostles George A. Smith and Rudger
Clawson, she realized the promises made to
her. She went direct from here to Boston
and attended the annual meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolution to which she
had been appointed a Delegate and Proxie
for the Regent of the Utah Society. She
had been nominated to speak at the Con-
gress in Berlin and was glad she arrived
early; when she first reached there she
called upon the President, Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, and found her very pleas-
ant and was invited to the first entertain-
ment given by her, a breakfast, previous to
the opening of the Council, where she met
the most prominent women, and was subse-
quently invited by Mrs. Commandes to
take a ride in the Their Gardens; she was
invited to speak twice in the Congress, once
upon the Legislature, and she was one of
the few who could be heard in the large
hall; she only took the time given her;
those women are greatly interested in the
franchise, and anxious to learn of those who
enjoy these rights. The Baroness Von
Beswitch and Frau Maria Stritt had been
greatly interested that she had not only
voted, but been voted for; she also addressed
a large audience on Art, and among the
number present were artists, musicians and
poets, everywhere she was well received and
women were desirous of talking with her
and asking questions; she visited Paris and
the art galleries there, and many other cities
aud traveled almost continuously; in Zur-
ich she visited the Saints and missionaries
who were very much delighted to do all in
their power for her pleasure and on her re-
turn was invited by the Saints in New York
and attended meeting there; she had en-
joyed it all very much aud was glad to be
at home again.
	Sister Emily S. Richards, addressing the
conference said, she and Sister Dusenberry
sailed for Antwerp and on arriving went to
see the very quaint old Dutch town, saw
many grand old pictures, these fine old pic-
tures by the great Masters are everywhere
and especially those of the Savior are con-
spicuous, they were so wonderful and in all
the art galleries that one felt a sensation of 
solemnity, she enjoyed seeing and associat-
ing with the missionaries very much, had a
fine meeting in Zurich on the 4th of July;
it was a treat; Sister Dusenberry made the
boys a strawberry short cake that pleased
them very much. Sister Richards spoke of
the “Sacred Stairs,” crowds of people cling-
ing to them as they go up, and they be-
lieve if they do this their sins will be for-
given; Church of Maternity where chil-
dren are held up to kiss the toe of the vir-


gin, it is pitiful to see the women who are
so ignorant of the truth, she co[--]d not re-
peat all she saw; stated they had no serious
difficulty, were always treated with respect
and kindness.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Sisters Carrie S
Thomas, Maiy A. C. Lambert and Pris-
cilla Smith each spoke a few minutes on the
benefits of the Relief Society, and the bless-
ing attending those who labored therein.
	President Ann Walker reported Black-
foot Stake, the good work being done and
the interest taken in storing grain.
	President Alvira E. Steele, Bingham
Stake, she bad gone up there nineteen years
ago, when the country was new, reported it
was a good grain country, she scarcely
knew what could have been done if they
had not had the Relief Sceiety.
	President Celestia Y. Pack, Summit
Stake gave a definite report of the wards in
that locality, and the work done by the so-
ciety, the sisters there had been studying
the Women ot the Bible and it had been
quite satisfactory.
	Secretary E. B Wells made announce-
ments of meetings to be held, officers’
meetings, Peace meeting, Woman’s Council,
Primary, etc.
	Choir sang “Only a beam of sunshine,”
conference adjourned for six months, clos-
ing prayer by Sister Mary T Smith.
		E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


