WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE.
Continued from January <December> Number.
	In a few days loneliness and gloom set-
tled down upon the Windeyer home, A
little mound in the churchyard was all that
remained to the parents of the frail child so
beloved, There was no word from Ed-
ward, and none from his young wife and
babe. Aunt Matilda stayed on to relieve
Mrs. Windeyer of household cares and
comfort her in her great affliction. Christ-
mas was drawing nigh, and she realized
how hard it would be for them all, remem-
bering that joyful Christmas a quarter of a 
century ago when Edward was born.
	Mr. Windeyer plunged deep into business
affairs, trying to drown his sorrow, but alas!
that was impossible.
	Years went by, and but few changes
came. Margaret lived on alone with the
little Ruth, who grew up a beautiful girl.
Some letters had come from Edward, tell-
ing of adventures and extended voyages;
but as he sailed from place to place, stop-
ping only at seaport towns, the tender
epistles of his faithful and devoted wife
never reached him He began to despair,
and at last concluded to write to his mother
for news of his wife and child. The mes-
sage never reached his wife, so unforgiving
was this proud, haughty woman Long
years afterwards, when little Ruth was
grown to womanhood and Margaret had by
her writing made for herself an honored
name, though a fictitious one, Fanny Hil-
lier, ever faithful to the family, learned
that Edward was dead, and she determined
to unravel the secret and see that justice
was done to the wife and child. Through
old Dr. Gray she heard that family trouble
had wrought so upon the Square that he
had not been himself for some time previ-
ous to his demise
	Fanny succeeded in winning the confid-
ence of Miss Gordon (Aunt Matilda), now
about in her dotage, and learned the par-
ticulars, and felt in duty bound to carry

[Column 2]
the sad news to Margaret and Ruth, un-
pleasant as she knew it would be. Yet
sorrow had chastened the younger Mrs
Windeyer, so that Fanny real[-]zed she would
bear up bravely under this crushing blow.
She had longed, and hoped, and waited
through all the years that had come and
gone for the lover whose fidelity she had
trusted always. Her grandmother had
been laid away in the grave, and her home
was a lonely one; but she possessed a cour-
age that had strenthened with her years,
and for Ruth’s sake she must be cheerful.
	It was Christmas eve again in Merton,
and the usual festivities were in progress.
Fanny’s sister, Carrie, came home with half
a dozen children to see the folks, and there
was sure to be a happy party, for Mrs. Hil-
lier and her husband were still hale and
hearty; and Janet Cousins, now a widow,
was invited to join them at Christmas din-
ner; and Lizzie her daughter, once lady’s
maid to Mrs. Windeyer, was invited too,
with her crowd of little ones and husband
(she had married well), while Fanny Hil-
lier, still single, was the good genius and
more than a mother to them all. It was
Fanny to whom they came to unburden
their griefs and cares, and she had a kind
word and comfort, a “balm of Gilead,’’
for all her friends. Fanny felt now was
her opportunity to leave home and go to
the dear lonely Margaret and tell her the
sad story—duty was always before pleasure
with this grand woman. Her mother pro-
tested, and declared she had giver her life
a sacrifice to the love that was flung back
upon her so long ago. Fanny heeded not
the sarcasm, but started forthwith in a
night coach for Easton, arriving on the
Christmas eve.
	As soon as the affectionate greetings were
over, Margaret said, “My Ruth has had
strange forebodings and peculiar dreams.
I hope your coming is in fulfillment. I feel
myself that something must be pending,
and I dread any great change. My grand-
ma’s death, though sad for us, has left me
independent, and I am going to take a long
rest—perhaps go out to India. I fancy
some way that Edward is there. Why do
you sigh—surely no news of him, or you
would have written?'’ Fanny knew not
how to tell the story she had come to un-
fold. Margaret saw it instinctively in the
expression of her countenance, and quickly
said, “Is the news you bring good or ill?
I can bear almost anything now, but for
Ruth, she is so happy.’’
	Trembling with suppressed excitement,
Fanny answered, “I have a very import-
ant message. Ruth’s grandfather is dead,
and she is the only heir to Squire Winde-
yer’s wealth—he died without a will.’’
	Margaret could not speak at first, but
soon collected her thoughts..
	“The only heir, you say then what of
Edward?’’ she groaned aloud; “he cannot
be dead!’’
	"Yes, Margaret, he is dead, in far away
Bombay. On Christmas eve, a year ago,
they buried him. So young to die and
you still hoping on, and teaching Ruth to
love him!’’
	O Fanny, I will not believe it until I
have the pr[-]of! My baby’s father dead,
and we not know it—so strong, and. we so
frail. And I have waited for his coming
through all these long, dreary years! How
shall I tell Ruth? Tell me, Fanny, what
shall I do?’’
	“A sad Christmas, indeed, for you and
darling Ruth; but life itself is sad, and full

[Column 3]
of mysteries we cannot comprehend; but
there are true hearts and noble souls, and
you, dear Margaret, have proved one among
a thousand.’’
	“Stay with me, Fanny, with me and
Ruth; we need you most. You loved his
father—I know it all now. It has come to
me little by little, as I have watched you
and thought of your unselfish devotion.’’
	Just then Ruth burst into the room, her
golden curls and fair brow, so like her father.
“Oh, how lovely! Aunt Fanny here. I
dreamed of her last night, that she brought
us precious jewels, so dazzling and brilliant
that our eyes were blinded with tears, and
when we opened them again, the casket of
jewels held only pale ashes.”
	“It is true, my darling—your dream is
tiue. Ashes to ashes! Our jewels of love
and memory have turned to ashes, and
Fanny brings us today, instead of ‘Peace on
Earth,’ peace to his ashes far away—your
father sleeps in fair Bombay.”
	Ere another year bad rolled around, the
Windeyer estate was settled, and Fanny,
Margaret and Ruth sailed for India, and
on the next Christmas day they knelt to-
gether at Edward's grave, strew[-]ng it with
flowers.
	“One day I searched an ancient cabinet
		And foun[-] a musty book—I have it yet
	A journal of the good year twenty-nine.
		Kept by a long-departed friend of mine:
	And from its leaves, grown brown with age,
		I take a story and a single page.
 
			“Wait! Wait! Love, I come,
				Bless this dear day
			That brings from far away Bombay—
				These words to thee I say,
			Wait, love, I come. ,
			In flowery, far away Bombay,
			Died in December, twentieth day.”
									E. B. W.


