NEW YEAR’S GREETING.
READ AT THE JANUARY MEETING.
	I feel to extend to my sisters of the Relief
Society Board today wishes for a happy and
prosperous New Year.
	As president I can wish nothing better
for each and all of us than that we may
have the true Relief Society spirit.
	The true Relief Society spirit is to do
good to others.
	It has been said that ambitious women
would be found in our society.
	We build ourselves up surely, when we
administer to others.
	The Relief Society has no honors to con-
fer on members, except to offer a means by
which one may bless and comfort and pro-
vide for others.
	The position of an officer is in itself noth-
ing to a Relief Society worker; but what
she is able to do in that office is all to her
and to this society.
	If we live in simplicity and in truth and
love, naught can retard the work of our
hands in doing good. For even though
we offer little it will seem more.
	May we be able to work in harmony for
the advancement of the cause we are all in-
terested in.
	God bless you, and peace be with you.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	General President Relief Society.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF ELIZABETH H.
				HYDE.
	I was born in the town of Holliston,
Middlesex Co. Massachusetts, on the 2nd
day of Oct. 1813. My parents were Joel
and Lucretia Morton Bullard, my grand-
mother’s maiden name on my mother’s side
was Esther Godard, she married Samuel
Morton, who with two other brothers came
from England to America when young
men and settled in Athol, Mass. My grand-
father served in the Revolutionary war. My
father was born and always lived in Hollis
ton, Mass, he was a well to do farmer did
not belong to any church, but was a whole-
souled generous kind of a man, he died at
the age of 55, leaving my mother with
seven children three sons, and four daught-
ers; her second son Lyman died previous to
my father’s death at the age of 18 years.
	My mother was one of the best of wo-
men kind and affectionate in her family,
and beloved by all who had the pleasure of
her acquaintance; she early taught her
children to love and fear God and to live
upright and honorable lives; she was a
member of the Congregational Church, I
was a subject of serious impressions from
my earliest recollection, would often go to
my chamber and pray that the Lord would
direct me how to obtain a change of heart
which I earnestly sought after, as the min-
isters told us we must obtain in order to be
saved; but they did not tell us how to ob-
tain it, (not knowing themselves), thus
proving themselves blind leaders of the
blind. I continued praying however until
felt that light had broken into my mind
and I thought I had obtained that, that I

[Column 2]
had been so anxiously seeking after, ac-
cordingly I manifested a wish to become a
member of the church to which most of our
family belonged; this was when I was 17
years of age, the form of receiving members
was by going into the front aisle of the
church facing the pulpit and the minister
would read from a book called the church
covenants. I have forgotton all but one
clause, which reads, “That denying all un-
godliness and every worldly lust we would
live soberly, righteously and Godly in this
present evil world,’’ Then we would bow
our heads as a token of assent, we then par-
took of the sacrament and belonged to the
church and were saved, no falling away
from grace. Those who belonged to the
church had their children sprinkled in in-
fancy, I was one of that number, (conse-
quently did not need sprinkling when join-
ing the Church) and if any died without
being baptized, as they called it, their doom
was to go where fire and brimstone were
abundant. I was either a pupil, or a teach-
er, in the Sabbath School in the church to
which I belonged, until I became connect-
ed with the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints.
	In 1833, I went to Amherst Female Sem-
inary, in company with Elizabeth Haven,
af[-]erwards Sister Israel Barlow. The
first elders that I saw were President Brig-
ham Young and his brother Joseph, being
relatives of our family they stopped at our
house a short time, and conversed upon the
subject of their belief and sang beautifully.
“Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation’’
etc., their visit left a very favorable impres-
sion upon our minds. The next elder that
came to our house was Willard Richards he
was also a relative of our family, and had
often visited us before his connection with
the church; he commenced talking with
me asking me if I believed the Bible? I
replied I did, he then asked me if I believed
in miracles and the gifts of the Gospel? I
replied no! they are all done away with
and no longer needed. He said, Oh! I
thought you didn’t believe in the Bible, he
then said some pretty hard things as I then
thought about the ministers, that they
preached for hire and divined for money
and were blind leaders of the blind, this ex-
asperated me, as I had always looked upon
the ministers as being very near perfect, I
thought if that is your religion I don’t want
to know anything more about it, he then
quoted a good many passages of scripture,
for me to ponder upon; which after he had
gone, I examined and found that they
really were in the Bible, that I professed to
be so sanguine in believing, I then resolved
to know for myself whether this strange
doctrine was of God or not, I did not feel
inclined to leave my pleasant home and the
many associates of my childhood and youth
upon uncertainties. I obtained the Book
of Mormon and read it through attentively
thinking if I could find anything in it con-
trary to the Bible I was safe. But alas; I
could find nothing to contradict it, but
rather to confirm it. I had faith in God
that if I would humble myself before Him
in an acceptable manner that He would


[Column 1]
manifest unto me the truth, I accordingly
spent many hours each day in my chamber
searching the scriptures, and asking in
earnest prayer, that if this was the work of
God, I might know it for myself, I had
been thus employed when I arose from my
knees and opened my Bible to the fiftieth
Psalm fifth verse which reads, “Gather my
Saints together unto me, those who have
made a covenant with me by sacrifice.”
These words were accompanied with the
Spirit of God to that degree that my heart
rejoiced, and I knew for myself that this
was indeed the work of God. I was then
ready for baptism, I was wi[-]ling even anx-
ious to leave my pleasant home where I
had spent so many happy days and gather
with the Saints of God. This rejoiced the
heart of my dear mother for she being a
true Israelite believed the work from the
first. We accordingly went forth and were
baptized on the 30th day of June, 1338, by
Elder Joseph Ball, and from that day to this
September 24, 1904, I have never for one
moment doubted this work, or regretted the
sacrifice (if it can be called a sacrifice) of
leaving friends and home I would here
remark that Deacon Haven one of the pil-
lars of the Church to which we belonged
with several others were baptized at the
same time we were some having left prev-
iously, so exasperated our Pastor the Rev.
Mr. Storrs that he became very bitter
against us, he called a Church meeting to
deal with us; as we had made a request to
leave the Church; as I said some had been
baptized without the knowledge of the
Church, and I thought it was very wrong
in them to leave without giving their rea
sons for so doing, and I made the remark
if I ever joined that sect (which I thought
I never should), I would give my reasons
for leaving and stating why, so after I was
baptized I wrote a whole sheet of foolscap
paper giving my reasons for leaving also
my belief, and requested Mr. Storrs to read
it in the Church meeting, which he com-
plied with but in such a mumbling way it
could be hardly understood, (however I ful-
filled my promise) Deacon Haven arose in
their meeting and gave his reasons for
leaving the Church. This Deacon Haven
is the father of Jesse Haven also father of
A. P. Rockwood’s first wife Sisters Palmer
and Barlow and R. T. Burton’s first wife,
his leaving was a great loss to the Church
and they felt it very sensibly.
	We bade adieu to friends and relatives
leaving two sisters with their families and
a brother behind, and four families of us
started for Nauvoo in the spring of 1841.
Our family consisted of my mother, two
brothers, my eldest sister and family and
myself, eleven of us in all. We arrived in
Nauvoo sometime in May, and moved into
a little log cabin, with one room, we found
the people very poor, as they had been
driven from their homes in Missouri by
ruthless mobs, and all of their property de-
stroyed; they had just commenced settling
Nauvoo; our home was near the river close
by Brother Rockwood’s. The first Sabbath
went to meeting (it was held in a grove)
I was an entire stranger and there was no
one near me that I had ever seen before,
there were several Elders on the stand,
some of them had spoken, when the Prophet
Joseph Smith arose, and commenced to
speak, a feeling like electricity passed
through my whole being, and I knew for
myself that he was a Prophet of God; my
mother rejoiced that she had been permitted
to gather with the Saints of God, but her

[Column 2]
stay with them was short, she took with
the chills and fever, so prevalent in Nau-
voo, and died the 1st day of August of the
same year 1841, at the age of sixty-seven
I was sick at the same time with chills and
fever therefore unable to render her any
assistance.
	On the 23rd of February I was married
to Wm. Hyde, by Heber C. Kimball, and
in March 31st of the same year my brother
Isaac Bullard was married to Mary Ann
Hyde, sister to my husband, and in Octob-
er following, my husband and brother were
called to go on a mission to Mass and New
Hampshire. My brother fell from the stag-
ing of a barn he was building and injured
his head, brain fever followed and he soon
died, he was buried by the side of our dear
mother, my husband went on his mission,
was absent eight months, during which
time our eldest daughter Jane Elizabeth
was born; he returned in June and in
September following started on another
mission to the state of Vermont, and was
absent at the time of the martyrdom of
Joseph and Hyrum Smith, he returned on
the sixth of August in company with the
twelve who were also absent at that time.
The mourning there was in Nauvoo when
the sad news reached us, that our beloved
Prophet and Patriarch had been murdered
in cold blood in Carthage Jail, while under
the promised protection of the state, baffles
all description; every heart was over flow-
ing with sorrow and grief for the inhuman
deed, and their innocent blood stained the
floor of the jail and could not be washed
off
	In January, 1845, my husband started on
another mission to Mississippi and Alabama
for the purpose of collecting tithing for the
temple, also for the purpose of getting men
to spend the summer in Nauvoo as the mob
were continually threatening us. My hus-
band was gone this time two months and
had good suceess. July 12th, 1845, a little
daughter Angeline Frances, was born to
me. December 23rd, we received our
anointings in the temple, we were sealed
in celestial marriage on the 19th of January,
1846, and on the 22nd we received further
blessings, work commenced in the temple
the 9th Dec. 1845 and ended about the 8th
of Feb. 1846, my husband assisting in the
work in the temple most of the time until
it closed; in the winter and spring of 1846
the Saints were driven from Nauvoo, our
beautiful city, made so by the arduous toil,
privation and hardships of the Saints.
	We left the city on the 18th of May, and
arrived at Council Bluffs on the 12th of
July, and on the 16th of the same month
my husband enlisted in the Mormon Batta-
lion and on the 20th took up the line of
march, leaving me with two small children,
and in a delicate state of health living in a
wagon in an Indian country.
	Late in the fall my husband’s father and
brother Rosel Hyde, had put up a log
cabin, one room each which we moved into
father and mother Hyde occuping one room,
and Rosel’s family consisting of himself and
wife with three children and my little fam
ily the other. On the 7th of Jan., 1847,
Wm. Jun was born, Bro. Rosel and famil
were very kind to me also father and moth-
er Hyde did all they could for my comfort.
My husband was absent one year and five
months during which time he with the rest
of the Battalion suffered very great hard-
ships and privations, traveling across barren
deserts without water and many times with-
out food enough to barely sustain life; he

[Column 3]
arrived home on the 12th of Dec., 1847,
with barely clothing enough on to be com-
fortable in summer time; on his return home
he with others were obliged to eat worn out
mules’ flesh which they eagerly devoured;
they came to a deserted Indian village
where they found rotted ears of corn which
they se[-]zed with the eagerness of starving
men. They cut leather from their saddles
and boiled up, to keep body and soul to-
gether; when they arrived home they were
literally starved, and as my husband express-
ed himself had suffered much from cold,
hunger, thirst and fatigue. In the spring
of 1848, father Hyde and family started for
the valley of Salt Lake, the twelve apostles
and their families also journeyed at the
same time.
	On the 23rd of Dec. 1848, Mary Lucretia
was born at Council Bluffs, Iowa. March
30th, 1849, Angeline Frances died, age 3
years and 8 months, she was buried at
Council Point, Iowa, four miles from Kanes-
ville, under a lone tree, this affliction seem-
ed almost more then I could endure; she
was of a very loving and sweet disposition.
In the spring of 1849 my husband and
brother Rosel with their families started for
Salt Lake valley. The companies were di-
vided into one hundred, fifty and ten,
Samuel Gully was captain of a fifty and
died on the plains on the 4th of July with
the cholera, several others of the company
died with the same disease. My husband
came very near going the same way. I sat
up with him many nights in my wagon,
fearing every night to be his last; my hus-
band was appointed to take brother Gully’s
place as captain of fifty, Livingston and
Kincaid merchants in Brother Gully’s com-
pany rendered me every assistance in their
power in my husband’s sickness, furnishing
me with medicine and lights, they said they
had lost one captain and didn’t want to lose
another; they had him ride in their carriage
until he got stronger, Sister Betsy Aldred
was with me, we traveled with ox teams.
	We arrived in Salt Lake on the 22nd day
of Sept., 1849, after being on the road be-
tween four and five months, after we ar-
rived in Salt Lake (not much of a city then)
my husband rented a room of Philo Johns-
ton in the 17th ward and went into the store
of Livingston and Kincaid, he afterwards
built a small adobie house in the 14th ward;
on the first of September, 1850, Sally Ald-
red was sealed to my husband, and on the
16[-]h of Oct. a little daughter was born to
me, we called her Ellen Maria. We remain-
ed in the city a short time when my hus-
band sold out, and we moved to Cottonwood
about twelve miles from the city. Here we
moved into a small house with no fl[-]or, we
remained here a short time, then obtained
an adobe house with two rooms, where we
remained some time, and where Sally’s sec-
ond child was born on the 5[-]h of July, 1852.
(the first dying at birth) in the fall of 1851.
My husband was called to go on a mission
to Australia. There he accomplished a
good work, but owing to poor health re-
turned in Oct. 1854, bringing over sixty
saints whom he had brought into the
Church; his health continuing so poorly,
President Brigham Young advised him to
move back to Salt Lake as he was not able
to work on a farm; I wish to state that
while my husband was on this mission we
received great kindness from Bro. Albert
Miles’ family, Bro. Boyce’s family, also Dr.
Lee’s and Milo Andrus, and in fact all the
neighbors for which we felt very grateful;
after moving back to Salt Lake we moved


into a log house formerly occupied by David
Grant, we soon after built a five roomed
house joining father Hyde’s lot, we did not
remain there long before he sold out to
Jesse Haven, and we moved to Lehi this
was in the spring, before the move south,
we remained there three years, during
which time my eldest daughter Jane E.
was married, to Elder Simpson Molen; in
the spring of 1860, Mr. Hyde, Mr. Molen,
and Mr. Griffeth moved north into Cache
Co. and located on a spot that was called
Hyde Park then a barren place, save sage
brush, they camped near a spring, lived in
wagons and dugouts until they could build
houses and from this little beginning it has
grown to be a thrifty town Mr. Hyde
was chosen Bishop and presided there un-
til his death which sad event occurred on
the second day of March, 1874 at the age
of fifty-five years and 6 months; he had
taken unto himself five wives, all good wo-
men; was the father of twenty-five children.
	Soon after my husband’s death, I went to
live in the family of my son in-law Simp-
son Molen, where I have lived with my
daughter Jane ever since, I have ever been
treated with the utmost kindness, for
which may the rich blessings of the Lord
rest upon all that pertains unto him is the
prayer of my heart.
						E. H. H.


