LIBERTY STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Liberty Stake of Zion con-
vened in the Second Ward meeting house
December 3, 1904. President Annie S.
Musser presiding, Sister Margaret Caine of
the General Board being present. Opened
by singing, “Come let us anew.”. Prayer
by Sister Elizabeth Paul. Continued by
singing, “Glorious things of thee are
spoken.” Roll was called, and minutes of
previous confere[-]ce were read and accepted.
President Musser made a few opening re-
marks, welcoming the sisters and asking
the blessings of the Lord on all present.
	Favorable reports were then listened to
from all the wards in the stake, after which
Sister Martha Morris favored us with a
hymn.
	Counselor Eardley spoke for a short time
on woman suffrage.
	Sister Margaret A. Caine spoke on the
importance of understanding, and following
closely the legal requirements of the asso-
ciation, and devising ways to accumulate
means in order to take care of our poor;
also said that we were instructed to pro-
vide against the calamities that were to
come upon us by storing wheat and filling
our granaries.
	Adjourned until 2 o'clock by singing and
prayer.


Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock with
Counselor Annie T. Hyde and Ida S. Du-
senberry from the General Society, Treas-
urer C. S. Williams and Sister Margaret A.
Caine of the General Board on the stand.
After the usual exercises, singing, prayer,
minutes, etc., Counselor Hodgson presented
the names of the General Board, also the
names of the Stake Board, all were unani-
mously sustained.
	Sister C. S. Williams felt that the Lord
wou[-]d bless us in our efforts to help and re-
lieve suffering humanity, and we would
also obtain much happiness in so doing.
	Dr. Margaret Roberts related many inci-
dents that had come under her observation,
and urged the teachers to seek after the
Spirit of the Lord to guide them in their
work, also to get the young mothers to at-
tend Relief Soc[-]ety meetings.
	Sister Ida Dusenberry felt that in mak-
ing the sacrifices required of Relief Society
workers, it builds up the character, makes
better women of us, and brings us nearer
our Heavenly Father; told the mothers never
to deceive their children or tell them false-
hoods.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde thought we should
teach our children reverence for our meet-
inghouses, and to love those in authority,
let us love one another and keep the com-
mandments of God, made other sugges-
tions.
	Sister Caine said the bond between moth-
er and children should be very strong, and
let us cultivate the spirit of love in our
homes.
	Sister Webb urged the sisters to be faith-
ful in keeping the commandments of God.
	By unanimous vote the officers’ meeting
was adjourned until the first Saturday in Feb-
ruary. Conference adjourned by singing
“Doxology.” Benediction by Sister Mary
Mair.
