OBITUARY.
	It is painful to record the death of a dear friend
at all times, but when one has lived out the full
time we cannot mourn as we would if the life
were in its morning or noon day season. Sister
Amanda Ellen Hollinghead Smith was born July
27th, 1838, was the daughter of Isaac and Mercy
Wilcox Hollinghead, but at the age of two weeks
was given to Sister Dicy Perkins who was the only
mother she ever knew, her own mother having
died at her birth. On July 29, 1857, she was mar-
ried to William L. Smith of Farmington, Utah.
In 1846 they were called as pioneers to settle in
the Muddy. Some years later they again returned
to Farmington, after this they moved to Idaho.
On July 1st, 1890, her husband was taken by death
which was a severe trial to her. She came with
her children to Canada in 1893 enduring many
hardships and trials, but still trusting in her
heavenly Father and remaining steadfast to the
principles she had embraced, she has been a mem-
ber of this ward (Magrath) for two years. On Aug.
1st, 1903, she met with a fatal accident in dislo-
cating her hip which caused her death in the Galt
Hospital at Lethbridge, Canada—Sept. 21st, 1903.
In her earlier days she was an active worker as
teacher in the Relief Society. She was of great
faith even to her last moments, and passed peace-
fully away. She is the mother of eight children,
five sons and one daughter survive her. She has
a number of grand-children, and several great-
grand-children. Her oldest son Jesse is now on a
mission to the Eastern States. She was a kind
mother, a true Latter-day Saint, and a good friend
always. The funeral was held in the meeting
house at 2 p. m. Friday, Sept. 25th, 1903.
	Resolved, that we the members of the Magrath
Relief Society extend our heart felt sympathy to
the family in this their hour of sorrow. That we
ever cherish her memory and regard her virtues
as worthy of emulation. That a copy of this be
presented to the bereaved family, one be placed on
the record of the Relief Society and one be sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
		O Lord! responsive to thy call.
		In life or death whate’er befall.
		Our hopes for bliss on thee depend,
		Thou art our everlasting friend.
