D. R. SOCIETY MEETINGS.
	The regular monthly meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolut[-]on was held on
Wednesday, Nov. 16, 1904, at the residence
of Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth, Regent Phebe
Young Beatie in th[-] chair. Considerable
business was transacted, after which a
charming paper was given by Mrs. Clarissa
S. Williams, “Incidents of the Occupation
of Philadelphia by the British.” Mrs.
Clarissa Y. Spencer read an old Thanks-
giving Proclamation, very quaint and or-
iginal.
	The elegant parlor and library were
handsomely decorated with yellow chrysan-
themums and trailing evergreens and the
society colors of blue and buff daintly dis-
played, also flags and banners and historic
pictures of heroes and heroines of the Revo-
lutionary times were in evidence.
	There were a number of guests, Mesdames
Rhoda Lyman, Charlotte F. Richards, Jos.
S Richards, Mary Gowans, Louise Rich-
ards Farnsworth, May H. Larson and Jos.
A. West. The two last mentioned are
granddaughters of the late Capt Hunt, of
the famous Mormon Battalion and of Elder
Addison Pratt, the first Mormon misssonary
to the Society Islands.
	Refreshments, delicious and dainty,
were gracefully served to members and
guests by Mrs. Farnsworth’s pretty
daughters.


The D. R. meeting on December 16, the
anniversary of the Boston Tea Party was
held at the home of Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, Regent Phebe Y. Beatie presiding.
The parlors were artistically decorated with
the most charming variety of late autumn
flowers and leaves, and the cosy, home-
like appearance of the house was gratifyiug
to one’s sense of harmony. The greatest
care h d been taken in the preparation of
the paper, which was very evident in the,
reading of it, Mrs T. G. Webber, the writ-
er, gave it as none but one whose heart is
in the subject can read to an audience.
	The subject was one that is always
specially pleasing, “Paul Jones and the U.


S. Navy.” There were other pleasing
features of the meeting. The guests were
Mesdames Bathsheba W. Smith, Charlotte
F. Richards, and Nellie Druce Pugsley, one
of the sweetest singers in Utah, who favor-
ed the ladies with several favorite selections.
‘I have heard the mavis singing her love
song to the moon,” and others, this vocal
music was enjoyable and uplifting.
	The refreshments pass all description and
were declared by a majority of the company
to be the best that had been served by any
hostess of the society. The little daughter
of the hostess while assisting in serving
passed a dish of “tacks on tea,” creating no
little merriment, as well as reminding the
guests, who were thoroughly enjoying the
hot rolls and tempting luxuries, of the time
when the tax on tea became unbearable to
their foremothers more than one hundred
years before.


The January meeting, Monday l6, 1905,
was held in the Templeton at the society
headquarters, Regent Phebe Y. Beatie oc-
cupying the chair. The stars and stripes
were conspicuously displayed, and there
were a number of historic pictures. Mes-
dames Bathsheba W. Smith and Mary Gow-
ans were the only guests. After some busi-
ness had been attended to, Mrs. Carissa S.
Williams read the paper of the day, which
had been written by Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, (who could not be present) the topic
being Roger Williams, and many new points
in his character were bro[-]ght out and em-
phasized by the writer, giving to this great
and good man almost irresistible power in
dealing with the native Indian tribes. The
writer had dealt with the subject in a very
interesting and original manner, and the
ladies all felt that they had been instructed
as well as entertained.


