[Column 1]
	SUGGESTIVE THOUGHTS.
	We congratulate our readers and the Re-
lief Society sisters everywhere on what has
been accomplished by the organization dur-
ing the year now just being completed.
	The year has been replete with interesting
developments in an extension of work along
new lines and the tendency to spiritual
growth will be apparent in the near future
in this great work.
	The methods used to secure means for
charitable purposes for which the society
was organized is one of the problems that
has to be dealt with in a practical way.
	There is also an, educational side—the
study for the improvement of the mind and
heart, and the necessity of knowledge of
what is taking place from day to day and
the progress made along what is termed the
woman’s field of activity.
	The subjects discussed in clubs, social and
literary, might be introduced in their proper
place in the Relief Society. Already much
has been done in this direction through lec-
tures and by other means connected with
the mothers’ work, but more can yet be
given if care is taken to keep a balance of
spiritual growth in the ascendancy.
	Faith in the gospel and in the principles
thereof must be at the root of all progress,
if we are to succeed in securing the salva-
tion of those most near and dear to us,
which is the ultimate desire and object of
all Latter-day Saints. That we cannot be
saved in ignorance is an established fact,
therefore we must strive to educate our-
selves along all lines.
	We cannot too highly appreciate the ad-
vantages we have in and through the Relief
Society. It is the best and most complete
system of organized charity that has ever
been known, extending into all civilized
countries where the gospel has been
preached and converts made, and giving to
women the opportunity to dispense char-
ity, in wisdom, to all those in need of ma-
terial help; and the still higher privilege to
minister in a spiritual way to those who are
seeking the bread of life, also the sorrow-
ing and the despondent who are in darkness
and who appreciate a helping hand, for the
sisters, generally speaking, are full of ten-
derness and sympathy and, endeared to each
other in the bonds of loving fellowship, are
able to draw near to the standard of excel-
lence set by the Savior who had the love

[Column 2]
that surpassed all other love, that which
made him willing to. lay down his own life
that mankind might be permitted to enter
into the presence of the Father and partake
of the blessings pertaining to life everlast-
ing.
	If we who profess to follow in the foot-
steps of the Savior could keep in mind his
precepts, how much better the world around
us might be made! At the close of the year
many of us make resolves to do better in
the days to come and often fail to carry
them out because of the hurry and bustle of
the work-a-day world, the mind being too
much occupied with trying to keep up with
those around us in worldly things, and we
forget the higher and more far-reaching
matter that pertains to the better side of our
life. These things should not be neglected,
for they tend to enrich our own souls and
make better also the lives of those around
us, whom we love and whose well-being is
more dear than our own.
	After all, it is the firm belief of the writer
that the world is growing better, that man-
kind is attaining a higher standard of mor-
ality and that a greater number of people
are seeking after truth and striving to keep
more fully the higher law, “To do unto
others as we would have others do unto us.”
There has never been a time in the world’s
history when the love of human kind was
so manifest in words and deeds as the pres-
ent. Intelligence has become more wide-
spread and the springs of joy and happiness
that flow from its fountains are reaching
out to all who will receive its benefits.
	There need be no fear of a backward
tendency now; the world is too far ad-
vanced, and the generation of younger peo-
ple who are now coming forward with minds
alert and with new energies will keep up
with tlie rapid advancement in the race for
progress. In view of all this, the writer
urges the sisters in all the Relief Societies to
cultivate faith and never neglect to pray
with faith. As a help in this direction we
would recommend the Lectures upon Faith
in the book of Doctrine and Covenants. If
we had the faith that the sick could be
healed, what a precious blessing it would
be, and faith like this we should instil into
the souls of all who will listen to the teach-
ings on this subject. We must, as older
people, embody faith in all our teachings to
the youth of Zion that it may become a part
of their daily lives. “Faith is the substance
of things hoped for, the evidence of things
not seen.” Tennyson says, in his celebrated
poem, “In Memoriam:”
“Strong Son of God, Immortal Love,
Whom we, that have not seen. Thy face,
By faith, and faith alone, embrace,
Believing when we cannot prove.”


