EMMA LUCY GATES AND ROMANIA
			HYDE.
	It is often remarked that Utah’s sons and
daugthers who have ventured out along
lines of art and education in the world, have
pretty generally succeeded. In eastern col-
leges they rank among the highest for ex-
cellence and the most gratifying thing is
their splendid standard for good character.
Their moral training at home and the im-
planting from their youth the highest ideals,
together with the splendid religious teach-
ings received, fortify the children of the


Latter-day Saints in such a way as to render
them equal to withstand temptation, resist
evil and pursue an even and industrious
course in their line of work. Among those
who have certainly proven all these things
is our glorious songstress, Emma Lucy
Gates, who, notwithstanding the applause
and flattery of the public, returns occasion-
ally to her old home and people the same
sweet, guileless girl, without vanity, without
conceit, a tireless worker in her art, giving
of her talents and accomplishments for the
joy and delight of her friends. Miss Gates’
home-coming this last time was followed by
a long, severe illness which, of course, was
a cause of alarm to her friends and family
and deprived her of the great enjoyment
she had anticipated in her home-coming.
Now, however, she has entirely recovered
and after giving three concerts in her native
state will once more resume her work
abroad. It is with great satisfaction her
friends note that her beautiful voice has not
been impaired through her long illness. May
she meet with more and greater success than
ever in her chosen field of work, realizing
pleasure while giving pleasure to others.

	A friend remarked the other day, “I don’t
know which I enjoy most, listening to the
playing of Romania Hyde or looking at
her, she is such a beautiful picture,” and
another one said, “There’s one little girl I
think every one ought to help in her venture
to go abroad to study, for she has certainly
proven herself the most willing, accommo-
dating little artist I know.” Such remarks
as these show something of the way Miss
Romania has unconsciously won the hearts
and admiration of the public, for the framers
of the quoted sentences are not personally
acquainted with her.
	Miss Hyde expects to leave the first of the
year, in company with Miss Gates, for Eu-
rope where she will continue to pursue her
musical studies. She has already proven her-
self an artist and her friends expect that
when next they hear her beautiful playing
of the violin, she will be a recognized
virtuoso.
	That both these gifted girls will have
every desired success and realize their most
ardent expectations is the wish and prayer
of all their numerous friends.


