[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the Wayne stake of
Zion held its quarterly conference in the
tabernacle in Loa, July 13, 1912. The
morning session convened at 10 o’clock,
Stake President Bathsheba Grundy presid-
ing. On the stand were Sisters Julia P. M.
Farnsforth and Sarah M. McClelland of the
General Board, John R. Stewart and Mo-
roni Lazenby of the stake presidency, the
stake presidency of the Relief Society with
their board, and the local officers. After
the usual opening exercises President
Grundy said she was thankful for this or-
ganization, it is a great privilege to belong
to this society; said the stake officers had
visited each society in the stake; had re-
sponded to every call made of us. The ward
presidents each reported their society in
turn. Sister Farnsworth spoke on training
our children and looking after our geneal-
ogy and other topics very interestingly;
gave instructions on laying away the dead,
also on the duties of teachers. Sister Mc-
Clelland spoke on Temple work and in-
structed the Relief Societies to keep temple
robes on hand; spoke on having a library
and a Relief Society choir; gave good in-
structions in general. President Grundy in-
vited all present to stay to a banquet.
	Afteroon Session—Sister Julia Farns-
worth gave a lecture on home environment,
which was very interesting and listened to
with great attention. Song by Walter
Stewart, “I Know That My Redeemer
Lives.”
	Leah Blackburn bore a faithful testimony.
Sister Sarah McClelland read the instruc-
tions that were given to the first Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith; spoke
of the beautiful sentiments contained in
these instructions. Song by Orilla Harris
and Lota Brown “Our Mother.” Presidents
Stewart and Lazenby, also Councilor James
Hood gave the Relief Society sisters words
of praise and encouragement. President
Grundy made closing remarks The con-
ference was dismissed by Pauline Brown.
		EMERY STAKE.
	Minutes of Emery stake Relief Society
conference held at Cleveland July 21, 1912,
President Louisa Ovesen presiding. Sis-
ters Amy B. Lyman and Sarah McClelland
of the General Relief Society Board were
present. After the opening exercises re-
ports from the presidents of some of the
local societies were given. It showed them
to be in good running order and attending
to their duties; after which a quartet was
rendered by members of the Orangeville
society. President Louisa Ovesen reported
the work going on in the stake satisfac-
torily and the financial condition excellent;
felt encouraged in the work; welcomed the
visiting sisters of the General Board and
spoke briefly on temple clothing. Sister
Amy Lyman brought greetings from
the General Board and the love of
President Emmeline B. Wells; was pleased
with the attendance and with the re-
ports whic hhad been made; said the local
societies were the backbone of this grand
work and deserving of the best encourage-
ment; advised the young sisters to join the
Relief Societies, where the young and old
associate together, the best social conditions
exist; said the sisters should attend meeting

[Column 2]
because it is an absolute necessity for them
to be interested in something outside of
their homes, and the Relief Societies afford
splendid opportunity for such interest and
work; it inspires to greater effort, creates a
desire to study and improve the mind and
makes women better able to raise their chil-
dren properly; mothers should not do all
the work in the home but let the children
help and reciprocate her love and efforts;
advised the societies to collect libraries; was
pleased with the outline of study being fol-
lowed in this stake; also spoke on sanita-
tion. Song, Orangeville society. Sister Mc-
Clelland advised the sisters to apply them-
selves closely to study because we cannot be
saved in ignorance; said it was not right
for women to make Marthas of themselves,
but that rest was just as necessary as work;
asked the question, Do we work as dili-
gently for the Lord as we do for the
dollar? Instructed the societies to keep on
hand clothing for the dead; desired young
people to appreciate the privilege of being
married in the temple; spoke on sustaining
the EXPONENT and sending to it the confer-
ence news; the death of prominent women,
etc.; also spoke on storing wheat and on
sanitation. Meeting adjourned until 2
o’clock p. m. After singing by the choir,
benediction by President Lars Peter Ove-
sen.
	Afternoon Session, 2 o’clock—Bishop
Joseph Larson taking charge. Usual open-
ing exercises. After administering the sac-
rament the time was given to the sisters of
the Relief Society. The first speaker was
Stake Counselor Elizabeth A. Christensen,
who said for mothers to teach their children
the principles of the Gospel, to love the
Lord and to pray for divine guidance in
rearing their families. Solo from a mem-
ber of the Castle Dale society. Stake Coun-
selor Mary A. Sorensen spoke on the beauty
of giving freely; we must remember we are
only stewards of what the Lord has given
us and therefore should be willing to give
generously. Sister Amy B. Lyman of the
General Board was glad to see so many of
the brethren present; said Relief Society
work had two objects, first to do good and
help others, second to develop the women
who took part; showed that those taking
active part are the ones receiving the most
benefit and whose influence in behalf of our
people goes forth to the world; said one
reason why “Mormon” women are able to
accomplish so much public work is that
their husbands are willing to assist them;
gave a brief account of the National Council
of Women and mentioned the courtesy there
shown Utah women. Duet by members of
Huntington society. Sister McClelland of
the General Board complimented the Emery
stake Relief Societies on their contribution
to the China famine and Mississippi flood
sufferers; also related a visit she had made
to Nauvoo, and expressed a wish that all
the Saints could have the pleasure of visit-
ing that place; described the buildings, etc.,
of what was once the possessions of the
Saints, mentioned the beautiful site, rolling
hills, peaceful valleys, and the quiet pervad-
ing the place; also gave a feeling descrip-
tion of Carthage jail as it stands today;
spoke of her labors in the mission field; of
the faith and power enjoyed by the mis-
sionaries, and the desire and hunger of
some of the people to know the truth; en-
couraged the support of home manufacture

[Column 3]
and industries and instructed the teachers as
to their duties. Stake President Lars Peter
Ovesen said Relief Society work had be-
come a power; advised the sisters to profit
by the good counsel given. Encouraging re-
marks were made by Stake Counselor Alon-
zo E. Wall and Bishop Joseph J. Larsen.
Carrie O. Larsen said we had had a feast
and thanked the Lord that she was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society. After singing and
benediction the conference adjourned.


