[Column 1]
in the homely dwelling great preparations
are being made for coming festivities. The
children left to their own fancies had wan-
dered away in the pine woods, and re-
turned home carrying in their arms and
about them the boughs and vines and ber-
ries; and soon they are busy hanging them
around the walls of the long, low, living
room where the meals are always served
and the family gathered in the winter
weather. There, on a winter evening,
many interesting stories and anecdotes were
told and old-fashioned songs sung, and in
the great wide fire place the pine knots
blazed high and the reflection on the dark
oaken paneled walls made many a fanciful
light and shadow, so weird and strange that
they were ever afterward remembered by
the little ones reared in that  happy home.
On that particular Christmas eve, the ever-
greens were festooned and garlanded so
heavily and the dark green hung with
shining red berries, so that hte dim shad-
owy light when it danced fitfully over and
around made a strange contrast in its weird-
ness to the bright-eyed, rosy-cheeked, merry
children who fluttered hither and thither
singing and laughing, admiring the decora-
tions and calling the attention of the older
ones to the quaint and pretty designs.
	So rustic seemed this country home with
its simple but tasteful ornamentation that
one might almost imagine it a woodland
scene, and the smell of the fragrant hem-
lock and pine was like a perfume from the
forest itself.
	How different was this home of nearly
half a century ago, plain and primitive in
all its appointments, to even the village
homes of today.
	There was no chandelier hanging in the
great wide bare hall, only plain wooden
pegs for the hats and coats, and it had no
carpet, but a painted floor with gay-colored,
warm, home-made woolen mats, the only
really attractive feature, except the reflec-
tor that hung on the wall, and was only
lighted on special occasions.
	The house was unusually gay this Christ-
mas eve, though these Puritanical New
England folks didn’t make so much ado
about Christmas then as they do now; stil
it was customary to have a holiday week be-
fore New Year’s, and visits were inter-
changed among relatives and friends, and
elaborate dinners were indulged in. There
was much feasting and merry-making and
many queer old games for pastime besides.
Who shall say that those were not “the
good old times,” of which we sing and talk
and moralize so much? I may have been
too prosy in describing this country dwell-
ing, etc., and perhaps ’twould please the
present generation better to plunge into the
story without preamble, but all this is so
vivid to the writer, and it will do our boys
and girls no harm to know how their moth-
ers and grandmothers lived many years ago.
As I sit before the blazing fire late on a
winter’s night, I can call up many striking
pictures and incidents and remember well
the people that figured in the dramas that
actually transpired, out of which the threads
of many stories might be woven, and I per-
haps indulge too much in reverie and sim-
plify beforehand what ought to be brought
out in the narrative itself.
	This Christmas eve was the last one that
the large family assembled there on that
occasion, not one missing, ever spent within
those time-honored walls; for ere another

[Column 2]
year had flow the group was broken, and
one, “only a girl,” had gone far away and
everything seemed to change from that time,
one went here and another there, and by
and by the cruel war of the rebellion came
and sad tragedies followed; but we forbear
to name these things now and come back to
the Christmas even and for this once we’ll
watch these festive merry makers.
	It was a numerous family and the older
married ones who lived at a distance came
one after another during the day before
Christmas each with their little ones; there
were three daughters married whose hus-
bands came with them and one son with his
wife, and another unmarried son whose
employment took him away from his native
village. Late in the afternoon all had ar-
rived, and the old home resounded with
heartfelt rejoicing. All these were to dine
at the old homestead and spend a day or
two or more after at the dear place they
loved so well, and late that night when
the very little ones were sleeping, the
younger children lingered to hear thei
older brothers and sisters talk over the days
when they were at home, and try to recall
incidents and circumstances and repeat over
old stories, each one in turn filling in a
part that another had forgotten. After the
story telling, songs were sung and every one
was required to add something to the eve-
ning’s amusement. The stories and songs
were mostly of a legendary character, and
later on a sort of dullness fell upon the
party that none of them were willing to
acknowledge, yet all felt more or less, and
attributed it in a measure to the nature of
the pastime with which they had passed the
hours away.
	Finally, after a lull in the conversation,
and the fire was beginning to burn low, one
of the company suggested it was almost
twelve o’clock and soon they could wish
each other “a merry Christmas,” and retire,
for it seemed to be silently conceded that all
were tired; and just when a sort of quiet
reigned, another broke in upon the spell that
was apparent with, “I wonder what will
happen before another Christmas eve,” and
quick as answers often come without
thought, two or three voices at once burst
forth with the exclamation, “Edward will
be married, and we shall have another sister
added to our number instead of missing
one.” But no one of all assembled there
thought that ere another year had flown,
the half-grown girl who sat there that
night so pale and thoughtful, like one in a
dream, would be gone forever from their
midst into a new and very different life.
	As is often the case after very lively and
rather gay enjoyments a sort of solemnity
fell upon the party, and the merry Christ-
mas, as it resounded through the rooms
seemed to leave a hollow echo in the apart-
ments, that was more like a farewell than
the tone of glad greeting such as it was
meant to be.
	The wind was howling outside now,
though the day had been rather a placid one
with only a light fall of snow at intervals.
The evening had passed quickly and there
had been so much sparkle and brilliancy in-
side that the sounds without had not dis-
turbed them in the least, but when quiet set-
tled down and the family separated for the
night, the elements seemed in great commo-
tion; the wind was fairly shrieking and the
great elm trees in the yard swayed to and
fro and crackled, and the sighs and moans

[Column 3]
of the pine woods in the distance were pite-
ous to listen to. To one full of sentiment
these melancholy dirges, especially on a win-
try night, have something inexpressibly ten-
der and significant in them, and the voices
in the wind are full of the sweetest pathos,
yet appealing to the strongest emotions, that
give expression to the human soul in its
deepest distress; yea, even in the agony
that is beyond expression. They seem to
cry out for the suffering ones and to moan
piteously in the night time while the glad
world of humanity is wrapped in sleep. This
night was a dismal one, and the young peo-
ple grew nervous from the sadness that
brooded over their Christmas greetings. It
was as though a presentiment came that
something was about to happen; even
though all was peace and quietness within
and no knowledge of any evil shadow lurk-
ing about or around had caused this melan-
choly foreboding.
	Life was rich with promise to all the
household, and especially so to the little
maiden who was just bursting into woman-
hood; her amiable manner and cheerful dis-
position were the very life of the old home,
nothing could be brighter or more hopeful
than the future prospects of this young girl.
The world to her was so full of beauty and
sweetness and she had been a favorite with
all the household.
	It sometimes happens that the child bursts
suddenly as by revelation into a knowledge
of the forces that have lain dormant in the
mind through all the tenderer years, while
in others perhaps it only dawns upon them
through slow processes of reasoning or bit-
ter experiences.
	But we were talking of Christmas festivi-
ties, and though the wind howls and the
woods take up the echo, the great logs burn
brightly and happy faces light up the Christ-
mas morn. Snow had fallen very deep and
when the hall door was opened the great
bank of light snow fell in upon the floor to
the delight of the children who were not
permitted to go out in such weather. Th
morning sun shining in dispelled the gloom
of the previous night, and in the exercises
of prayer and reading of passages from the
Bible, which was customary in this house,
the melancholy died away and the breakfast
was partaken of in the most cheerful mood
by all.
	During the day, while visiting with each
other, the daughters roamed through the
house from garret to cellar, commenting up-
on the old styles and suggesting modern im-
provements. The mother objected to new-
fangled notions and affirmed that the old
home was dearer to her from association
than any other could ever be, however ele-
gantly fitted up, or modernized
	“I am loth to leave this dear old place
where I have been so many years a happy
wife and mother, or to part with any portion
of my household furniture, for all your de-
rision, and making fun of my antiquated no-
tions. Furniture is not made of such rich
wood nowadays, much of it is sham, and on
a par with the rude brusque manners of
some of our young people.” “But, girls,”
said the mother, continuing, “you may each
of you select a piece of furniture today to
take with you to your own home, and re-
member whatever happens you must not
part with it, let it be as a memento of your
childhood home and of this Christmas visit.
And so they did, and long after, when
many of those who ate their Christmas din-


