[Column 1]
ner together on that day had gone to “that
better land” those who remained were re-
minded of the time they had spent together
with the darling mother, and of the sweet
and gentle words she had spoken.
	But we must not forget the dinner, which
was a most elaborate affair, and served in
the room decorated by the children with
only natural evergreens and red berries, but
so dark and curiously woven together that
it was weird enough for a gypsy’s camp.
Christmas-trees were unknown in that prim-
tive place in those days, and the gifts that
were bestowed were generally those of love
and good-will.
	But the dinner was delicious, and about
forty persons, including children, sat down
together around that festive board. Turkey
with savory dressing, young pigs, roasted
whole, puddings, pies, cakes and preserves
with a variety of condiments and side
dishes. No wine or sweet cider even were
ever served to the guests in that house, the
mistress strongly objected. “My boys,” she
always said, “shall never be tempted at
home to partake of strong drink.” But rosy-
cheeked apples piled high in elegant glass
and china dishes, made the table quite orna-
mental; oranges too from Florida added to
the beauty of the sumptuous feast, and
tempted the already sharpened appetites of
the children.
	Long they lingered at table, this happy
family, on that day which seemed forever
after to mark an era in their lives; one joke
after another was told and some of them
had a very practical application, but all was
in good nature and jollity, and the daylight
faded into eventide ere the company had
realized its approach.
	The lamps were lighted, the tables cleared
and put back, the shining hearth clean
swept, a fresh supply of cragged pine-knots
piled high in the great open fire-place, upon
the heavy dog-irons; and the pastimes of
the evening commenced. Each one was to
do something, tell a story, sing a song, re-
late an anecdote, or give some pleasing reci-
tation; the programme was an impromptu
one, yet mostly they agreed, no one differ-
ing with another as to how or why they
should render due regard to the appoint-
ment.
	The hours sped as on the wings of the
wind, and ere the half was told the midnight
bell pealed out in the frosty air. Mrs. Cur-
tis never encouraged sitting up after mid-
night, not even for company. One by one,
the visitors and the family departed to their
rooms with a formal goodnight, except the
unmarried son, who had won something of
a reputation as a practical business man,
and who, during his occasional visits to the
home of his childhood, always took the op-
portunity to advise with his mother on his
own account, as well as hers. So far since
his arrival there had really been no good
chance of their speaking apart, and he had
begun to feel very uncomfortable. This eve-
ning he felt determined to detain his mother
after the rest had retired; there was still a
blazing fire, and it seemed to invite the con-
fidence of those whose hearts need warmth
and sympathy. Bachelors ever do, and Ed-
ward had never been married, and his life
was a sort of Bohemian kind, that pleased
him well, but that his exemplary mother
thought was simply dreadful.
	He had been a great favorite with his
mother always, such a serious, steady boy,
and now such a finely proportioned, brown-

[Column 2]
bearded, handsome young man with great
blue eyes that seemed to speak volumes in
a glance. The village girls made no secret
of their admiration for him, and wherever
he went he attracted the attention of those
about him, and influenced them much as he
wished when he chose to exert his powers.
He was a man of strong emotions and de-
votedly attached to his mother, and her in-
terests. In many respects the mother and
son were very similar. They had been ac-
customed to confer together on financial
family matters, and Mrs. Curtis had always
found Edward a safe adviser. He was fond
of home in his own way, and very fond of
his aristocratic looking mother, as well as of
her excellent economy and management of
the homestead with its fine, broad acres of
meadow-land, pastures, hillsides and woods.
	“My mother,” he had often said to gen-
tlemen friends, “can manage an estate as
well as most men; her executive ability is
quite equal to that of any man in our coun-
try, and I am sure she would make a good
judge: she has that sort of judicial manner
of weighing things and giving her opinion
when she has looked on all sides.”
	In fact, Edward Curtis had said, on one
or two occasions, if he could find a young
woman with such a well-balanced head as
his mother had he would ask her to be his
wife. On this Christmas night, when mother
and son were left alone for a few moments,
at first a sort of restraint seemed to hinder
the freedom felt in times past. Edward felt
he must break the spell, and looking up
with his great, fathomless blue eyes, in-
quiringly said, “What about the homestead,
mother, if you are determined to go West?
I was in hopes it was not true, but on com-
ing to the village I find it is quite under-
stood by the neighbors. We’ve been so
happy here these many years, and it’s such
a delightful place, might be made a charm-
ing summer resort, everything to make it
attractive in that way, if we chose to do it.
There is not a more picturesque spot in all
this part of New England, and it abounds
in sequestered vales and nooks among the
hills. Oh, I can’t think of its being sold to
strangers: I like the English idea of ances-
tral inheritance.”
	The tender-hearted mother heard him
through, and with characteristic firmness re-
plied: “Edward, I have thought all this over
and made up my mind that if you would,
you could keep the old home from going
into the hands of strangers?”
	“Why, mother, what do vou mean?”
	“I mean simply this: Marry, and settle
down here—not one of your city belles.
They might only fancy the place, beautiful
as its surroundings are, for a summer sea-
son, but one of our own villagers, and after
awhile you may see things as I do, and join
us in the West. Then you would be more
reconciled to the parting.”
	“Well, mother, I’ll think about buying the
place, but as for the village girls, they are
all pure-minded and innocent doubtless, and
that should be an inducement, but I shall
not marry yet awhile. I’d like this strong
attachment for the home and its belongings
to wear off a little before we part with it, if
it ever will: every foot of the land is en-
deared to me by some memory or other: the
old well-sweep, I love to hear it creak as in
my schoolboy days when the wind blew
from the hemlock grove yonder, though it’s
not a think of beauty by any means. I have
made a sketch of it, which I intend to keep

[Column 3]
for the sake of old remembrances; there
will never be any water that will seem so
sweet and pure in all the years to come, I
fear, as I have drunk from that old well,
with its undignified sweep, that we can see
such a distance away. The new fangled
pumps don’t compare with it in my opinion,
still, in new houses I prefer them, but in this
place I like things just as they are.”
	“I am glad, Edward, that you have such
a reverence for the home of your childhood,
and I hope you may be able to take it and
secure to me sufficient ready money for my
rights in the estate, so that I can go to the
West, and take the younger chlidren, and
yet it grieves me very much that I must part
not only with old-time friends, endeared to
me by tender ties of affection, but that more
than half my children must be left behind:
I know, however, that in this matter I am
right, and my views upon the subject can-
not be changed.”
	The arrangement of leaving the home-
stead in Edward’s hands to be disposed of
afterwards was partially decided upon, and
mother and son sat talking of this and
other things into the wee sma’ hours of
morning, the rain beating against the win-
dow panes, the fierce wind howling and
shrieking without, the old well-sweep creak-
ing, while in the lull, at intervals, the pine
woods sighed in a minor key like a re-
quiem, as it were, for the parting of that
happy family from each other and the home
of their childhood.
	They had spent the Christmas time to-
gether without any particular event of im-
portance transpiring, some gloomy presenti-
ments that might be caused by the knowl-
edge that the home was to be sold and the
household broken up. that was all. Tomor-
row some of them must return to their own
homes, and that alone produced a sort of
sadness, such as we have all of us felt, per-
haps, after some specially happy occasion,
when the reaction comes, as it is almost
always sure to do.
	No sorrow, not the lightest, had ever fal-
len noon Deborah Curtis, yet she had been
pensive and thoughtful during the Christ-
mas festivities; to her. perhaps more than
to any one else, the cloud that hung over
the gathering had seemed dark and threat-
ening.
	That dismal Christmas night when the
wind was shrieking as if in mortal agony,
and as she thought all the household were
fast asleep, she lay tossing and moaning on
her downy pillows, sobbing out every now
and then, “If he comes tomorrow, what
shall I do? But I am not to blame: I did
not say he might come here. Besides, what
will Fred say? He has alwavs been my
champion, my playmate ever since we went
to school together, and I have been so proud
of him, too, and the other girls so jealous,
and now Frank is coming, and declares in
that last letter that he will take no refusal.”
	“Let me see.” and climbing out of bed
she lit her candle, opened her drawer, and
between her tears and sobs, began to read
this terrible letter that was causing such a
commotion in her feelings.
	“Yes, here it is.” and she read: “I am
coming the day after Christmas when all
your big brothers and sisters are there, even
Edward, whom you think will frighten me
out of asking for you and I shall storm the
old castle for my lady-bird, and for aught I
know ‘waft her away on the wings of the
wind.” If I should meet with any resistance


