IN MEMORIAM.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
To the Memory of our Esteemed and Re-
	vered Friend, Sister Jane S. Richards,
	by the Officers and Members of the Relief
	Society of the Ogden Stake of Zion.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father, in His
infinite wisdom, has called from our midst
our venerable and beloved sister, who for
many years was the leader and the inspira-
tion of the Relief Society of the Weber
Stake, of which we were at that time a
part, and—
	Recognizing, that a great and noble
woman has passed to the beyond, that some-
thing precious has been removed to a
brighter world, that her name was a syn-
onym for all that was most worthy, and
	Knowing of her uncounted services in
the cause of the betterment of humanity,
to which were devoted the best years of
her life, we realize that there has gone to
her reward one whose career was ever on-
ward and upward, and whose name will
forever be linked with the history of the
Relief Society.
	Resolved, therefore, that in her death the
Relief Society has lost a heroine and we of
this community have lost a friend—
	Resolved, that the wisdom, charity, and
all the virtues that abounded in her beauti-
ful life be held in grateful remembrance and
that we seek to emulate the same—
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved
family, and especially to the devoted daugh-
ter and sons, our heartfelt sympathy. May
the comforting influence of the Holy Spirit
temper their grief and may the priceless
heritage bequeathed them be to them, in
their hour of trial, the star of hope that
will shine brighter and brighter as they
tread the path of life.
	Resolved, that a copyof these resolutions
be sent to the family, that a copy be sent
to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication
and that they appear on the records of our
association.
			SARAH M. TAYLOR,
			President of Relief Society
					of the Ogden Stake.
			ISABEL FOULGER,
						First Counselor,
			NELLIE BECRAFT,
							Secretary.
Committee.
	A TRIBUTE AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Expressions of love and respect of the
Granite Stake Relief Society to the memory
of Sister Annie M. Hemenway:
	In His infinite wisdom and love, it has
pleased our Father in heaven to call from
our midst our beloved sister and co-laborer,
Annie M. Hemenway.

[Column 2]
	She was a wise woman of unquestioned
integrity, of meekness and humility, of
mildness of word and speech, of gentleness
of character.
	The spirit and power and influence of her
life was to bring peace, and happiness, and
good will into the lives of others. She lived
to serve and aid, to cheer and love, always
putting forth undaunted energy to bless and
comfort the poor, the sick and afflicted.
	The memory of her beautiful life will ever
be a source of inspiration and encourage-
ment to us.
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a
faithful worker, a devoted mother and wife,
a true Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt
sympathy to her husband and children, and
pray God that His comforting influence may
be with them in their hour of bereavement.
	Resolved, That we place a copy of this
memento on our stake record, that a copy be
sent to the family of the deceased, and
one be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
		LEONORA T. HARRINGTON,
		LAURA E. CUTLER,
		EMILY M. BRINTON,
					Stake Presidency.
		PRUDENCE BROWN,
						Stake Secretary.


