PEACE AND GOOD WILL.
	To those older grown, Christmas means,
in sober reality, peace and good will and
the uniting together of family ties and
those of kindred and dear friends, in the
bonds of good fellowship, and partaking of
each other’s hospitability.
	This really engenders the love of Christ
and as it were, casts a halo of love and ten-
derness over and around those whose
hearts are already touched with the love of
all humanity, the spirit of the divine Master,
possibly in a lesser degree.
	Nowadays Christmas seems to have de-
veloped into a giving of gifts almost indis-
criminately and in this respect seems per-
haps to many a time to be dreaded instead
of welcomed. People sometimes give that
which they cannot afford and which they
have not the courage to refrain from giving.
It is the spirit of keeping up with one’s
friends and relatives who possibly are able
because of circumstances to give liberally.
	It is a false idea to wish to do as others
do, much better is it to refrain and not fol-
low the trend of popularity but maintain
one’s own dignity, even at the risk of being
misunderstood.
	To offer assistance with that tact and
generosity that would make the recipient
feel it an honor to accept instead of being
wounded is always commendable.
	Let not Christmas day pass without in
some way being significant of the charity
that never faileth, the bestowal of that
which will give joy to some human heart.
	Family gatherings have become almost es-


sential to Christmas enjoyment, and the
more primitive ones in most instances are
the most enjoyable.  We are all inclined to
think Christmas is only for the children,
but after all is it not a day to refresh one’s
memory with fond and loving thoughts of
those not present or who have gone before?
	Perhaps the most happy gatherings at
the Christmas time are when the members
of a family, married and single, assemble at
the old home and gather around the festive
board and recount old times when they were
young. Family reunions bring out the finest
emotions of the human heart, and the pearls
of love and affection that lie deepest are
brought forth and given place where they
will shine brightest and linger longest, en-
during while life remains to be treasured in
years to come when those who brought
forth these gems shall have passed into eter-
nity.


