[Column 1]
from these stalwart brothers—I give you
timely warning, and I trust there will be no
fainting or hysterics among the women
folks.”
	“Wicked boy,” Deborah muttered to her-
self, as, shivering with cold and excitement,
she folded and replaced the letter and hur-
ried back to bed. Poor child, she fell asleep
 and dreamed that Frank Lockwood came
with a carriage to take her away and that
Fred Howard snatched her up in his arms,
and would not let go his hold, and then she
woke. The dream was so real that she could
scarcely believe she was in bed in her own
room and the storm still beating against the
window as when she fell asleep.”
	St. Stephen’s day, the 26th of December,
a dismal morning, no getting out in such a
storm, and Deborah was somewhat calmed
when she saw how unpropitious the weather
was for traveling. She tried to summon
courage to speak to her mother, but it was
impossible, her manner seemed so forbid-
ding. The truth was, Mrs. Curtis was so
absorbed in what had transpired between
Edward and herself the night before that
she was oblivious to all things of less im-
portance. It never for one moment oc-
curred to her nor to any one of them, that
Deborah had a lover coming upon the
scene to interrupt their pleasure. Neverthe-
less, he came and very unceremoniously.
	As he had asserted in his letter, he dashed 
up the lane, where the gates stood open, 
really the main entrance for carriages, driv-
ing a span of fine grey horses, and a hand-
some turn-out in every respect for traveling.
The bells rang out so wildly close to the
house that the ladies and children all rushed
to the windows except Deborah, who was
ready to faint before she knew what the
matter was. At the sound of the bells, Ed-
ward was on hand, and seeing a total
stranger, was about to speak, when the
young man jumped out of the sleigh and in-
troduced himself, with the salutation, “I
suppose you are young Mr. Curtis, and I
am Frank Lockwood, from Athol. I sup-
pose your sister has told you about me!”
	“No, I never heard of your existence, but
come in; you’re welcome. Let me take your
horses to the barn. You’ve driven hard, I.
see—a fine team.”
	The horses were taken care of, and Ed-
ward Curtis led the way to the house, but
on entering, with the expectation of finding
Deborah to explain matters, the room was
vacated except the children and babies and
gentlemen guests; the eldest brother opened
up a conversation with the young stranger,
and Edward stepped out to see what was
going on, for from the stranger’s remarks
he had gathered that the young man had
come a-wooing, something after the fashion
of olden times, on the defensive, declaring
war beforehand. He found his mother and
sisters were engaged in bringing Deborah
out of a dead faint, which only seemed to
complicate things in his mind, and made
him think seriously of sending the young
man about his business, but finally con-
cluded not to precipitate matters, but wait
to see the scenes unravel. Frank was very
uncomfortable. Every time the door opened
he expected to see Deborah, but she came
not, and the impatient lover grew weary of
waiting. “What has this young man to say,
fact, no one knew what to say. One after
another the married sisters came into the
parlor and were introduced to Mr. Lock-
wood, but Deborah’s name was never men-
tioned. A child came in and spoke to Ed-

[Column 2]
ward. He excused himself; his sister had
sent for him, and his mother was also in
waiting. “What has this young man to say
who has thrust himself upon us at this un-
seasonable time?” said the mother. “He
has said nothing as yet, except to ask if my
sister told me of his coming”. “Will you
inquire his errand, Edward?” resumed the
mother, with the most perfect composure?
“As you please, mother, but what does
Deborah say?” “That you must persuade
him to go away without seeing her; that she
is not engaged to him.”
	“Then she gave him encouragement, has
trifled with his affections? The fellow is
desperate, a veritable hero of romance.”
	There was no help for it; Edward had
never been in love himself, but somehow he
felt a great sympathy for this daring young
fellow who could face a whole house full of
relatives, determined to conquer them all.
He thought a great deal of his sister—not
exactly his style. She was such a delicate,
fragile creature, but beautiful and gentle,
and so sensitive he could scarcely see how
any man could want her for a wife. That
word seemed to him to imply too much for
one so young and inexperienced. However,
if he must “face the music,” better begin
right away.
	Edward sent to invite Mr. Lockwood to
meet him in an adjoining room, and of 
course he did so, and they talked over the
matter seriously together. Edward found
his sister had spoken truly when she said
she had given him no hope of loving him,
but Frank was one of those men that by
some peculiar fascination compel women in
spite of themselves, to listen and often im-
agine it is true love, when upon serious re-
flection they are convinced it is not the love
that is needed for the daily duties of life. It
passes for the real article in the matrimo-
nial market very often, but when it is put
into the crucible and tested, there proves to
be very little of the genuine material. If
the experience of others could be valued at
its proper estimate, girls would be more
considerate before hand, and when they
made a choice it might perhaps be a wiser
one. It is customary to call marriage a lot-
tery, etc., and very erroneous ideas of love
prevail among men as well as women. For
instance, this happy Christmas was inter-
rupted and the guests dispersed in anything
but gay spirits through the inopportune ar-
rival upon the scene of this young stranger,
who fancied himself madly in love. He
succeeded admirably in creating a sensation
and unsetting the household. The family
party thus rudely broken in upon could not
regain the same feelings of enjoyment and
those who went away with the good-bve
upon their lips felt that they had met in
the old home for the last time.
	The irrepressible lover was persistent and
fascinating enough to ingratiate himself into
favor with the mother and big brother and
finally to carry Deborah away captive (not
on the wings of the wind) but after the

[Column 3]
manner of men, as his bride. Not long after,
the old home was disposed of to Edward,
who, notwithstanding his regard for ances-
tral inheritances, sold it to strangers.
	Those who remain of that numerous fam
ly who gathered around the same hearth-
stone on that festive occasion, are scattered
far and wide. Some who were babes then
are sleeping in unknown graves, having per-
shed on the battle-field; others lie where
stately monuments mark their resting place
and tell of their heroic deeds. But though 
many have died out of the number who
spent Christmas at the old home, yet, nev-
ertheless, the tribe has increased and
strange to state, the fragile little maiden
Deborah, who was the prime cause of the
excitement, has the largest posterity of them
all, unless it be the eldest son. It would be
impossible to tell you the whole story in one
evening, but the old home long ago went to
ruin, though the great, ugly well-sweep is
still there, and the pure water as it was then
has never failed, and the weary traveler
halts on his way to take a drink from the
old well, and the neighbors come hither to
get water when their wells fail. The hem-
lock grove is not yet all cut awav. and the
pines still sigh and moan and shiver, and
the evergreens twine themselves under and
around the trees and shrubs, and the beau-
tiful birds (or their posterity) still sing the
sweet songs that thrilled the hearts of those
happy children in the days gone by.
