			A SKETCH. 
[Image of Elizabeth Ann Whitney]
	A mother in Israel in very deed, one
whose name is connected with the early his-
tory of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints from the establishment of
the organization and from the days of Kirt-
land, Ohio.
	Her face, even here, is like a beautiful
Madonna and her voice was one of the rar-
est and sweetest tone, the recollection of
which can never be forgotten, especially if
she sang in the gift of tongues. It was said
by the Prophet Joseph that she sang in
the language spoken in the Garden of Eden,
and this gift she retained during her long
life, more than four score years.
	In her nature she was very gentle, and
possessed in a marked degree the spirit of
prophecy.
	Before the advent of Mormonism in Kirt-
land (when she and her husband were mem-
bers of the Campbellite church) she had a
remarkable vision which was in the form of
a cloud and rested upon the house, signify-
ing, according to the Hebrew version, “The
Daughter of the Covenant.”
	When she sang with her husband, Bishop
Newel K. Whitney, who accompanied her
in his fine tenor voice—the music was al-
most sublime. In those early days in the
“thirties,” it was said to be like enchantment
to listen to the songs of Zion rendered by
those untrained singers.
	Sister Whitney had other accomplish-
ments, one of them spinning flax on a little
wheel to make fine linen, and she also spun
wool and was an excellent seamstress.
	In manner she was graceful and dignified
and one might truthfully say of her, “a lady
of the old school.”
	Edward W. Tullidge, in writing of her,
called her the Hebrew type.
	When the Relief Society was organized

[Column 2]
in Nauvoo, Ill., Mrs. Whitney was chosen
by the “elect lady,” Emma Smith, as one of
her counselors, and she often presided at
the meetings of that select society, as the
records show. Her faith was unbounded in
the everlasting gospel, and she was, in her-
self, an inspiration to younger women.
	After the martyrdom of the prophet and
patriarch the younger sisters sought Mrs. 
Whitney for counsel and in no instance did
she fail, for she was always ready to listen
and to advise. In the Nauvoo Temple she
was the leading spirit and looked like unto
a priestess in very deed. She inspired con-
fidence in both men and women, a woman
of sublime faith in the gospel and in the
Prophet Joseph Smith, indeed she was rev-
erential in her nature and temperament.
	Sister Whitney was the peer of any wom-
an of her time; she has sometimes been
compared to Lucy Smith, the mother of
Joseph, the prophet, but though they were
both great, they were two distinctive types.
	Mrs. Whitney was born in the vicinity of
New Haven, Connecticut, Dec. 26, 1800.
Her name was Smith, and when a young
girl her parents consented to her leaving
home with a bachelor uncle and a maiden
aunt to go out to Ohio, then the far West.
They traveled in a wagon and settled in
Kirtland. The country was new and wild
but the young girl was trained by her Aunt
Sally in all the housewifely ways of that
period. However, the bachelor uncle and
maiden aunt, scrupulous as they were, could
not prevent her falling in love with the
young man who was looking around for a
seamstress to make fine linen shirts, ruffled
etc. It was really a love match, and the
young woman never returned to her home
in Connecticut.
	Her associates in the Church were wom-
en of great faith and intense devotion-
Emma Hale Smith, Clarissa Lyman Smith,
Vilate Kimball, Mary Ann Young, Phebe
C. Woodruff and Mary Ann Pratt, wife of
Parley P. Pratt, Lydia Dibble Granger and
Pamelia Lott, Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. Stephen
Markham, Lydia Partridge, Diantha Mor-
ley Billings, Mary Fielding Smith, Mercy
N. Thompson and many others. There
were also younger women friends, but
those mentioned were near her own age and
were all dear friends of Joseph.
	They are all gone now, and many others,
but their memories are imperishable. They
are of the members of the Church who with
their husbands helped to lay the foundation
of this latter-day work. Blessed forever be
their memories.
						E. B. W.


President Stubbs of the University of
Nevada, speaking on the theme, “Votes for
Women,” a few days ago, declared unequiv-
ocally in favor of giving women the ballot.
He paid a glowing tribute to the noble
women of history who accomplished great
things, and to those of today who are tak-
ing leadership along many lines of activity.


