A Greeting From Across The Sea We greet you from across the sea?from a land that has held the leadership of the world from the days of ancient Rome, until the period of the Great War?from a land that has produced great painters and musicians and writers, great scientists and preachers and statesmen?from a country covered with buildings of architectural fame, of world-old churches whose spires reach toward heaven and whose bells chime out on the Sabbath air, "Peace on earth, good will to men.", In this country some of you, and many of your fathers and "mothers and grandparents, were born. In the spring of the year I ate dinner with a lady who had lived all her life within an easy walk of Warwick castle. I have had as an acquaintance for inany years a woman who knew the city of Canterbury as if by rote. She knew the cathedral, the archbishop's palace, the bell called "Old Hal," after Henry VIII, the little tea shop were Dickens is said to have met McCawber, and the homes of Agnes and Uriah Heap. She knew the long Dover road and nearly all the places of interest in her native city. I have another acquaintance whose home was in Paris, and who reveled in the dramatic stories furnished us by French history and in, its many historic spots. I have known, rather intimately, in my life, people from Cologne, Germany, from Berlin, Dresden, Brussels, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Stockholm and Christiania, and it is 632. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE establishment of such a home, and not until the community sees its way to fully finance such a proposition. Any maternity home established by the Relief Society. Should conform to the highest standards for such institutions. The buildings should be sanitary and well equipped. The right kind of competent help should be secured, including a hospital graduate nurse. Only reputable, well-trained physicians should be connected with the institution. The Cottonwood stake, through the co-operation of the First Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric, have recently established a maternity home in Murray, for which we commend them. This undertaking will be watched closely by the First Presidency and Presiding Bishopric, as well as by the General Board of Relief Society. A certain community in the southern part of the state is anxious to establish a maternity home, also, but when a survey was made, it was found that there are only about eighty births a year, which would of course not justify the establishment of a maternity hospital, without an absolute knowledge that additional funds could be raised and would be forthcoming. I feel that there is no more commendable thing for Relief Societies to do than to arrange for mothers to be given the proper care during confinement, and I believe the time will come when maternity cottages will be scattered throughout Latter-day Saint communities. It is highly honorable for women to bear children. The labor of the Latter-day Saints is to build up the communities with honest, honorable, healthy people. Public Health Nurses: I am a great believer in the public health nurse, and I hope the time will soon come when there will be one in every county. I hope Relief Society women will encourage the movement. There are very few public health nurses in the states where the Relief Society is organized; so in addition to having in mind the thought of providing such nurses for the communities, Relief Society women should also have in mind their training and preparation. The public health nurse must be a hospital graduate nurse, and must also have one year of training in addition in a school where training in public health work is given. It would be a great credit to our organization if there could be public health nurses in all the communities of the Latterday Saints, through the efforts of the Relief Society organization, in co-operation with the counties and other agencies. ? There is so much said and written about the health of the community now, and about the health of the individual. The death rate of children is decreasing, the infant mortality is decreasing; people are living to an older age, and it is through the efforts of men and women that this is the case. Yesterday I just happened to look through the newspaper. There was an article which said that the ideas which we have in regard to 634.. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MISS IONE ALDER Miss Alder stated that when she responded to President Knight's call to come to Denver to arrange for health work in southern Colorado, she went to the office of the Colorado AntiTuberculosis Association, where the executive secretary, Miss Garnet I. Pelton, explained to her that the Association had been making a survey in Colorado, and had found that 67% of the children in many districts were malnourished, underweight, and with physical defects. At the time the survey was made it was found that the mothers and children in all the communities were very much interested in public health work, and it was desirable to give them all assistance possible. Miss Alder reported that she spent five weeks in Denver, preparing for the work she was called to do in the southern part of the state. She was given training by the Visiting Nurse Association, going out with the nurses into the homes, doing bedside nursing, and studying sanitation. The Denver Anti-Tuberculosis Association gave Miss Alder training in nutrition, and she spent some time at the various health clinics in Denver. She stated that when she reached her destination, she found the Relief Society officers of the San Luis and Young stakes ready and willing to co-operate with her in her work in every possible way. In the towns which were visited by Miss Alder, announcements were made in the public meetings that health conferences would be held. The equipment used in weighing and measuring the children who attended the health conference was carried from town to town. The children's eyes, teeth, and tonsils were examined, and the general condition of health noted. The records of the findings at the health conferences were taken into the homes of the children, where the mothers were told of the condition of the children, and were given an opportunity to discuss with the nurse the care which the children should receive. It was found in Colorado, as it is found everywhere, that the children were not drinking enough milk, nor eating enough vegetables, and that they were eating too much sweets, especially between and before meals. Miss Alder reported that in connection with the health conferences and visits to the homes, she gave talks on nutrition to the mothers in Relief Society meetings, and to the children in Primary meetings. This method was followed in each town visited, Nutrition classes were also organized where mothers came and brought their children to be weighed. In Colorado health work effort has been made to interest the child in his own health, and when a child gains in weight, he is given a star, which interests him and makes a game of proper eating and sleeping habits, 
 all agencies. No agency should magnify its own function at the expense of other agencies. The demand for team play among all field workers is obvious and pressing. The health of the community is, after all, a matter of general and co-operative interest. The essential thing in team play is that each participant. Shall not lose his identity but shall subordinate his individual purposes to the common interest and do his part loyally in spreading the gospel of health. We need to bring ourselves to see each other's viewpoint and if we earnestly strive to do so, much can be accomplished by exchange of information, standardization of work, and co-operation of allied activities. In our own state where the number of public health nurses is so limited, the volunteer agencies render valuable service in the field of public health, but this service can be rendered more economically and to greater advantage if co-ordinated and carried on in co-operation with official agencies. I am inclined to believe that one of the most important steps forward in health education has come from the adoption of a gauge whereby the layman as well as the specialist can judge of the child's physical condition and be taught some of the fundamentals of health building and disease prevention. We need more public health nurses, we need an active health council where the various organizations may go for advice in all matters pertaining to health building, we need to understand one another better and to work at whatever task we are fitted to improve the health of our community. We need the volunteer worker. The latter represents a group which is not held down by law, nor confined by circumscribed rules and customs. This group can rise to any occasion within their providence. They can secure funds from sources not available to health departments. They can assist the public health nurse in many ways to make her work more effective and far reaching. But the volunteer worker needs the public health nurse and the health departments for help and guidance. The conclusion is not difficult: the one thing needed is more trained teachers in health education, and better co-operation between all agencies. COMMUNITY RECREATION Counselor Jennie B, Knight Recreation has been an important factor in the community life of the Latter-day Saints since the beginning. Even in the long days of strenuous travel across the plains, there was relaxation in recreation, around the evening campfire. I am sure no plea needs to be made to this body of progressive women for rec- 640 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a. The providing of ways and means for wholesome enjoyment. B. An educational campaign for better use of leisure time. C. More attention to education in valuable enjoyment. D. A fairer distribution of recreational opportunities. 2. The development of the spirit of sympathy and brotherly feeling through: a. More extensive social contact. B. More natural social contact. C. Breaking down undesirable class distinction in communities. 3. The development of a higher type of social leadership. Group activities demand intelligent initiative cooperation. 4. Promoting health by means of proper physical and social recreation: a. More outdoor activities. B. Better supervision of these activities. C. The creation of a variety of interesting activities for adults. 5. Developing culture and social refinement in youth. A. Maintaining proper standards of etiquette in parties and social functions. B. Educating youth to assist individuals who ere socially timid. C. Directing the mind 6f the youth to the beautiful in dress and outward expression, and to the deep values of mind and spirit. 6. Developing the power of self expression through dramatics, debating, and other aesthetic and intellectual activities. 7. Extending desirable acquaintanceship among adolescents: a. That wholesome friendship may be made. B. That ideals of manhood and womanhood may develop. C. That -errors in courtship may be avoided and a more wholesome relationship promoted. The Mutual Improvement Associations have recommended that a budget be prepared to cover expenses of recreation in the ward, and that this budget cover the expenses of such activities only as are open to the entire membership of the ward. Activities limited to membership of a given group, where all the members of the ward are not invited, should be financed by the organization concerned. In view of the fact that many organizations are not suf- Guide Lessons for February LESSON I (First Week in February) Theology and Testimony THE PARABLES OF OUR SAVIOR (Concluded) The Royal Marriage Feast. Matt. 22:1-14. "And Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and said, "The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which made a marriage for his son, "And sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding: and they would not come. "Again he sent forth other servants. Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready: come unto the marriage. "But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandize: "And the remnant took his servants, and entreated them spitefully, and slew them. "But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth: and he sent forth his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city. "Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy. "Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. "So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all, as many as they found, both bad and good: and the wedding was furnished with guests. "And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there. A man which had not on a wedding garment: "And he saith unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither, not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. "Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness: there shall _ be weeping and gnashing of teeth." Comments?In many respects this illustrative story is like the 'one recorded in Luke 14:16-24, and some writers have taken each to be of a different version of the other. The differences, however 
 are too great to admit of a conclusion that the two parables were identical. One was spoken in the temple; the other was uttered at the Sabbath feast, given at the home of a prominent Pharisee. These two parables are different in their nature in that one is milder than the other. In one the offence of the guests is limited to declining the invitation with excuses; in the other the invitations are treated with contempt, insult, and the murder of the messengers, In one, the penalty was an edict against admitting anyone who had not accepted the invitation; in the other case the insolent and criminal conduct was punished by the destruction of their city and the forfeiture of life; One was spoken at a time when open rebellion against Christ's mission had not been declared; the other at a time when hostility was at its height, and his death had been determined by an official council of the scribes and Pharisees. In one parable the giver of the feast is a prominent citizen; in the other, the host is a king. In one case the invitations were the cordial solicitations of a nobleman; in the other, the bidding was the call of an official leader. In one case the banquet had one object; the enjoyment of the guest; in the other it had a double purpose: the pleasure of the guests and the commemoration of the wedding of the king's son?The day in which the love, confidence, protection, and presence shall exist between Christ and his Church that exists between groom and bride. This parable, like the one of "The Great Supper," was both historic and prophetic. In it there seems to be a crystalized statement of the mission of John the Baptist and the apostles, and the rejection of their messages. Then it carries over into the future and indicates the persecution and killing of the messengers, just as was the case after the death of Jesus then the penalties which are now matters of history are predicted. Then, the filling of the guest chamber from the "highways," is history being made, and finally the discovery and ejectment of the unfit from the feast is yet to come. "The king of the parable is God;" we read on page 538, in Jesus the Christ, "the son whose marriage was the occasion of the feast, is Jesus, the Son of God; the guests who were bidden early, yet who refused to come when the feast was ready, are the covenant people who rejected their Lord, the Christ; the later guests, who were brought in from the streets and the roads, are the Gentile nations, to whom the gospel has been carried since its rejection by the Jews; the marriage feast is symbolical of the glorious consummation of the Messiah's mission.' In this parable the man without a wedding garment becomes a center of interest. Those to whom Jesus was speaking would