Joseph F. Smith, have performed service in the Islands, and as a result, approximately one-third of the Hawaiian people today belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. So attached do the missionaries become to the place and the people that they are all anxious to return for at least a visit; and their relatives and friends, having heard so much of the wonders of the Islands and the hospitality of the people, are also anxious to make the trip.
President Anthony W. Ivins' party, which left Salt Lake on July 7, for Hawaii, was made up of six enthusiastic individuals, none of whom had previously visited the Islands, none of whom had ever had a real sea voyage, and all of whom were thrilled with the prospects of the visit. The party consisted of President and Mrs. Anthony W. Ivins and daughter, Fulvia; Miss Bae Williams, daughter of Senator


W. N. Williams, and Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, general president of the Relief Society; and Dr. and Mrs. Richard R. Lyman. President Ivins and Elder Lyman were commissioned by President Heber J. Grant to visit the Hawaiian mission, dedicate the Honolulu chapel, and inspect the business interests of the Church. Their time was taken up largely, during the whole three weeks, in consultations with President Eugene Neff, president of the Hawaiian Mission, and Elder Antoine R. Ivins, manager of the sugar plantation, in surveys of Church and business matters, and in meetings and conferences with the elders and Saints. But
Elder Henry J. Dehaun, President E. J. Neff, Elder Walter N. Steffens, Elder Wm. McCune, Elizabeth Snow Ivins, President A. W. Ivins, Fulvia Ivins, Bae Williams, Elder Richard R. Lyman, Vilate Romney Ivins, Amy Brown Lyman, Hawaiian kids and girls. Roadside, Kona, Hawaii.
Busy as he was, President Ivins, the great friend of the common people and the ardent lover of nature,—human nature included—was never too busy to stop to shake hands with and encourage the laborer, to counsel individually those seeking advice, or to pat the little children on the head and encourage them at a game or feat of skill. Neither did his alert eye or poetic soul miss any of the marvelous beauties of nature. He fairly reveled in the varied and unique scenery. Elder Lyman was filled with enthusiasm over the country, the people, and the accomplishment of the Church.
Mrs. Elizabeth Snow Ivins and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman


one-sixth of the population, while the Asiatics make up more than one-half. The census a few years ago shows the entire population of the islands to be 230,210. Of this number there are 24,120 pure Hawaiian and 14,800 mixed Hawaiian and Caucasion of Asiatic blood, making a total of 38,920. The other 191,080 persons are made up of the following: Caucasians or whites, 57,540 with 22,650 Portuguese; 5,080 Porto Rican; 4,210 Spanish; and 25,600 Americans; 91,480 Japanese; 21,770 Chinese; 15,220 Filipinos; 5,270 mixed races.
The death rate among the Hawaiian people is so great that it would seem that this race, as a pure race, must inevitably disappear. During the year the above census was taken, among pure Hawaiians there were 888 deaths as against 533 births. This was partly compensated by more favorable conditions as to part-Hawaiians. The maternity and infant death rates are very high. Infant mortality was at the annual rate of over 139 per 1000 for 1922, and during 1923 it rose to a rate of 304 per 1000. Great efforts are now being made by the Public Health Department to improve health conditions. One finds public health nurses in almost every section of the Territory. A portion of one afternoon was spent very profitably with the public health nurse on the Parker ranch, who explained her work as a visitor in the homes and at the well equipped dispensary. Her salary is paid partly by the Territory and partly by the manager of the ranch.
The Hawaiian people, with their excellent manners and charming grace, are noted for their generosity and hospitality and, indeed, the outstanding features of the visit of the Church party were the hospitality of this genial, kindly and unselfish people, and the manifestation of their love and affection for their leaders.
The Church mission headquarters is now located at Honolulu, where President Neff has his office and where his family resides. The property consists of a large plat of ground, a magnificent chapel or tabernacle built of lava stone and concrete, and an attractive mission home. The Church, which seats 650 people, is beautifully furnished and contains an excellent pipe organ. Mrs. Louise Chamberlain Neff, the capable wife of the mission president, presides over the mission home with grace and dignity, and everybody is made welcome. The regular family, including missionaries who reside in the home, consists of twenty to twenty-five, and it is very interesting to sit at this hospitable board with so many interested and interesting workers. A delicious dinner was served here to the Utah party on the day of their arrival, and was especially appreciated after six days spent on board a vessel. In all, a week was spent with President and Mrs. Neff at Honolulu, and every minute was a joy. There was much to see and much to do. Honolulu is a most beautiful and interesting
A TRIP TO HAWAII 609
city, with probably as great a variety of scenery as any city of its size in the world. The executive building, formerly the royal palace, where the last ruler, Queen Lilioukalani lived and where she was later imprisoned, is most interesting with its remnants of old furniture and its walls covered with paintings of Hawaii's past rulers. It now contains the offices of the governor and other territorial officials, and also the chambers of the Senate and House of Representatives. Mr. Ralph Woolley, a former Utahn, son of Samuel Woolley, for many years president of the L. D. S. Mission in the islands, and who is chairman of the Public Utilities Commission of the Territory, conducted the visitors through the executive building and presented them to the governor.
The Bishop Museum is another place of interest and contains many relics and rare specimens including the ancient royal regalia. Mrs. Bishop, a full-blooded Hawaiian princess, married Mr. Bishop, an American from the state of New York, and their wealth has been left for educational purposes. The Museum and the Bishop School for the Hawaiians are monuments to their generosity.
One of the most attractive spots in all Hawaii is the "Mormon" temple, located on the Church plantation at Laie fifty miles from Honolulu. The sightseeing cars and touring cars all stop here on the trip around the island of Oahu, while their occupants admire the structure and grounds which are set off to the greatest advantage because of the great contrast between this spot and the surrounding fields of cane and pineapple. The temple stands as a monument to the industry as well as the faith of the "Mormon" people and with the beautiful grounds surrounding it, reminds one of a priceless jewel in an exquisitely wrought setting. Elder William M. Waddoups is president of the temple and is assisted in carrying forward the work by the missionaries.
There is a commodious mission home on the plantation which was once the headquarters of the mission, and which is now used as the home of the president of the temple and his family; also the missionaries laboring here. There is also a Church, an amusement hall, a store operated under the management of the plantation, and the Church school—an elementary school, conducted for the benefit of the children on the plantation. The manager of the plantation has a home here, as have also his assistants and helpers and the people who do the manual labor. The unique little plantation railroad should not be overlooked. From the main line, temporary tracks are laid in the cane fields, wherever there is cane to be transported. The rails are laid in one field today, and in another tomorrow, and the train follows the rails and carries the cane from the various localities to the factory.
The plantation school is taught by missionaries who are


selected because of their ability and past experience as school teachers. Last year the school was in charge of Miss Marguerite Gordon of Alberta, Canada, assisted by five other missionary-teachers. There were 170 pupils in attendance, made up of the following races: Hawaiian, Japanese, Samoan, Porto Rican, Chinese, Filipino, American, Tongan, Spanish, Filipino-Spanish, Hawaiian-Irish, Hawaiian-American, Hawaiian-Chinese, Hawaiian-Japanese, Hawaiian-Samoan, Hawaiian-Indian, English-Hawaiian-Chinese-Spanish, Chinese-Hawaiian-Norwegian. There were also some Negro-Hawaiian-Irish-Portuguese and Korean children in the neighborhood near the plantation, who did not attend day school but who came occasionally to Sunday School.
A regular Church conference was held at Laie and also a