SENSIBLE CHRISTMAS GIVING... 621 ened, spiced, and shortened bread with fruit in something like our raisin bread) are on hand, and possibly more elaborate refreshments. The Germans send Christmas greeting cards to a very wide circle of friends. They, too, regard Christmas day ina religious light, and keep to quiet family reunions. In France, also, Christmas is a holy day. Many of the Catholics go to confession some time the day before Christmas and fast from then until midnight mass. At midnight the people all attend the elaborate mass ritual in the beautiful churches, then have a delicious dinner at home after that. The children shine their shoes and shine and shine and shine, and place them in a neat row on the mantelpiece, for Santa will come in the night and fill them with candies and other goodies. Christmas day is for further worship, and family gatherings. The real day for gifts is New Year's. The children have their bundles ready, and go to bed early. Father and mother retire also, with all sorts of mysterious packages concealed about them. When the chimes ring at midnight, the children arise and flock to their parents' room, kiss their father and mother, and wish them a happy New Year, then recite some selection they have learned, and present their gifts. The parents accept nothing that is merely purchased. The gifts must be the handiwork of the children. Perhaps it is some special drawing or geopraphy paper, or something of that kind. All through December, the children have been very busy. Little Marie has an exciting time, hiding from father the stockings she is knitting for him, and keeping mother's gift, and sister's, too, out of their sight. She must be prepared-to drop one and pick up another at any moment. Perhaps mother has had Marie neatly cutting and sewing some clothes for a doll for a poor little girl in the neighborhood; and perhaps she herself will receive that doll and those very clothes, from behind mother's pillow. That gift—a real lovely doll she will prize and cherish for many years. As a rule children are given. A good deal less, and are much more careful and appreciative than American kiddies., Santa Claus does not visit South American "minos," but they receive a few small remembrances from their families, and have a suggestion of a celebration. The servants, however, begin reminding the "senora" several days ahead, that the Holy Night is coming and that they need a pair of sandals or a new dress or something else. More often than not from a sense of innate modesty, Concha will tell the mistress that Fermina needs, and Fermina will mention Joachin's desires, and so on, or the mothers may call and do a little talking on their own account. Returning