to our own Christmas, and the idea of sensible giving, probably we should remember the applicability of the old Greek SENSIBLE CHRISTMAS GIVING — 623 men would be delighted with a gift of home-made candy or a fruit cake, others would not esteem it, particularly. Some care greatly about beautifully monogramed handkerchiefs, others are rather indifferent to such things, In many cases, families co-operate and buy their presents together. It is a commendable system. Most of us would prefer one elaborate gift from six people than six individual lesser gifts. And with this system applied to the children of the brothers and sisters, they need not be flooded with superfluous perishable toys, but might receive more substantial toys or articles of clothing, or other things which they would desire and appreciate—which _ would not overcrowd the house, and would help the mother. Consecutive Christmas gifts of the same kind, are a good plan, especially when people are trying to acquire a complete set of china or silverware. Even if people's means are very limited, two or three or more could combine to give one piece of either silver or china, two teaspoons or forks or even one, in preference to two or three trifles. For the succeeding birthday or Christmas, the gift might be duplicated. Like the French, we should, and most of us do, stress the importance of the gift made by friends or family. Mothers cannot be too appreciative of the efforts of their little ones in this direction. The calendar or pen-wiper, however amateurish, that is presented by the child with a happy smile and the proud words, "I made it for you, myself, mother," should receive a place of honor a longside the handsomest piece of wrought silverware. To this end, children should be encouraged to make their gifts, and should be started out early in the year. Being thus occupied will keep them busy and happy and out of mischief, and the time a mother spends teaching them, will be more than saved in time that she would have to correct them otherwise. We, ourselves, find it difficult to do the handwork we desire, but if, all through the year, we kept within immediate reach, a basket or bag, with a Christmas article, needle and thread and scissors and thimble, in it, so that if we sat down just ten minutes to rest our feet, or half an hour to chat with a visitor; or if it were quite ready to pick up and take with us to make a call, or go to club, or a party, we would accomplish enough to surprise ourselves. Doubtless all the Relief Societies are contributing useful suggestions for Christmas gifts. In the Ensign stake Relief Society, an effort is being made to increase the attendance at the work and business meetings. All women are urged to come and bring their own work, if they are not engaged on some Relief Society quilts or other articles. Sister Lucile Taylor, the work chairman of the Board, has been EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor.  - - - Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor:.. - -. - - Alice Louise REYNOLDS Business Manager. -. - - - - - - - Jeanette A. Hyde Assistant Manager: - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XI DECEMBER, 1924 

Vol. XI DECEMBER, 1924 No. 12