The Influence of Music. By Lucy May Green. In answer to the question, "What makes a home?" Sidney Lanier, the poet, after mentioning the first essential, parents and children, a house and a few friends, said, "An open fire and good music," but in as much as we can do without a fire for half the year, I say music is the one essential. Late explorers say they have found some nations that have no God, but I have heard of none that have no music. Music means harmony, harmony means love, and love means God." Music is a universal language, it carries some message to every human soul. It calls the saint to worship his God, the patriot to his country's service, the child to his mother's knee in the loving communion of the home circle, the lover to his beloved. It elevates, cheers and inspires them all.

It is true that there is a type of music that suggests evil, that arouses sensual thoughts, and tends towards immorality. I refer particularly to the "rag," "jazz," and cheap sentimental trash so popular at present. Happily for us, we have enough of the higher ideals along musical lines constantly before us, in our various church and social gatherings to counteract the cruder forms of music. As Relief Society workers, let us exclude from our meetings, and banish from our homes, the sensational cheap music, exercise great care in the selection and buying of music whether it be "records," player rolls, songs or dance. Let us use good judgment in choosing music for our programs, and parties, and keep up to the inspired standard: "If thou art merry, praise the Lord with singing, with music, with dancing, and with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving," said the Lord in a revelation given to Brigham Young (Doc. and Cov. 136:28). One writer says, "Music breathes like a miracle of inspiration through the soul to elevate, to refine and spiritualize. Everything within becomes active: the perceptions acute, the affections warm, the moral sensibilities quick and sensitive. Let everybody become musicians and surely they would become 'living souls.' " "When we pause by the wayside, all weary and faint, and would sit down discouraged and full of complaint, oh, sing! and the wearisome care will have fled as we sing of the rest that is waiting ahead." P. P. Bliss. When we think of all nations at war, and nearly every home is longing for loved ones who are absent in their country's service, while the world needs comfort and cheer, we can think of no power better calculated to bring this comfort and solace than the voice of song and melody. Our government has recognized this power, and in every camp and cantonment there are leaders of singing. THE INFLUENCE OF MUSIC. Our boys are encouraged to sing, often, for a singing army is a happy, contented army. A singing army is a victorious one. The morale of our armies is kept up to a high standard by good, clean, healthful amusements, and by music of the right kind. We hear a good deal about community singing nowadays; our soldiers and sailors sing, our boys "over there" are singing, our government tells us to sing. Shall the mothers of America alone be silent? Silent no longer! they shall sing for joy, And all their wondrous powers employ. Oh! with what rapture must the chorus swell, When tongues that have been dumb God's praises tell. Oh! for a song for every night of sorrow, When "weeping doth endure" a weary while; For sighing seems to but delay the morrow, And "joy" that cometh in the morning's smile. Music makes lighter the burden of life, sweetens the cup of bitterness, fills the heart with courage. Many of the great artists and singers of world-wide fame are giving up all of their time and using their precious talents to cheer and comfort the hearts of our fighting men, while we the women of Zion stay at home and mourn because of the absence of our boys. Awake up, Relief Society singers, buckle on your armor, and go forth and sing: "Go gladden the lonely, the dreary. Go comfort the weeping and weary. Go scatter kind deeds on your way. Oh make the world brighter today." The keynote of the gospel of Jesus Christ is gladness and joy, "Glad tidings of great joy" should start songs wherever it goes. The sad heart is the one that tires quickest let us therefore keep a song in our hearts and on our lips, and, "although your heart is breaking, make it sing a cheery song." Many people we know journey through life as a band of music goes down a street flinging out pleasure on every hand, while others remind us of fire bells with their harsh clanging, or of mournful dirges. Let us choose the better way, and carry with us an atmosphere of love, helpfulness, and good cheer that we may become a living gospel, with a song of joy in our hearts that shall "cheer and bless and brighten every passing day." * * * * Relief Society choirs, what are you doing? Are you living up to your mission to bring sunshine and cheer into the hearts of the sad and sorrowful, or in your zeal to knit, sew, make surgical dressings, tend war gardens, preserve, conserve, etc., are you forgetting how to sing? In some stakes and wards it is almost 572 . impossible to get our singers together, owing to their zeal along other lines of war service. Awake to your opportunities.

Remember that we are now to have a Song Book of our own. Visit the homes of the "War Mothers" and sing for them, cheer up the aged, and bedridden and home-bound, join in the community singing. Call the sisters together and have an afternoon of singing occasionally. Sing the old home songs, the patriotic music and the songs of Zion, for "There's comfort in their cheering words, That warms the strangest heart. No other songs we hear today Can such delight impart."

When called from home and all you love, 
Through sorrow's thorny path you rove, 
'Twill help to lift your soul above 
To sing a song of Zion. 

When journeying o'er the mighty deep, 
Or marching over mountains steep, 
Don't get discouraged, sigh or weep, 
Just sing a song of Zion. 

When faith is weak and doubts assail, 
When friends forsake, and foes prevail, 
E'en though you walk through death's dark vale, 
Sing a song of Zion. 

Zion's songs are full of cheer, 
Zion's songs of home so dear, 
How my soul delights to hear 
And sing the songs of Zion. 

Home Group 
"Home, Sweet Home," "Love at Home," "Old Kentucky Home," "Swanee River," "Little Gray Home in the West," "Keep the Home Fires Burning." 

Patriotic 
"Star Spangled Banner." "America," "Marseillaise," "Battle Hymn of the Republic," "Battle Cry of Freedom." "Sons of America." "The Flag without a Stain," "Hail Columbia," "The Red, White and Blue," "Flag of the Free." 

Songs of the People 
"Annie Laurie," "