national Sheppard-Towner act, which passed both houses without a dissenting vote. I think Utah is the only state in the Union with such a record."
In Mrs. Lyman's address a very exceptional opportunity was afforded the women of the West to be known through their works. In this matter the Relief Society was twice fortunate: First, in furnishing such thoroughly rich and up-to-date material for its representative; second, in having a representative who could present the matter in such a pleasing and thoroughly able way as Mrs. Lyman did present it. The address was not written, but delivered from notes. Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Ruth May Fox have assured us of the high favor in which the address was received, and of the very appreciative comment of, Mrs. Philipp North Moore, president. Since the return of the delegates, a letter has been received from Mrs. Moore, expressing her high appreciation of the address.
A report of the Relief Society work was given by Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, and the work of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association by Mrs. Ruth May Fox. All of the delegates seemed to appreciate especially the quality of women they met. Mrs. Moore, whose executive work has attracted unusual attention in national organizations since 1904 came in for a large amount of felicitation, particularly as this was the 50th anniversary of her graduation from Vassar. Dr. Kate Waller Barrett, Mrs. Maud Wood Park, Mrs. Lucia Ames Mead and Dr. Valeria H. Parker stood out prominently in all the work of the convention. The local committee came in for its meed of praise, both in Decatur and Springfield for arranging for a most interesting visit to President Lincoln's tomb. The greatest possible satisfaction is expressed at the retention of Mrs. Ruth May Fox as auditor. It will be especially distinctive for our organizations to have a representative on the board of directors at the time of the meeting of the Quinquennial in 1925.
Miss Zalia By Elsie C. Carroll
"If there ain't Zalia Banks comin' up the hill." Ellen Perkins turned from the windows and addressed her daughter who still sat at the breakfast table. "Millie, bring that low rocker from the bedroom and put it right here by the fire. Sam, set the coffee-pot on the front of the stove. She'll be half froze. I'll go down and cut another slice of ham. I wonder whatever's the matter?her out so early!"
"Why, Ma," drawled Sam, "you ought to know Miss Zalia well enough to know that nothing needs to be the matter to bring her out even in the middle of the night, if she happens to think that Teenie Franson needed a new pair of shoes, or old Bill Preston's cow-shed ought to be mended." Sam laughed as he reached an ungainly arm toward the water-pitcher.
"Now, Sammy," came his mother's protesting voice from the depths of the cellar, "You just quit makin' fun of Miss Zalia. You know if she is odd there ain't a better-hearted soul in the world, and they ain't a family in this whole neighborhood but what owes her a lot. Why, when Pa died," Mrs. Perkins continued, emerging from the cellar with a slice of ham and an egg, "and I was left alone with you and Millie?two little helpless mites to look after, I don't know what I'd done without Zalia. It seemed such a big load I was left to carry?taking care of you and tryin' to finish paying for the farm?I am sure I'd a give up and gone back to Grandpa Milbourne if it hadn't been for her. But she just wouldn't let me. Said she knew I'd be sorry later, if I did. She'd not only talk to me when I'd get discouraged and blue, in that quaint cheery way of hers, but she'd come right over an' stay with us and pitch right into the work herself when there was need of it?cooking for threshers, or nursing you children when you was both down with the measles, or if a sudden rain storm threatened, helping to hustle the hay into the barns. And then when I'd think how she's raised four children and not one of 'em her own, that would give me courage, too. I tell you she's done more good in Blue Ridge than anyone else in its hull history and I don't want to ever hear either of you children makin' fun of her."
"Aw Ma, you know I wasn't makin' fun, but she is queer," Sam insisted.
"Well they's worse things in this world than bein' queer; but they ain't no better soul ever lived than Zalia Banks. Here, Millie, come and tend this skillet." Mrs. Perkins handed the fork to her daughter and hurried to the door as the sound of stamping feet was heard on the board walk outside.
"Why, Zalia Banks, what in the world's brought you out so early? You must be half froze. Here, give me your shawl. Sit in the rocker by the fire and I'll fix you a bite in half a jiffy."
"Now Ellen, stop your fussin'," remonstrated the caller in an easy drawl, "I ain't cold, and I ain't hungry, but I jest had to come and tell you the news." She had permitted the brown plaid shawl to be drawn from her grey head and stooped shoulders, and sank, a bit out of breath, into the rocker Millie shoved toward her. "You'd never guess," she went on, the excited fire in the black eyes overhung by heavy brows lighting up the thin brown features. "Edna May's wrote for me to come and live with them in the city." She held out a small pink envelope as if to verify her astonishing statement.
"Zalia!" gasped Mrs. Perkins, "You don't mean it! Edna May! And we all thought that of all them friendless children you've took in and give a home and a chance in the world, she was the ungratefulest."
"Yes, I know folks thought that, generally." Miss Zalia conceded, as she rocked back and forth, her gray linsey dress and blue gingham apron falling in voluminous folds about the tops of her broad coarse shoes. "But I reckon it was because Edna May was so pretty and full of life and hated ugliness and drudgery. Of course, she caused me more worry than all the rest of them together?because she would have a good time, and they was always a lot of good-for-nothing fellers hanging around her. Then when she went to the city in spite of all I could say or do?I felt bad, of course, but I never believed all the evil predictions folks made about her. Of course, I realized the dangers, but I might a knowed Edna May would only pick out the best in life. It's a gift she has. She was the most discernin' child I ever knew. She knows more about me than John and Lindy and Benny all ever found out together. I guess I never told you that the summer before she left she saved money pickin' berries?and you know how she hated it?and bought me a pink silk parasol for my birthday because she found out some way that when I was young I'd always wanted one. Course, I'd be sent to the 'sylum if I'd be seen takin' it to church like I used to dream about doin', but I guess she knowed I'd like to get it out sometime o' nights and feel its soft ruffles and dream about the time when I was young and could have used it. Yes, John and Benny hev both got good farms of their own now, and families; and Lindy's married and fixed comfortable. They all write once in awhile and send me a book or something nice at Christmas, but I guess they look on me as more of a duty than Edna May does. She writes lots of nice little notes?not long letters like they do, but little messages that are full of sunshine. And once in a while she sends me something that made her think of me?a pretty handkerchief or some cologne. I've decided to go. I won't sell out just at present, but I'll be glad to know something besides Blue Ridge."
"I don't blame you, Zalia, and much as we'll miss you, you'll go with the best wishes of everybody in Blue Ridge."
Although Blue Ridge was a scattered farming community, the news of Miss Zalia's good fortune soon spread. True to country hospitality, the people were eager to do something to show their regard for a life-long friend who was going to leave them. Consequently, under the leadership of Ellen Perkins and Susan White, a public picnic was hastily arranged and the evening before her departure, Miss Zalia had an opportunity of bidding Blue Ridge good-bye en masse at the schoolhouse, where they all gathered in a somewhat sad festivity. More than once during the evening Miss Zalia's quick, black eye blurred, and she felt herself wavering. Wasn't it a foolish thing to leave these old friends, tried and true, for a new life of which she knew nothing?which was only a promise? But Zalia Banks was not accustomed to changing plans once made, without some very good reason; so, even under the stress of emotion, she looked at things sensibly.
"Lands, I hate like everything to go, too," she repeated over and over during the evening to the genuine regrets expressed by first one and then another. "It wouldn't take much to change my mind right now. I never will forget you and you must all write to me and come and see me."
The shaking of hands at the end of the evening was the hardest.
"Now, Mamie," she said in an undertone to good-hearted, homely, Mamie Johnson, who had been in service for many long hard years to exacting Mrs. Conover, but who had been receiving attention for the last three months from Joe Bronson, a late widower, "Now, Mamie, don't put it off too long. You don't want to be an old maid all your life like me. Why don't you surprise us all and begin the New Year by getting married?"
"I would, Miss Zalia, honestly that's what Joe wants to do," whispered Mamie, blushing happily, "but I ain't got no dress fit to wear. You see, I been sending all I could spare to Timmie and his folks since they was burned out last fall. You don't feel like getting married without a weddin' dress and I couldn't let Joe get that."