Sarah Uses Tact Bessie Van Wagenen During the first year of their married life, John and Sarah Moore had planned and built the "Dovecote," their future home. A beautiful, low-rambling, white house, shining like a jewel in its setting of trees and beautiful shrubs and flowers with wide lawns extending from all sides of the house. This was to be their home for life, John had declared, and, as they planned every detail from the greatest to the least, they looked forward to the time when sturdy sons and beautiful daughters would fill their home and builded accordingly. After fifteen years John began to wonder if fate had made a joke of him, with Sarah and the "Dovecote" included. Not one babe had come to gladden their home. Everyone in the neighborhood knew Sarah's love for babies, and therefore Sarah it was who was always called upon to help the Old Bishop Dan usher many new little lives into the world, and the grateful mothers would tell each other what a splendid hand Sarah was with babies for never having one of her own to practice on. Not one of them knew what aching longing, gripped Sarah's heart, after she washed and dressed each tiny body and placed it in the proud mother's arms! Not one guessed what grief possessed her, as the tiny rose-bud lip nestled to the mother's breast. No one but the dear God saw the heart-rending tears shed in the privacy of her own room. I said no one, but there was one who was beginning to suspect Sarah's secret and that was Old Bishop Dan, as the villagers lovingly called him. He happened to notice Sarah's face as she was bending over the lusty Jones baby, the newest arrival in the village. It was a revelation of all the hopeless longing that filled her soul.. Sarah glanced up and caught the Bishop's questioning look and for the first time in fifteen years gave expression to her bitterness. "Tt just isn't fair, Bishop,' she burst out, babies should be divided more equally. Now here, for instance, is the eighth baby for the Jones' family and they can support about half that number and feed and clothe them right. Look at the thousands of children in the world today, dying for want of care, and I am denied even one child! Do you call that fair?" Bishop Dan placed his hand gently on Sarah's arm, "That's just it, Sarah," he said gently, "that's just the point. There are 206. . Hundreds of babies within a day's ride from here that need mothers. Now, why don't you and John adopt one. You could easily support and care for a dozen children. Why not at least give one a chance." "I have thought of that very often,' Sarah answered quickly, "but there is John to consider. I have suggested adopting a little one, have pleaded with him, in fact, but he gives always the same answer, 'If the Lord sees fit to deny me fatherhood, I will not father someone else's child." It always makes him so cranky and cross I have stopped urging him." The Bishop's eyes sharpened. He dearly loved an argument, and he had been a dear friend of John's for years. "Answer me this, Sarah, why does John Moore keep every stray dog and cat that's dropped at his gate? Why does he take every tramp in and feed him? You don't need to answer me, I know something about human nature, and I know some few things about John Moore. It's because his heart is too tender to kill the animals, and too full of love for his fellow men to turn one adrift with an empty stomach. No; don't tell me that John Moore would turn away a helpless child. No sir-ee; he might not go hunting for a stray baby, but T'll bet a penny to a doughnut he wouldn't turn one away if he found one on his door step. A little tact, Sarah, bridges many a difficulty." Sarah gasped. This had been her secret longing for years. Next best to having a babe of her own, would be to have one placed on her door step.. She spoke hopefully, breathlessly, "Do you think, Bishop, such a thing could be brought about? O! It would make me the happiest woman in the world." "Why not? I am sometimes asked to find homes for motherless babes. Now, why not some night bring one out to you folks?" The Bishop was pressing the point, and Sarah's denied motherhood was asserting itself. She and old Bishop Dan were soon in a deep conspiracy against one John Moore. It was a blustery March evening; Sarah had gone to her mother's for a couple of hours, and John sat reading before the cozy fire. A low wail interrupted his reading. John listened. It came again, clearer, this time, between lulls of the wind. "Another cat. It's getting to be an imposition the way people drop their cats here. This makes about twelve." John was grumbling to himself. "It can stay out there and be darned; not another cat comes on this place." The wail increased steadily in volume until John could stand it no longer. "I'll let the thing in for tonight and pack it off again in the morning," he thought., SARAH USES TACT. He arose and opened the door. There on the step was a dry goods box covered with an old shawl. "Huh, a whole family of cats by special delivery," he snorted. It was no family of cats that greeted John's gaze as he drew back the shawl, but a very pink, very bright-eyed baby. The bright light started the babe to crying again. John began carefully to extract it from the box, holding his breath, meanwhile, for fear of dropping the little one. The baby cried louder and still louder, and John held it tighter and tighter. As it continued to cry, John began to walk about the room. The faster he walked the louder baby cried, until poor John was nearly frantic. He tried clucking, whistling, singing and snapping his fingers, but the cries became shrieks. John had thought wildly of deserting the house, baby and everything, when his eyes happened to light on the family Medical Adviser, old Dr. Gunn's book. Somehow, he managed to balance the baby in one arm while he turned the leaves frantically back and forth in search of symptoms. He was certain, by this time, that the baby was dying by inches. Finally he came to the words "feed modified cows milk." Of course, why in the world hadn't he thought of that! Any lunatic would know a baby needed milk, he grumbled C to himself. Still balancing the now sobbing baby in one arm, he gingerly went to Sarah's shiny pantry, dipped into a pan of milk, got safely back to the stove without dropping the baby or spilling the milk. When the milk was nicely warmed, weakened with hot water and sweetened a trifle, he began to feed the baby, who after the first few spoonfuls began to manifest its satisfaction by a series of grunts, gurgles and wiggles. Finally, after an hour's hard work on the part of John, baby graciously permitted John to sit down; and there Sarah found the two when she came in later, John in the big rocker, and baby nestled in his arms, one tiny hand gripping the man's big finger. "Sh! Sh!" he warned, as she opened the door, "For heaven's sake, woman, can't you see we've got a baby? And I've walked the floor for two solid hours with it," he added accusingly. "A baby!" Sarah demonstrated her histrionic ability as she acted her complete surprise during John's recital of the events of the evening. _ "Well, it's too late to do anything tonight, but in the morning we can call up the police and send it to the Orphan's Home," said John. Sarah's heart was beating fast as she watched John's face 208 . And she replied, "We don't want a baby. We could never care for one." John's face looked like a thunder cloud. "Sarah Moore," he burst forth, "I am ashamed that a wife of mine hasn't more charity in her heart for God's children. Keep this child? I guess we will. You can just make up your mind to that." "Sarah looked very humble. "Of course, dear, if you say so,' she answered meekly. "I'd love to, myself, but we know so "T know a lot and can learn more," boasted John Moore. "Tf we have good luck raising this one we'll adopt some more. Er-er-Sarah, do you suppose it's a girl?" Sarah gravely nodded. "Because I would like her called Eudora, I just read tonight that Eudora means a gift from God." A few days later, Sarah Moore met the Bishop. They shook hands gravely, though their eyes smiled. "A little tact, Sarah." Bishop Dan informed her gravely, "a little tact does wonderful things." The Moores have three adopted babies now, and the end is not yet in sight.