From Zion to Jerusalem" So many things are happening in the interesting country, Palestine, that it is difficult to keep pace with the rushing news from there. From the mass of information, we glean the following items: The mandatory assumes the responsibility of seeing that no Palestine territory shall be ceded, leased or otherwise subjected to any foreign power; that Jewish immigration shall be facilitated; that the civil and religious rights of all the inhabitants, irrespective of race or religion, shall be safeguarded, and that there be no discrimination against the nationals of any states, members of the league of nations. Responsibility for taxation, commerce and navigation is vested in the mandatory. It is also provided that a land system be introduced to promote close settlement of the land and its intensive cultivation. All responsibility in connection with the holy places, religious buildings and their sites are assumed by Great Britain. English, Hebrew and Arabic are to be the official languages of the country. The Palestine administration, it is provided, may organize on a voluntary basis the necessary forces for the preservation of the peace and order and defense of the country, subject to the supervision of the mandatory. An appropriate Jewish agency, it is stipulated, shall be recognized as a public body, advisory to and cooperative with the administration in economic, social and other matters, and the Zionist organization, as it is now constituted, is so recognized. The mandatory is to adhere to the existing conventions regarding the traffic in slaves, ammunition and drugs, and as to commercial equality and freedom of transit and communication. Disputes under the mandate provisions not settled by negotiations, are to be submitted to the permanent court of international justice established by the league of nations. Great Britain is to make an annual report to the league of nations council on the measures taken during the year. New York, Feb. 20——A committee of twenty-five leading Jewish business men, representing diverse industries in the United States, will make a six weeks' tour of Poland, Austria and other war-devastated areas this summer. Louis Marshall, 210 . Chairman of the American Jewish relief committee, announced here today, The tour, approved by the committee, will be "for the purpose of formulating a sound program which will result in permanent benefit to the Jewish population of the sections visited," Mr. Marshall added. Each member of the commission will place himself at the disposal of the government in the stricken district. Plans to raise $14,000,000 in the United States this year to carry on reconstruction and emergency relief among Jewish war sufferers have been adopted by the committee. Sir Herbert Samuel announced that the Palestine Administration has abolished the tobacco monopoly which has been maintained in Palestine for many years, says a Jerusalem dispatch. The tobacco industry was monopolized by a French concern on the basis of certain special privileges granted by the Turkish Government many years ago. The orange and lemon yield in Jericho is nearly double that of last year, says a Palestine dispatch. About one quarter of the land at Jericho is already under plow, and the local water canals have been repaired and cleaned. Jewish labor is replacing the Arab labor which was almost exclusively used in Lower Galilee. The colonists of Yavniel and Milhamia are using Jews, and the colony of Mesha entrusted the watch to Jewish watchmen. Everyone in Palestine has been advised to take a daily dose of quinine to ward off a malaria epidemic. The municipality of Jerusalem has decided to float a loan of L30,000 to provide the city with an adequate electric lighting system. There is talk of building a garden city outside of Jerusalem at Talpioth, a hillside at some distance from the Jaffa gate. Telephones have been installed in most of the business houses and public institutions in Haifa, and installations are being made in a number of places in Jaffa.