BIRTHDAY RECEPTION FOR PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS. A charming, delightful and most successful reception was tendered our venerable president, Emmeline B. Wells, on the 28th of February, at the Hotel Utah. She was ninety-three years old, or would be at midnight or near about, as she was porn on the 29th of February, and has a birthday only once in four She looked like a fragile Dresden figure, in her pale silks, white laces, and trailing flowers, put she was VeTy much alive and enjoyed every moment of the afternoon's greetings, music, compliments, gifts of flowers as well as the telegrams and congratulations which poured in upon her. At the head of the receiving line stood our first counselor, Clarissa Smith Williams; with second counselor, Julina L Smith; and general secretary, Amy Brown Lyman and othe members of the board who did the hand-shaking by proxy for the president, and for themselves. The five nearby stake presidents also acted on the receiving committee. Counselor Clarissa Smith Williams, noted the presence of grand-nephews and grand-nieces of the Prophet Joseph Smith, descendants of his brother, Patriarch Hyrum Smith, and descendants of the following leaders and pioneers: Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo 236 . Snow, Joseph F. Smith, George A. Smith, Willard Richards, Daniel H. Wells, Charles C. Rich, Ezra T. Benson, Erastus Snow, Jedediah M. Grant, Bishop Whitney, Bishop Partridge. Of the Authorities present there were: President Charles W. Penrose, President Rudger Clawson, James E. Talmage, B. H. Roberts, Richard R. Lyman, Bishop David A. Smith, Rulon S. Wells. The reception was certainly unique in this feature, as well as in the presence of so many distinguished men and women who paid their compliments to our president. The committee of the board, who had charge of the affair, were Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon, chairman, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth and Mrs. Donette Smith Kessler. Relief Society women will be pleased to know that copies of Normal Life, by Dr. Edward T. Devine, may be obtained from the publishers, Douglas C. McMurtie, 2929 Broadway, New York. Price, $1.75. The supply was exhausted in the early fall, but a new edition has been published. CHRISTIANITY THE FINAL RELIGION Dr. Samuel M. Zwemer, of the Reformed Church of America, has prepared a very, very comprehensive book on the missionary spiritual outlook for the conversion of the oriental races. The chapter titles indicate the scope of the work. 1. Earliest Christianity. 2. Thinking Gray in Missions. 3. The Solidarity of the Race. 4. The Impact of Christianity on non-Christian Religions. 5. What is the Apostolic Gospel? 6. The Stumbling Block of the Cross. 7. Christianity as Final Religion. It is published by Erdmans-Sevensena Co., Grand Rapids, Michigan. All who are interested in this wide-appealing subject will welcome this book. It is treated, of course, from a sectarian point of view, but is not colored nor biased in any particular manner.