RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY, 1916 No. 2  
SPECIAL ARTICLES  
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL Pres., Emmeline B. Wells as a Mother  
WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE Ruth Moench Bell  
HOME ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT Janette A. Hyde  
QUERY BOX Hazel Love Dunford  
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year Single Copy 10c  
Established 1877 Phone Was. 1370  
STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY  
100 Calling Cards Engraved For $1.50, Postage Paid  
Everyone should have a nice calling card, and we want you to call on us for same  
Pembroke Company The Home of Fine Stationery and Engraving 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah  
Kindly mention this magazine when ordering  
When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct  
The Relief Society Magazine  
Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
CONTENTS. FEBRUARY, 1916.  
Introspection Nellie Beecraft 61  
Mothers in Israel 63  
Echo of the Genealogical Congress 71  
When Dreams Come True Ruth Moench Bell 72  
Temple Hymn Lucy May Green 79  
A Testimony Lucy May Green 80  
A Prayer Edith McClendon 81  
My Testimony Concerning Temple Work Lerona A. Wilson 82  
Home Economics Department Janette A. Hyde 85  
A Prince of Ur Homespun 91  
Current Topics James H. Anderson 101  
Query Box Hazel Love Dunford 104  
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 106  
EDITORIAL: Efficiency 109  
Guide Lessons 111  
ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY.  
Patronize those who advertise with us.  
ADVERTISERS:  

BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City  
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City  
DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City  
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City  
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City  
MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City  
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City  
PEMBROKE CO., STATIONERY, 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City  
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City  
STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City  
SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J., Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City  
SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City  
THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City  
TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City  
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City  
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah  
UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY, Salt Lake City  
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City  
To help busy mothers select the right kind of books for their children is one of our greatest pleasures. Write to us — we'll help you.  
DESERET Sunday School Union BOOK STORE 44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah  
Put That Idle Dollar to Work  
If you haven't a bank account, take that idle dollar and bring or mail it to this bank and start a savings account. Everybody should be saving a little, if it is only one dollar a week. This amount will grow with interest into surprising proportions if continued systematically for a reasonable length of time.  
Work is plentiful now; crops have been big. While good times last, save for a future day when work will be harder to get. We will add 4 per cent to your savings.  
"The Bank with a Personality"  
Merchant's Bank Capital $250,000 Member of Salt Lake Clearing House  
John Pingree, Pres.; Chas. E. Kaiser, V. P.; Moroni Heiner, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Cashier; Radcliffe, G. Cannon, D. R. Pingree, Asst. Cashiers  
Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City  
SALT LAKE'S LADY FLORIST  
Mrs. Emma J. Sanders 278 South Main Street  
Phone Wasatch 2815  
Schramm-Johnson No. 5  
Salt Lake City, Utah  
Burial Insurance in the  
Beneficial Life Insurance Company  
The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this.  
Relief Society Headquarters or  
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY DEPARTMENT HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH  
Established 1860 Incorporated 1908  
It is the purpose of this Bank at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant.  
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK SALT LAKE CITY  
Your Account is Cordially Invited  
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK  
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres.  
S. M. TAYLOR & Co. Undertakers and Embalmers  
SUCCESSORS TO Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West  
53 Years in One Location  
251-257 E. First South Street Salt Lake City, Utah  
Efficient Service, Modern Methods, Complete Equipment  
Introspection.  
Dear Angel of years, write me two score and ten, Now, of deeds good or ill, what sayest thy pen? My record — which greater, the gain or the loss? Of which am I reaping, the gold or the dross?  
In the springtime of life did I fully prepare The soil of my soul gospel fruitage to bear? And though seed time came late, have I labored the more To cultivate, weed, and thus add to my store?  
Am I learning the rules of life's lesson aright, Or turning the page where 'tis hardest to fight? Have I learned that through conflict our powers increase? That for what we toil hardest, our love will ne'er cease?  
Do I thank God, not only for what He bestows, But for what He withholds? For most surely He knows Of which portion to give for this weakness, that pain Which if taken in meekness will prove for my gain.  
O Father, Thou knowest my yearnings and fears; To Thee, too, are known all my pleadings and tears; E'en my innermost thoughts are all known unto Thee. O help me, dear Father, thy true Saint to be!  
NELLIE BEECRAFT. OGDEN, UTAH.  
Mrs. Isabel Modalena Mrs. Melvina Caroline Whitney-Sears Whitney-Woods.  
Elizabeth Ann Wells-Cannon  
PRES. EMMELINE B. WELLS AND HER FIVE DAUGHTERS.  
THE Relief Society Magazine  
Vol. III. FEBRUARY, 1916. No. 2.  
Efficiency.  
What is Efficiency? The word used in modern business is this rather modern word — efficiency. We have efficiency engineers and efficiency experts in every department of the modern strenuous life — men who are able, competent and extremely alert men; who cut down expenses, men who discover weakness, and men who promote activity, who would teach other men how to accomplish results.  
Efficiency in The Home. These modern ideas of efficiency have actually invaded the home. Devices and "contraptions" for the lessening of work in the home, arrangements to save steps, to lessen the friction everywhere in the domestic machinery, through small compact kitchen laboratories, are the order of the day. Budgets to compose and adjust the household expenses are introduced into all the Home Science Departments in the technical schools. Efficient housekeepers, home-makers, wives, mothers and daughters, are the great modern requirement.  
110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.  
The Efficient Woman. The efficient housekeeper has many of the elements of success required to offer for the efficient woman in any public business. Women who have learned to regulate their own affairs, to conduct their own intricate domestic problems, are, as a rule, qualified for a wider usefulness, a broader sphere of activity. But, alas, so few women, in the mass, are really efficient housekeepers. To do things in "any old way," at "any old time," is too often the rule in most households. And yet, this thing we call efficiency can be cultivated. We are never too old — we Relief Society women — to learn and to progress. Every truth we learn here, every fault overcome, every virtue acquired is just so much efficiency laid up in our bank on the other side. And spiritual efficiency will be the circulating medium hereafter.  
Are you Efficient? Are you an efficient wife and mother? An efficient housekeeper and homemaker? An efficient Relief Society member, teacher, or officer? If not, why not? Are you capable, competent, and faithful? Can you be depended on? When you say you will attend to anything, do you keep your word? Do you take responsibility? Do you give good service? Do your labors produce the effects intended, or are they largely abortive? Do you earn, really and truly earn, no matter what you may be paid; do you earn efficiency wages or only day's wages? Is your activity productive of the most useful effects, or do you "jump up and down in a bucket all day and holler", as a Yankee grandmother characterized a certain woman's foolish waste of time and energy? These are the questions I ask myself, and I hereby pass them on to you. The world, the Church, and above all, the Relief Society, wants efficient women, members, and officers.  
ATTENTION! GENEALOGICAL COMMITTEES.  
In answer to many inquiries the General Board wishes it understood that the genealogical visits to be reported are official visits paid to the Temples by the ward Relief Society. Private visits of individuals to Temples need not be recorded on our reports.  
Guide Lessons.  
LESSON I.  
Theology and Testimony.  
First Week in March.  
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE.  
REBECCA.  
(Before this article is read, the account in the Bible should be carefully gone over. Genesis, chapters 24-27.)  
Rebecca is a character. A good many women, you know, are not. The same thing, for that matter, may be said of men. Rebecca is more than a name which you vainly strive to develop into a personality. The personality is already there, developed before your eyes, and all you have to do is to see what is set before you — though sometimes you have to use a microscope and always your head. Drawn with the fewest possible strokes — an art known only to those old Bible writers — she stands out in bold relief, a woman of flesh and blood with the eternal values unchanged.  
Rebecca is, first of all, a woman of rare physical beauty. On two different occasions we are told that she is "fair to look upon" — once when she stands there at the well in all the glory of her young virginity, fresh, energetic, generous, and then again as she is set over against the fair daughters of the Philistines when she, a matron, goes with her husband to their country, and all unconsciously enamors the lustful king.  
The details of her life as given by the sacred writer, are few but tremendously significant. We first see her at the well when the aged servant of Abraham came wife-seeking for Isaac. She is a young woman, overflowing with vitality, physical and spiritual. Out of the kindness of her heart she gives drink to the camels, too, although the stranger has asked drink only for himself. The conversation ended, she "runs," in the picturesque phrase of the Biblical narrative, to her mother and the household, to tell them of the new arrivals. She has courage and decision of character, for when her father and her mother hesitate about sending her to her future husband into a strange country and to a strange people, she immediately answers, "I will go!"  
112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.  
We see her next just before the birth of Esau and Jacob. A sign has occurred which gives her distress and concern. What does she do? Sit and brood in alarm over it or run with the delicate secret to some one who perhaps would know as little about it as the inexperienced young wife? — Not at all she is too self-reliant for that. — Instead she goes to the Lord how we do not know, nor does it matter, but with such faith and trust in him as to obtain an answer that not only comforts and sustains her but reveals the larger purposes of God. "Two nations," she is told of the Lord, "are in thy womb, and two peoples shall be separated even from thy bowels. The one people shall be stronger than the other people and the elder shall serve the younger." Here the Lord condescends to give Rebecca a revelation that touches the future of two peoples.  
The next time she appears before us in the narrative is in the famous scene of the transferred blessing, overhearing the now aged Isaac telling his elder son, Esau — the wild, the impulsive, the roaming Esau, — who is loved by the gentle, retiring Isaac more than is the quiet Jacob, to bring him a "savory offering" that he in turn may bless him. Now, this blessing was an important and significant event in the life of a follower of Abraham in those days. So Rebecca induces Jacob, her favorite son, to assume the appearance of the elder son, to anticipate him in the offering, and to receive the blessing in his stead, as he has already received from him the birthright. The plan succeeds.  
Rebecca has often been severely censured for this deed. Examination of all the facts in the situation, however, will serve to throw the incident in another light. Isaac is very old — a hundred and thirty-seven years. Moreover, his physical, and perhaps his mental, powers are greatly enfeebled. Rebecca's powers, on the contrary, are as alert as ever, to all appearances. Isaac is about to go counter to what she, and perhaps he, knows is the will of the Lord, as revealed to her. For the Lord told her specifically that "the elder shall serve the younger". Now, she probably knew that she could not accomplish her end by direct means. So she used indirect means. Perhaps she has less implicit faith in the Lord to do his own work than Abraham would have had in the same situation, but that is because she wants to act rather than merely to think. At all events, she is with the Lord, whereas Isaac is about to be, and but for her would actually be, against the Lord.  
Her final appearance is when Jacob is sent away to obtain a wife for himself. Esau, forgetful of the covenant, marries daughters of the land. But Jacob must marry from "the seed". So Rebecca suggests that Jacob be sent away to her kindred for a helpmeet.  
These facts and incidents show a strong woman, one with  
GUIDE LESSONS. 113  
an abundant vitality, physical and spiritual, with independence such as one would not expect in the East of the olden time, with a quick, resolute decision of character, and with great insight into the hidden purposes of the Lord, coupled with faith and trust in him, full of resource and tact.  
QUESTIONS.  
Who was Rebecca? Give each of the four incidents related of her. What characteristics does she exhibit in each? What do you think of her "deception" of Isaac? Show that Rebecca was a suitable companion to her husband. What differences do you observe between the customs of those days and ours?  
LESSON II.  
Work and Business.  
Second Week in March.  
LESSON III.  
Genealogy and Art.  
Third Week in March.  
GENEALOGY.  
Family Associations.  
Most women, when approached with a suggestion to begin their temple work, make the excuse that they are not rich, are not the heir, or that they live at a long distance from a temple. These excuses can all be met with the advice to form a Family Organization. What is impossible to one lone individual becomes easy and pleasant when undertaken by a well-organized group of persons. The single, small contributions make a great sum. The heir will usually be glad to unite with all members of the family, and appoint a temple committee who will have charge of the various phases of the temple work for the family. Genealogical supervisors are requested to study the chapter on Family Organization, found in the Genealogical Lesson Book, to present this week's lesson.  
Suggestions: 1. After explaining the lesson, let the supervisor proceed to organize a model family organization right in the class. Let nominations be made for a president, two vice-presidents, secretary and treasurer. Then appoint, or nominate, three to form a Temple Committee, and three for an Amusement Committee. This object lesson will do more towards teaching each woman how to organize her own family, than all the theory in the book.  
114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.  
2. Every woman in the Relief Society is requested to spend at least one day in official work for the dead during 1916. By official, we mean work done for the Relief Society charity lists, which are names furnished to the Genealogical Committee by those who are not financially able to do their own temple work. Where there are no such lists in a ward, they can be obtained from the Chief Recorder in any one of the four temples. Where the sister lives too far from a temple to comply with this suggestion, she may donate sufficient means to the Genealogical Committee of her ward, which will provide a substitute for her. Our reports are arranged to cover these official days spent in the Temple, as well as other official days thus spent. The Jordan and Davis, Liberty and Cache stakes lead all others in this beautiful charity temple work.  
QUESTIONS.  
Have you a family organization? If not, why not? Why can we do more in an organized way than as individuals? Who is the proper heir in a family? What does your lesson-book say about Family Organization? Did you enjoy and understand the model organization just formed in your class? Have you spent one official day in the temple this year? If not, why not? What do we mean by "official day"? What has your ward done about temple work in the past? What plans can you suggest to improve your work in this line?  
OUT-OF-DOOR STUDY.  
WINTER WALK.  
A. Give a prose sketch or poem on your "Winter Walk." B. Bring a drawing or picture you have made of something you saw during your "Winter Walk." C. What vital impression was made upon you by this experience? What use will this winter landscape study be to you when you go to the next art exhibition? D. Describe a winter landscape that has deeply impressed you at some time of life.  
A WINTER WALK.  
The writer took her "Winter Walk" in December. It was not a propitious day for study of the snow blanket, but excellent for observation of winter mountain foliage. We went in search of winter decoration for luncheon tables for a very great and festive occasion. Luckily there were several artists on the luncheon committee, and there was no money with which to buy the usual cut flowers. The artists determined that this decoration should not be commonplace.  
We shook or scraped the light snow from the wild mountain holly, (Oregon Grapes), now green, and scarlet, and satin-leaved. We gathered stacks to take back to town. We gathered armfuls of the low, bushy green "box" growing under the bare maple and scrub-oak. Down in the sheltered banks of the creek, we pulled, from clumps of joint grass, the tall daintily marked pines — fit for pipes of Pan, had the weather not been too cold for piping! From long stretches of wild rose gardens we stripped twigs (thorned, too), with the wild, red roseberries. We went home with arms filled, and the decorations were not commonplace, and were much admired.  
MARCH LANDSCAPE STUDY.  
The study of the March landscape has most to do with the sky. The sky must be the theme. The ground is neutral in color. The interest of this month centers in windy weather. The sky shows queer-shaped patches of deep blues, and ultra marines, and splotches of purples, and gray, and big white billowy clouds.  
Take your March walk on a windy wash-day, after your clothes are hung out. Take the little "finder." Look for a picture with the line of clothes blowing straight out in the foreground. In the background, you will note the cloud-filled sky will make a repetition of your line of blowing clothes both in color and feeling of motion. A wonderful time of day for this picture is often in the twilight with cottage window red with the lamplight within, in the background.  
Or you may find an attractive foreground in a line of purple willows following creeks or surrounding ponds. The sky is sure to complete the picture, if there are clouds. The snowing and blowing day makes a beautiful subject for pictures.  
A. You should find at least two pictures in your March Walk and tell which has the best foreground and which the best background. B. Prepare yourself to describe a windy day's sky. C. Study bursts of sunshine and shadow. When clouds obscure the sun's rays, it is called a "Gray Day." Many love this manifestation of nature. D. Study to describe two "March Gray Days." E. Prepare yourself to describe a scene with sunshine bursting through dark clouds. Don't make much of the ground, but confine yourself to telling the color and motion of the clouds.  
TWILIGHT STUDY.  
A. Make a special study of March twilight on a blowy, cloudy evening, just before rain. Have a house with firelight shining through the window and there will be red or yellow in the sky to repeat the color of the firelight. B. Make a study of twilight indoors with blinds up and a firelight. Have a family around the fire, and note the effect of the two lights, and the shadows made by the firelight. Be prepared to describe such a scene.  
What is the Jacobean style? Describe the Classic Period. Contrast the modern method of building and the medieval method (note 2, page 125). What is the style of St. Pauls, Figs. 4 and 5, London? Name its architecture. Describe its exterior and interior. Radcliffe Library, Oxford. Fig. 6. The Classic Revivals. Describe the Bank of England, and name its architect. Tell what you can of the architecture of the British Museum. What can you say of the Mansion House? Fig. 7. Fitz William, Fig. 8. Describe the Victorian Gothic. Tell what you can of the Parliament House, Westminster, Fig. 9. In what ways do the present British architecture and French architecture surpass the other?  
LESSON IV.  
Home Economics.  
Fourth Week in March.  
HOME-MAKING AS A PROFESSION.  
I. As a Trade or Profession.  
1. Meaning of trade.  
2. Meaning of profession. a. Learned profession. b. Unlearned profession. c. Home making classified.  
3. The human importance of the work. a. Preparations necessary.  
GUIDE LESSONS. 117  
II. Methods of Acquiring Preparation.  
1. In youth. a. At home. b. In the schools.  
2. In maturity. a. In the school of experience. b. Desire for improvement. c. Means of improvement. d. Interest of church.  
III. The Beauty of Home Work.  
1. Drudgery vs. routine. a. Meaning of drudgery. b. Meaning of routine.  
2. Cultivate desire. a. To learn. b. To practice.  
Home-Making as a Profession.  
Roll call: Why I am Glad I am a Woman, or, Reasons for Joy in Womanhood, or, What may this Study of Home Economics Give me? "Home Economics stands for the ideal home life, for today unhampered by the traditions of the past."  
I. Home Economics as a Trade or Profession.  
1. A trade is an occupation in which the worker is instructed in the performance of certain tasks with the responsibility or power of directing assumed by another. Such is the trade of carpenter, mason, brick-layer, plumber.  
2. The work which involves the responsibility of having the many tasks correctly done is in the nature of a profession. Thus the work of the architect or contractor is a profession.  
(a) The term "learned profession" is often used. That involves the spending of much time, and may be money, in the learning of the chosen profession, and is usually done by means of attendance at schools and colleges. Such is the profession of law, medicine, architecture and all the liberal arts.  
(b) One may learn to assume the responsibility in the performance of great tasks by hard knocks in the school of experience only. Such would not be termed a learned profession. The business of a contractor may be classed here.  
(c) In the light of the above definitions where may the great work of home-making be classed? It is simply universal; that is, there are workers of all classes and intelligences engaged in this occupation. But the woman who is the most successful in making a home is in every sense engaged in a learned profession — the greatest one on earth. For she has to initiate, plan, direct, and carry out operations which involve in greater or less degree all the sciences and arts known to man. She also deals with those subtler spiritual powers which make or mar his personal happiness and influence his soul's salvation.  
118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.  
3. The importance of this work, as regards children, can scarcely be over-estimated. Mrs. Fisher has indicated the great responsibility of parents when she says: "We might conceivably have undertaken to build railway bridges, even though the lives of multitudes depended on them; we might have become lawyers and settled people's material affairs for them; or even as doctors settled the matter of their physical life or death. But to be responsible to God, to society, and to the soul in question, for the health, happiness, moral growth and usefulness of a human soul, what reflective parent among the whole army of us has not had moments of heart-sick terror at the realization of what he has been set to do?"  
(a) Can any sane person feel that this important work should be undertaken at marriage by girls who rely upon chance occupations at home, supplemented by the much abused "mother instinct"? Do you not feel that all the long years of youth should be devoted to preparing, in a pleasant though serious manner, for this beautiful work of mother and home-maker? And that all during the years of life one should be alert and active in securing improvements in the performance of this God-given occupation. One may never know too much about it.  
"There should be no more question as to the need of education and training for the woman who selects the food, clothing and works of art, which minister to the highest welfare of a family, than there is for the need of study on the part of the farmer, manufacturer or the artist who produces them."  
II. Methods of Acquiring.  
(1) The young woman of today has no excuse for answering "not prepared" when life demands that she assumes her natural place as home-maker.  
(a) The ideal way for her to learn her profession is to be a willing helper in a well ordered home always as Mother's first assistant. There she learns, through actual hand contact, the methods and the practice of the scientific truth she has learned in the school room.  
4. Mother hasn't time to teach her the theory as well as the practice — even though she knows it. So the schools must supplement this home training, and give boys and girls an intimate understanding of these truths that they are to use most in their after life. All truth is good, but life is so fleeting that one must choose that most worth while.  
GUIDE LESSONS. 119  
(a) Those who are mothers and grandmothers today need not feel cheated because the schools didn't teach such things in their time. All that God requires of any of his children is that they make the most use of their opportunities, be they few or many. Our grandmothers, many of them, were beautiful housekeepers and splendid mothers. They learned their lessons in the hard school of experience and with the price of much unnecessary suffering. Their daughters may now start life with much of the wisdom they end it with, but the daughters must go on, improve and learn other lessons.  
(b) All that is necessary is that the desire for improvement remain with one to the end of life, for the absence of growth is death.  
(c) There are many ways in which the mature woman of today may keep up-to-date in matters pertaining to better homes. First, she should keep an open mind and, by means of observation of others in their homes and methods of daily life, find things to avoid, or to accept and make part of her own life. There are so many good books and magazines published that one can never hope to keep up with all of them. But one should be alert to find new books that will be of particular benefit and also if possible to be conversant with at least one good home magazine. In addition there are the extension and correspondence schools provided by the Government and State educational authorities which make possible the bringing of new truth and inspiration to our very doors. So the wide-awake woman of today, be she 16, or 60, or 90 years old, cannot fail to improve her condition of life unless she is willfully blind or lazy.  
Just a mention must be made of the splendid work being done by our own Church in providing through all its auxiliary organization lessons which, if accepted, will make the life of every woman in the community richer and more truly useful.  
III. A book could be written on the beauty and benefits of home work. Here let it be understood that no work in which man engages on earth can give the soul satisfaction, the complete joy which is experienced by the mother who has raised a noble family and always made a happy home for them.  
(1) And in no sense can this work be termed drudgery, unless the one who undertakes it is totally unprepared for it. The performance of a task by rote, in which the mind takes little or no account, may be termed drudgery. To avoid this, the first essential is the proper training. "Whenever one's knowledge of a subject passes the stage of drudgery and becomes a science, its performance immediately becomes a pleasure. The ability to do a thing in the highest known perfection, or even a little better than any one else, is always a source of delight, and it matters little what that something is."  
120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.  
(a) All human work possesses a certain amount of routine of work that must be performed over and over again in the same manner. This is unavoidable with conditions of mortality. Even the artist who paints the most glorious conceptions of nature must clean his brushes and his palette and even his studio. If he cannot afford an assistant, he does it himself. Yet one never hears an artist going around complaining about the drudgery of cleaning his materials! All work must accept its known routine, but the worker must use brains to make the routine as little as possible and to keep its place in the background as does the artist.  
2. The essential thing for all to learn is to love their work, to see its possibilities as well as its difficulties, and to make their work their servant instead of their master. This can be done by the home-maker as well as by the doctor.  
(a) Indeed the first essential to all good work is joy in the doing of it. So the girl must learn her job just as seriously as the boy learns his. In this the present mothers can do much in making home work as pleasant as possible.  
(b) Practice every day finding something uplifting and helpful to your loved ones and do not hesitate to let your daughter or her friend hear you speak of this phase of home work. We always find what we look for — if it is improvement why it is at our very door knocking for entrance. Will you not let it enter?  
QUESTIONS.  
1. Is home-making a trade, or a profession, and why? Name some trades and professions not mentioned in the lesson.  
2. Give your opinion as to the sufficiency of "mother instinct" or "home instinct," in a girl's life.  
3. What is the most important phase of home-making, and why is it so?  
4. Do you think home-making should be studied as are all professions of men, and why?  
5. What is the ideal way of becoming proficient in home-making? Discuss.  
6. How may the older women of today improve their home conditions? a. What need has a perfect housekeeper of studying home economics?  
7. Do you enjoy housework, and why? a. What is the part you like best, and why? b. What is the part you like least, and why?  
8. Define drudgery and routine. a. Under which class do household tasks fall, and why?  
GUIDE LESSONS. 121  
9. How may the love of home duties be planted in the lives of young men and women? a. How may the mother of a girl "who hates house work" change this fatal opinion.  
10. In your opinion, must every human being, who is born a woman, engage in house work? a. If she truly dislikes it, may she with honor engage in the work she loves, and have her home work done for her? What is your solution of this difficulty?  
11. Are you doing all in your power to make possible better homes in your community? Name five ways in which you might improve in this respect?  
THOU SHALT BE A BLESSING.  
(Gen. 12:2.)  
Thou shalt be a blessing; Let thine heart be strong; God shall give thee courage, Fill thy lips with song. Fear not thou the future, Through each day shall shine Tokens of God's goodness Over thee and thine.  
Thou shalt be a blessing Through the coming year; He the great Deliverer Ever will be near; Strengthening each purpose That is good and true, And in times of weakness He will bear thee through.  
Thou shalt be a blessing; Fear not thou to see Tasks yet unattempted, Which are waiting thee. What thy need requireth Surely He will send, Who with watchful kindness Shall thy ways attend.  
Thou shalt be a blessing; And in days to come, When God calls His servants To their blessed Home, He will not forget thee, Or thy work of love; All shall be rewarded In those courts above.  
— Selected.  
Attention To Subscribers  
Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 15% discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves.  
Please Use Our Subscription Blanks  
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE  
Mothers, educate your daughters — and sons — to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation,  
Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at  
The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.  
"Utah's Most Popular Music House"  
Here are some of the things we are going to give away FREE  
Fill out and mail coupon today.  
Sewing Machine Refrigerator Morris Chair Vacuum Cleaner Hall Chime Clock Kitchen Cabinet  
Daynes-Beebe Music Co 45 Main St. Salt Lake, Utah.  
R.S.M.  
Please send me full information as to how I can obtain one or more of these beautiful premiums FREE.  
Name _______________ Address _____________  
You don't have to purchase one penny's worth, to get premiums.  
"Older than the State of Utah"  
Z. C. M. I.  
School Shoes For Boys  
Are made for service they will keep the boys' feet warm and dry.  
Z. C. M. I.  
ALLOVERS are the ideal play garment for boys and girls. Cheap, serviceable.  
The Most Interesting, Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections of the West  
ARE REACHED VIA  
Including Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts  
Pacific Coast Excursions Daily to November 30th  
For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley, General Passenger Agent, O. S L., Salt Lake City, Utah  
English and American  
ARCHITECTURE  
By GEO. M. ALLEN  
is in Mrs. Horne's Art Book,  
DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES.  
Send to this office or to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostler's Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned.  
PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID  
It's FREE-send for the little book "Cameos"  
Three thousand words on Cameos Not a Catalogue, but an interesting, instructive article on Cameos The only book of its kind published  
W. M. McCONAHAY, Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City  
Cameos in Rings, Scarf Pins, Neck Chains and Brooches, write about them  
It is Summer in Winter in  
CALIFORNIA  
Mid-winter Excursion TO CALIFORNIA January 29, 1916  
18,500,000 People Carried 839,000,000 Passenger Miles July 1 to November 30, 1915  
the SOUTHERN PACIFIC  
NOT ONE INJURED  
SAFETY plus COMFORT CONVENIENCE plus SCENERY = SATISFIED COURTESY plus SERVICE TRAVELER  
Don't Worry, ask C. T. McP., District Passenger Agent, Second Floor Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City, Utah.  
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  
MARCH, 1916.  
SPECIAL ARTICLES  
MARY FIELDING SMITH With Illustrations  
MY FRIEND—POEM L. Lula Greene Richards  
RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL OF OBSTETRICS Alice Merrill Horne  
CURRENT TOPICS James H. Anderson  
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints  
Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah  
$1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c  
NOW READY!  
A new 800 page volume  
"JESUS THE CHRIST"  
By DR. JAMES E. TALMAGE  
From the Press of The Deseret News  
This is the work of which notice has been given in the Official Announcement published by the First Presidency of the Church. It presents the Life and Mission of the Messiah from the view-point of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
Bound in half leather, cloth sides, $1.50 post paid  
Deseret News Book Store The Leading Book Concern  
Sweeten Your Foods with  
Good Sugar  
With Utah-Idaho Sugar you may sweeten things to the taste and have the benefit of its high food value. The conditions under which Utah-Idaho Sugar is produced tend to make it an excellent article. It will stand the practical test of the housewife and the scientific test of the chemist. It is the sugar that passes a perfect examination under any test.  
Ask your grocer for this perfect sugar; you'll be delighted with the results wherever you use it.  
Utah-Idaho Sugar ABSOLUTELY PURE  
When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction  
The Thomas Studio  
Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. Established 1877  
Phone Was. 1370  
STAR PRINTING CO.  
SUPERIOR PRINTING  
35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY  
100 Calling Cards Engraved For $1.50, Postage Paid  
Everyone should have a nice calling card, and we want you to call on us for same  
Pembroke Company The Home of Fine Stationery and Engraving 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah  
Kindly mention this magazine when ordering  
The Relief Society Magazine  
Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.