THE Relief Society Magazine  
MAY, 1916 No. 5  

SPECIAL ARTICLES  
MOTHERS OF OUR LEADERS IN ISRAEL With Illustrations.  
BETTY MORGAN'S DILEMMA Ruth Moench Bell.  
CONFERENCE DATES.  
ITEMS FROM GENERAL SECRETARY'S REPORT Amy Brown Lyman.  
PLAIN GOSSIP Mrs. Grundy.  

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints  
Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy 10c Vol. III  

Satisfying a Demand for Pure Sugar  

TWO BOOKS  
for Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead  
A simplified form, with complete instructions for properly recording this work.  

L. D. S. Family and Individual Record  
Arranged specially for recording in a most desirable and concise form, its important events in the lives of the members of the church.  
These books are sold at $1.25 each  
Deseret News Book Store 6 MAIN STREET  

Utah-Idaho Sugar will be found all the high-class elements of perfect sugar. This finished product stands the test of superiority because each step in manufacture is carefully safeguarded by perfect sanitation.  
Healthy white men of experience, in the clean, sunlit Utah-Idaho Sugar Factories are determined to make a sugar of quality by always maintaining for it the uniform whiteness and purity known to but few sugars.  
See that your grocer gives you Utah-Idaho Sugar. With its use you will enjoy success in jelly-making, preserving and cooking.  
Utah-Idaho Sugar ABSOLUTELY PURE  
UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. JOSEPH F. SMITH, President THOS. R. CUTLER, Vice-Pres. and Gen'l Mgr.  

When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction  
The Thomas Studio Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. Established 1877  

Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY  

100 Calling Cards Engraved For $1.50, Postage Paid  
Everyone should have a nice calling card, and we want you to call on us for same  
Pembroke Company The Home of Fine Stationery and Engraving 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah  
Kindly mention this magazine when ordering  

The Relief Society Magazine  
Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  

CONTENTS:  

Not Even Fate Alfred Lambourne 241  
Mothers of Our Leaders in Israel Susa Young Gates 243  
Music Department 256  
Plain Gossip Mrs. Grundy 258  
Betty Morgan's Dilemma Ruth Moench Bell 260  
Home Science Department Juliette A. Hyde 263  
A Prince of Ur Homespun 265  
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 270  
Goodbye, California Congress, Goodbye 274  
Crocheted Yoke Isabel Whitney Sears 275  
The Flowers' Resurrection Hazel Washburn 277  
Query Box Hazel Love Dunford 278  
Current Topics James H. Anderson 280  
Editorial: Paying the Price 283  
Guide Lessons 287  
A Voice Calling Maud Baggarly 300  

ADVERTISERS:  

BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City  
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City  
DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City  
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City  
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City  
MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City  
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City  
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City  
GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY, 60 East South Temple  
STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City  
SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J, Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City  
SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City  
THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City  
TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City  
UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City Utah  
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City  
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah  
UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY, Salt Lake City  
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City  

Grandmothers? Mothers? Daughters? Granddaughters
Getting The Most Out of Money
will all find interesting reading in
"AFTER TWENTY YEARS" By Dr. Geo. W. Middleton
Apostle Reed Smoot says: "I wish this book was in every American Home."
PRICE $1.25 postpaid
Deseret Sunday School Union Book Store 44 E. South Temple Salt Lake City
To get the most out of money, you must keep it busy. Well selected investments bring good returns. Anybody can invest if they use common sense. But first of all they must get the money.
That's easy, too. Start today with one dollar in a savings account, then make regular deposits of as much as you can spare. When the 4% interest, which we pay, is added, you'll wonder at your rapid accumulation. Just make the start and see.
SALT LAKE'S LADY FLORIST
Mrs. Emma J. Sanders 278 South Main Street Schramm-Johnson No. 5 Phone Wasatch 2815 Salt Lake City, Utah
"The Bank with a Personality"
Merchant's Bank Capital $250,000 Member of Salt Lake Clearing House
John Pingree, Pres.; O. P. Soule, V. P.; Moroni Heiner, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Cashier; Radcliffe Q. Cannon, D. R. Pingree, Asst. Cashiers
Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City
Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company
The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this.
Relief Society Headquarters or
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY DEPARTMENT
HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
IT is the purpose of this Bank at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant.
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK
Your Account is Cordially Invited
Established 1860 Incorporated 1908
THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK SALT LAKE CITY UTAH
S. M. TAYLOR & Co.
Undertakers and Embalmers
SUCCESSORS TO: Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West
53 Years in One Location
251-257 E. First South Street Salt Lake City, Utah
Efficient Service, Modern Methods, Complete Equipment
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres.
NOT EVEN FATE
Love, I have walked upon the crowded streets, Thus to my brain forgetfulness to lure, Yet thought of thee the foolish effort cheats, And makes this present to the past how poor!
Here I do come unto this sacred room, And shut the world out as I lock the door, Yet still thine eyes look on me from the gloom, As through the hours I ceaseless pace the floor.
O when I take the pen, as now, and write, Yet think of thee and finish not the line, Forget my words and know not of time's flight, And hopeless sigh for that which once was mine!
Yet then always, my Love, this truth is seen, Not even fate shall change the day that's been!
Alfred Lambourne.
PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND.
Born 13th May, 1844, Aalborg, Denmark.
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. III. MAY, 1916. No. 5.
PAYING THE PRICE.
We pay for work done.
The work looks so tempting before us, if it is good work we love to do, that we scarcely realise the price we pay when we have accomplished the task. The result will be so beautiful, so comely, so clean, so desirable, so altogether according to our own notions of how work ought to be done, that we crash into obstacles and climb over mountains of housework or brainwork without counting the cost. The house must be cleaned, the washing must be done, the dresses must be finished, the fruit must be put up, the lesson must be prepared, the visits must be paid. And so we go blindly on, overtaxed and stumbling. Nature will demand her price, sooner or later.
Ambition's Lure.
There is some great object or ambition which we have had in mind that will mean so much, not only to us, perhaps, but to the community in which we live or, perchance, to the family which we love. And so, for uncountable hours, days and weeks, we strive and struggle, and collapse happily at the end, if only we have climbed the height and achieved the object of our ambition but we pay the price. Nature demands the payment of her debt, every moment, every hour. She may exact her payment in the neglected friendships, in the untidy homes, in the untaught children, or through the bankruptcy of our own nervous system, but be assured she will exact her toll.
Pleasure's Heavy debts.
Some pleasure lures us—a trip to the coast, a journey to the East, a visit to the sacred temple, and the prospect itself is fascinating beyond degree and the plans we lay are rosy with promise. The imagination paints for us all the delights, all the pleasures, the profits and the joys of our undertaking, but only the wise know how to value these mirages on the desert of our fancy for be it known to all women that every pleasure, every joy, every trip even, every visit to church or temple, demands from us its full price. Achievement is always a negotiable quantity. Whatever effort we put forth, we at once must exchange with nature her equivalent, whether she exacts it in wearied muscles, worn nerves, sudden illness, or disappointment when the object is gained. For every pleasure we must pay two pangs.
The Toll Gate of Salvation.
Above the struggles that humanity enters into, that supreme effort for spiritual supremacy which is couched in the word salvation, demands the highest payment in return. It is so easy to run down hill, so difficult to climb up, especially with the handicaps of disinclination, temptation and the burdens of human limitations. We must pay the price. Bless your soul, anybody that achieves anything, even if it is only a burglar who climbs in the window, pays the price for his daring, in his stunted character and in his degeneracy. Those who ride in automobiles, make their payment to life, a very much heavier toll indeed, than those who walk in the quiet paths in the meadow. Those who inhabit mansions bankrupt every resource of human nature in sustaining and maintaining the handicap of their palatial homes. While the men and women who become musicians, artists, professionals, those who enter business or who conduct enterprises all those who preside in official positions, those who bear the pangs and pains of rejecting or accepting; of refusal or consent of giving encouragement or administering reproof—these all pay heavy draughts for that which they accomplish. Every home-maker and every home-builder pays his price for his pleasure and his comforts, in proportion as it is great or small.
What debts shall we incur?
How then shall we measure life values and deal only in such exchange as shall increase our mental and spiritual resources, while robbing no other soul of just due? Through choosing always the difficult, unselfish things to do, climbing hard paths of self-control and of devotion to community duties. By measuring ourselves wisely, taking stock accurately of our own resources and refusing daily to go into personal bankruptcy, no matter how tempting the lure, nor how heavy the pressure. The full price is demanded from us even for the well-chosen duties and pleasures, but He who spake as never man spake before has taught that even the wages of sin spell Death for the sinner; while the beautiful price of obedience to His laws is life eternal. Therefore, come! Go cheerfully forward, easing as we may the yoke upon the shoulder, the cross over the heart. We say with Browning, "I have always been a fighter—one more fight." Better, let us say, after each day's work, with Paul, "I have fought a good fight, I have kept the faith, I have finished my course," and so some day we shall enter into rest.
"SUFFRAGE SNAPSHOTS."
We have received from the author, Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, one of the brightest contributions in the form of a book, "Suffrage Snapshots," we have ever seen. The title page bears the appeal, "Have a smile with me." The contents consist of witty paragraphs on the Woman Question. All of them are jokes and yet, there is no joke in the permanence of the ideals presented in this book. For instance, I quote one "When Utah's electoral college met to cast the vote of the State for President and Vice-President, its members selected the one woman elector to carry the result to Washington. Those Western States are constantly giving just such examples as this of the way men lose respect for women when they can vote and hold office." This book can be purchased at National Suffrage Headquarters, New York City. Price, 15 cents.
Guide Lessons.
LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in June.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. RUTH.
(Read, first, chapters 17-21 of Judges, and then Ruth.)
It is thought that the Book of Ruth comes in between Judges and Samuel. The narrative itself assigns the setting vaguely as "in the days when the judges ruled." Josephus gives the time as the days of Eli the prophet. At the time of the story therefore, as well as before and after, there were corruption, violence, and apostasy, among the Israelites. On this dark background is painted the pure, transparent figure of Ruth, whose story is intimately known everywhere among civilised peoples.
Ruth was a Moabitish woman. The Moabites, whose home was south and east from the Dead Sea, were, according to the Bible, descendants of Lot, the nephew of Abraham. Although not Israelites, they were therefore kinsmen of the Israelites. Elimelech's family had gone to Moab from Bethlehem to escape a famine, and there one of his two sons met and married Ruth, the other son marrying Orpah. And the two sons, Mahlon and Chilion, died, as also did the father. Then Naomi, the mother, "arose with her daughters-in-law, that she might return from the country of Moab." It is here that the story really begins.
There can be no doubt that the central characteristic of Ruth's nature is devotion, as exhibited in her attachment to Naomi. When the two young women had gone as far with their mother-in-law on the way to Bethlehem as the custom of those days would require, "Naomi said unto her two daughters-in-law, 'Go, return each to her mother's house. The Lord deal kindly with you, as ye have dealt kindly with the dead and with me.'" Orpah returned as requested, but Ruth refused to do so. "Intreat me not to leave thee," she said in a beautiful and memorable passage, "or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go and where thou lodgest, I will lodge; thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God where thou diest, I will die, and there will I be buried." And she accompanied her mother-in-law to Bethlehem, where they both lived, so far as we know, the rest of their lives.
Nor does Ruth's attachment to Naomi diminish on reaching Bethlehem. Ruth there appears as the mainstay, literally as well as figuratively, of the older woman. For one thing, she gleans in the field of Boaz and brings the fruit of her toil home to her mother-in-law, and, for another, she opposes her uncomplaining disposition to murmurings of Naomi. "Call me not Naomi," the older woman complains, "call me Mara; for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me." None of this sort of thing do we hear from Ruth. And then, too, Ruth follows the guidance of her mother-in-law as implicitly as if she had been a child leaning upon superior knowledge and experience, but withal in such a way that leads us to feel that she is distinctly aware of her own real leadership.
Ruth's subsequent marriage to her husband's kinsman Boaz is another proof of her obedient and willing spirit. It may be quite possible, however, that Boaz was both attractive and manly as well as rich and wise. So that Ruth's stratagem was not an unpleasant duty for her to perform.
No doubt devotion, faithfulness, was Ruth's natural disposition. Orpah evidently looked to her own interest as it was manifest at the time to eyes that saw not in the distance. Nor must we minimise the effort required to leave the home country with its peculiar people, customs, traditions, and religion. But these Ruth also would have to abandon, and did abandon. So she must, by nature, have been inclined to the practice of this beautiful trait of character. Orpah, as Ruth, must have seen the loneliness of the mother-in-law, but it did not touch her as it did the sympathetic nature of the other. And so Ruth yielded to the call of the lonely, the helpless. One cannot but feel, as one looks at the situation in its larger bearings, that Ruth was also giving up herself to a greater call—the call of the Voice that is still and low, the Voice that is heard only by our deeper and better selves, the Voice that calls out of the far distance, the Voice of destiny and of God. A simple, modest, and delicately organised woman, such as Ruth is represented to us in this fine story, she is eminently fitted to become the antecedent of the Shepherd King, from whose loins was to come the gentle Christ.
QUESTIONS.
1. Who was Ruth?
2. Trace the hand of the Lord in the story.
3. What traits of character does Ruth exhibit?
4. How would these traits of character work themselves out in modern life—that is, what things would they lead one to do?
LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in June.
LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in June.
GENEALOGY.
CONCLUSION.
The wonderful fact that 40,000 women of this Society have been spending some time, at least, this winter in the study and preparation of individual sheets, is the most stupendous happening in genealogical circles for the year 1915. Naturally the question now arises, What shall the results of our wondrous work be? It may be well to explain exactly what these sheets are and why we have used them. They are sample sheets from the McAllister Living Record Book. Our forefathers were in the habit of keeping family Bibles in which were entered the births, deaths and marriages of the family. The parish church kept a record also of the marriage, birth and death, but each family felt the vital necessity of preserving the family records in their own homes. If a question arose in legal or social matters, it was a difficult matter and sometimes impossible to secure the date required from the parish clerks, for the various items of information would necessarily be scattered through different parish records, separated as the items would be by intervening years. The family Bible, however, kept that information compactly between the lids of that sacred book which was guarded as a treasure above price.
The family Bible has passed out of existence practically, especially the keeping of records therein. What is taking the place of the family Bible in our homes? It is certainly important that we shall get the records of our dead and record them properly, and then preserve them, but it is more vitally important that we shall record and preserve all data concerning ourselves and our children. Our descendants will be quite as disappointed in us if we fail to do this as we are with our grandparents who may have failed to preserve their records for us.
The McAllister Living Record Book was prepared under the direction and approval of the First Presidency of the Church for the express purpose of recording therein the data which usually went into the family Bible. More than that, very much more, for the author of the book, not only provided places where marriage, birth and death can be recorded, but has included the important items of baptism, of endowments, of missions, of ordinations, or in the case of women, where they were set apart for certain offices, of removal from place to place, and made a place for our educational records. In addition to all this the author provides for a few important eugenic facts such as the weight, the height, the colour of the eyes and hair, and the physical habit. Think of the infinite value to our descendants, of these interesting facts. We say emphatically that every family in this Church should purchase and fill out a Living Record Book. All need it. All should have it. If there be any widows in the Church who are too poor to purchase this book, it might be suggested that they buy a dozen or more of the sample sheets and sew them together with a brown paper cover, taking just as good care of this as they would of the record itself. Every child that is born should be entered at once into this Living Record. As he is baptised and confirmed, these entries should be made with the names of those who officiate in the ceremony; when he starts to school and the dates of all his ordinations in the priesthood, his missions and finally his marriage. Think how valuable that would be if you had such a record concerning all of your parents and grandparents whom you knew and loved. Then consider the joy and gratitude of your descendants if they possess that information concerning you. How many are there in this Society who have not the scratch of a pen in their own homes concerning the births, blessings, missions, etc., etc., of their children or themselves. This is a genealogical crime and should be remedied at once. Therefore, we close this season's lessons with the earnest suggestion that as far as possible every member of this Society shall secure a Living Record Book and fill it up properly or at least as well as may be. Make birthday presents and Christmas presents of these books to your family and friends.
The Living Record Book is not at all like the record books which have been prepared for the names of our kindred dead and our progenitors. No doubt most of the students are aware of these facts, but we state it for those who are not familiar with this point. One more point remains before we conclude this season's work. A great many ask what shall be done with the sheets which have been filled out during this winter's work. We would suggest that you make duplicate sheets and keep your own as a sample by which to prepare your book, and then deposit the duplicate in the archives of the society. When the great genealogical library is opened in the new Administration Building in this city, there may be a call issued for all these duplicate sheets from the women of the Society. So we suggest taking excellent care of them.
QUESTIONS.
What is the difference between the McAllister Living Record and the Record Book for temple work? What have you done about your own living temple record? Why does each family need a living record book? How would you proceed to fill up your living record book? Let such members of the class as may possess family Bibles with records in them produce them at this lesson. Also any who may have filled up their living temple books can exhibit them to the class. ART. SUMMER LANDSCAPE. The latter part of May, and the beginning of June show Nature's greatest profusion of flowers in our Intermountain region. As far as may be, Nature will now be robed in green. Take notice of the wide difference in shades and tints of green by sunlight, shadow, twilight, moonlight, and by starlight. These should be studied. Green is persistent, its colour shows strongly at night, or by lamplight. Note the difference in sage-brush green with its blue tendency. The alfalfa in strong sunlight shows more yellow. The apple green also has the same warm tone of yellow. The sage and willow we call cool greens, the alfalfa and apple green in sunlight are the warm greens. Look out on the fields and note the cool green in oat patches, and try to analyse the difference of tone in the various kinds of grain. One has more blue, another more yellow or more purple than the others. Now the sky is filled with fleecy clouds, and the blue breaking through is very intense. A JUNE PICNIC. June is the time for summer picnics. Choose the most delightful spot for a walk on this the year's most perfect day. Perfect development shows in all growing things. Now we see the promise of fruits and seeds, which will be harvested in the fall. The air is warm, balmy, and pleasant the sounds are cheerful. The birds' young broods are talking to their mothers, the insects hum, colour is fresh, strong, exciting, and pleasant. There is less of grey than at any other time of year, excepting brightest autumn. June feels joyous, full of hope, self-satisfied. GUIDE LESSONS. 291 a. Describe the fields from a high position. b. Describe your visit out to nature. c. Which is darker, the sky or the fields? d. Which are darker, the plowed lands or the green patches? e. What is the colour of the plowed lands? f. Which are darker, the nearby fields or the far-away? g. Which are darker, the newly plowed fields, or those plowed last summer? h. What is most exquisite in May time? (Answer) May morning. i. What is most wonderful in June? (Answer) The noon time, and the June twilight. j. Describe a May morning. ARCHITECTURE. AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE—THE FORMATIVE PERIOD, THE COLONIAL OR GEORGIAN PERIOD. a. Let a native of England describe the land from which the American Colonists came. b. Describe America as the Colonists found it. c. What kind of architecture would the Pilgrims naturally use, and why could it not be exactly copies from that of the Mother country? d. In what other things were the Colonists interested than in houses, and why? e. What style of architecture or house-building did the natives employ? f. Have we a national style of architecture? g. Speak of the Formative Period. h. Show pictures of the first American buildings if you can. i. What materials were available for the American home? j. What materials became most popular among the Colonists? k. What is the Colonial Period? l. What are the reasons for the great beauty of Colonial style? m. Describe Christ's Church, Philadelphia. n. Describe the interior of Christ's Church—Hartford. o. Describe Shirley House—Virginia. p. Describe Craigie House—Cambridge. 292 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Lesson VI. Home Economics. Fourth Week in June. THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME. THE ORGANISATION OF HOUSEWORK. I Woman's Work in the Home. 1. Results to be obtained. a. Physical activities. b. Activities for higher life. 2. The ideal housekeeper. a. Homemaker vs. housekeeper. 3. Hygiene of housework. II. The Day's Work. 1. System vs. haphazard effort. 2. Co-operation between the work of man and woman. 3. The maker and master of the system. 4. A working schedule of housework. a. The schedule. III. Children and Housework. 1. Train while young. a. Boy as well as girl. IV. The Rest Hour. 1. The physiology of rest. 2. The method. Roll call: One way to save work. Gem: Proverbs 31:10-31 read: "She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praiseth her." I. Woman's Work in the Home. Sisters, why do you work? For what purpose do you spend so lavishly the only thing you really own on earth—your time and your energy? 1. The results to be obtained. The general purpose of housework may be expressed thus: To give joy and health and happiness to your loved ones and thus to attain it yourself to make through your efforts an ideal home in every sense of the term. a. The physical needs of the home are those which contribute to the health and comfort of its inmates and include nutrition, light, heat, cleanliness, and convenience. The activities which make possible these conditions are many and varied, and include cooking, sewing, sweeping, dusting, bed-making, washing, ironing, nursing, and countless other processes which come in the daily round of every woman's experience. b. The higher life of man. In addition to the foregoing, the housekeeper must so order her home work that the so-called higher needs of her family may be met. She must inspire in them a desire for an education to assume their share of civic or neighbourhood improvement; to enjoy and extend true hospitality; to obtain aesthetic enjoyment in the arts, music, literature; and last, and most important, to encourage their moral and spiritual growth. 2. The perfect housekeeper. All of these requirements are rather a large order to give any one weak mortal, and yet that is what is given to every woman who faces life as a mother or home-maker. Of course, all women do not accomplish it equally well; all desire to do so, and strive to improve. a. Home-maker vs. housekeeper. Most women desire to be perfect home-makers which means so much more than to be a so-called "perfect housekeeper." The former is she who sees that all the functions of her life as mother are fulfilled. She recognises the great value of a clean, orderly home and so orders her time that she has strength to do that properly, and also enough left to instil into her family a love of the nobler things in life. The latter may be a very disagreeable person to live with, even though the inside and outside of the house be scrubbed to a shining cleanliness and the abhorred speck of dust may never find an abiding place. The really perfect housekeeper is she who understands that the house is for comfort and not discomfort, that the home is made for the husband and children and not the family for the home. She will understand that it is better to have an untidy house for a part of the day, if that is the means to make Sonny and his friends feel that home is the very best place on earth in which to spend an afternoon or evening. The perfect housekeeper is she who, when she finds that she cannot do all that she would like to do, is content to let some work go undone, if by so doing she may obtain something more valuable and more desirable. She is a master of proportions, and chooses those things in her daily life which have the most lasting value. She studies and prays to be able to discriminate amongst all the desirable things of life, those things which are the essential and which are the non-essential. 3. The hygiene of housework. This subject must not be passed without emphasising the benefits of housework. No gymnasium was ever equipped that offers the same array of health-giving exercise that the ordinary home does. If women would only dress comfortably and sensibly, and use wisdom in the performance of all tasks, working in properly ventilated homes, no healthier work could be found on earth than housework. Discuss. II. The Day's Work. In order that one may have time to be home-maker as well as housekeeper, it is necessary to make use of every moment wisely and to plan the day's work so carefully that the housework moves like a well oiled machine. This requires real brain work and is a task equal in importance and difficulty to any that is performed by men in the business world. Some women seem to be born natural organisers, yet all women may improve in this respect if they will take the necessary time and trouble to make for themselves a working plan. 1. System vs. haphazard effort. The only way to accomplish any great work is to reduce it to a system; and this is especially true regarding housework with so many varied tasks and so much necessary routine. The meals come in every home, regularly, twice or three times a day, and the other work must group itself around that. If housework is not systematised but done only when the notion strikes the worker, be sure the result will be an untidy home. It is so in business it is more surely so in the home. Regularity and precision must mark the performance of housework or chaos results. Dirt accumulates so fast in this mortal existence that the worker must be most vigilant and systematic to keep ahead of it, and if women would only use their heads more they would need to use the body less. It is a true saying the "head should save the heels." Co-operation in homes is especially desirable that a closer relation exist between the workers on the farm or in the shops and those in the home, so that the work of each may be done with less friction and loss of time. The wise woman will use her wits and her charm to get her husband to see her point of view. She will be equally willing to see his and give them the support and sympathy in his work that she expects from him in return. 3. The master of the system. If it is necessary to have system in the performance of housework, it is more necessary that the one who makes the system must be the master of it. One could scarcely find a more unsuccessful home than the one in which the system is "boss." No joy or spontaneity is possible in such a home because life itself is so variable. The system must be subservient to the best interests of the family; so that the clock-work machinery continues when all is normal, but may take second place during sickness or any unprecedented occurrence. It must be so elastic that it can adjust itself to the varying demands of family life. There is no greater slave on earth than the woman who is a slave to her system. Whatever happens one must remain master of one's work. 4. A working schedule. It is a great mistake to make the work of one or two days of the week so very hard that the worker is exhausted at the end of them. It is much wiser to spread the necessary work of the week over the six days so that no one day is especially crowded. If housework is done according to a weekly or monthly schedule this may be accomplished and also much of the dreaded semi-annual house cleaning may be avoided. The schedule must vary according to the number of hands there are to do the work. If a woman has no maid, and her children are small, she must plan more wisely than ever, that work may be done in such a way as to leave her some energy at the end of each day. Homes vary as do personalities, and no two could use the same schedule. However, a plan is given here that has been found successful. The home which uses this plan is large and one maid is kept, but it may serve as a guide and may be adapted to fit any condition. This schedule is type-written, framed and hung in the kitchen. It is found to be much more satisfactory than to repeat instructions to children or to a new maid if there is one, and, all in all, is found to be a great saver of energy and annoyance. In this family, too, since it is possible to use electricity for washing and ironing, this process occurs every other week. In the older countries of Europe, washing is done only once a month or once in three months or less often. A business is made of the laundry for two or three days or a week, then it is out of the way for a long period. If properly arranged for the less frequent washing is a great saver of time and strength as well as clothing. This is worth considering. a. The Schedule. Every Day. I. Clean bowl and taps in bath room as you wash. II. Make fire, brush off stove; empty, wipe off and refill tea kettle. (No mention is made of ashes because a chute runs from stove to a large can in basement and is emptied by a man once in three months.) 1. Begin breakfast. 2. See about yeast and bread. Mix on Monday, Wednesday, Saturday. III. Brush up front part of house. 1. Open windows and doors to air, remove plants. 296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. 2. Brush up (sweep if necessary) library, front room, study, hall, front porch. 3. Dust and straighten. 4. Water plants as needed. 5. Put away books and magazines. IV. Breakfast at 8 o'clock. 1. Some kind of cereal, and fruit. Chop or eggs. Barley coffee, cambric tea or milk. V. Clear away. 1. Brush up dining room, downstairs bedroom, bathroom, stairs and porch. 2. Do the dishes as instructed. Clean kitchen and pantry. 3. VI. Dinner at 12 o'clock. 1. Meat, potatoes, one vegetable, dessert. 2. Clear away. 3. Wipe up kitchen floor every other day. Clean thoroughly on Thursday. VII. Supper at 6 p. m. 1. Leftovers soup or vegetable. 2. Look up menus in cook books for supper. Special Day's Work. Sunday. I. Dust and straighten downstairs. 1. Water plants. 2. No breakfast. 3. Dinner at noon clean linen. 4. Dutch supper, usually to be simple as possible. Monday and Tuesday (every other). 1. Wash and iron. 2. Clean cellar. Monday and Tuesday (the other ones). 1. Clean and straighten house as per daily program. 2. Possible guest dinners. 3. Odd jobs. Wednesday. 1. Dust and straighten as usual. 2. Meals as usual. 3. Clean dining-room and back porch. a. Salt and peppers, wipe off and fill. b. Sugars and spoons, wash and fill (lump, cinnamon, common). c. Wash napkin rings—keeping track of napkins. d. Turn table cloth. e. Clean everything on sideboard and serving table. GUIDE LESSONS. 297 f. Notice doors, windows, and looking glass; clean if necessary. 4. Once a month. a. Dust pictures, walls, electroliers. Clean sideboard. b. Clean serving table. c. d. Clean china cupboard. e. Clean salt, peppers, sugars, inside and out. (The above may be rotated so that one cupboard is cleaned each week.) 5. Once in three months. a. Clean windows, electroliers, cupboards and radiators. 6. Once in six months. a. House-clean room walls, paint, windows, pictures, and cupboards. Thursday. 1. Dust and straighten front part as usual. 2. Meals as usual. 3. Clean kitchen and pantry. a. Every week. Stove and tea kettle, thoroughly. Clean, polish cupboard and doors. Open cupboards clean paper. Knife drawers clean paper. Refrigerator thorough cleaning, wipe oftener if necessary. Window ledges. Floors, a good cleaning, wipe mop-boards if necessary. Clean out vegetable table. b. Every month. Give one cupboard a good cleaning and rotate with others. Clean porch cupboard. Pour strong boiling sal soda water down waste pipes and refrigerator pipe. Dust wall, woodwork, radiator. Wipe off wood if necessary. Clean electrolier and windows. c. Every six months. House clean rooms. Friday. I. Meals as usual. II. Give following rooms a good cleaning: Bedroom, study, library, front room, hall, front porch, front stairs. 1. Once a week. a. Remove plants to kitchen and give bath 298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. b. Open windows and doors. c. Cover piano. d. Clean phonograph. e. Sweep thoroughly. f. Dust thoroughly. g. Fill all radiator tanks. 2. Once a month. a. Dust walls, pictures, electroliers, shake curtains, sofa pillows and couch cover. b. Straighten book cases. c. Clean radiators and fill tanks. d. Wipe windows if necessary. 3. Once in three months. a. Polish and wax floors (a man usually does this). b. Wipe off furniture with polish. c. Clean windows. 4. Once in six months. a. Vacuum cleaner on rugs and furniture. b. House clean walls, paint, pictures, etc. Saturday. I. Dust and straighten as usual. II. Meals as usual. III. Clean. 1. Back stairs, down stairs, bathroom, and back porch. IV. Baking. 1. Dessert for Sunday. 2. Cake, cookies, raisin bread or buns. V. Wind clock. III. Children as Aids. It is a great thing for children to learn the necessary process of housework under the tutelage of a wise mother. It is no small task to teach children to work, but it is time well invested both for mother and child, and should be begun by small chores as early in the child's life as is feasible. In after years the child can carry some of the load to mother's relief, and at the same time has learned one of life's most valuable lessons: that labour is life; and that there is no joy to equal that of useful work well done. a. Don't neglect the small boy; let him learn some of the household processes. If there is no farm or outside work for him to do, keep him busy with the house work. It will be a benefit to him all his life and may be his wife will call you blessed! Children are happiest when they are busy and if properly trained can be a great benefit in the home. IV. The Rest Hour. It seems fruitless to advise women to take an hour just for GUIDE LESSONS. 299 themselves every day even though the "hour" be only fifteen minutes. But it is advice that every wise woman will follow at any sacrifice. It is true that in this busy life there seems never to be time for it, but that is one thing a mother must just "take." 1. The body is comparable in every way to a highly sensitive machine. The food eaten may be compared to the fuel and the pleasures and relaxations of life to the oil that keeps the machine in running order. No machine can run very long without plenty of fuel and oil. The body builds itself during sleep. The day of the average woman begins about 6 a. m. and lasts until 10 o'clock at night; and the hours of sleep between are often disturbed while children are small. Sixteen hours of ceaseless toil is too much for any machine as sensitive as the body to endure for any length of time. So that if women would only understand themselves a little, many of the ills of a broken body might be avoided. A busy woman can't afford to miss the "quiet hour," for because of it the machine will run so much more smoothly during the rest of the time, and so very much more may be accomplished. It is really a necessity, if life is to be lived at its best. 2. One need not necessarily sleep during this period. Though a daily fifteen minute cat-nap is a very good habit for a young mother to acquire. The important thing is that each house-mother (and others, too, for that matter) needs a small period each day all to herself. During that time banish all household care and worry do it through prayer and force of will and constant trying. It will not be easy at first, but stay with it and you will succeed. If your sleep is broken at night, try to sleep or at least relax and rest the body absolutely during your "rest hour." If you sleep well at night, take the time and indulge the taste your life seems too busy to allow,—let it be anything from reading magazine advertisements to practising the piano. The main thing is to take it some time during the day and let it be as sacred as your prayers and for all the family to respect. You will be well repaid by the added vigour of body and mind and spirit. Don't forget that "all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," and Jill a useless woman. A mother must be in command of all her powers and any means is justifiable to that end. QUESTIONS ON LESSON VI. 1. What is the most important phase of housekeeping and why do you consider it so? 2. What is the difference between a housekeeper and a home-maker? 3. What are your views concerning the healthfulness of 300 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. housework? When may it be harmful? How should one dress for it? 4. What are advantages and disadvantages of the use of system in the performance of housework? 5. Have you succeeded in getting the co-operation you desire between the work of the farm or shop and the home? And how have you done it? 6. Do you employ a definite schedule in the performance of your housework and will you give its essential points? (Let three or four answer this question. One month before this lesson is given ask two or more women to prepare and give their own schedule.) 7. Name the advantages of having children, boys and girls, learn to do housework at an early age. 8. Have you been successful in teaching your children to work, and describe your method? a. How early should a child be taught to do small chores? 9. Give some instances where success or failure in life's work has resulted from young people knowing or not knowing how to work. 10. Name some ways of making home work attractive to girls and boys. 11. Do you believe in the "rest hour" and why? Name the benefits of the practice and give instances of those who have profited by it. 12. Have you tried (and with what success) letting your daughters who are studying Home Economics in the schools take the burden of the housekeeping during vacation and letting mother have a rest? A VOICE CALLING. A voice insistent, calls unto the soul of man And bids him take the clod whereon he stands And mould and fashion it with hands Made glad by toil— Until the world that halts to jeer one day, All sober, shall pass on its way, And ponder in its heart And marvel, that such common clay Can clothe a thought divine, Yet be of earth a part Maud Baggarley. HEALTH NOTES FOR THE SETTLERS. THE COMMON WASH RAG. Prepared by the U. S. Public Health Service. The United States Public Health Service, and the various State and local boards of health, have taken adequate measures for the abolition of that distributer of disease germs, the common towel. Now comes the news that the common wash rag is even a greater menace to health. The hotels and public hostelries have recognised this, for some time, and have supplied their guests with sterilised wash cloths in individual sealed packets. The damp, "sour-smelling" wash rag still exists, however, in many private bathrooms. Imperfectly washed out after use, frequently not wrung out at all, it is often hung over a rack or a radiator near an open window, there to collect dust and dirt. Frequently the same wash rag is used by the entire family, thus affording an easy means of transference of mouth secretions from person to person. In many households each individual has his own cloth and his individual towel, but these hang so close to one another that there is ready interchange of bacteria. Each individual should have his own wash cloth. It should be thoroughly washed out with clean, hot water after use. It should then be wrung as nearly dry as possible and, if possible, hung in the sun to dry. It should not come in contact with other wash cloths. In the investigations the United States Public Health Service is conducting in regard to the prevalence of trachoma, it has been found that common towels probably acted as a medium of distribution of the germ of the disease. From Reclamation Organisation. Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 19% discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves. Please Use Our Subscription Blanks EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 'Utah's Most Popular Music House" English and American SAVE HALF ARCHITECTURE When Buying Your Piano By GEO. M. ALLEN We always have on hand a representative stock of instruments used as demonstrators, returned from rentals, etc., practically good DEVOTEES AND THEIR as new, but AT ABOUT ½ ORIGINAL PRICES SHRINES. Send to this office or Mention this magazine and ask for special list. to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID The Most Interesting, Z. C. M. I. Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections School Shoes of the West For Boys ARE REACHED VIA are made for service Including they will keep the boys' Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon feet warm and dry. Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Z. C. M. I. Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts ALLOVERS Pacific Coast Excursions are the ideal Daily to November 30th play garment For Descriptive Literature, address for boys and D. E. Burley, girls. Cheap, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah serviceable. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters—and sons—to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. If the "DAY" has been set Let me sell you the Ring Diamond Rings $20 and up One Quality Only—the Best McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Plan Your 1916 Vacation See America's Playground California Special Excursion Rates, May 1st to Sept. 1st, 1916 See the Thirteen Hundred Miles of Scenery via the SOUTHERN PACIFIC Half the pleasure of a trip is Planning it For carefully illustrated itineraries Write or call on C. L. McFAUL, Ticket Office Second Floor Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SPECIAL ARTICLES JUNE, 1916 MOTHERS OF OUR LEADERS IN ISRAEL With Illustrations. THE APRIL CONFERENCE Amy Brown Lyman GRANITE STAKE CANTATA BEYOND THE PORTALS Laura Moench Jenkins. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29, Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy 10c