Portrait of a Mother William J]. Critchlow, Jr. Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Artist, Your model is dearer than any other. Paint beauty, when painting The portrait of mother. HE lady sat across the aisle one row ahead of me in the coach I boarded one morning at Ogden. She was alone. The pillow in the vacant seat beside her bore mute evidence that she had spent the night on the train. She was napping when, accidentally in a straying glance, I saw a faint smile break on her thin lips. It faded, reappeared, and faded again, all in a moment, and then of a sudden it broadened almost to a grin, bringing with it a gush of tears which her eyelids failed miserably to restrain. Eyelids never were tear-tight anyway. God purposely made them that way, and hers were no exception. Obviously embarrassed, she quickly brushed them aside with her bare hands, succeeding only in smearing them all over her cheeks. I watched her dry the cheeks with a handkerchief. Her face was thin, pale, unadorned by any sort of make-up — and unmistakably sad — without her smile. Before the conductor came in to announce Salt Lake City as the next stop, she nervously slipped into her coat, adjusted her hat in the window glass, settled forward in her seat, pressed her face against the windowpane, and sat almost motionless until the train idled to a stop. She was looking for someone, of that there could be no doubt. Page 316 —Helen Gray Robertson There was a sheer look of disappointment on her sad face when she left her seat and hastilv "elbowed" her wav into the line of disembarking passengers, keeping the while, her eyes glued on the window. Presently, I saw, but not before she did, three women come alongside the car. One was carrying a child — a little girl, Out of the line of passengers she bolted back to the window. With rapid, violent taps on the sturdy glass, she attracted their attention and immediately the child was brought to the window and boosted high up near the windowpane. Pointing hands directed its attention to the excited lady in the car. I could not hear the women's voices but. I did read their lips, "Look, there's Mummy — see Mummy?" The child stared soberly. Could "Mummy" have been gone so long away that she was forgotten? I wondered, but not for long. Suddenly, almost explosively, the child came to life. Its face brightened — its legs began to kick — its arms stretched out to the window — its lips were crving, "Mummy — Mummy!" The child's crying 'intensified as the mother, inside the window, bolted back again into the line of passengers out of the child's sight. I stood aside to give her my place in the line. As she brushed by me hot PORTRAIT OF A MOTHER tears fell upon my hand. Truthfully, I do not know whose tears they were — hers or mine! Need I describe further that happy reunion? Have you ever witnessed a greater love than that of a mother for her child? Does the love of a child for its mother match it? Children have been commanded to love their mothers: "Honour (love) thy father and thy mother (Exodus 20:12). Husbands have been commanded to love their wives (the mothers of their children): "Thou shalt love thy wife with all thy heart (D & C 42:22). We have all been commanded to love our God: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind" (Mt. 22:37). UT where in such strong language as "WITH ALL THY HEART" have mothers ever been commanded to love their children? No such commandment comes readily to my mind nor shall I spend time searching for one because | firmly believe that God, choosing women as his partners in the creative process, tucked away somewhere in their hearts a larger spark of his divine love, which later glows to brilliance in a mother's heart, and this endowment, it seems to me, obviates the need for a specific commandment to love their children. This love is inherent. It operates automatically — even instinctively. In lower forms of animal life it is called instinct. Hunters have told about the fury of the mother bear when her cub is molested. We have observed the mother hen scratch for worms to 317 feed her chicks, and we have seen her spread her feathered wings to provide a protective covering against cold and the night. Call it instinct or whatever else you may, I still believe the tender care and affection the mother of my children has for her children is the noblest and the greatest kind of love. It is matchless, eternal, and I thank God for so endowing her. "There is a love," said Rufus Choate, "which comes uncalled for, one knows not how. It comes with the very air, the eye, the ear, the instincts... The first beating of the heart." Edgar Allan Poe has written: I feel that, in the Heavens above, The angels, whispering to one another, Can find, among their burning terms of love, None so devotional as that of Mother. The love of a good mother stands next to the love of our Heavenly Father. If one would only give a comparable amount of such mother's love to our Heavenly Father, such devotion might well satisfy the commandment: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart.. The family is an organization. Every organization needs a spokesman. 'he father in the Latter-day Saint family, by reason of his Priesthood, is the spokesman, also the priest in his own family. The mother is: The Heart — There is a center to each home from which all joys must start — the center of the home? It is a mother's heart. The Co-creator — God's partners in the creating processes — the architects and builders of all humanity. The Expeditor — In the absence of father, she leads the family to prayers and always to its duties. The Teacher — She teaches the little children their first prayers. She teaches by example. The mother who drinks coffee even though she denies it to her children has failed to effectively teach the Word of Wisdom. "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it'' (Proverbs 22:6). The Dietician — She wants her children to grow up strong and healthy. The Cook — The daughters, her assistants. The Nurse — Sickness, though uninvited, visits occasionally in every home. The Psychiatrist — Principally for her husband, for whom she is the receptacle for all his cares and most of his ill humor. Somewhere it is written that "'the virtues of the mothers shall be visited on their children as well as the sins of the fathers." "A mother," says Jim Reed, "is a composite. She's your nurse when you skin your knee, your conqueror when you're across her knee. She's your provider at mealtime, your teacher for home work. She scolds, laughs, and loves." NCE when my three children were in their tender years, my wife and I joined four other couples on a two-weeks vacation tour of the Northwest. It took a powerful lot of persuading to get my wife to leave the children in the loving care of the grandparents. I am sure, there was scarcely a moment all the while we were away when the children were not uppermost in my wife's mind. Early in the second week she had a feeling that all was not right at home. "I am needed at home," she said. "Something has happened — the children are sick!" "Mamma, you worry too much," I replied, and the others all sustained me — but to no avail. So, sooner than we had planned, we started for home. I shall never forget that last, long day's drive. I was at the wheel, my wife at my side urging me on and on: "Faster, faster, don't stop for lunch — don't stop for dinner — keep going." It was late that night when grandma tearfully greeted us at the door: "We have done all we know how to do, so has the doctor. Your Bobbie is very sick. He needs you. I am so glad you're home!" Now how did the mother know that all was not night at home? Has God endowed mothers with another special gift — a something we might call intuition? Only this I know: I could have made fewer errors through the years had I substituted at times this mother's intuition for my rationalism. Intuition is kin to inspiration. Reason in itself is not a source of knowledge; it must often give way to a mother's sense of perception. You may call it intuition, inspiration, or whatever you like, but you will be exercising wisdom if you will heed it now and then. Motherhood is just another name for sacrifice—a synonym for devotion. Mothers never love too much but some love not too well. Those who indulge their children often spoil them; those who neglect them, hiring out for wages, even though the wages provide comforts, convenience, cars, or whatever else the mothers think their children need, often contribute to their delinquency. No profession, no career can PORTRAIT OF A MOTHER compare with motherhood. A mother's place is in the home. May I suggest a creed for mothers? Since to this work, Father, thou hast called me — a partner in the creation process — help me to give it all that thou hast given me of love and gentleness and insight, and wisdom and strength and patience and forgiveness. I accept the calling of motherhood as a noble career — even the holiest and the happiest of all earth's tasks. HOUGHTS of mothers," said Richard L. Evans, "somehow seem to symbolize the sense of belonging; of home and family, of the love of loved ones, the lasting, healing kind of love, which Emerson said, "is the remedy for all blunders, the cure for all blindness... The redeemer and instructor of souls.' " John Ruskin wrote: "The perfect loveliness of a woman's [mother's] countenance can only consist in that majestic peace, which is founded in the memory of happy and useful years queens you [mothers] must always be... Queens to your husbands and your sons... Wherever a true wife [mother] comes, this home is always round her. 'The stars only may be over her head... But home is yet wherever she is... With a love that heals, that waits and watches, a love that gives, and does and shares, and shelters and understands...." "Thank God for mothers, you who have them. And you who have not now, thank him for such a mother to remember. And you, the young mothers who have children yet around you, God grant that you may give them such love, such memories to remember" (Richard L. Fvans ).