Hand to the Plow PART I — TICKET WICKET Ilene H. Kingsbury And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. And Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God (Luke 9:61-62). Jie splintered floor of the railway station echoed the footfalls of fugitive humanity. Such furtive glances as the emigrants were observed to chance from under their black hats were noted as momentary. It would seem that curiosity was not a virtue and that any evidence of it was to be denied these most recent ocean-wafted people. However, there is that fine margin of out of the ordinary thinkers in any crowd, and two boys of fifteen and seventeen cared not to disguise their interest in everything American. And this is what they saw: 'They noted the ticket wicket with cage dividers and wrought-iron severity. So many travelers had stood before this official fare window that the imprint of two shoes just a little bigger than average size was worn in the floor. In fact, one almost slid into place while cautiously asking directions, prices, and free information. The same _ indented wearing of wood was to be noted at the entrance and exit doors where the shifted weight of thousands had flowed into the station and worn to slivers the but once painted threshold. The benches of the station were fashioned after church pews; straight, Page 330 unbending, severe, uninviting. They, at least, were worn smooth from constant sliding on the surface by wide-backed European peasants and ovetloaded baskets, carpetbags, and cloth bundles whose four corners were tied to form a clutch knot. Under each bench was a light film of dust, a lint gently sifted there as it broke from swishing skirts and shawls and coats threadbare from unrelieved usage. Light glanced through the tall, many glassed windows. 'These were seen to be fly specked and rain trickled. This was in the traditionally unkempt appearance of public buildings where pride was noticeably absent. A_ giant heater, called a forge stove, sat in the middle of the station and obscured the view of the opposite side of the room. Depending on the season, the woodbox was either bursting with stove lengths or brown and bare. It was scarred and beseeched a coat of paint, or an armful of fuel to hide its lonely cavity. Along one side of the station was a row of benches which needed no sign of "For Men Only" to designate who should properly sit there; for, in a line directly in front, and at equally spaced intervals, one saw a platoon of spittoons at convenient striking distance from this obvious- HAND TO THE PLOW ly reserved male section of the station. Needless to say, no respectable lady would have been seen waiting there, though she might stand for hours, holding a babe in her arms, and have another clinging to her skirts. As this was midsummer, the doors of the station were propped open with scraps of railing, their 'T-shaped style lending itself to easy handling and their weight lending itself to utility as a doorstop. It was quite obvious that in winter the doors would be dragged open with the entrance of a newcomer, and hastily closed by him as petulant glances of shivering travelers were cast in his direction. This would no doubt keep the air warm, but no doubt stale. T was a hazard to walk about this place, for baggage rooms had not been invented, and personal accouterments were fearfully kept near the owners. 'This obviously meant that monstrous piles of trunks and boxes of cloth, carpet, leather, and basketry were placed adjacent to each family and never left unguarded for a moment. 'Teenage children were assigned this duty and were the only insurance against loss and _ theft. Depending upon the nationality of the emigrants, the "possibles" were colorful or drab, valuable or useless, secure or hazardous, each attesting private means and social status. It was not unusual for bird cages to perch atop a pile of bedding. Then, crouched in a comfortable blob of feather pillows, sound asleep with fist clutching the pet's abode, a little girl could be seen worn unconscious by emigration. Such blessed sleep was not for a 331 twelve-year-old who sat stolidly on a seaman's trunk and counted over and over the number of bundles, sacks, boxes, and containers which represented the entire wardrobe of her family. 'To lose even one bulky item presaged disaster. Often one saw a pair of children taking turns walking around and around their family belongings in a sort of restricted exercise. Or perhaps they took turns at it while the other ran beyond the doorway to peer up and down the platform. A brave one might even dart beyond that safety island to place his ear on the rails to hear if a train was coming a long way off. If trains were delayed — no business schedule being guaranteed — it was possible for families to sleep among their accumulated possessions, thus saving expenditures for a room. 'This also permitted the excuse to eat in the station. The one lunchroom, a built on afterthought sort of thing, was not large enough to accommodate more than a score of famished men who shouldered their way to standing bar counters for a swig of something hot and filling. 'There were two odors here, beans and tobacco. Either of these, or a commingling of both, sickened most emigrants. 'They then organized themselves to send responsible members out into the town to buy loaves of varicolored and_ varitextured bread, a pail of milk, a few apples, if in season, or if fortune favored them, even a cooked hen or pork side. The miscellany was brought into the waiting room, spread about the tops of trunks and boxes and the family served in careful portions by the mistress of the community, the mother. T could be noted that never, never was all the food eaten at one meal. 'Though hunger was said to be consuming, the gangling sons who at home ate like the cows, as they sometimes said, times and places were different now. Almost niggardly portions were doled out and always some saved for the next meal, just in case more could not be found. 'This precious conservation of a biscuit or two was a learned fetish with most emigrants. No one believed this was a sign of stinginess, but of foresight for the very young, the ailing, and the aged. A little crust became a comfort to teething infants and was not missed by more husky children. It was in this setting that Welsh Eddie, his mother, two little sisters, and two brothers could have been discovered that summer of 1864. The geographical location was a bit out of Philadelphia, U. S. A., and was one of a series already explored and acquainted with and was to be continued as a series west and on west as far as the tracks were laid. And as long as one knew life was not to be permanently lived in this unpainted frame station and the promised land would eventually unfold and welcome them and sustain them in comfort and plenty, what was this temporary crowding, smell, ceaseless vigilance to cause bother? The emigrant mother, who was a widow, having counted, fed, admonished, and otherwise cared for her little flock, straightened her shawl, fluffed out the ruffled lace cap which covered her hair under her tall-crowned, black Welsh hat, and resolutely approached the ticket wicket. She had timed her approach so that no moment would be wasted waiting a turn. Her feet easily slid into the precarved groove of a thousand shoes, each as resolute as her own to keep on the march to a new life in this land long dreamed. The ticket agent glanced at her, and with clairvoyance reserved for public servants, threw aside formalities, got the destination and number of travelers out of her, and with flood intensity took over the scene. "Listen, lady, if you and your five children are going out West, and want to ride the trains as far as St. Joe, on the Missouri, and then catch a wagon train from there, why are you so worried about a little town in Pennsylvania that no one ever heard of and you don't even intend to get off and see?" HE station agent, as he adjusted his black gauntlet wrist protectors, certainly left but one answer. And why, indeed? But before the emigrant could assemble her Welsh words and reassemble them into Yankee of the Americas, the agent stampeded his ideas in front of him. "And if I were you, lady, I wouldn't get off the train, either, what with the war in its fourth year, and the battle line swinging up and down the map like a bull whip over stubborn oxen. Why, one can't be sure from one stop to another that the train will not be invaded by soldiers, ours or the rebels, and you'd find yourself and the young ones sleeping on a ditch bank. Now, you certainly wouldn't want that. If I were you I would get on any old train that had a good cooking stove in it, just so it was headed West, and I'd stay on HAND TO THE PLOW just as long as the tracks were laid in my direction." The word direction gave the emigrant an idea. "Sir, do you have a map of the trains to the West?" At that the agent fairly shrieked in derision. "Listen, lady, this isn't a big settled country, that is not yet, and only the generals have the maps, and mighty poor ones they are, too. Once I tried to make myself a map of the railroads from New York, through Philadelphia, through Pittsburgh, and on over to the Mississippi. Do you know what it all looked like? Just an old maple leaf with the in-between parts decayed away and the meaty veins left running every which way. "If the stem was placed near Castle Gardens, the longest vein would point right across the country and end in St. Joe. Most trains shuttled about before you got over the mountains to Pittsburgh, and the scarce ones thinned out until only a couple of long scraggly ones got to the Mississippi river, and then one branch line dared to build out to where the trails of the prairie left the Missouri. Guess I didn't need a map after drawing that one. It's pretty simple. All one has to do is 333 ask where you are at each station, get on the next train heading West, and in about a half a month, there you ll be in St. Joe." "Then [Il take a ticket for my family right on to the end of your veined leaf," decided the emigrant. "Oh, no you won't. Why, lady, at least five companies have to sell you fares between here and the West. Why, even their cars don't look alike inside, let alone the tracks they roll on. Seems to me I heard one soldier say that sometimes the tracks are on a wide gauge, sometimes on a narrow one, and again on one of a completely individual width. You can't expect trains to roll along at that rate. Change the passengers, charge a new fare. Anyway, I hope you reach the big rivers before the soldiers get all the cars run to the battles. If you missed them, you would be left roaming, on foot, say in Ohio or Indiana. Of course, if you get beyond those wild places, then Illinois and Missouri might be reached. My bet is that an ox team is surer and safer than any steam engine hereabouts." (To be continued ) Treetops Celia Luce ae full fury of the wind hits the top of the tree. The rain beats down on the topmost branches, and, in winter, snow bends them down. There. But it is at the treetop that the sun shines brightest, and the rosiest fruit grows The growing tips of the branches may point toward God's blue sky. Safe, inner branches wither away and die.