EDITORIAL —~9 VOL. The Cultural Values of Relief Society "IN the work of the Relief Society are intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values found in no other organization and sufficient for all general needs of its members." So stated the First Presidency in a letter to the Presidency, officers, and members of Relief Society upon the occasion of the issuing of A Centenary of Relief Society. This statement, coupled with the promise of the Prophet Joseph Smith that knowledge and intelligence would flow down to women, brings an awareness that the Lord would have his daughters instructed and engaged in intellectual pursuits. The dictionary defines culture as "the enlightenment and refinement of taste acquired by intellectual and aesthetic training." It further states that culture is "the act of developing by education, discipline and training." 'The desirability of attaining culture and refinement is apparent. Within the all-encompassing program of Relief Society are found the intellectual training and the educational opportunities to raise women to cultural heights. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints fosters education as one of the facets of the abundant life. "Education is not only a lifetime process, it is an eternal process." Much emphasis is placed on the continuous growth of mind and spirit, and use of the intelligence with which mortals are blessed from on high. The acquiring of culture Page 340 is an effort to improve or perfect through greater knowledge. This knowledge should serve to refine, to remove that which is dross, and serve aS an impetus to constantly seek further development. Inspiration and experience have led Relief Society to provide cultural training for women. Acquaintance with all of the fine arts adds beauty to life. Gentility of manner makes gracious living possible. Constant seeking to improve thwarts the temptations of the Adversary to remain idle, to be complacent with learning already attained, and so to retrogress. Latter-day Saints are under obligation to seek after truth. Great books contain much of this truth and should be read and studied. Foremost among great books are scriptures whose values to the reader are spiritual enlightenment, the fostering of high and lofty thoughts, the example of pure and beautiful language, and the motivating force of good actions. Relief Society members study the scriptures to make these various values part of their lives. Great writings which have stood the test of time are chosen to fill the mind with yearning for the good and the beautiful, to acquaint the heart with the evil of wrongdoing, and to keep the soul in tune with righteousness. Courses of study, approved by the brethren appointed by the First Presidency to this call- EDITORIAL ing, are presented by Relief Society for the uplifting of the women and through them, their families. Beautiful music exercises a refining influence and has appeal to the emotions. It can induce feelings of worshipfulness, tranquility, and peace, happiness, or sorrow, or it can move its hearers to militant action. Music and song are frequently mentioned in the scriptures, and the Lord has stated that he delights in the song of the righteous. More than cultural development to individuals has resulted from music taught in Relief Society. The Singing Mothers have been an aid to the missionary work of the Church and have brought joy to others. Homemaking is a fine art involving both. Spiritual and _ physical beauty. The talents and creative abilities of women are used to the best advantage in the homes. A knowledge of other forms of great art advances these abilities of women. Compassion is an attribute of the cultured person, and a desire to serve ls engendered by knowledge of what is best to be done to make life beautiful for oneself and for others. Relief Society has ever endeavored to provide "the intellectual, cultural and spiritual values... Sufficient for the general needs of its members," which make life here and eternally what it is intended to be. —L. W. M. |-