Little Teamstress Frances C. Yost E. All missed Mama, _ but \\y Papa missed her more than any of us. It was painful when we gathered round the table and her place was empty. I believe that is why Papa told me to sit at the foot of the table from then on. Papa always complimented me on my cooking, but I knew that, try as I could, it didn't measure up to Mama's. And, although I tried to, I just couldn't glonfy leftovers, as Mama had. We missed Mama, too, on Sunday. I tried to keep things washed and ironed, and buttons sewed on as Mama had, but most every Sunday something showed up _ needing mending, or something had been hung up instead of put in the clothes hamper, and missed the wash entirely. But we managed, and we were thankful that tiny Susan hadn't had to go off to the city and live with Aunt Erma. We all especially enjoyed little Susan around. She had Page 342 been two years old when Mama died. She was such a ray of sunshine to all of us, because she didn't remember Mama: enough to get homesick for her as the rest of us did. But the time that Papa missed Mama the most was in the evenings. Mama was from the city, and wasn't good at milking cows, but she was good at figures. Papa and Mama had sat together at the table and figured out the farm program. What to plant, and what not to plant, what crop would make the best yield, and what land to summer fallow. Together,- they had talked over whether it would be best to sell the apples as soon as the harvest, or store them until spring when they were scarce, and the price just might be higher. Mama had an intuition when to sell grain, and when to store it awaiting a higher price. Then, sometimes, they had sat together and looked through the wish book. 'That's what we called the mail-order catalogue. We would pick out our clothes for winter. It took a lot of planning to keep us all warm and clothed and fed. Yes, Papa missed Mama the most, and there wasn't anything we could do about it. NE particular evening Papa was sitting at the table with pencil in hand, and I knew he was figuring how to manage the finances. Lael — she's two years younger than I, and the boys, Wilford and Grant, were getting their lessons. Little Wally and Susan were asleep upstairs. I was reading Longfellow's Evangeline. I kept peering over the book and watching Papa. He had that worried frown on his face, and LITTLE TEAMSTRESS he kept glancing at me, too. I found myself wishing I were older, so that he could confide in me. Then a light sort of spread over Papa's face, and I heard him murmur, "But she's just a child herself, and those frisky horses. Yet we better try it." Papa started tapping his pencil and nodded to me. "Maggie, come over here." I put the marker in my book, and turned my chair around so that I was next to Papa at the table. I waited for Papa to speak. "Maggie, there's a new ice-cream parlor opened up in town, and I believe if we started selling sweet cream to be made into ice cream, we could realize quite a lot more, perhaps twice as much from our cream as we do now, selling it sour once a week to the creamery. What do you think?" I knew how much it took to buy groceries and shoes and _ school books. Twice as much money sounded real good to me. It sounded so good, I wanted to shout about it. But Papa was being confidential. He was planning with me as he used to with Mama. I thought of it from all angles. | "It would mean a trip to town every day, wouldn't it, Papa?" "That's the only drawback. We would have to deliver the cream fresh daily. I'm too busy farming to go, and the boys are too small. I wondered if you." "Oh, Papa, I could drive Nell and Tom, honest I could. I've driven to church when you had to go early to Priesthood meeting. I could do Mm, Papa." "Well, I sure wouldn't want anything to happen to you. But I 343 believe if you were to go all alone, not have any little ones to watch. But you would have to promise that you would keep both hands on the reins every minute." "T will, Papa. I promise." Now Papa had that thinking look on his face, and glanced over at Lael. Lael knew how to work. Mama had taught us both. But Lael was. Like some horses, she had to be prodded. I knew what Papa was thinking. If I took the cream to town each day, Lael would have to take charge of things at home. "Let's see, six miles in and six 'miles back. Even if you took a slow gait you ought to be back in two hours." Papa looked across at me and -spoke softly. "Think Lael could manage everything for a couple of hours each day?" "T think so, Papa." O that's how we started selling fresh cream to the ice-cream parlor. Every morning except Sunday I made the trip to town and back. On Sunday we stored the night and moming cream in the cistern, and I took a double batch to town on Monday. I was extra careful on Monday not to have a tipover. Papa had told me not to read on the way, and not to take any friends, and, unless I was to do some shopping, I was to come back as soon as the cream can was emptied. He cautioned me to keep both hands on the reins, and to let the horses know who was boss. It was summer, and the drive to town in the pleasant cool of the morning was a joy. That was two hours of the day the little children weren't saying Maggie this and 344 Maggie that. I started getting up an hour earlier, and Lael and I hurried fast so that the morning work was done before I left. Dinner was planned, and Lael could go ahead with that. I would get back in time for noon dinner, and to help with the clearing up and the dishes. Things worked out real nice, and Papa seemed proud of Lael as a housekeeper and me as a teamstress. Papa had said not to read, or have anyone along. But he hadn't said TI couldn't sing. I did a lot of that. I also said the multiplication tables. I practiced my talks for Sunday School and recitations for socials. But most of all, I daydreamed. I remembered how nice it was when Mama was here, and we had parties in the parlor. I kept wishing we could have a party. I wanted to have the boys and girls my age over, and make a batch of homemade ice cream, and two or three kinds of cakes, as Mama used to do. I wished Papa would warm up his fiddle and play for the party as he used to, and call changes for the square dance. But Papa hadn't played the violin since Mama died. Once I mentioned it to Papa, how I wanted to have a party. We were ordering shoes for Wilfy and Grant out of the catalogue. But Papa's face looked painful, and I knew he was remembering those parties, too. "Sometime, Maggie, but not right now." I had been selling cream quite a few weeks, and things were going along fine. The extra pay for the sweet cream was a real help to us. The ice-cream parlor liked to pay with cash. We didn't have a bank in our little town, and it just worked out best for them, and best for us to have the greenbacks and silver instead of a check. They always put the money in a sealed envelope, and I took it straight home to Papa. One noontime Papa opened the envelope and counted. He looked up startled. He got out his cream statements, and figured up. Then he said aloud, "They have made a mistake. They have given us twenty dollars too much." "Twenty dollars!" 'The boys and Lael shouted. Longingly, I thought aloud, "Oh, Papa I wish we could use that money for a party." APA looked at me so disappointed when I said that, I could have bitten my tongue. There wasn't a dishonest bone in Papa's body, and he didn't like his children even to consider dishonesty. He often told us that Satan was not given the power to tempt little children, but at the age of accountability he could use his power upon us, and that we should be strong and withstand all temptations. Of course I knew that, much as we could use the extra money, I would be taking it back when I made the trip the next morning. "Maggie, you get the boys to help you harness up, and right after dinner you take this twenty dollars back to the ice-cream parlor. They will be short on their books when they settle up this evening." So, in the very hottest part of the day, I had to make an extra trip to town. All the way I kept thinking about what I could do with that twenty dollars in my pocket, and how nice a party would be. Why, with twenty dollars I could have LITTLE TEAMSTRESS "boughten" ice cream, and "boughten" cakes, and cookies, and prizes and I held the reins tightly all the way as Papa had told me, but the tears that fell blinded my vision. THINGS went on about the same as usual the next day or two. - | made the regular trip to town with the cream each morning, while Lael watched the little ones and prepared dinner. Then one afternoon, Lael and Susan and I were sitting out under the trees. Papa had taken the three boys with him to fix fences up in the pasture by the canal. Lael was lying in the hammock just being lazy. Susan was nite with her doll, and I was trying to get Lael to help me with the darning I was doing. Suddenly, a big dust was coming down the road. It could be nothing but a car. Nobody had a car out our way, and not many people had a car in town. But Mr. Cosgriff, owner of the ice-cream parlor, had a car. He used it for deliveries. It was black, but had a big white sign on both sides which read "Cosgriff's Ice Cream," with a picture of a big icecream cone. Imagine how surprised we were when he drove right up to our house and stopped. He got out of his car and picked up a big ice-cream container and walked through the gate. We hadn't ordered any ice cream, that was for sure. "Hello, Maggie." Cosgriff's smile. "Hello, Mr. Cosgriff." I turned to Lael and Susan who were as surprised as I was. "These are my sisters, Mr. Cosgriff, Lael and Susan." "Glad to know you. You've got a good big sister. One to be proud I liked Mr. 345 of. Honest as the day is long." He was looking at me when he said it, and I felt mighty guilty inside. He patted the big ice-cream container and said, "Brought you out some ice cream. Honesty has its rewards. There're five gallons here. Maggie, you can return the container in the morning." "But Papa won't take a reward for being honest. I know he won't." Just then Papa and the boys drove up on the hay wagon. They had seen the dust of the car coming, and had come to see what the commotion was. A car was something to see in those days. "You have a fine girl here, this Maggie." "Yes, Maggie's a fine girl, and I want you to meet the rest of my family." "T've met Lael here, and Susan." "This is Walford, he's eleven, Grant is nine, and Wally is six." "Glad to meet you fellows." Then nodding toward the ice-cream container, "Brought you out some ice cream. I sure did appreciate your catching that mistake the other day." "That's quite all right, and it wasn't necessary." "It means a lot to me. Well, I better get back to the shop. See you in the morning, Maggie." He was gone. APA just looked at the ice-cream container for awhile. Then, as if talking to himself, he said, "It won't keep. Might as well use it up this evening." Then a smile broke on Papa's face and he turned to me, "Maggie, I believe you had better get on the phone and call all vour friends. We'll have that big 346 parlor party you have been wanting." "Oh, Papa!" I rushed over to him and squeezed him hard. "Do you think you girls could make up some cakes this afternoon? We could use two or three kinds. How about an angel food, a choco late, and a spice cake? And I'll see what I can do about warming up the violin." Lael and I hurried into the house. We had a lot to do. Lael murmured something about honesty having its reward. And I knew that I hadn't been so happy for a long, long time.