Rhubarb Recipes Grace V. Price RHUBARB CAKE c. Shortening 2 c. Sifted flour c. Brown sugar 1% c. Cut raw rhubarb beaten egg ' ¢. White sugar - c. Buttermilk 1 tsp. Cinnamon tsp. Soda Cream together shortening and brown sugar. Add beaten egg. Add alternately buttermilk, soda, and flour. Fold shubarb in lightly. Spread in greased and floured pan. Sprinkle top with white sugar anc cinnamon. Bake at 350° for 30 to 35 minutes. RHUBARB CRUMBLE c. Cut fresh rhubarb % ¢. Flour c. Sugar 1 c. Quick oats c. Flour 44 c. Margarine or butter tsp. Salt "2 tsp. Salt tsp. Cinnamon 3 tbsp. Water c. Brown sugar Mix together rhubarb, sugar, flour, and salt. Place in buttered baking dish. Sprinkle with cinnamon. Mix separately brown sugar, flour, oats, butter, and salt. Pour over rhubarb mixture as a topping. Sprinkle with wate:. Bake at 350° for about 40 minutes. Serve warm or cold, plain, or with sour cream, whipped cream, ice cream, or cheese. - 1% Y, V, 2% RHUBARB TAPIOCA c. Sugar 2% ¢c. Water c. Minute tapioca 3 drops red color, if desired tsp. Salt 1 c. Crushed pineapple c. Cut raw rhubarb Combine sugar, tapioca, salt, rhubarb, water, and coloring. Cook over medium heat stirring constantly until full boil. Cool. To avoid crusting over stir occasionally during cooling. Add pineapple. Chill and serve. Page 360 RHUBARB RECIPES 361 PALE PINK BUT BRIGHT (Other Uses for Rhubarb) BREAKFAST DRINK To one quart of rhubarb juice (home canned stewed rhubarb juice, strained or blended, sweetened as desired) add juice of one or two oranges, or one pint of pineapple juice, or both. Chill and serve. Party PuNcH Use as above, adding one bottle of your favorite lemon-lime beverage and three or four drops of red coloring. Garnish with orange slices or strawberries. A sprinkle of strawberry or raspberry punch powder is good instead of coloring. Toprins FOR IcE CREAM OR PLAIN CAKE 4% c. Cut raw rhubarb 1 pkg. Strawberry gelatine 4 c. Sugar Simmer together rhubarb and sugar. Add and dissolve gelatine. Keep covered and cool for serving. (May be sealed in bottles while hot.)