great object of life. It stands at the end
of every days labor, and beckons us to its
bosom: and life would be cheerless and
meaningless did we not discern across
the river that divides it from the life be-
yond, glimpses of the pleasant mansions
prepared for us.
	Home should be so truly home that the
weary, tempted heart, could turn towards
it any where on the dusty highways of
life, and receive light and strength. It
should be the sacred refuge of our lives,
whether rich or poor.
	How can children repay parents for
their watchings, anxieties, labors, toils,
trials, patience, and love? Think of the
long years of unwearied toil, of their deep
and soul felt devotion to the interests of
their offspring. Every day should they
give them some token of love.
	Every hour should their own hearts
glow with gratitude and holy respect for
those who have given them being.
	There is an enduring tenderness in the
love of a mother to her son that trans-
cends all other affections of the heart.
	It is neither to be chilled by selfishness,
weakened by worthlessness, nor stifled
by ingratitude. She will sacrifice every
comfort to his convenience; she will sur-
render every pleasure to his enjoyment;
she will glory in his fame, and exult in his
prosperity.
	If misfortune overtakes him, he will be
the dearer to her from misfortune; and if
disgrace settles upon his name, she will
still love and cherish him in spite of his
disgrace.
	If all the world besides cast him off,
she will be all the world to him. A father
may turn his back on his child, brothers
and sisters may become inveterate, en-
emies, husbands may desert their wives,
wives their husbands; but a mother’s love
endures through all.
	 In good repute, in bad, in the face of
the world’s condemnation, a mother still
lives on and still hopes that her child may
turn from his evil ways and repent; still
she remembers his infant smile that ever
filled her bosom with rapture, the merry
laugh, the joyful shout of his childhood,
the opening promise of his youth; and
thinking of these, she never can be
brought to think him all unworthy.
	Too frequently the effect of prosperity
is to render the heart cold and selfish;
but the heart will never forget the hal-
lowed influence of happy home memories.
It will be an evening’s enjoyment to which
the lapse of years will only add new
sweetness.
	Such a home memory is a constant in-
spiration for good, and as constant a re-
straint from evil. A constant endeavor
should be made to render every home
cheerful. Innocent joy should reign in
every heart.
	There should be found domestic amuse-
ment, fireside pleasures, quiet and simple
they may be, but such as shall make
home happy, and not leave it in that irk-
some place that will oblige the youthful
spirit to look elsewhere for joy.


