lease. Vote unanimous.
	President Emma S. Smith thanked the
sisters for releasing her. Said she had
had taken pleasure in the work, and
loved the sisters who had labored with
her.
	Counselor Mary J. R. West paid a
tribute to the faithful labors of Sisters
Smith and Driggs.
	At the close of the meeting the congre-
gation flocked around the outgoing offic-
ers, to express regret at parting with them
and to congratulate Sister West on her
new position.	
	Later Sister West chose Emma L.

[Column 3]
Smith and Belle H. Flake as counselors,
and they were set apart by President
Jesse N. Smith and Smith D. Rogers.

	September 14, a special conference
was called, and we were honored by a
visit from Sisters Dusenberry and Beatie,
of the General Board. Our new presi-
dent, Sister West, who had been to Hol-
brook to meet the sisters, also came in
with them.
	All the ward presidents were in attend-
ance, which is an exceedingly rare occur-
rence in our stake. The branches of the
Society were represented in very much
the same condition as at the last confer-
ence.
	Sister Phebe Young Beatie was intro-
duced as a daughter of President Brigham
Young, and a step-daughter of our dear
Aunt Zina, a relationship she is pleased
to own. She spoke of sewing parties as a
good way to get the sisters enthused, the
benefits of the Kindergarten and the
Nurse's class. Explained in detail what
would be required of the girls who took
the course and the manner in which
homes were prepared for them. Encour-
aged the girls to take the course, as it 
is a profitable employment. Every girl
should learn a useful trade, even if she is
ever so wealthy.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry spoke
on the influence we wield; the irrepar-
able injury done to children by ignorant
mothers, and of the home, its decorations,
etc.
	In the evening an entertainment was
given in honor of Sisters Smith and
Driggs. The house was decorated for
the occasion, and there was a large at-
tendance of both old and young.
	Counselor Dusenberry gave the open-
ing address, which was a beautiful tribute
to the life and labors of these two sisters.
	Sister Beatie extended congratulations,
and gave excellent advice to the young
people. Sentiments expressive of love
and gratitude were given by all the
branches of the Society present, for each
of the sisters.
	President Jesse N. Smith also made re-
marks, and both guests of the evening
expressed gratitude for the honor shown
them and the gifts ef the sisters.
	President Mary J. R. West thanked
all who had contributed to the success of
the evening and approved the sentiments
voiced by the speakers.
	The program was enlivened by several
musical selections, and all seemed well
pleased to close an interesting day in such
an agreeable manner.
		DELLA F. SMITH, Stake Sec.


