[Column 1]
	Make your children helpful and useful,
and you will make them happy. Let
them early form habits of neatness, and
when you are weary you will not have to
wait on their carelessness.
	Teach them to give you courteous
speech and manners, and they will live to
honor you. Never reprove the little ones
before strangers; for children are as sen-
sitive, if not more so, than other persons,
and wish strangers to think well of them.
	When reproved before any one with
whom they are not well acquainted, their
vanity is wounded. They have self re-
spect, and such mortification of it is
dangerous. Praise spurs a child on to
earnest effort; blame when administered
before visitors, takes away the power of
doing well. It is the parents duty to
make their children’s childhood full of
love and childhoods’ proper joyousness.
Not all the appliances that wealth can
buy are necessary to the free and happy
unfolding of childhood in body, mind and
heart. But children must have love in-
side the house, and fresh air and good
play and companionship outside.
	The gleeful laugh of happy children is
the best home music, and the graceful
figures of childhood are the best statuary.
	The organization of the home depends
for the most part upon the woman. She
is necessarily the manager of every family
and household. How much there depends
upon her intelligent co-operation.
	Man’s life revolves around woman. She
is the sun of his social life. The comforts of
every home mainly depend upon her—
upon her character, her temper, her
power of organization and her business
management. The idea is fast gaining
ground especially among the younger
girls of today that in order to have a home
where they can be really happy they must
have a house with all the improvements
of modern times, a vast amount of money
must be spent in costly furniture most of
which is fit only as an ornament to a
room rather than being of real use to the
family. Then too all members of the
family must be kept from the most cheer-
ful room in the house in order that it may
be kept ready for callers. To me the en-
nobling influences that do so much to
make stronger characters, and conse-
quently each day assist in making this a
better world, cannot be felt in such a
home, all the real home love, the real
home feelings are wanting. We are not
satisfied merely with a dwelling place, our
home must be comfortable. I do not
mean warmth, good furniture, good eat-
ing and drinking. I mean cleanliness,
pure air, order, economy; in a word home-
thrift and domestic government. Wealth
is not necessary to comfort. A poor
man’s home, moderately supplied with
the necessaries of life, presided over by a
cleanly, frugal housewife, may contain all
the elements of comfortable living, want
of comfort is for the most part caused,
not so much by the absence of sufficient
means, as by the absence of the requisite
knowledge of domestic management.
	I believe that the woman who would
make her home comfortable must be
systematic in her every day routine of
home duties. The woman who starts out
in the morning without first planning her
day’s work will be the woman to whom
housework is a perfect drudgery. But
let her plan her work, let her go at her

[Column 2]
work with a determination to accomplish
it in so much time, and let her be pleas-
ant and cheerful always; then will the
home duties become the greatest pleasures
she will ever know. Another eminently
household quality is punctuality—How
many grumblings would be avoided in
domestic life by a little more attention
being paid to this virtue. Late breakfasts
and late dinners, cleanings out of time
and washings protracted till midnight,—
what a host of little nuisances spring to
mind at the thought of the unpunctual
house wife.
	The unpunctual woman like the un-
punctual man, becomes disliked because
she consumes our time, interferes with
our plans, causes uneasy feelings, and
virtually tells us that we are not of suffi-
cient importance to cause her to be more
punctual. To the business man time is
money, and to the business woman it is
more—it is peace, comfort and domestic
prosperity.
	How often we hear it said that “clean-
liness is next to Godliness.” Where then
if not in our home should this quality be
found?
	If we would have our homes a place
where God’s holiest angels would be
pleased to dwell we must have it a place
where order and cleanliness prevail. How
many times have we entered the house of
a friend, and found every room, every
dish, every book, every piece of furniture
out of its place; the floors all littered up
with everything, so completely covered
with dust that your friend would have to
take her apron and remove the dust from
a chair before she could invite you to be
seated.
	Do you remember the feeling that came
over you when you entered that home?
Do you remember how you longed to flee
from there and return to the peace and
quiet of your own fire-side. If such would
be the influence of such a home over a
stranger, imagine what it would be over
the child reared in such a place. Could
he come from home with the spirit of
God so implanted in his soul that tempta-
tion would be an easy matter to be over-
come, would he come from such a home
with any great desire to return, when the
errand that called him forth was per-
formed.
	Suppose the home you entered had
been so well managed that in all the
house there was not one room, one arti-
cle of furniture, one dish out of its place.
Suppose there were snow white curtains
at the windows, well swept carpets on
the floors, and in the grate a warm cheer-
ful fire. Do you think your stay in this
home would have been such a formal
call? Why I have been in such homes
when it seemed utterly impossible for me
to tear myself away from their peaceful,
quiet, comfortable influence. Such a
home is the sweetest type of heaven.
	The mother who would make of her
home a heaven for her family is the one
who each night plans her work for the
following day. She is the one who arises,
and has each member of her family arise,
at an hour so early that sufficient time
will be given each one to prepare for the
duties of the day before him. Her break-
fast will be served at a certain hour each
morning and at such an hour that all may
enjoy not only his meal but the spirit of
love and peace that should prevail in a
true home. Immediately after the morn-

[Column 3]
ing meal is served and the morning greet-
ings are over the mother takes up her
labors for the day, Remembering first
of all those who are so near to her—she
goes into their sleeping rooms and throws
open the doors and windows and allows
plenty of good fresh air and sunshine to
enter which does so much in the promot-
ing of health, Many persons I believe
do not appreciate this blessing which
God sends alike to all his children, but
when we stop to consider the many dis-
eases and even death which have been
caused by the inmates of the house
breathing the foul air which has been
allowed to remain there for days at a
time, we would consider fresh air and
the bright sunshine among our greatest
luxuries. All the clothes from every bed
should be thrown entirely back in order
that they may become well ventilated
and purified by the air before the bed is
made. I am here reminded of a few lines
of poetry which is self suggested and runs
as follows:
	Do you wish to be healthy!
	Then keep the house sweet;
	As soon as you’re up
	Shake each blanket and sheet.
	Leave the beds to get fresh,
	On the close-crowded floor.
	Let the wind sweep right through—
	Open window and door.
	The bad air will rush out
	As the good air comes in,
	Just as goodness is stronger
	And better than sin.
	Do this, it’s soon done,
	In the fresh morning air,
	It will lighten your labor
	And lessen your care.
	You are weary—no wonder,
	There’s weight and there’s gloom
	Hanging heavily round
	In each over-full room.
	Be sure all the trouble
	Is profit and gain
	For there’s headache and heartache,
	And fever and pain
	Hovering round, settling down
	In the closeness and heat;
	Let the wind sweep right through
	Till the air’s fresh and sweet.
	And more cheerful you’ll feel
	Through the toil of the day;
	More refreshed you’ll awaken
	When the night’s passed away.
	The thrifty housewife who has well
considered the duties of the day will have
cleared the breakfast table, assorted the
dishes, put cooking utensils to soak and
put the dining and living rooms in order,
next she has looked through store closet
and refrigerator and made a list of food
to be ordered, having washed the dishes
and prepared any dish that may require
long cooking, will next make the beds
neatly and put the sleeping rooms in
order. Her house is now in order and
she is free to pay attention to other
duties of the day.
	The wise mother will select for her din-
ing room the most cheerful, and pleasant
room in her home. Let this always be a
bright airy place where the rays of sun-
shine can penetrate each corner,
	Give the arrangements of this room
your most careful attention and above all
make it a place of comfort and rest. Do
not have your room filled with furniture
that must be watched constantly for fear
of a mar or scratch, but let the air of


