[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED.
	Frisco, June 18, 1905.—Pursuant to a
call, the ladies of Frisco, Beaver county,
met in the school house, called by Bishop
Wm. Ashworth.
	After singing and prayer, Mrs. C. C.
Shepherd called a vote as to whether the
ladies wished a Relief Society organized.
The vote was unanimously in favor.
	Mrs. M, E. Ashworth was elected sec-
retary of the meeting.
	The bylaws of the N. W. Relief Soci-
ety were read and accepted.
	The following officers were sustained
by unanimous vote:
	Mary E. Ashworth, president, Margaret
E. Jones and Ella Morris, first and second
vice-presidents; Libbie Fotheringham,
secretary; Edith Chavey, assistant secre-
tar; Harriet S. Farnsworth, treasurer.
	Mrs. Shepherd gave instructions to the
ladies regarding their duties as members
of this organization; said we can be a
great help to the bishop in carrying on
the work of the ward; she believed that
our labors in the society would make us
all better women, and that our home
work would be easier. Spoke of the Moth-
er’s Work, as conducted in our meetings,
and of the help it would be to young
mothers in bearing and rearing their
children. If we do not take advantage
of the opportunities to be educated in the
principles of the Gospel, we shall be un-
der condemnation. Those who take no
interest in public affairs will grow narrow
and care for nothing but themselves.
	Counselor M. A. White said: When we
meet together we draw down the spirit of
God, and that the instructions we re-
ceive are added to by this spirit. The
Lord has provided a way for us to serve
Him, by serving each other. As wives and
mothers we can perform the work of
serving Him better than anyone else in the
world. We will be better ourselves for
having helped another. We can learn
from every one we associate with. If
we see peace and harmony in our neigh-
bors’ homes it gives us a desire to emulate
that example in our own. We must deal
with our children with firmness, but kind-
ly, and there is no place where we can
learn more of this than in our Relief
Society meetings. If we keep our chil-
dren home at night, and control them
when small, the reins will never be taken
from us, It is our duty to assert our
authority, which need not be done in
harshness.
	President of the Stake C. D. White
said: You are now a legal organization,
according to the laws of our state, and
can legally own property, and do good
with it. Every good Latter-day Saint
ought to be willing to help the Relief
Society, that they in turn may help those
in need.
	Stake Counselor J. F. Tolton said:
Charity is not simply helping those in
distress, but is the true love of Jesus
Christ. Let us cultivate a spirit of love,
that we may see the good in others.

[Column 2]
Prayed that in our organization we may
possess a spirit that will make us feel that
we are enjoying a privilege.
	Benediction by Bishop Ashworth.
	After meeting the officers were set
apart by the brethren present.
			L. Farnsworth, Secretary.


