[Column 1]
RABBI FLEISCHER ON WOMAN IN A
		DEMOCRACY.
	Rabbi Charles Fleischer addressed the
Western Massachusetts Federation of
Women’s Clubs in Northampton on
October 4, and his speech made a deep
impression. He said in part:
	“As Grover Cleveland is not now our
‘ruler,’ and his every word is not there-
fore to be regarded as the latest revela-
tion of the eternal wisdom, perhaps you
at least will be inclined to pardon my lese
majeste,’ if I presume to challenge his
recent pronouncement on the subject of
women’s clubs. It is hard for the ‘old
man,’ (I do not mean merely Mr. Cleve-
land, but any old man—any specimen of
that species) to accept the so called ‘new
woman.’ They belong to different his-
torical strata, as it were.
	“New social conditions always produce
new men and women. It is difficult
for the product of the old conditions to
adjust itself to, or to understand the re-
sult of the new. But in human history,
one age is apt to overlap another, so that
the strata are not distinct and several
stages of social development are com-
monly found to coexist upon the same
plane. Thus the old man and the new
woman, and the old woman and the new
man are living in our particular period—
and not the one class in Russia or in
China and the other in England or in Amer-
ica, but the representatives of each, side
by side, in our democratic land, and even
among members of the same family.
	“It is all a matter of individual temper-
ament or human achievement. Some of
us are born into the newest phase of so-
cial evolution, others make a conscious
progress towards it or into it, and others
still serve as brakes or impediments pre-
venting a too rapid social advance. Ac-
cordingly, each of us take rank as old or
new or intermediate. It is not a matter
of calling names or even of making argu-
ment, but simply a matter of registering
what I would term a spiritual fact. Grov-
er Cleveland is as naturally an ‘old man’
as Susan B. Anthony is a ‘new woman.’
	“Let me make my meaning clear. I
have said (and it should be a self-evident
truism) that new social conditions pro-
duce new types of men and women, dif-
fering essentially from one another.
Speaking broadly, I would assert that the
old type of man and woman is the prod-
duct of the hitherto prevalent autocracy
of man-rule in State and church and in-
dustry and the family. Similarly, the
new type of man and woman (that not
yet really is, but is to be) will be the prod-
uct of democracy (which ignores distinc-

[Column 2]
tions of sex and sects and other previous
conditions of servitude)—democracy ap-
plied to politics and religion and indus-
try and the family and every other social
organization and relationship.
	“Plainly, then, democracy is the vastest
enterprise upon which the human race
ever has entered. But I believe in its
complete success. I believe that all
men will in time become completely dem-
ocractic. Meanwhile, fortunate is the
man or woman who is at least touched
by the beauty of the spirit of the new
day. Happy is that person who has
embodied enough of the new principle
to apply it to at least one set of human
relationships. Blessed the people that,
like America, has at least made a begin-
ning with political democracy. The rest
will be added in time. But the complete
democratic people or person does not yet
exist. Therefore, in all of us, more or
less (and usually more) of the old prejud-
ices and attitudes remain, survivals of the
period of male autocracy. Therefore,
too, we are likely to be democratic in one
respect, while remaining undemocratic in
other respects. Thus, for instance, we
find men who are ardent believers in
democracy and are utterly unsympathetic
with the laborers struggle for industrial
democracy. But most males, whatever
their present democratic calibre, balk at
applying the new principle to the con-
cerns of women. And most women are
similarly orthodox regarding their sex.
	“However, the new woman (like the
new man), whlch means the woman who
has been lifted by democracy to the nor-
mal level of human self-respect,—the new
woman is here to stay. She cannot be
written out of existence by Mr. Cleve-
land’s or Lyman Abbott’s magazine arti-
cle. She cannot even be laughed away
by undemocratic men and women along
with that caricature of her noble type
which still commonly usurps the title
and the attention of the genuine new
woman. Shortening her hair and her
skirt and lengthening her tongue does not
make a woman new. But making her,
each according to her capacity, a social
element equal or equivalent to the male
(equal, that is, in social standing and use,
as in individual opportunity),—that is the
sort of women which democracy is to
produce.
			To be continued.


