[Column 1]OUTLINE OF MOTHERS’ WORK.
	WASATCH STAKE.
Lesson 1.—Sacredness of Honor.
	(a) What does it mean? (b) How to
get the children’s confidence. (c) How
to uproot evil by planting good.
	Lesson 2.—Social Purity
	(a) How shall we create a higher so-
cial standing? (b) The aim of parents
should be to arrange and control the en-
vironments of the young people, cure
their faults, cultivate their talents and de-
velop their virtues.
Lesson 3.—School Life of Children.
	(a) Teach them to respect their princi-
pal and teachers and avoid criticism in
their hearing. (b) Train them early to

[Column 2]
do everything possible for themselves in
getting ready for school. (c) Impress
upon them the necessity of regularity in
attendance, punctuality and obedience.
	Lesson 4.—Occupation.
	(a) Be what nature intended you for
and you will succeed. (b) The dignity
of occupation should be judged by its in
fluences. (c) Do not waste time, money
and energy in endless changes and wand-
erings, but find what you are adapted for
and pursue that with the energy of your
soul. (d) Occupation in the home.
Occupation in the business world. Oc-
cupation in church and society.
	Lesson 5.—Self Culture.
	(a) Cultivate a love for the beauties
of nature. (b) Use good language, avoid
slang. (c) Study self control. (d) Seek
good companions in books and persons.
(e) Cultivate good thoughts: right think-
ing leads to right action.
Lesson 6.—Our Girls and Boys, Fathers
and Mothers of the Next Generation.
“Ah, happy years, who would not be a
child again.”
	(a) Childhood, its joys and trials. (b)
Good seed brings forth good fruit. As
we sow we reap. (c) Every organ of
the body performs a certain work. (d)
Duties of mothers in instructing their
sons. (e) Plenty of pure air and sleep
with wholesome diet the best medicine
for children.
		Lesson 7.—Woman.
	Every woman should be the embodi-
ment of purity, modesty, patience, affec-
tion and gratitude.
		Lesson 8.—Motherhood.
	(a) God’s commandment to Adam and
Eve. Ref. 1st chapter, 28-36 verse. (b)
Highest calling of man and woman. (c)
Child’s best heritage, honorable birth. (d)
Is poverty an excuse? Ref. Juvenile
Instructor, July 15, 1905
		Lesson 9—Virtue.
	(a) Who can find a virtuous woman,
for her price is above rubies. Ref. Prov-
erbs 31st ch. 10th v. We should ever be
diligent in training our children to guard
their virtue as they would their lives,
	Lesson 10.—Respect for the Aged.
	(a) Teach children to show respect
and kindness. (b) How can children
best lighten their labors and supply their
needs and show them the greatest honor?
“Honor thy father and thy mother,” etc.
	Lesson 11.—Honesty and Faithfulness.
	(a) Parents should set a proper exam-
ple. (b) Truthfulness in children may
be encouraged if due diligence be exer-
cised by parents and teachers. Ref. Doc-
trine and Covenants, sec, 93, 1.40 v.
Proverbs, 12:19-23. 13 ch., 5-6.
Lesson 12. True Object of Relief Soci-
			ety Work,
	(a) Visiting the sick. (b) Looking
after the poor and downcast. (c) Effects
of cheerful company. (d) Improvement
of home life. Make home, home indeed.
	Annie R. Duke, Elizabeth Murdock,
Louise Alexander, Margaret Murdock,
Sarah K. Duke—Committee.


