	Home is the resort
Of love, of joy, of peace and plenty, where,
Supporting and supported, polished friends
And dear relations mingle into bliss.
	Home: That word touches every fiber
of the soul, and strikes every chord of the
human heart with its angelic fingers.
Nothing but death can break its spell.
What tender associations are linked with
the home: What pleasing images and
deep emotions it awakens: It calls up the
fondest memories of life, and opens in our
nature the purest, deepest, richest gush
of consecrated thought and feeling.
	To the little child, home is his world.
He knows no other. The father’s love,
the mother’s smile, the sister’s embrace,
the brother’s welcome, throw about his
home a heavenly halo, and makes it as
attractive to him as the home of angels.
Home is the spot where the child pours
out all his complaints, and it is the grave
of all his sorrows. 
	Childhood has its sorrows and its griev-
ances; but home is the place where these
are soothed and banished by the sweet
lullaby of a fond mother’s voice. Ask the
man of mature years, whose brow is fur-
rowed by care, whose mind is engrossed
in business, -- ask him what is home.
	He will tell you: It is a place of rest, a
haven of content, where loved ones re-
lieve him of the burden of every day life
too heavy to be continuously borne, from
whence, refreshed and invigorated, he
goes forth to battle again. Every home
should be as a city set on a hill, that can-
not be hid. Into it should flock friends
and friendship, bringing the light of the
world, the stimulus and the modifying
power of contact with various natures,
the fresh flowers of feeling gathered from
wide fields. The influences of home per-
petuate themselves. The gentle graces
of the mother live in the daughter long
after her head is pillowed in the dust of
death; and the fatherly kindness finds its
echoes in the nobility and character of
sons, who come to wear his mantle and
fill his place. While, on the other hand,
from unhappy, misgoverned, and ill order-
ed homes go forth persons who shall make
other homes miserable, and perpetuate
the sorrows and sadness, the contentions
and strifes, which have made their own
early lives miserable. 
	If we would have a true home, we must
guard well our thoughts and actions. A
single bitter word may disquiet the home
for a whole day; but, like unexpected
flowers which spring up along our path
full of freshness, fragrance, and beauty,
so do kind words and gentle acts and
sweet disposition make glad the home
where peace and blessings dwell.
	No matter how humble the abode, if it
be thus garnished with grace and sweet-
ened by kindness and smiles, the heart
will turn lovingly towards it from all the
tumults of the world, and home, “be it
ever so humble,” will be the dearest spot
under the sun.

[Column 2]
	Home in one form or another is the
