[Column 1]
	INTERESTING GATHERING.
	On Sunday evening, October 29, in the
new stake hall, the Relief Society of
Pioneer Stake, by courtesy of the Stake
Presidency were given the time after the
Sacrament had been administered to pre-
sent the Society work. President Annie
Wells Cannon taking charge and welcom-
ing the visitors. There were present by
invitation President Joseph F. Smith,
Apostles John Henry and George A.
Smith and C. W. Penrose, President
Bathsheba W. Smith and Secretary E. B.
Wells, Dr. R. B. Penrose and Sister Ju-
lina L. Smith of the General Board,
Sister Sarah E. Richards Smith and a
number of other visitors.
	Sister Cannon in her opening remarks
paid a graceful tribute to the Presidency
of the Stake and Bishops for offering
them one night in a year in which to
present the Society work in the Stake
and in the several wards, outlined the
mothers’ work and the nurses depart-
ment and explained her views of Relief
Society work in general; realized it con-
sisted more in doing than in preaching.
	Sister Lizzie F. Silver gave an original
well-written paper on “Reading.”
	Dr. R. B. Penrose spoke upon “Home
Nursing” its value, explained the benefits
to be derived by all young mothers from
taking the regular course. Sister E. B.
Wells urged all the young girls and wo-
men to become members of the Relief
Society and explained its many benefits.
President B. W. Smith spoke of her
anxiety for the leaders of the Church,
felt the same spirit was manifest now
that prevailed in Nauvoo. Stated that
she was the only living member present
at that first meeting when the Relief So-
ciety was organized by the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith.
	President Joseph F. Smith addressed
the meeting most eloquently, and gave
every possible enconragement to the
young women to assist in the Relief So-
ciety labors for their own development,
and stated it was directly organized by
the Prophet Joseph Smith. He thought
it one of the most important organiza-
tions in the Church. Spoke upon the
possible opportunities open to those who
visited the sick to encourage the spirit
and power of faith. and the effect of its
inspiring hope in the mind of the afflicted
and illustrated the point by relating an
experience of his own regarding the na-
tive traditions of the Hawaiians, who
believe they can pray each other to death.

[Column 2]
President Smith declared with great pow-
er that he knew the promises of the Gos-
pel in regard to healing the sick were true.
He continued his discourse, speaking
most impressively upon the subject of
revelation. He was listened to through-
out with most earnest attention, although
the hall was crowded to the doors and
many were standing. He concluded his
remarks with a glowing tribute to Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith and other faithful
sisters in the Relief Society, blessing them
for their good works.
	Elder Charles W. Penrose and Elder
John Henry Smith each spoke a few
words exhorting the young people to
greater diligence and faithfulness in the
Gospel and to live pure lives; and be true
to themselves and their religion. Miss
Mabel Cooper rendered a beautiful solo,
“He Shall Feed His Flock.” Congrega-
tion sang “Doxology, and Elder Sylvest-
er Q. Cannon pronounced the benedic-
tion. 
	This was a remarkable meeting in
many respects, the new hall just opened,
the President of the Church, several
Apostles, High Priests, High Councilors,
Elders and Bishops present as also dis-
tinguished women, whose lives have been
rich in good works.


