[Column 1]
morally and spiritually, to have solemn
thoughts and to feel an influence more po-
tent with divine love, more reverential,
and calling forth intense sympathy for
sorrow than in any other situation. It
was no doubt this sentiment that caused
the divine preacher to say "It is better to
go to the house of mourning than to the
house of feasting," because of the awe and
solemnity it inspires.
	In order to be successful in Relief So-
ciety work, one must not only partake of
the influence of it, but must put one's
soul into the work and give it the stamp
and seal of her personal life and char-
acter; and be so engrossed with the real
merit and beauty of it as to be joyous and
make it a part, as it were of herself, a
life work;—and assuredly a work of love
in those elements of character that are
always uplifting.
	The organization as effected by Joseph
Smith the Prophet would in the very
nature of things, be the most advanced in
theory and experiment (if we may be per-
mitted so to call it) in the cultivation of
all the higher and nobler attributes of
true womanhood, because all that the
Prophet did was of the very best.
	No one of us in our Society throughout
the land, who has had the experience of
attending upon the sick and distressed
and of ministering in the sacred offices of
assisting after death can ever forget the
emotions called forth, that tend towards
the most elevating and inspiring thoughts
of a future life here as well as hereafter.
	The spirit of God, the spirit of intel-
ligence, the spirit of prayer must all be
as it were a part of one's self in order to
succeed in Relief Society work, and one
must be willing to make sacrifices for the
sake of the work; self-sacrifice is a part
of the necessary endeavor even to achieve
any great results. To put one's soul into
the undertaking is to give it distinction
and lift it above ordinary common place
affairs. To forget ourselves in our work,
to be so happy in the duties that it brings
as to quicken the pulse, and make us walk
with flying feet, as it were, and do our daily
tasks with lighter hearts than, before,
"Charity never faileth" is indeed the
motto we should carry about and have in
mind always. One must never be weary
in well doing if one expects to follow in
the footsteps of those grand women who
have made their lives glorious in works of
love.
	To those who have traveled much
among our own people and have seen the
devotion of hundreds and perhaps thous-
sands of the valiant women, who have
served in their own neighborhoods among
the sick and suffering, and who have min-
istered to the needy and unfortunate and
given comfort and consolation to the
afflicted, and help to the dying it calls up
to the mind a host of reflections, that
words have no language to express, a rev-
erence and tenderness for these ministers
of grace clothed with faith, and wearing
the mantle of heavenly charity.
	This noble band of workers deserve the
admiration of the world, and assuredly
the veneration, respect and good-will of
all Latter-day Saints. How any young
woman dares to ridicule this work almost
surpasses belief.
	When we recall the women we have
known whose names are immortalized
for the services they have rendered to
humanity among the poor and lowly, as

[Column 2]
well as in all places where these minis-
trations have been needed, a flood of
tender emotions well up in the soul and
we long to tell the young women of today
of their beautiful lives and deeds of mercy
and benevolence.
	We speak their names with tender rev-
erence and we look back upon our asso-
ciation with those sisters almost as if we
had walked with angels. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney known among our people as
"Mother Whitney" Vilate Kimball, Eliza
R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, and a host
of others whose names alone would more
than fill the pages of our little paper—
and now added to these illustrious names
our beloved mother in Israel, M. Isabella
Horne; and while we reverence those
that are gone, we must not forget those
who are still with us, who have trod the
same path and been shining examples of
all that is most excellent and beautiful in
woman—our Elect Lady, Bathsheba W.
Smith and one who has been a grand and
noble worker along with her and those
who have gone on before Sister Jane S.
Richards.
	These women have made it easier and
plainer for those who are to follow, they
have broken down the barriers, have
opened the way and have given a richer
legacy than wealth, for they have made
the world better by their lives and ex-
ample, and have achieved greatness in
the humble walks of life among the wo-
men, and for the women, where their lot
has been cast, and have opened up possi-
bilities for the future greater than have
yet been realized.
	And for this grand organization the
Relief Society we give honor to its foun-
der the Prophet Joseph Smith, who
doubtless foresaw much of which we in
this day have hardly dreamed, though
we feel at times (some of u[-]) the magni-
tude and magnificence of the work to
which we are giving a great part of our
energies and trying to help our younger
sisters to understand and appreciate its
worth to the world of humanity.
	No doubt many avenues of helpfulness
and attainment will open out in the great
days to come for Zion must arise and
shine gloriously, and the women will be
there and have part in the grandeur and
splendor of the temples and edifices that
will make the cities of the Saints secure
and peaceful resting places for all, who
come up over the wonderful highways
that have been prophesied of and that
must assuredly come to pass.


