[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		MORGAN STAKE.
	The Morgan Stake conference was held
August 17th in the stake house with a
fairly good attendance.
	The General Board was represented by
Sisters P. Y. Beatie and C. S. Thomas of
Salt Lake City. The several branches
were reported as doing the best they can
under the circumstances in which they
are placed. Some are too busy to at-
tend meetings much, but on the whole
there are enough faithful workers to keep
the Relief Society work rolling on in the
Morgan Stake. The Stake Presidency of
the Relief Society make regular visits.
				ANNIE W. CLARK,
							Secretary.
		WASATCH STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Wasatch stake was held June 16, 1905,
in the stake tabernacle, and was well
attended by stake authorities and local
officers.
	Sisters Margaret A. Caine and P. J. M.
Farnsworth, representing the General
Board, were also present.
	Sister Ann Murdock related an instance
that she heard at the first Relief Society

[Column 2]
meeting held in Salt Lake City, that the
Relief Society should spread from north
to south, from east to west; she had lived
to see this fulfilled.
	A lecture was given by Sister Johanna
Jensen on Charity.
	Recitation, “Thy will be done,” Sophia
Lake.
	The visiting sisters gave encouraging
remarks to workers in the Relief Society
cause, also dwelt on need of charity, re-
finement and gentleness among the sis-
ters and girls. Emphasized the necessity
of keeping the lives and memories of the
pioneers fresh in the minds of the sons
and daughters of Zion.
	President Wm. H. Smart desired the
sisters to be loyal to their file leaders and
loyal to all their spiritual and tempo-
ral interests. Paid a glowing tribute to
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, also to the
stake presidency.
	The reports from the various ward of-
ficers given at officers meeting indicated
the work to be progressing in this stake
of Zion.
		SARAH K DUKE, Secretary.
		KANAB STAKE.
	Minutes of the Kanab Stake Relief
Society conference, held at Kanab Sep-
tember 4, 1905. Stake Counselor Eliza-
beth Pugh present and presiding.
	Sang “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Prayer by Counselor E, J. H. Lewis
of the Kanab Relief Society.
	Counselor Elizabeth Pugh made a few
opening remarks; said President Seeg-
miller and Counselor H. E. Hoyt were
absent; also regretted that the visiting
sisters from Salt Lake were unable to
meet with us. A letter from President
Seegmiller, also one from Sister Emme-
line B. Wells were read.
	Sister Pugh reported that President
Seegmiller and Counselor H. E. Hoyt
had visited the stake three months ago,
filled up all vacancies, and that now each
society was in good order.
	The different wards of the stake were
represented and reported by an officer of
each Relief Society as in fairly good work-
ing order, teachers alive to their duties
as a rule, meetings held regularly, and
those in attendance feeling well.
	Instructions given at the conference
were: referring to the duties of the mem-
bers of the Relief Society, our duties to
each other, care for the sick, looking
after the poor and needy, have a watch-
care over the children, our neighbor’s as
well as our own, sustain those in author-
ity over us, and live so that we may have
a claim upon the blessings of the Lord.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Sang “Praise to the man.” etc.
	Benediction by Sister J. W. Seaman.
			PERSIS A. SPENCER, Sec.
		NEBO STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of Nebo
Stake Relief Society convened in the
Spanish Fork 1st ward meeting house
October 9, 1905, at 10.30 o’clock, Pres.
Lilyus C. Page presiding.
	Mrs. Estella Davis rendered a song-
	Pres. Mary A. Hallam, of Spanish Fork
2nd ward briefly welcomed all present at
our conference; prayed for the spirit of
the Lord to be with us.
	The Leland ward was reported by
Prest. Markham with doing the best they
can under the circumstances—have forty
bushels of wheat on hand.


