[Column 1]
	Sister Sarah Swenson reported the
society of the 4th ward of Spanish Fork;
they own meeting house and granary,
have between 400 and 500 bushels of
wheat on hand.
	The Salem ward society was reported
by Pres. Mary Ann Pierce: Own meeting
house and granary, have nearly 500 bush-
els of wheat, The teachers are doing a
good work; some have visited every
month.
	Sister Harker, one of the missionaries
from Salt Lake City, felt very pleased to
hear and partake of the good spirit of our
meeting; said we came here not to do
our own will, but the will of the Father.
We should make home the most beloved
place on earth. Spoke of the teachers as
being the backbone of the society. En-
couraged the secretaries to be prompt in
copying their minutes and in sending in
their reports. Her remarks were full of
encouragement and blessing for the sis-
ters.
	Recitation by Sister Rhoda Robinson.
	President Holt invited all to stay and
have lunch.
	Adjourned, after singing and prayer,
until 1:30, o'clock.
	Afternoon meeting recovened. After
the opening exercises, a hymn was sung
by Sister Ann Lewis.
	Stake Counselor Henry Gardner said
he did not know of an organization of so
much importance in the Church as the
Relief Society. The sisters had been
pioneers and home builders. Had some
business to present in behalf of Sister Page,
who was desirous of being released from
the presidency of the Nebo Stake Relief
Society. Proposed that the sisters give
her an honorable release and thanks for
her labors in the past, which motion was
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Eliza J. Dixon was chosen and
unanimously sustained to fill her place as
President of the Relief Society of the
Nebo Stake.
	Sister Page felt very thankful for the
way in which the sisters had sustained
her; felt that they had prayed for her
as well as sustained her.
	Sister Dixon felt that the sisters had
made a mistake in saying that she would
make a better president that Sister Page.
Felt thankful for the support the sisters
had given the presidency in the past,
and prayed they would support her in the
future.
	A song was sung by Sister Anne Rowe.
	Sister Harker was thankful for the
spirit of unity that had been made mani-
fest; spoke of the woman's building; said
we will have one in connection with the
memorial building. Referred to holding
ward conferences, also explained how to
keep up a contingent fund.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp was the next
speaker, who said, we have all been sit-
ting so long, asked all to arise and rest a
while, went through some exercises; felt
glad to look into the faces of the brothers
and sisters. Had been a member of the
Relief Society many years before realiz-
izing the importance of the work and
what it meant when Joseph Smith organ-
ized the Relief Society. We should be
grateful for the privileges and blessings
we enjoy. The greatest honor we can
have is to be a true wife and noble moth-
er; thought we should have charity one
for another. Do not give way to our tem-
pers. Be careful not to wound the feel-

[Column 2]
ings of our little children. Let us learn
to love one another, and be united one
with another; attend to family prayers
morning and evening; spoke of the nurse
class to be taught this year; prayed the
Lord to bless each one of us.
	Sister Page felt that we had had a good
time today, and pleased with the way we
had been entertained-
	Conference was adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Patriarch Wil-
kins.
		MARY F. BROWN, Sec.
SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Snowflake stake was held at Snowflake
August 11, 1905.
	After the usual opening exercises, Pres-
ident Emma S. Smith addressed the
meeting and said: It is a good plan for
the sisters to attend the priesthood meet-
ings. We need the instructions given
by the brethren. I am thankful for the
confidence they repose in us and hope we
will be worthy of it. The sisters have 
offered many prayers for me; and I am
very grateful to them.
	Counselor Driggs said the Stake Board
had visited all the branches of the society
with one exception. They are in good
condition, and the sisters have an excel-
lent spirit.
	Sister Eliza S. Rogers rendered a solo,
accompanied by Mrs. Marie West.
	Sister Janet M. Smith spoke on tithing.
	Bishop John Hunt spoke of the perse-
cution some of our people are receiving
at the present time, and alluded to the
remarks which had been made on tithing.
It is a true principle, and will benefit all
who practiee it.
	Duet by Misses Jennie Kartchner and
Wilmurth Flake, accompanied by Mrs.
Marie West. 
	Counselor Mary J. R. West said, My
ardor in the suffrage work was dampened
when the women of my nation tried to
unseat Senator Smoot.
	President Jesse N, Smith said: “Sister
Smith has placed her resignation as stake
president of the Relief Society at the
disposal of the brethren. She has been
an invalid for many years, and consider-
ing her impaired health at the present
time, ft is not deemed wise to tax her
strength too greatly. She is a prayerful
woman, and one who devoutly believes
the Gospel.” The name of Sister Mary J.
R. West has been selected, and it is sug-
gested she act as Sister Smith's succes-
sor, and on motion President Smith's
resignation was accepted, and a vote of
thanks tendered her and her counselors
for their many years of service.
	President Jesse N. Smith proposed the
name of Sister Mary J. R. West to fill
the vacancy caused by Sister Smith's re-
