[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We call the attention of our readers to
the article in this number entitled
“Home” a lecture given in the Thirtieth
Ward in this city in connection with the
Mother’s Work, we consider it worthy of
being read in the Relief Society meetings
here in this city and elsewhere.
	The October Relief Society Conference
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall on
the 5th, and 9th of this month, was per-
haps the largest in numbers of any con-
ference the Society has ever held, and
also one of the most interesting in many
ways. The reception tendered by the
General Board to Stake Presidents and
General officers of the Y. L. M. I. Asso-
ciation and Primary on Thursday evening
October 5th, at the Bee Hive, was a
very enjoyable affair, and summing up
briefly the exercises, one can only give a
passing notice of the Scripture reading
by Miss Maud May Babcock, the singing
by Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley and others,
and the instrumental music; all were of a
very fine quality and lofty in sentiment
and expression. The remarks by Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith were very inspiring
to Relief Society workers and teemed
with sound advice and superior wisdom,
and indeed were so uplifting that the
sisters must have realized that he was in-
tensely interested in the minute details of
the working methods of the Society,
	The October meeting of the U. S. D.
R. was held in the EXPONENT Office on
the 16th inst, the Regent Mrs. Mary A.
H. Cannon presiding. Mrs. Phebe Y.
Beatie gave the topic of the day, “His-
tory of Dr. Joseph Warren, after which
Mrs. Beatie read the poem written by
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder entitled “The Grave
of Paul Revere.”
	Miss Catherine Wells recently returned
from Europe and who had also visited
Massachusetts scenes etc., of the revolu-
tion gave an entertaining talk on places,
battle-grounds, monuments, statues, and

[Column 2]
reminiscences pertaining to revolutionary
times; mentioning the statue of Paul
Revere, Battle of Lexington, Cambridge,
Hancock’s Old Home, Concord, The Cow
Path, and several other famous places,
etc. Emerson’s home, the grave of
Margaret Fuller, mentioned the fact of
one of her ancestors a woman, having
given a signal by lighting a fire on a hill,
when the ships were coming into Boston
harbor. She also gave some interesting
items of her trip abroad. Committee
appointed to prepare for Thanksgiving
at November meeting—Mesdames Carol
Y. Cannon, Phebe Y. Beatie and Eliza-
beth R. Wright. Benediction by the
Chaplain.
	A new book has been issued recently
from the Deseret News Publishing Co.,
Salt Lake City, entitled “Centenary
Souvenir 1805-1905, Mormon Philosophy
or The Teachings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.” The author is Elder Lycurgus
A. Wilson, who was also the author of
“The Life of David W. Patten.” The
book is new in many respects and yet old
in others; there are a number of quota-
tions from Joseph the Prophet to which
positive reference is made that the reader
may refer to. That the book is very
interesting, one may infer from its title,
as every Latter-day Saint desires to learn
all that is possible about the first Prophet,
Seer and Revelator in this dispensation,
That the author has taken great pains to
collect material is very apparent in exam-
ining the work, and that he has been
choice in the language and spiritual tone
of the composition of the book. It is a
work that requires study and profound
thought. That it is well meant as a tri-
bute to the memory of the greatest man
of the age in which we live, there is no
doubt; and that the writer has been zeal-
ous for the Gospel in undertaking to ex-
plain clearly its philosophy is demonstrat-
ed by even a hasty perusal. The one pas-
sage it called to mind in looking it over
was a quotation from Shakespeare “There
are more things in heaven and earth than
are dreampt of in our philosophy.” The
writer does not present this note as a re-
view of this rather wonderful book, but
just as a brief notice, and hopes to be-
come better acquainted with its contents,
when it has been carefully studied.


