Help Yourself to Happiness Frances C. Yost IME was, when I had moods. Sad days would come along, and I could not lay my finger on the reason. Moodily, I would get to feeling that nobody liked me, and I brooded about it. Then one day I changed my whole way of living. I found how to help myself to happiness. There were things I decided to incorporate into my life to make it full and meaningful. Could I do these extra things in addition to my already heavy load? It takes time to be a mother to four, housekeeper to nine rooms, gardener to lawn, flowers, garden, and _ strawberry patch, and to serve community and Church. Although my days seemed steeped with work, I could not strike one item from my list. "You will need more hours in a day to accomplish what you have outlined," I told myself. 'Then my better self replied: "I shall find time for these things that really count." — I pass along my guide for living in the hopes that you, too, can help yourself to happiness: 1. Do an unpleasant or neglected job. 'Time was when I would dread cleaning out a drawer, the basement, or typing a funeral service for someone. I was the world's worst procrastinator. Now, I never dwell on a task at hand, I just surprise myself by doing one. It is surprising how dreaded tasks get behind one when one a day is done. 2. Do at least one kind deed a day for someone. Few of us can be Page 376 philanthropists with money, but we can all be generous of ourselves. In my little way I started doing, like a boy scout, a good turn daily. I try to give of my substance, although I have found people are literally starved for attention, compliments, praise, and encouragement, and these things cost nothing. 3. Be a good listener. When someone speaks, I try to listen with the eyes and with the mind, and concentrate on what is being said, whether it is a child or adult speaking. If, for some reason there is an interruption, as soon as _ possible I say: "You were telling us about.. The informer will never forget your kindness, and will remember you as a good conversationalist. 4. Read something of lasting value each day. 'There is so much of good reading in the world, scriptures, history, biography, poetry, to name but a few. Choose something, even if you have to do snatch reading, for even an artesian well needs priming occasionally. 5. Do something in a musical way. Everyone can enjoy music. It was Congreve in The Mourning Bride, who said: "Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast." It is true that music lifts the soul as nothing else will. As a child I longed for a piano and lessons. Now I am grown I play each day for my own entertainment. The music that was hard to play last week is much easier this. No one is too >? HELP YOURSELF TO HAPPINESS old to begin learning music. If no instrument is at hand, the dishpan is a lovely accompaniment for your own voice, and there is also radio or phonograph music to en- \ey- 6. Do something to beautify. 'This can entail a lot of time, or be as simple as pulling a weed, picking up a gum wrapper, setting a lawn sprinkler, or making tiebacks for the kitchen curtains. 7. Do something creative, something lasting. Someone has said, a woman's work is never done. 'True, she cleans, cooks, washes, and irons, and does those same tasks over and over, but you can save time for creating a little sewing, crocheting, embroidering, or, if you are gifted, each day you may work on a poem, or a painting. Keats wrote: "A thing of beauty is a joy forever." 8. Look up and out. 'Too many of us get in the habit of going around looking at our shoes. The beauty of the universe escapes us. Arise early enough to enjoy the sunrise occasionally, or watch the sunset, because they never happen exactly the same. 'Take time to watch the changing patterns of the clouds. An artist friend has seen the same bear-shaped cloud a number of times, and she watches eagerly for this facsimile. Look as far as the eye can reach. 9. Enjoy God's greatest creation, humanity. Each of us can find that people are interesting. Someone has said if you want to grow, associate with older people while young, and younger people when you are old. But each day enjoy all 377 people. It was Lincoln who said, "... The Lord prefers commonlooking people. 'That is the reason he makes so many of them." So, enjoy the imagery of little persons and the wisdom of the aged. 10. Be a real helpmate. If you have given yourself in marriage, remember to give of yourself. Be your best for that certain someone. Freshen up for him before the day starts, and make your voice, your smile, your personality sparkle for him all day. Try to do something special to please him, like making a batch of his favorite cookies or cake. A man's heart is very close to his stomach. So be a helpmate as God intended a wife should be. 11. Review the most beautiful experience of the day. When day is finished and you find yourself between cool white sheets, pick from your day a beautiful memory. All the cares and troubles of the day may pass into oblivion as you dwell on this happy memory. It need not be a big event, little things are beautiful too. Whatever it be, let the memory of it be your last thought, as you drift off to slumber. Pleasant memories will bring pleasant expressions to a_time-etched face. Those are some of my guides to living. Some of them take very little time. 'They fit into the regular doing of most any day. When too much time is spent on one, several others will work in, in almost no time at all, to compensate. I find that one often helps another. I pass them along to you, in the hopes that from them you, too, may help yourself to happiness! A llursery Vill Be lTlaintained Edna H. Day LMOST always when a newspaper carries the announcement of a Relief Society meeting in our locality, this phrase appears: