Mother Had Seven Girls Jennie Brown Rawlins S I switched on my automatic washer the other day lI couldn't help thinking what a pity it was that Mother hadn't had a few of the modern conveniences when she was rearing her family of seven girls. 'Then, in retrospect, I went back to those old washdays, but contrarily, the picture my mind conjured up was not unpleasant. I could see the washer, with the copper bands and wooden tub, which was Mother's pride and joy after years of scrubbing clothes on the board. 'True, it had had to be turned by hand, but there was always one to turn the washer and one to turn the wringer. We used to sing as we turned, "Swinging, swinging, lulling cares to rest 'neath the old apple tree." (I used to wonder about lulling, and why she cared to rest), or read Ann of Green Gables. Occasionally, Mother, flushed and damp, would emerge from the kitchen carrying pans of steaming clothes or buckets of boiling suds. 'There were two to hang the sweetsmelling clothes on the long lines, rows of whites, fresh and snowy from being boiled in homemade soap and lye-water, and dozens of gaily colored dresses hung in graduated sizes. The next day, there was the big fruit-basket filled to overflowing with tightly rolled and dampened pieces. The stove glowed red, the irons were sizzling hot, and the house was filled with the fragrance of freshly ironed clothes, mixed Page 384 occasionally with the faint scent of scorch, for Mabel usually lingered too long'on a ruffle. We used to take turns at the irons, the older ones doing the more difficult pieces. Lois, the youngest, was permitted to iron only the handkerchiefs and pillow slips—much to her annoyance. It was a mark of honor to be allowed to iron one of Father's white shirts, the collar and cuffs coldstarched to cardboard stiffness; and a lace-trimmed flounce ironed silken smooth was a thing to stir one's pride—almost a work of art. On a brisk Saturday morning what a stir we made—what scrubbing, shining, polishing, sweeping, dusting, and airing. There were two for the upstairs, one for the parlor, one for the kitchen, and one for the screened-in back porch and storeroom. Lois stood on a chair and washed dishes, being very careful with the hand-painted china that mother indulgently permitted her to wash. We rotated, and the one who got the parlor was always considered the lucky one, for she could dust the sea shells, cut glass, and other interesting things that were in the china cupboard. When we got through, how the old house sparkled and seemed to emanate a warm and friendly hominess. 'The beds looked fresh and inviting, with their plump straw ticks and smooth snowy cases; the old stove shone like polished ebony; and the upright piano in the parlor (with Mother and Father's wedding picture set at just the right MOTHER HAD SEVEN GIRLS angle atop it) glowed in all its ornate beauty. Then Father's suit must be pressed until the creases were knife-sharp, and shoes must be shined, and more water heated for baths. In the evening, as we sat in the cozy kitchen with a fire crackling in the stove, and the warm ruddy glow of the lamps shining upon the faces of those we loved, how the old house seemed to gather us close, as if it were enfolding us tenderly in its arms! HEN Sunday — that was a day of days. The whitetop buggy eroaned with its weight of girls in white lawn or voile or embroidery, and Father's two hundred pounds and Mother's diminutive one-hundred-twenty. 'The horses trotted briskly along, the ribbons on our straw sailors fluttered in the breeze, and seemed symbolic of our lightly tethered spirits. After Sunday School the women spread out quilts and placed redchecked cloths upon them, and from well-stocked boxes unloaded roast chicken, potato salad, homecured ham, spice cake, rhubarb pies, and currant jelly. Then, after all had eaten and the tables were cleared, we older girls gathered under the big poplar tree and talked in low, animated tones, and the women sat on the quilts, tended the younger children, visited, and exchanged recipes. The horses, their tugs loosened, grazed contentedly, and the men leaned up against the buggies or squatted on the grass (being very careful of their Sunday trousers) and talked man-talk. Father kept 385 them entertained with stories of his amusing experiences, and though the other men chuckled appreciatively and Father's eyes twinkled and his mustache quivered, he never laughed at his own stories. Once in a while the women would stop to listen, and when the laughter got too loud, Mother would draw her brows close together in disapproval, but all she ever said was, "Now, John, remember it is the Sabbath." Promptly at two the afternoon meeting began, after which, filled with a deep, quiet peace, we made our way home. Father sat in the driver's seat and mused contentedly, letting the lines droop, and the horses sauntered sleepily along. Lois drowsed, her head in Mother's lap, Mabel finger-pressed a pleat over a hole in her new voile dress, looking furtively about to see if anyone else had discovered it; and Mother, her hand resting lightly on Lois' bright head, was happy knowing that here was her family about her, all safe and free from harm. The rolling fields, a deep lush green in the softened light, became to me the rolling waves of some far sea, and the gentle rocking of the whitetop became the rocking of a white-sailed ship. But always and always, instead of it taking me to faraway, glamorous shores, I was returning from those places to bring my treasures home—home, not so much a tall white house set in an apple orchard, as a circle of hands that opened to draw me in. Yes, we have many wonderful modern inventions, but let's not make the mistake of thinking, even fora moment, that happiness is one of them.