[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 705 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message — "Continue in Patience Until Ye Are Perfected" | Christine H. Robinson]
703 = ~ nen — VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — I) en SP ene 'olin I PA pantie oct al nis 7O Live By rrom the Woctrine ang "Covenants Message 51 — "Continue in Patience Until Ye Are Perfected" (D & C 67:13). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, December 1963 Objective: To teach the value of continuous patience in striving for perfection. In his incomparable Sermon on the Mount, the Savior gave to us a great yet also a most difficult commandment to obey. He said, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Matt. 5:48). Ever since that time, some 2,000 years ago, conscientious followers of the Lord have been concerned about this commandment and have wondered if it is possible for imperfect human beings to become as perfect as their Father in heaven. One answer which has been given to this ageold question is, that so long as one is doing everything possible to become perfect he is on the road to perfection and, therefore, doing all that he can to fulfill the Lord's commandment. Another answer to this question is found in this passage of the 67th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. 'The entire verse states, "Ye are not able to abide the presence of God now, neither the ministering of angels; wherefore, continue in patience until ye are perfected." The importance of exercising patience in reaching perfection is also stated by the great apostle Peter when he, in his second epistle to the saints of 704 his day, admonished them to "add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; And to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness" (2 Peter 1:5-6). Could it be, then, that if we diligently practice the qualities which incorporate the attribute of patience we may arrive at perfection? What are these qualities? Some of the more important of these are gentleness, calmness, self-control, long-suffering. Briefly let us consider each of these as they relate to patience. Gentleness is a basic characteristic of patience. Patient people are gentle, understanding, thoughtful, and kind. When we practice these traits we exhibit patience. Calmness is another characteristic which incorporates patience. A calm person is one who bears the everyday small trials and annoyances quietly and with equanimity. Experience in meeting these small problems this way builds strength to meet and handle the big problems when they come along. All of us can practice this characteristic of patience. Self-Control is one of the most important aspects of patience. One cannot control others until first he controls himself. Self-control means controlling our emotions, our angers, and our appetites. Self-control means self-restraint. Long-suffering is another attribute of patience. Even the most tranquil life must meet disappointments, discouragements, failures, and defeat. 'The ability to meet these in fine spirits, high courage and good humor is an important part of long-suffering. 'The courage to get up and try again when one has been knocked down and the ability to endure to the end are essential traits of patience. Individual patience has played an exceedingly important role in the history and development of the Church. This was particularly true of the pioneer trek westward when with all of their trials, tribulations, obstacles, and disappointments, the LESSON DEPARTMENT saints bore up patiently and made their triumphant entry into the Salt Lake Valley. During the depth of their discouragement, William R. Clayton composed the great immortal hymn: Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear; But with joy wend your way. Though hard to you this journey may appear, Grace shall be as your day. "Tis better far for us to strive. Our useless cares from us to drive; Do this, and joy your hearts will swell — All is well! All is well! Someone has wisely said, '""Patience strengthens the spirit, sweetens the temper, stifles anger, extinguishes envy, subdues pride, bridles the tongue, restrains the hand" (Horn, Youthful Quotes, page 453). "Patience is the soul of peace. Of all of the virtues it is the nearest kin to heaven; it makes men look like gods." WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 11 — Planning the Conservation of Family Resources Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, December 1963 Objective: To view extravagant and wasteful practices in buying and using equipment and to formulate guides for improvement. Topay the call is given constantly over radio, I'V, and the newsstands to buy or trade in refrigerators, ranges, washing machines, vacuum cleaners, mixers, blenders, dish washers, automobiles, and appliances of every possible description. The pressure is so great that some families 


 forget their long-time goals and mortgage their future in order to have the latest chromium-trimmed model. Others may see values and goals more important for family living. It is they who, in the long run, will be more likely to come through successfully. 'This does not mean that useful appliances are not desirable. Indeed, they are designed to reduce time and effort required for many of the routine tasks and can be a boon to better living. 'The point is that families should meet life on their own terms and realize that some goals are more important than others, and the entire budget cannot be used for one item. Careful planning and wise buying will keep a family from getting into extravagant and wasteful habits and help them to achieve some balance in living as well as in their budget. It is not wisdom to trade in any furnishings or equipment that are still in good condition each time a new model appears on the market. As the children grow, the family that learns to work and plan together may decide, as one family did, that a piano was more important than a dishwasher or a new rug. After buying the piano, they planned a rug project. They searched out some cast-off woolens, washed them, and braided a rug. Each child and the parents had a part in deciding on the colors to use, and in six months they had a finished rug. The piano was a wise investment because of all the familv activity that it motivated. Some families have fun searching in attics, in used furniture stores, or in the newspaper ads for genuinely good old pieces of furniture 706 which, with imagination, can be refinished and made into lovely furniture that may even become heirlooms. Regular care of your purchases will extend their life. "Doesn't she know that every time she lets the pot boil over, she is burning out the coil?" asked an equipment dealer who was kept busy replacing coils in a homemaker's electric range. Another dealer said, "I can't understand how anyone could be so foolish as to spend a large sum of money on a washing machine and never read the instruction book. Well, I shouldn't complain, for this is where I make most of my profit, from other people's carelessness." The family that plans for each purchase and saves for it is more likely to appreciate it and care for it than the impulsive buyer. Every appliance manufacturer includes a booklet of instructions with every model of his product. It is required that these remain with the appliance and become the property of the purchaser. One manufacturer, knowing that most women are prone to overlook or disregard instruction booklets, caused to be printed in large red letters on the front of the instruction booklet a rather facetious statement, If all else fails, read the instructions. One of the most important ways of taking care of a piece of equipment is to be thoroughly familiar with its proper operation. Recommendations for placement in the home, care of moving parts, protection of the finish, and other "do's and dont's" are always made. No one needs to suffer cracked porcelain on her stove if she has read the manufacturer's instruction to let the appliance cool before cleaning it. No washing machine motor needs to burn itself out from being overloaded if the owner has taken time to ascertain the weight limits of a recommended load. No refrigerator needs to grow old before its time if defrosting rules are followed, if, for instance, its innards have not been poked with a sharp instrument in an effort to aid defrosting. Many of the commonly used appliances represent a fairly large investment of money. 'They have been engineered to last and give service for many years. Manufacturers, as well as the companies from whom they buy the materials that go into appliances, do a great deal of research and testing. 'They know under what conditions their product performs most satisfactorily. Housewives would do well to follow their instructions. "Clean up after yourself" is a valuable lesson for each family member to learn. After using the washer, it should be cleaned thoroughly and made ready for the next use. After the range is cold, LESSON DEPARTMENT it should be put in condition for cooking the next meal. The homemaker who never cleans the burners and drip pans, who never cleans the oven, who seldom gives the refrigerator a going over, who runs the vacuum without emptying the bag, will not get the full value from her investment. Dirty equipment never operates efficiently, will soon be out of commission, and require service and replacements. One can become quite attached to pieces of equipment that are well cared for. An old iron frying pan that has been in the family for three generations still does an excellent job. It was seasoned before its first use and has been used ever since. Even the old treadle sewing machine that sewed the petticoats and dresses and coats and quilt blocks for half a century is looked upon with veneration. A cow was sold to buy that machine, and it has earned a place in the household that no new article can fill, Extravagant and wasteful practices in buying and using equipment can be eliminated through careful planning, wise buying, and regular care.