[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 691 | General Feature | Editorial: An Understanding Heart | Marianne C. Sharp]
editorial consultant, where she will continue her lifetime role of encouraging good writing and good writers. 661 EDITORIAL (\ Understanding } Fteart ¢ cay FOND dream of childhood is to be allowed to have one wish granted. Aladdin and his wonderful lamp and fairy tales of many other countries hold forth this tantalizing promise. But one learns that care must be exercised in making the wish, for the fisherman's wife was so dissatisfied and greedy that after her wishes were granted she ended up with just what she had in the beginning. Holy Writ teaches a lesson to everyone who would have one wish granted. In a dream Solomon was asked the gift he would seek from the Lord. The wish he made indicates that he had evaluated his strengths and weaknesses. He had carefuly considered his position as the new king of the numberless people making up the kingdom his father David had left him. As Solomon began to state his wish to the Lord, he first expressed his filial piety, and then pleaded with the Lord, "Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge the people, that I may discern between good and bad." 662 Ser)" C, Sharp, Fira! Counseic e W. Madsen, Second Céunselo! Potker. Secretary-Trestsurer This wish was one of selflessness, one to help Solomon assist others in truth. We read "the speech pleased the Lord," and he gave to Solomon, in addition to a wise and understanding heart, riches and honor and long life if he would walk in the path of the Lord, all of which wishes Solomon had not asked for himself. A wish cherished by a Latter-day Saint mother would also be to have an understanding heart to guide her in the rearing of her children — to see below the surface of their words and actions, to know when apparent tebelliousness needs curbing and when it manifests a hurt within the child which cries out for an extension of love and appreciation and encouragement. An understanding heart will lighten the service of a Relief Society officer who will overlook any weaknesses and failings of those whom she is called to serve, and who will appreciate their strengths and struggles instead. An understanding heart will encourage a Relief Society sister to be a better neighbor, to dismiss hurt feelings, to look for the good and never expose the weakness of another. Christ possesses the perfect understanding heart. In his ministry he condemned the evil but not the sinner, holding forth forgiveness through repentance. When Peter denied knowing the Christ, the account reads, "And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter." What a depth of love and sorrow and understanding must have been in that glance, for the account continues, "And Peter went out, and wept bitterly." How can a Latter-day Saint woman gain an understanding heart? Solomon showed forth humility, prayer, and a desire to serve. He "loved the Lord." He said, "I am but a little child: I know not how to go out or come in." 'Too often today one does not know "how to go out or come in.' An open mind, a prayerful spirit, humility, patience, and love are all to be found in an understanding heart — a precious gift of the Lord to the dedicated seeker. —M. C. S. 663 Thoughts ofa New Member Rosina Victoria Risley Wriry shortly after my family joined the Church, I was met in the hall one Sunday morning after Sunday School by Sister Mary Collins, President of the Columbus Ward Relief Society. Sister Collins introduced herself and invited me to attend the Relief Society meetings. I answered with all the pet excuses at my command: "I have small children, you know." "My husband's work takes him out of town frequently, and I have no one to leave the children with." "Your meeting day is a bad day for me anyway, since my Girl Scout troop meets that afternoon, and by evening I'm just too tired to attend a meeting." Sister Collins was undismayed by my excuses and invited me to come any evening that I was free to do so. Then, one meeting evening, the opportunity presented itself, and I attended a meeting. I came with foreboding; I left with joy. I spent a delightful evening in the company of good-hearted, friendly sisters. I was surprised to learn that the lesson for that evening dealt with the life and poetry of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Every sister present joined in the discussion which followed the lesson. Here, unbeliev- 664 ably, I had found an ideal women's organization. But my surprises were not over. As I continued to attend the meetings, the story of the Relief Society unfolded before me. I learned of the work of the visiting teachers; at testimony meeting I saw sisters rise and thank each other for the helping hands extended to them during illness, childbirth, and bereavement. I soon learned that I could strengthen my faith by the theology lesson, return to my college days with the literature lesson and the beautiful poetry that had once meant so much to me, but had since been forgotten in the rush of mothering two children. The social science lesson, the lessons on Attitudes and Manners — all seemed to be devised to help me become a better person — a better Latter-day Saint. This then is the Relief Society, named with the most appropriate of names. For if you look up the word relief in the dictionary, you will see that it means "... The lessening of, or freedom from, a pain, burden or difficulty; something that makes a pleasing change or lessens strain." All of this is the Relief Society to me. To the meetings I bring the cares and worries of the day — but I leave them at the door. Here my burdens seem lighter, as I join with my sisters in working together to aid a less fortunate one. Here I make that pleasing change from a housewife to the relaxing and stimulating environment of a theology, literature, or social science lesson. Here I lessen the strain of the modern-day life I lead. THOUGHTS OF A NEW MEMBER The Relief Society has meant a great deal to me in the past few months, but of greater importance to me are the years that lie ahead yet to unfold for me, wherein I may, with my sisters of the Relief Society, serve those who need our help, while we learn, while we listen, while we grow — aS women, as wives, as mothers, and as Latter-day Saints.