[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 647 | Special Feature | The Seventy-fifth Anniversary Conference of the International Council of Women | Marianne C. Sharp]
The Seventy-Fifth Anniversary Conference of the \ I: International ialiesaiae > i. Is seventy-five years since Emily S. Richards, Relief Society General Board member, journeyed to Washington, D. C., as a delegate of Relief Society for the Territory of Utah. She went to attend a meeting which resulted in Relief Society, at the instance of President Wilford Woodruff, becoming a charter member of the National Council of Women of the United States and the International Council of Women. In anticipation of the event, the Woman's Exponent said, "The union of women in this work will be a strong lever to lift them from comparative obscurity to a much higher and loftier plane, and will give to the various departments of woman's work and industries an impetus not before apparent" (March 15, 1888). The 17th Triennial Assembly held in Washington, D. C., June 19-30, 1963, reemphasized the original concept declared by the members in 1888 that "We... Do hereby freely band ourselves together into a federation of all races, creeds and traditions, to further the application to Council of Women LEE aaa — e ~ ~~" 4: U e 7:: * ae ee e ee oy > a " society, custom and law of the Golden Rule." Madame Lefaucheux, International President, in her opening address pointed out that the Council works for the benefit of humanity in general and, in particular, for the category of individuals who do not yet have equal rights. There were representatives of fifty-one countries having national council organizations located in Australia, New Zealand, the Western Hemisphere, Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. Seven new councils were admitted at the closing plenary session, bringing the total to fifty-eight countries. Observers from additional countries were also present. Among the many women of international reputation who took part, were Princess Prem Purachatra of Bankok, Thailand, who has started many welfare projects in her land, with special interest in the crippled and mentally retarded; Rachel Carson, author. Of The Sea Around Us, who was given a special citation by the National Council of Women of the United States "because she has shocked men and women into an awareness of their responsibility to protect future generations." This was the first citation of its kind to be given to "a woman of conscience." It was presented by Dr. Janet Travell, White House physician. Princess Ashraf Pahlavi, twin sister of the Shah of Iran, was called upon to give the first report of a national president in the first plenary session, in recognition of the inauguration of the new Iranian constitution which places Iranian women, for the first time, in a position of civil and political equality with men.

Two languages were recognized in all sessions — French and English; however, before another triennial meeting, Spanish translation may be added.

Madame Marie-Hélène Lefaucheux retired as president at the conclusion of the conference, having presided for six years, the limit of time set by the constitution. The incoming President, Mrs. Erwin Schuller of Great Britain, has recently served as a United Nations liaison officer and has a great deal of experience in international work among women.

T HE work of the International Council of Women is carried out through a board of officers headed by the president. The executive committee consists of members of the Board; presidents of national councils; and international conveners (chairmen); and vice-conveners of standing committees.

The fifteen standing committees represent interests in Arts and Let-

ters; Child and Family; Cinema; Education; Finance; Health; Home Economics; Housing; Laws and Suffrage; Migration; Peace and International Relations; Press and Publicity; Radio and Television; Social Welfare; Trades and Professions.

Five plenary sessions were held at which time needed business was transacted: hearing summarized reports from each of the national councils; reports from standing committees; voting on resolutions submitted by the standing committees; reports of (International Council of Women) representatives of other international bodies; announcements of election returns; formal affiliations of new councils; and the outgoing President's opening address and the address of the incoming President.

It is informative, interesting, and enlightening to sit in meetings where opinions, discussions, and reports are made from countries of such varying economic and social conditions. As an example, the education committee met four times. It first reported on the carrying out of its program initiated in Istanbul, Turkey, at the last Triennial Meeting. A resolution was then introduced, sponsored by Great Britain, with an amendment by Southern Rhodesia, to encourage qualified persons as a part of their professional training to accept positions in the developing countries. This was discussed and modified and finally adopted in a plenary session. Representatives of twenty-nine countries were present at the first educational committee meeting. A member of UNESCO of the United Nations reported on a survey that it had

Courtesy Washington International Press

RETIRING PRESIDENT AND INCOMING PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN

*Retiring President Mme. Marie-Hélène Lefaucheux of France (right), and incoming President Mrs. Erwin M. Schuller of Great Britain (left).*

OFFICERS OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES

*Mrs. Sophia Yarnall Jacobs, President (right), and Mrs. Louis J. Robbins, First Vice-President (left), seated at a plenary session. The pole at the right holds the standard of the United States National Council delegation.*

Courtesy Washington International Press

Courtesy Washington International Press

RELIEF SOCIETY REPRESENTATIVES AT THE MEETING OF THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN

*President Belle S. Spafford (right), and Counselor Marianne C. Sharp (left) taking notes through instant translation at a plenary session.*

made on illiteracy, to find that forty-four per cent of the world adult population is illiterate and sixty-five per cent can do no more than write their name — are not able to read and write. There is an increase of twenty to twenty-five million a year of illiterates because of the children not being taught to read and write. An adult, it was stated, learns five times faster than a child, but forgets in two weeks if not given suitable reading material.

I N THIS connection, Turkey told of the printing of a book of ABC's which pertained particularly to women's interests instead of a child's. The Indian representative suggested that other countries could profit by the mistake India made in reverting to many languages when it received its independence. They are now trying to have Eng-

lish as the number one language, since they cannot have enough teachers, books, or classrooms to teach in a multiplicity of languages. Instead of more than one thousand languages they now have three, and English is making a great comeback.

Great Britain voiced the great lack of teachers they have; and they are beginning to get over the point to their government, that money spent on education is an investment. There is a greatly increased interest in education in England. New Zealand reported that Maoris living far from schools are now being reached by correspondence courses.

Australia spoke of the great work done there with lessons on the radio. This opened a discussion on the effect of solitary learning on the personality of a child. In the plan for the next Triennium the slogan "Decade of Development" is to be

implemented in education through continuing to decrease illiteracy and to work for the eradication of discrimination in education, with particular emphasis on girls and women being given the same curricula as boys and men, and for women to seek for administrative positions and policy-making ones.

The Nigerian delegate received a laughing response when she declared that "if women want to hold office, then it is up to us to vote for women, instead of the majority voting for men."

One problem which was stressed by delegates of many countries was the need for vocational training for teenagers not able to keep up with their classes in secondary schools. If they can continue on and learn a trade, being given a diploma for it which will give them status, the delegates felt they will not join the ever increasing ranks of dropout delinquents.

I N AN effort to implement further the work of the Council during the three-year interim of meetings, "regional councils" are being set up as were provided for at the Istanbul meeting. There are European, Scandinavian, a group of the Americas, an African program, and a Middle East group. There is also projected a "twinning" grouping in which a so-called "developed" country twins with one which is not so well developed. An example of this is Australia "twinning" with Thailand.

T HE delegates in Washington had in mind the international meeting of women which was being held in

Moscow at the same time (International Democratic Women's Federation — IDWF), probably the reason why the Russians sent up a woman in space as a publicity measure.

As the days of the Washington council passed, however, the communist meeting made headlines over the disagreement of delegates, some of whom walked out. In contrast, although tense issues came before the International Council of Women, there was a pervading spirit of helpfulness and friendliness. One smiled at every other delegate and many spoke of the sisterhood of the assembled women.

At the last meeting, African delegates sent a letter stating that they expected racial discrimination on their Continent to change in three years, or they would consider withdrawal from the Council. In reply, the South African delegate quoted the words of past President Lady Aberdeen "Let us look to the things that bind us and not divide us." She then stated that their Council was not their government and plead for tolerance, reminding the African Councils that she had voted to accept the African Councils which had just been admitted to membership. The matter was then dropped in good spirit.

It was a matter of regret to many that no meeting was opened by prayer. It was noteworthy, moreover, that whenever gratitude to Deity or an expression of his goodness to his children was expressed in a talk or report, applause followed.

Of special interest to Latter-day Saints was a resolution which was sponsored by the Health Commit-tee and accepted in a plenary session that "The International Council of Women's Health Committee urges the Health Committees of the National Councils of Women to intensify their educational efforts to inform the public in general and young people in particular regarding the health hazards of cigarette smoking." The few women who smoked during the sessions were in marked contrast to other Triennials.

Delegates from all over the world expressed appreciation to the National Council of Women of the United States for all the Council had done to make possible this meeting, assisting delegates financially and providing excellent housing for the Triennial meeting. One delegate expressed her thanks for the "United States' warm and sisterly welcome, which has taught tenderness, delicacy, beauty, sensitivity, and sacrifice."

M RS. Sophia Yarnall Jacobs, President of the National Council of Women of the United States, provided outstanding, gracious leadership. She was tireless in planning and carrying out desired activities, from visits to enrich professional interests to purely enjoyable functions. The opening buffet dinner was tendered by the National Council of Women of the United States. A tour of public rooms in the White House, with the delegates being received by Mrs. Auchincloss, mother of Mrs. Kennedy, was of great interest. Visits to art galleries; urban housing developments; artist studios; hospitality in Washington residents' homes; an address by Esther Peterson, Undersecretary of

Labor, and a slide presentation of a few fields of employment for women in the United States at the Labor Department; and music entertainment were among the many scheduled affairs. A woman's touch was noted in the artistic arrangements of beautiful flowers provided for the meetings.

The closing event was a reception and buffet dinner given to the delegates by the State Department in its building. Mrs. Rusk, wife of the Secretary of State, received in the long drawing room. Three crystal chandeliers highlighted the green of the walls and rare pictures and furniture of the Colonial period. The buffet supper was served in the great dining room overlooking the Potomac River, with the Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials standing out among the sea of treetops. In the dining room six exquisite crystal chandeliers highlighted the colorful, lustrous dresses of five hundred women of many nations and shone on the gleaming marble walls with black marble pilasters. The Great Seal of the United States, in gold, adorned the far wall. Golden draperies at the high windows and a golden-hued, deep-pile carpet accented the elegance of the room and the elegance of the occasion.

One came away from this Seventyfifth Anniversary Triennial feeling the sisterhood of all women, and with an enhanced awareness of the world situation and the problems facing women world wide, many of which are common to all. There also came to one a reaffirmation of the inherent goodness of women and the God-implanted virtue of service to fellow beings.