[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 685 | General Feature | Rock Gardening | Dorthea N. Newbold]
[Rock Gardening Dorthea N. Newbold]

The colors in a rock garden may be quite vivid; they should harmonize together, unless, by chance, some of the pinks are used beside the orange colors. There are many lavenders and blues, and these colors are enhanced by using some of the softer tones of pinks and yellows nearby. Low growing shrubs, broad-leaved evergreens, or other evergreens may be used in a rock garden if a careful selection is made of dwarf and lowspreading varieties. If you live in an arid region, perhaps you will prefer using native cacti in many varieties. The rock garden can become a spot of beauty the year around, instead of an area having a great splash of beauty in the springtime. Some of the plants that will give a later blooming period are the dwarf asters, blooming in late summer and fall. Aster Alpinus will bloom continuously from May until July. Many of the Campanulas will bloom from June until October, the soft lavenders, blues, and whites of their flowers providing a spot of color at the time most needed. In the Dianthus family, that large and growing family of pinks, will be found many different varieties and, by experimenting, blooms can be had from June until well into October. Don't forget the Sedums; there are many varieties to select from and they, too, have a long-blooming period. Iris can be used in the garden, but avoid using too many. In fact, always keep in mind that to ruin a lovely rock garden is easy — just overplant one variety of flowers, then it will predominate, and the balance and proportion of the garden will be lost. Weeds have a habit of springing up overnight and should be removed as soon as spotted. 'Trim off spent flowers. This helps the appearance of the garden, and yet, at the same time, encourages the plants to put out another crop of blossoms. Keep the plants pruned to the spot which you intend them to occupy. Some varieties of rock garden plants will spread rapidly, usurping areas belonging to less rampant growers. Most alpine plants are natives of high mountainous regions, used to low temperatures and short growing seasons. Little thought need be given to wintering over thé plants. The alternate freezing and thawing may heave some of the plants out of the soil, and loosen some plants. However, it doesn't take much effort to replant them on any open, sunny winter day. The layer of stone chips placed on top of the soil helps to overcome this problem. 684 Bazaar are wondertul!