[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 720 | General Feature | Notes From the Field | Hulda Parker]
NOTES FROM THE FIELD S& ' 4: &. 'ye ace nee NNN NOE NSS eI COE REPRESS ADIGA AE Tacoma Stake (Washington) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference February 17, 1963 At the left of the picture, from top to bottom: Augusta Langdon, director; Peggy Nielson, First Counselor; Jennie Wheeler, President (in lighter skirt); Mary Abney, organist. I Seventh from the left, in the front row, wearing glasses, Geraldine Haney, Second Counselor. Sister Wheeler reports that Fawn Sharp of the General Board of Relief Society attended the conference, and gave much help to the sisters, and they learned to love her during her short stay. SS Ogquirrh Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert in Commemoration of the Anniversary of Relief Society March 16, 1963 Helen W. Jeppson, President, Oquirrh Stake Relief Society, reports: "Under the inspirational guidance of Joan Ogden, conductor, and Hilde Luckau, organist, this concert did much to stimulate our sisters. It was one of the loveliest programs given in our stake in recent years. We began rehearsing in October of 1962 and enjoyed a full five months of music. The wards and stake worked as one in this endeavor, and we all felt divine guidance throughout the entire undertaking. In addition to the varied selection of offerings presented by the Singing Mothers, the poem 'Portrait of Freedom,' by Alberta H. Christensen of the General Board of Relief Society, was read by Leola Green Merrill." ater 695 Portneuf Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Third Annual May Music Festival May 2, 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Pearl Davis, Portneuf Stake Relief Society organist; Belva Hadley, stake chorister,; Norma Armstrong, director, Garden Creek Singing Mothers; Gladys Brown, director, McCammon Ward Singing Mothers; Vera Hall, accompanist, McCammon; Wanda Wilson, accompanist, Lava Ward Singing Mothers; Sylvia Symons, director, Lava Ward; Erma Abbott, director, Swan Lake Ward Singing Mothers; Counselor Dora Christensen, Portneuf Stake Relief Society; Counselor Esther Bishoff; President Fern T. Hartvigsen; Fay Merrill, accompanist, Swan Lake Ward Singing Mothers; Faye Gambles, director, Downey Second Ward Singing Mothers; Dorothy Allsop, accompanist, Downey Second Ward; Ona Whitaker, director, Downey Ward Singing Mothers; Ruth Jones, Downey Ward accompanist; June Hall, Arimo Ward accompanist; Blanche Olson, director, Arimo Ward Singing Mothers. Sister Hartvigsen reports: "One hundred two Singing Mothers from the 133 enrolled in the stake participated in this festival. Because of circumstances that arose in two of the wards, Lava and Virginia, their groups were not represented, although some members from these wards were included in the combined chorus. The entire production was under the direction of stake music director Belva Hadley and organist Pearl Davis. Ward groups under their respective directors presented two numbers each. The groups were combined for the last two numbers. Sister Hadley welcomed all those who had come to hear the singing and paid a lovely tribute to the singers. Opening and closing prayers were offered by Stake President James A. Criddlle and President Willis L. Brim. Sister Hartvigsen gave brief remarks of appreciation. The sisters presented an inspiring sight in their white blouses and dark skirts. They sang from their hearts, and all were touched by their devotion. Many hours" of practice went into preparation for the festival." 697 (al iy. — LESSON DEPARTMENT ey a a eS = THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 51 — The Kingdom of God Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 65) For First Meeting, December 1963 Objective: To learn that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God that was prophesied will stand forever. INTRODUCTION Tue Prophet Joseph Smith records in his history that on the 12th of September 1831, he moved his family to the township of Hiram, Ohio, to live at the home of John Johnson, a member of the Church. Hiram was about thirty miles in a southeasterly direction from Kirtland. From the time of his arrival until the forepart of October, the Prophet made preparations to "recommence the translation [revision] of the Bible' (DHC I:215). He wrote that Section 65 of The Doctrine and Covenants is a prayer received through revelation. This is the first time in this book of scripture that a revelation is so designated. When the Kirtland Temple was ready for dedication, the Lord gave the dedicatory prayer by revelation. (Section 109.) 698 "PREPARE YE THE WAY" An authoritative source has pointed out that the expression "Hearken, and lo, a voice as of one sent down from on high" in verse 1 suggests that like John on Patmos (Rev. 1:10-12) Joseph Smith heard a voice described as:... A voice as of one sent down from on high, who is mighty and powerful, whose going forth is unto the ends of the earth, yea, whose voice is unto men — Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight (D & C 65:1). This same source refers to "Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight," also found in Isaiah 40:3, as having meaning in Oriental imagery. Anciently, an Eastern ruler would send his messenger to announce his coming which would give notice to his loyal subjects that crooked paths were to be made straight and the roads to be made level. The comparison with this revelation seems clear. The Lord's messengers have been sent in this dispensation to make preparations for his second coming. Loyal subjects of his kingdom will make necessary preparations to receive their king. "When we comply with His commandments and prepare for His advent, our prayers are acceptable to Him" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 398). "THE KEYS OF THE KINGDOM" The Lord reminded Joseph Smith that the keys of the kingdom of God had been given to man upon the earth. (D & C 65:2.) Apostles of the meridian dispensation foresaw the time when the gospel would be restored to the earth following a long period of apostasy from the true principles and ordinances of the gospel, as given by the Savior and continued by his apostles. Peter describes that time as a period of "tefreshing" from "the presence of the Lord," which would result because of a "restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began" (Acts 3:19-21). This prophecy is significant because it reminds one of the numerous words of the prophets concerning our times — the coming forth of The Book of Mormon (Isa. 29; Ezek. 37:15-28); the gathering of Israel. (Jer. 3:14-18; 31:31-33; Isa. 11:10- 12); the building of a house of the Lord in the mountains (Isa. 2:2-3); the building of a-temple to which the Lord would come suddenly (Mal. 3:1); and other prophecies that have been fulfilled or are in the LESSON DEPARTMENT course of fulfillment. Paul the apostle foresaw the time when all things would be gathered together in one in the last dispensation — the fulness of times. (Eph. 1:9, 10.) The gospel would be restored by an angel to usher in that dispensation as a part of the restoration of what the prophets saw. (Rev. 14:6, 7.) The keys of the kingdom of God were a necessary part of the restoration of all things. Without the authority of the Priesthood to administer the laws and ordinances of the gospel, there would be no validity to the plan of salvation. (John 15:16; Heb. 5:4.) The necessary keys (power to direct the work of the kingdom) had been given to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery by John the Baptist (D & C Section 13; Mal. 3:1-3), and by Peter, James, and John. (D-& C 27:12- 13.) In the last scripture, notice the reference to the committing of the keys of the dispensation in which the Lord would gather together in one all things as prophesied. Later on in the dispensation still additional authority was to be restored that specific activities of the dispensation might be carried out. Elijah was to come, as foreknown. (Mal. 4:5, 6, D & C 2; 110:13-16.) Moses and Elias were also to be sent that functions necessary for our times might be accomplished. (Ibid., 110:11-12.) Still others would bring their authorities, nghts, powers, and glories to bless those who want the riches of eternity. (Ibid., 128:21.) THE PROPHESIED KINGDOM One of the remarkable prophesies of the Old 'Testament relative to the 


 setting up of the kingdom of God in the last days is found in Daniel, chapter 2. The expression in verse 45, "the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands" is also found in verse 2 of Section 65, which reads as follows: The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth. An interesting statement from the Prophet's remarks concerning this prophecy in the book of Daniel was made not long before he was martyred:... The ancient prophets declared that in the last days the God of heaven should set up a kingdom which should never be destroyed, nor left to other people; and the very time that was calculated on, this people were struggling to bring it out. I calculate to be one of the instruments of setting up the kingdom of Daniel by the word of the Lord, and I intend to lay a foundation that will revolutionize the whole world. I once offered my life to the Missouri mob as a sacrifice for my people, and here I am. It will not be by sword or gun that this kingdom will roll on: the power of truth is such that all nations will be under the necessity of obeying the Gospel.. (DHC VI: 364-365). THE GOSPEL, A LEAVEN Asael Smith, the grandfather of Joseph Smith, was inspired to say: 'ft has been borne in upon my soul that one of my descendants will promulgate a work to revolutionize the world of religious faith" (Smrru, Josepp Frevpinc: Essentials in Church History, page 29). 'The influence of the restoration of the 700 gospel and its promulgation throughout the world has been very great, and the future will see a greater influence upon the people of the world. Some of our leaders have pointed out the leavening effect of the true gospel in the world. Men's ideas of religious concepts have undergone some changes since the spring of 1820. There may be, and probably are, other reasons for changes in the minds of men on religious principles, but if their ideas become more congenial to the fulness of the gospel then contention on _ these points will lessen. Before the Church was organized, and in reference to the bringing forth of The Book of Mormon, the Lord revealed that it was his purpose to decrease contention by this means. (D & C 10:61-63.) Certainly, the leavening influence of the restored gospel was not felt immediately. It takes a long time for change to come. The last sentence of the Prophet's remark quoted above suggests that the day will come when the power of truth will bring the nations to obey the gospel. 'That day, however, will not be in the time of wickedness (Ibid., 1:11-16), but nonetheless, it ls prophesied that the time will come, and it will probably be in the millennium, when "every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world" (Ibid., 1:19-20). DANIEL'S PROPHECY Many of our leaders have referred to Daniel, chapter 2, especially verse 44, which sets forth the application of King Nebuchadnezzar's dream, as interpreted by Daniel the Hebrew prophet, but it is probably Brother B. H. Roberts in the Introduction to Volume I of the History of the Church (Documentary History) by Joseph Smith, who has given us the fullest account. Briefly, the dream of the king as interpreted by Daniel (Dan. 2:37 45) indicated that Nebuchadnezzar's kingdom, Babylonia, was the first world power (the 6th and sth centuries B. C.) mentioned, to be replaced by the Medo-Persian empire (from 538 B. C. To about 330 B. C.), followed by the Greco-Macedonian kingdom (from about 330 B. C. To 160 B. C.), with the Roman empire immediately following and ending in the fifth century A. D. (If you read Brother Roberts' explanation, keep in mind that he quotes a Protestant writer who believed that the kingdom of God mentioned in verse 44 was set up in the days of Christ. Brother Roberts shows very clearly that such an interpretation is incorrect, one reason being that the kingdom of God would be established in the days of the fifth phase of the dream, at the time of the breaking up of the Roman empire into many small nations or kingdoms, and not during the Roman period when Jesus ministered. (DHC I: XXXIV-XL.) Each one of the foregoing kingdoms was symbolized by a part of the great image; the golden head — Babylonia; the silver breast and arms — Medes and Persians; the brazen belly and thighs — the Greco-Macedonian kingdom; the legs of iron — Roman empire; and the feet of iron and clay which eventually were broken to be replaced by the kingdom of God. LESSON DEPARTMENT Elder Roberts points out that the kingdom ot God would be a material kingdom. As other kingdoms on earth and not a spiritual kingdom of Christ only, and that it would be organized in the last days. THE FULFILLMENT The prophesied kingdom of God represented as a stone cut out of the mountain without hands was formally organized on April 6, 1830, and is known as The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That Church has as its head the Savior with the President of the Church as his representative to guide and direct its destiny by revelation. As the Church of Jesus Christ in his day was composed of officers and organizations, so, by the restoration of the gospel and the Church as prophesied, the Church today performs its many purposes through a tangible organization. (Lessons 13 and 14, Relief Society Magazine, November and December 1958, respectively. ) A PURPOSE OF THE CHURCH In the beginning of this dispensation, the Lord revealed that due to the apostate condition of the world he had established his organization upon the earth that man might have the means of salvation. This restoration was to prepare those who would accept his Church for the glorious coming of the Savior. The world would also, by the preaching of the gospel, have an opportunity to know of the Lord's intentions for man if he did not repent. (D & C 1). Section 65 carries this same message of preparation for the second coming of 


 Christ. (Read verses 3 and 4.) It is worthy of note that this and other admonitions emphasize the charge given to the kingdom of God to make known its principles and ordinances through missionary work. The first commission given to the Church was to preach the gospel. In the days of renewed emphasis upon "every member a missionary," it is well to remind ourselves of this primary responsibility of the citizens of the kingdom. THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN Call upon the Lord, that his kingdom may go forth upon the earth,

that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of Man shall come down in heaven, clothed in the brightness of his glory, to meet the kingdom of God which is set up on the earth (D & C 65:5). The Lord commanded his disciples to pray for the coming of that kingdom. (Matt. 6:9-13.) This counsel reminds one that by prayer the disciple is kept in remembrance of the need to further the purposes of the kingdom, as indicated above. The kingdom of God set up on the earth will be prepared to meet the Savior as it discharges its purposes for the salvation of the living and the dead. The faithful citizens of his kingdom will perform the functions of true followers of the Master by demonstrating their love in keeping the commandments of their King. (John 14:15.) Wherefore, may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come, that thou, O God, mayest be glorified in heaven so on earth, that thine enemies may be subdued; for thine is the honor, power and glory, forever and ever. Amen (D & C 65:6). 702 Elder James E. Talmage wrote that the expressions "kingdom of God" and "kingdom of heaven" are frequently used interchangeably. In the latter-day scriptures, particularly the one above, there is a distinctive meaning. "The kingdom of God is the Church of Christ; the kingdom of heaven is that system of government and administration which is operative in heaven, and which we pray may some day prevail on earth. The kingdom of heaven will be established when the King. Shall come, as come He shall, in power and might and glory, to take, dominion in and over and throughout the earth. The kingdom of heaven shall come, and then shall justice tule in the earth" (TALMAcE, James E.: Conference Report, April 1917, pp. 65-66; see also Articles of Faith, pp. 365-368). IT SHALL STAND FOREVER Probably the most quoted part of Daniel's prophecy is verse 44: And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever. The Prophet Joseph Smith said of the Lord's work: No unhallowed hand can stop the work of God from progressing. Persecution may tage, mobs may combine, armies may assemble, calumny may defame; but the truth of God will go forth boldly, nobly and independently, until it has penetrated every continent and visited every clime, swept over the country and sounded in every ear till the purposes of God shall be accomplished and the great Jehovah shall say the work is done (Scrapbook of Mormon Literature 2:18-19). We As early as 1831 when Wycom Clark and others broke away from the Church and organized their own church, Satan attacked God's work by influencing men to set up counter movements to the kingdom of God. As that attempt failed so will all other efforts to overthrow the kingdom of God, even though some of the offshoots may persist for a time. Individual apostasies will not deter the kingdom. President Charles W. Penrose once said: If you or I, or any of us, should leave the Church, the Church would still go on. Do not let us think, any of us, that the Church owes us anything. We owe a great deal to the Church, for light and truth and every principle and ordinance and authority and organization of the priesthood and of the helps and gifts that are in the Church for our comfort, our blessing, our union, and the continuation of power in the Church. They have come to us from God through the appointed authorities of the Church, and they will abide, no matter what we may do (Conference Report, April 1913, page 64). CONCLUSION In the revelations of God to Joseph Smith there is clear indication LESSON DEPARTMENT that the Church organized in 1830 is the kingdom of God that will continue to remain God's Church, for as Daniel said, it will never be destroyed, or given to another people, but it will stand forever. 'The present increase in membership with the material gains of the Church in its building program, and the vitality of the convincing power of God to make people better, are indications of the progress of this work to fulfill its divine destiny. The keys of the kingdom are on the earth to bless and benefit all who want to receive the benefits of its powers for happiness here and eternal life in the world to come. Questions for Discussion 1. In what ways may the Latter-day Saint "prepare the way of the Lord'? 2. Discuss Bible prophecies concerning the last dispensation. 3. What is meant by the idea that the gospel is a leaven? 4. How does missionary work fit into a purpose of preparing for the second coming of Christ? 5. Distinguish between the expressions "kingdom of God" and "kingdom of heaven," as used in modern revelation.