[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 642 | General Feature | From Near and Far]
[From Near and Far]

From Near and Far

If you want to take a very enjoyable trip, read the article in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine written by Claire Noall, "A Road by the Sea." To make the trip more interesting were those lovely pictures, so vivid and colorful. Surely Claire has some more articles which are worthwhile, and more pictures she can tell us about.
—Olive Sharp
Salt Lake City, Utah

In the unusually splendid Relief Society Magazine for June, I especially appreciate the article on Norway, with its beautiful color pictures, the result of careful planning and artistic study, by Claire Noall. I hope we have more of such articles by such a gifted writer.
—Hortense Y. Hammond
Salt Lake City, Utah

As a result of The Relief Society Magazine Birthday Congratulations column published in May to Sarah Benjamin, age ninety-one, she received a letter on her birthday from the man who baptized her in Providence, Rhode Island, sixty-six years ago - in 1897. As a young woman, she had traveled all alone from her home in England to this country. One of the young missionaries who taught her the gospel was Willis K. Johnson now living in Springville, Utah, with his wife Eva. It has been a joyous reunion for these lovely people after all these many years — thanks to the Magazine.
—Mabel B. Liddell
San Francisco, California

I have been taking the Magazine for a long time and have enjoyed every issue. The size is designed for convenience and beauty, and the lessons and many articles and features have been improved for easier reading and understanding and better teaching and class rapport, but the gospel truths, genuine love and interest, and faith building are the same now as when I was first introduced to the Magazine.
—Esther C. Riggs
Payson, Arizona

How many times I have received inspiration from the magnificent Relief Society Magazine. As a young mother, I have found the May issue to be especially uplifting. Such worthwhile hints for good homemaking as in Elna P. Haymond's story about her mother give remarkable insight into our duties as mothers. And what mother could help but be touched and grateful for her children after reading "Early Years Are a Mother's Glory," by Leora Zetzer Wintch, and "Too Busy" by Annella Barnes? Another outstanding article in this issue is Leola Seely Anderson's "As the Heart Grows."
—Sue Jane Alvord
Glendale, California

We would all from the Coventry Ward like to tell you how much we enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. We like the new look very much — it makes the Magazine more interesting. Also, we like the photographs of our sisters from other lands.
—Eveline Austin
Coventry, England

After reading and enjoying the Magazine for the past several years, I would like to thank you for the most complete reading material I have ever read. It teaches and guides; it inspires, comforts, and reprimands. It is all things pleasurable in reading and learning. I also thank my mother-in-law who first introduced me to Relief Society and the Magazine, and has provided me with this most precious gift for eight years.
—Alice Stoddard
Auburn, Washington

We are so very proud of each issue of the Magazine, and feel that it is one of our great tools in the missionary program here in Hawaii.
—Louise F. Brooks
Former President
Hawaii Mission
Relief Society
Honolulu, Hawaii

642
