[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 678 | General Feature | Birthday Congratulations Features for the Home | ]
The Relief Society Magazine SEPTEMBER 1963 VOLUME 50 NUMBER 9 Editor: Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor: Vesta P. Crawford General Manager: Belle S. Spafford Church assembled in a General Conference, President McKay holds an extremely taxing and responsible office. Office within the Church is not part of the Priesthood, but it is from the Priesthood that the office derives its authority and power. Office is the service or duty to be performed; the line of work to be followed. As we consider the rapid growth and expansion of the Church today, the duties incident to the office of President are overwhelming, and the responsibilities resting upon the President are beyond comprehension to most of us. One almost wonders how mortal man can meet the endless requirements. Yet, President McKay meets the duties of each day with poise, graciousness, wisdom, and diligence, coming to his office in the very early hours of the morning and often remaining past the ordinary working day. The General Presidency of Relief Society has been favored in having frequent opportunity to see President McKay impressively exercise the varied functions of his calling — Prophet, Seer, Revelator, and President of the Church — in behalf of Relief Society and the sisters who comprise its membership. We have stood awed by his insight and understanding, his counsel and direction; 


 and we have rejoiced in the blessings that have come to us through him. We know of a surety that he holds the keys to the kingdom of God on earth. As we contemplate the greatness of his position as Prophet, Seer, Revelator, and President of the Church, we are led to contemplate how one comes by such an exalted position. It is not by chance, nor by the whims or machinations of men. The Lord has told us that he rules in the heavens and in the earth beneath in all wisdom and prudence. He showed unto Abraham... The intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. Certainly President David O. McKay was one of these noble and great spirits chosen before the world was for his great earthly calling. But this is not enough, for the actions of his earth life have had to enter into his present greatness and exalted calling. He has had to prove himself here, continuing in diligence and righteousness from day to day. Born a choice spirit of goodly parents, he has devoted his life to the service of his fellow men, and the work of the Master. He has been tireless in his efforts to build the kingdom of God on earth. He has traveled far and wide, carrying the 646 gospel message by precept and example. He has sat in the highest councils of the Church, being ordained an apostle by President Joseph F. Smith on April 9, 1906. He was called to office in the First Presidency as Second Counselor to President Heber J. Grant in October 1934. He served as President of the Council of the Twelve from October 1950 until April 1951. He has magnified every calling that has come to him. President McKay is by nature tender, kind, considerate, and gracious, at the same time he is firm and unyielding in upholding right. So penetrating is he in his judgments and so fair that one does not question, but accepts. So understanding and wise is his counsel, given always with sensitivity to the feelings and position of another, that one is honored to receive it and joys in following it. He has elevated the position of womankind. He has ennobled the designation "mother" and "wife," and has engreatened the role of homemaker. He has recognized woman's compassionate nature and honored her in her service. His great heart is continually evidenced in his thoughtful considerations of the sisters of the Church. At this birthday season for President McKay, we express gratitude for his life and labors and also for Sister McKay, his beloved and devoted companion and _helpmeet through the years. May our expressions of love, esteem, and gratitude for our President be daily evidenced by our obedience to the commandments of the Lord, whose leading representative he is upon the earth. The Seventy-Fifth Anniversary Conference of the \ I: International ialiesaiae > i. Is seventy-five years since Emily S. Richards, Relief Society General Board member, journeyed to Washington, D. C., as a delegate of Relief Society for the Territory of Utah. She went to attend a meeting which resulted in Relief Society, at the instance of President Wilford Woodruff, becoming a charter member of the National Council of Women of the United States and the International Council of Women. In anticipation of the event, the Woman's Exponent said, "The union of women in this work will be a strong lever to lift them from comparative obscurity to a much higher and loftier plane, and will give to the various departments of woman's work and industries an impetus not before apparent" (March 15, 1888). The 17th Triennial Assembly held in Washington, D. C., June 19-30, 1963, reemphasized the original concept declared by the members in 1888 that "We... Do hereby freely band ourselves together into a federation of all races, creeds and traditions, to further the application to Council of Women LEE aaa — e ~ ~~" 4: U e 7:: * ae ee e ee oy > a " society, custom and law of the Golden Rule." Madame Lefaucheux, International President, in her opening address pointed out that the Council works for the benefit of humanity in general and, in particular, for the category of individuals who do not yet have equal rights. There were representatives of fifty-one countries having national council organizations located in Australia, New Zealand, the Western Hemisphere, Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. Seven new councils were admitted at the closing plenary session, bringing the total to fifty-eight countries. Observers from additional countries were also present. Among the many women of international reputation who took part, were Princess Prem Purachatra of Bankok, Thailand, who has started many welfare projects in her land, with special interest in the crippled and mentally retarded; Rachel Carson, author. Of The Sea Around Us, who was given a special citation by the National Council of
