[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 665 | Poem | The Stars Are There | Grace Barker Wilson]
The Stars Are There Grace Barker Wilson Across the desert sands will break the dawn, The silver moon fade out before the day; But beauty in my heart will linger on Of shining lights across the far sky way. The Pleiades and Milky Way hang tall, Polaris never leaves his ancient post; Though sun shines now, I know when shadows fall The stars are there when I shall need them most. I Wait and Wonder Caroline Eyring Miner You were so eager to be out the door — The minutes dragged for you on leaden feet. My last born, others have been six before, But with a difference, for you, my sweet, Are now my last. Alone I'll wait for you. But you will linger longer as the days Go by; the ties will stretch as shadows do As thin as mist, still there in evening's haze. Yet I was born for this to train you so To walk with help, and then to walk alone, Straight as a flint-tipped arrow free to go. And yet I hold to you in thoughts, my own. As Mary waited for her Son's return, I wait and wonder with my own concern. 665 Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, and his mother Tutu, and the children Philip, Pixie, Bo, and Benjy, who live on a pincapple plantation on the island of Maui, go to Honolulu to meet the eldest daughter Emma Lu, who has graduated as a nurse, and is returning home. Emma Lu tells her mother that she has two surprises. Margaret, Luana's sister-inlaw, a childless woman who has achieved success as an artist, has arrived with Emma Lu for a visit at the pineapple plantation. The other surprise is that Emma Lu has become engaged to a Sherman Grant in San Francisco. Ml "Bas is Waikiki," Ben explained to Margaret, as they all walked toward the dazzling white beach. They had rented a room at the Princess 666 Kaiulani Hotel so they would have a place to change into their bathing suits. Philip led the way, his eyes eager and excited. "Look, Aunt Margaret," he exclaimed, waving his arms. "This beach goes from the War Memorial in the lee of Diamond Head to the Yacht Club Harbor.