[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 642 | Special Feature | Birthday Greetings to President David O. McKay | Belle S. Spafford]
[Birthday Greetings to President David O. McKay Belle S. Spafford]

Birthday Greetings to

President David O. McKay

[ILLUSTRATION: Orange/red temple or cathedral building]

President Belle S. Spafford

Relief Society members join with other members of the Church in extending to President David O. McKay best wishes for a happy ninetieth birthday on Sunday, September 8, 1963. May the love and esteem felt for him by members of the Church, as well as by countless nonmember friends, help to gladden the day for him as he meets with his loved ones in the intimate family circle. May his glorious past accomplishments, coupled with his magnificent present leadership, serve as an encouraging indication to him of future growth and expansion of the Church under his inspired guidance.

Nearly two million members of the Church residing in many parts of the world revere President McKay as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, and God's chosen servant to preside at this time as President of his Church on the earth. To President McKay have been given all the keys of authority of the Priesthood and of the Church upon earth. By the word of the Lord he is President of the High Priesthood of the Church and, as such, he presides over the Priesthood, and every office in the Church is under his direction while he himself is directed of God.

As the Prophet, he is the one chosen and inspired by God to speak in his name regarding future events and happenings pertaining to the Church and mankind. As the Seer, he is the one who, with divinely inspired discernment and insight, foresees that which is necessary for the onward movement of the Church and the righteous progress of its people. As the Revelator, he is the only one on earth at this time authorized to receive revelation for the Church. He is the living oracle of God to whom the Lord reveals whatever is necessary for the conduct of the Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith declared this to be "the order of the Church" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 111).

In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 107, verses 91-93 we read:

And again, the duty of the President of the office of the High Priesthood is to preside over the whole church, and to be like unto Moses—

Behold, here is wisdom; yea, to be a seer, a revelator, a translator, and a prophet, having all the gifts of God which he bestows upon the head of the church.

As the chosen one of the Lord for this day to be head of the Church, serving in the office of President, accepted and upheld as such by vote of the Priesthood and laity of the

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Church assembled in a General Conference, President McKay holds an extremely taxing and responsible office. Office within the Church is not part of the Priesthood, but it is from the Priesthood that the office derives its authority and power. Office is service or duty to be performed; the line of work to be followed.

As we consider the rapid growth and expansion of the Church today, the duties incident to the office of President are overwhelming, and the responsibilities resting upon the President are beyond comprehension to most of us. One almost wonders how mortal man can meet the end-

less requirements. Yet, President McKay meets the duties of each day with poise, graciousness, wisdom, and diligence, coming to his office in the very early hours of the morning and often remaining past the ordinary working day.

The General Presidency of Relief Society has been favored in having frequent opportunity to see President McKay impressively exercise the varied functions of his calling — Prophet, Seer, Revelator, and President of the Church — in behalf of Relief Society and the sisters who comprise its membership. We have stood awed by his insight and understanding, his counsel and direction;
