[Vol50 | September 1963 | Page 681 | General Feature | The Eating Club Louise | S. Davis]
[The Eating Club Louise S. Davis]

A rock garden, patterned from nature's own way, appears deceptively simple. But, if we will take the time to observe a natural rock garden carefully, then we can avoid many mistakes. First, the site for the garden is very important. And if you possess a natural stony site on your home grounds — then you are fortunate. If that area slopes to the west, east, or north, you are twice blessed. A southern slope presents more problems, due to the rapid drying during the summer months and too much sun during the winter months. Rocks, large ones, are used to create the garden. Selection of rocks should be made from those that are native to your neighborhood. To import rocks can be very costly. Sometimes the gardener wants to stand those expensive rocks on end — in a manner that one never sees in a natural rock garden. Rocks so placed will resemble a pile of rubble left over from the building process. Instead of creating a rock garden, the garden becomes an assemblage of rocks. The gardener becomes unhappy and is defeated before the project is even well launched. Avoid placing the rocks in a regular pattern. If the site chosen is flat, then the soil will have to be dug out to a depth of from one to three feet, or even deeper, depending somewhat on the size of rocks used. Rocks should be large, some should be so large that it will be necessary to use crowbars to shift them to the desired location. Rocks should be placed so that they slope inward and downward. The slanted rocks will guide water to the roots of the plants. If there is any doubt about drainage, then a good layer of coarse gravel should be spread out before the rocks are shifted into position. Spread a layer of sand over the gravel, then shift rocks into the desired locations. Correct placement includes the strata or grain of the rocks sloping at the same pitch. (Here, again, we are copying nature's rock gardens.) Bury the rocks two-thirds to three-fourths in the soil. Use medium-sized rocks as well as the large ones, enabling the gardener to create pockets for soil. After the rocks have been moved into position, a layer of soil, at least six inches deep, should be spread out over the area. Use a shovel handle to ram the soil into the pockets between the rocks. When all the soil has been spread to your satisfaction, then a layer of stone chips should be scattered over the surface. The chips will slow down evaporation of water and will help keep foliage and blossoms off the ground. The soil used in rock gardening is usually made up of three parts, consisting of one part good top soil, one part vegetable fiber, such as leaf mold or compost, and one part rather coarse sand. If you garden in an area where the soil is quite acid, then you will need to add limestone to the mixture. Avoid using fertilizers other than leaf mold or compost or other rotted vegetable matter. 


 When the hard work of making the rock garden has been finished, the pleasures of plant selection and then the planting can begin. Selection of plants is a personal matter, but one finds an amazing wealth of alpine plants from which to select. Planning the plantings is interesting and fascinating. Here we use the principles of good composition: balance, harmony, and unity.