[Vol50 | September 1963 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work Meeting — Planning the Conservation of Family Resources Virginia F. Cutler]
February  ii,  1963);  Melba  Parkinson,  Work  Director  Counselor;  Alice  Christensen, 
Secretary-Treasurer . 
Back  row,  standing,  left  to  right:  Renee  Olson,  theology  class  leader;  Donna 
Leonardson,  visiting  teacher  message  leader;  Sandra  Park,  former  chorister;  Kathryn 
Price,  social  science  class  leader;  Lucy  Bingham,  Magazine  representative;  Faye  Andrus, 
former  organist;  Betty  Lou  Rhodes,  literature  class  leader;  LaRue  Bell,  work  meeting 
leader. 
Shortly  before  her  death.  Sister  Clayton  submitted  a  report  of  the  lovely  opening 
social  held  in  the  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  excerpts  from  which  follow:  "We  chose 
for  our  theme  'Love  Bridges  the  Way.'  We  chose  different  facets  of  love  for  the 
theme  of  each  table  which  was  presided  over  by  one  of  our  board  members.  Some 
of  these  were  'Love  of  Service';  'Love  of  Home';  'Love  of  Country';  'Love  of  God'; 
and  'Love  of  Music'  Across  the  stage  we  had  a  large  white  bridge  which  depicted 
our  main  theme.  One  of  our  ward  presidents  read  a  script  written  by  Opal  Clayton, 
which  introduced  each  new  board  member  and  gave  a  preview  of  all  the  lessons  for 
the  coming  year.  Our  former  board  members  were  special  guests,  and  as  each  new 
member  was  introduced,  the  past  member  walked  across  the  bridge  and  in  a  handclasp 
of  friendship  led  the  new  member  across  the  bridge,  and  the  new  member  presented 
the  former  member  with  a  gift  of  appreciation  for  past  service.  Then  the  new  board 
members  sang  a  double  sextette,  written  by  President  Opal  Clayton  and  organist  Faye 
Andrus. 
"The  luncheon  was  lovely  (all  recipes  from  The  Relief  Society  Magazine),  and  the 
table  decorations  were  interesting,  as  well  as  beautiful." 
696

Portneuf  Stake   (Idaho)   Singing  Mothers  Present  Third  Annual  May  Music  Festival 
May  2,   1963 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Pearl  Davis,  Portneuf  Stake  Relief  Society 
organist;  Belva  Hadley,  stake  chorister;  Norma  Armstrong,  director,  Garden  Creek 
Singing  Mothers;  Gladys  Brown,  director,  McCammon  Ward  Singing  Mothers;  Vera 
Hall,  accompanist,  McCammon;  Wanda  Wilson,  accompanist.  Lava  Ward  Singing 
Mothers;  Sylvia  Symons,  director,  Lava  Ward;  Erma  Abbott,  director,  Swan  Lake  Ward 
Singing  Mothers;  Counselor  Dora  Christensen,  Portneuf  Stake  Relief  Society;  Counselor 
Esther  Bishoff;  President  Fern  T.  Hartvigsen;  Fay  Merrill,  accompanist.  Swan  Lake 
Ward  Singing  Mothers;  Faye  Gambles,  director,  Downey  Second  Ward  Singing  Mothers; 
Dorothy  Allsop,  accompanist,  Downey  Second  Ward;  Ona  Whitaker,  director,  Downey 
Ward  Singing  Mothers;  Ruth  Jones,  Downey  Ward  accompanist;  June  Hall,  Arimo 
Ward  accompanist;  Blanche  Olson,  director,  Arimo  Ward  Singing  Mothers. 
Sister  Hartvigsen  reports:  "One  hundred  two  Singing  Mothers  from  the  133 
enrolled  in  the  stake  participated  in  this  festival.  Because  of  circumstances  that  arose 
in  two  of  the  wards.  Lava  and  Virginia,  their  groups  were  not  represented,  although 
some  members  from  these  wards  were  included  in  the  combined  chorus.  The  entire 
production  was  under  the  direction  of  stake  music  director  Belva  Hadley  and  organist 
Pearl  Davis.  Ward  groups  under  their  respective  directors  presented  two  numbers  each. 
The  groups  were  combined  for  the  last  two  numbers.  Sister  Hadley  welcomed  all 
those  who  had  come  to  hear  the  singing  and  paid  a  lovely  tribute  to  the  singers. 
Opening  and  closing  prayers  were  offered  by  Stake  President  James  A.  Criddlle  and 
President  Willis  L.  Brim.  Sister  Hartvigsen  gave  brief  remarks  of  appreciation.  The 
sisters  presented  an  inspiring  sight  in  their  white  blouses  and  dark  skirts.  They  sang 
from  their  hearts,  and  all  were  touched  by  their  devotion.  Many  hours"  of  practice 
went  into  preparation  for  the  festival." 
697

to  LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
THEOLCX5Y     •     The  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Lesson   51  —The  Kingdom  of  God 
Elder  Roy  W.  Doxey 
(Text:  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  65) 
For  First  Meeting,  December  1963 
Objective:    To   learn   that   The   Church  of   Jesus   Christ   of   Latter-day   Saints   is    the 
kingdom  of  God  that  was  prophesied  will  stand  forever. 
INTRODUCTION 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  records 
in  his  history  that  on  the  12th  of 
September  1831,  he  moved  his  fam- 
ily to  the  township  of  Hiram, 
Ohio,  to  hve  at  the  home  of  John 
Johnson,  a  member  of  the  Church. 
Hiram  was  about  thirty  miles  in  a 
southeasterly  direction  from  Kirt- 
land.  From  the  time  of  his  arrival 
until  the  forepart  of  October,  the 
Prophet  made  preparations  to  ''re- 
commence the  translation  [revision] 
of  the  Bible"  {DHC  1:215).  He 
wrote  that  Section  65  of  The  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  is  a  prayer  re- 
ceived through  revelation.  This  is 
the  first  time  in  this  book  of  scrip- 
ture that  a  revelation  is  so  desig- 
nated. When  the  Kirtland  Temple 
was  ready  for  dedication,  the  Lord 
gave  the  dedicatory  prayer  by  reve- 
lation.    (Section  109.) 
"PREPARE    YE    THE    WAY" 
An  authoritative  source  has  point- 
ed out  that  the  expression  ''Hearken, 
and  lo,  a  voice  as  of  one  sent  down 
from  on  high"  in  verse  1  suggests 
that  like  John  on  Patmos  (Rev. 
1:10-12)  Joseph  Smith  heard  a  voice 
described  as: 
...  a  voice  as  of  one  sent  down  from 
on  high,  who  is  mighty  and  powerful, 
whose  going  forth  is  unto  the  ends  of 
the  earth,  yea,  whose  voice  is  unto  men  — 
Prepare  ye  the  way  of  the  Lord,  make 
his  paths  straight  (D  &  C  65:1). 
This  same  source  refers  to  'Tre- 
pare  ye  the  way  of  the  Lord,  make 
his  paths  straight,"  also  found  in 
Isaiah  40:3,  as  having  meaning  in 
Oriental  imagery.  Anciently,  an 
Eastern  ruler  would  send  his  mes- 
senger to  announce  his  coming 
which  would  give  notice  to  his  loyal 
subjects  that  crooked  paths  were  to 
698

LESSON    DEPARTMENT 
be  made  straight  and  the  roads  to  course  of  fulfillment, 
be  made  level.  The  comparison  with  Paul  the  apostle  foresaw  the  time 
this  revelation  seems  clear.  The  when  all  things  would  be  gathered 
Lord's  messengers  have  been  sent  in  together  in  one  in  the  last  dispensa- 
this  dispensation  to  make  prepara-  tion  —  the  fulness  of  times.  (Eph. 
tions  for  his  second  coming.  Loyal  1:9,  10.)  The  gospel  would  be  re- 
subjects  of  his  kingdom  will  make  stored  by  an  angel  to  usher  in  that 
necessary  preparations  to  receive  dispensation  as  a  part  of  the  restora- 
their  king.  ''When  we  comply  with  tion  of  what  the  prophets  saw.  (Rev. 
His  commandments  and  prepare  for  14:6,  7.) 
His  advent,  our  prayers  are  accept-  The  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
able  to  Him"  {Doctiine  and  Cove-  were  a  necessary  part  of  the  restora- 
nants  Commentary,  page  398).  tion  of   all   things.     Without   the 
authority  of  the  Priesthood  to  ad- 
"THE  KEYS  OF  THE  KINGDOM"  minister  the  laws  and  ordinances  of 
The  Lord  reminded  Joseph  Smith  the  gospel,  there  would  be  no  valid- 
that  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  ity  to  the  plan  of  salvation.  (John 
God  had  been  given  to  man  upon  15:16;  Heb.  5:4.)  The  necessary 
the  earth.  (D  &  C  65:2.)  Apostles  keys  (power  to  direct  the  work  of 
of  the  meridian  dispensation  fore-  the  kingdom)  had  been  given  to 
saw  the  time  when  the  gospel  would  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery 
be  restored  to  the  earth  following  a  by  John  the  Baptist  (D  &  C  Sec- 
long  period  of  apostasy  from  the  tion  13;  Mai.  3:1-3),  and  by  Peter, 
true  principles  and  ordinances  of  James,  and  John.  (D  &  C  27:12- 
the  gospel,  as  given  by  the  Savior  13.)  In  the  last  scripture,  notice 
and  continued  by  his  apostles.  Peter  the  reference  to  the  committing  of 
describes  that  time  as  a  period  of  the  keys  of  the  dispensation  in  which 
''refreshing"  from  "the  presence  of  the  Lord  would  gather  together  in 
the  Lord,"  which  would  result  be-  one  all  things  as  prophesied, 
cause  of  a  "restitution  of  all  things.  Later  on  in  the  dispensation  still 
which  God  hath  spoken  by  the  additional  authority  was  to  be  re- 
mouth  of  all  his  holy  prophets  since  stored  that  specific  activities  of  the 
the  world  began"  (Acts  3:19-21).  dispensation  might  be  carried  out. 
This  prophecy  is  significant  because  Elijah  was  to  come,  as  foreknown, 
it  reminds  one  of  the  numerous  (Mai.  4:5,  6;  D  &  C  2;  110:13-16.) 
words  of  the  prophets  concerning  Moses  and  Elias  were  also  to  be  sent 
our  times  —  the  coming  forth  of  The  that  functions  necessary  for  our 
Book  of  Mormon  (Isa.  29;  Ezek.  times  might  be  accomplished.  (Ibid., 
37:15-28);  the  gathering  of  Israel.  110:11-12.)  Still  others  would  bring 
(Jer.  3:14-18;  31:31-33;  Isa.  11:10-  their  authorities,  rights,  powers,  and 
12);  the  building  of  a  house  of  the  glories  to  bless  those  who  want  the 
Lord  in  the  mountains  (Isa.  2:2-3);  "ches  of  eternity.  {Ibid.,  128:21.) 
the  building  of  a  temple  to  which 
the    Lord    would    come    suddenly  the  prophesied  kingdom 
(Mai.   3:1);  and   other  prophecies  One  of  the  remarkable  prophesies 
that  have  been  fulfilled  or  are  in  the  of  the  Old  Testament  relative  to  the 
699

SEPTEMBER  1963 
setting  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
in  the  last  days  is  found  in  Daniel, 
chapter  2.  The  expression  in  verse 
45,  ''the  stone  was  cut  out  of  the 
mountain  without  hands"  is  also 
found  in  verse  2  of  Section  65, 
which  reads  as  follows: 
The  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  are 
committed  unto  man  on  the  earth,  and 
from  thence  shall  the  gospel  roll  forth 
unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  as  the  stone 
which  is  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without 
hands  shall  roll  forth,  until  it  has  filled 
the  whole  earth. 
An  interesting  statement  from  the 
Prophet's  remarks  concerning  this 
prophecy  in  the  book  of  Daniel  was 
made  not  long  before  he  was 
martyred : 
.  .  .  The  ancient  prophets  declared  that 
in  the  last  days  the  God  of  heaven  should 
set  up  a  kingdom  which  should  never  be 
destroyed,  nor  left  to  other  people;  and 
the  very  time  that  was  calculated  on,  this 
people  were  struggling  to  bring  it  out.  .  .  . 
I  calculate  to  be  one  of  the  instruments 
of  setting  up  the  kingdom  of  Daniel  by 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  I  intend  to 
lay  a  foundation  that  will  revolutionize 
the  whole  world.  I  once  offered  my  life 
to  the  Missouri  mob  as  a  sacrifice  for  my 
people,  and  here  I  am.  It  will  not  be 
by  sword  or  gun  that  this  kingdom  will 
roll  on:  the  power  of  truth  is  such  that 
all  nations  will  be  under  the  necessity  of 
obeying  the  Gospel  .  .  .  {DHC  VI: 
364-365). 
THE    GOSPEL,    A    LEAVEN 
Asael  Smith,  the  grandfather  of 
Joseph  Smith,  was  inspired  to  say: 
''it  has  been  borne  in  upon  my  soul 
that  one  of  my  descendants  will 
promulgate  a  work  to  revolutionize 
the  world  of  religious  faith"  (Smith, 
Joseph  Fielding:  Essentials  in 
Church  History,  page  29).  The  in- 
fluence  of  the  restoration    of    the 
gospel  and  its  promulgation  through- 
out the  world  has  been  very  great, 
and  the  future  will  see  a  greater 
influence  upon  the  people  of  the 
world.  Some  of  our  leaders  have 
pointed  out  the  leavening  effect  of 
the  true  gospel  in  the  world.  Men's 
ideas  of  religious  concepts  have 
undergone  some  changes  since  the 
spring  of  1820. 
There  may  be,  and  probably  are, 
other  reasons  for  changes  in  the 
minds  of  men  on  religious  prin- 
ciples, but  if  their  ideas  become 
more  congenial  to  the  fulness  of  the 
gospel  then  contention  on  these 
points  will  lessen.  Before  the 
Church  was  organized,  and  in  ref- 
erence to  the  bringing  forth  of  The 
Book  of  Mormon,  the  Lord  revealed 
that  it  was  his  purpose  to  decrease 
contention  by  this  means.  (D  &  C 
10:61-63.)  Certainly,  the  leavening 
influence  of  the  restored  gospel  was 
not  felt  immediately.  It  takes  a  long 
time  for  change  to  come.  The  last 
sentence  of  the  Prophet's  remark 
quoted  above  suggests  that  the  day 
will  come  when  the  power  of  truth 
will  bring  the  nations  to  obey  the 
gospel.  That  day,  however,  will  not 
be  in  the  time  of  wickedness  (Ibid., 
1:11-16),  but  nonetheless,  it  is 
prophesied  that  the  time  will  come, 
and  it  will  probably  be  in  the  mil- 
lennium, when  ''every  man  might 
speak  in  the  name  of  God  the  Lord, 
even  the  Savior  of  the  world"  [Ibid., 
1:19-20). 
DANIEL'S    PROPHECY 
Many  of  our  leaders  have  re- 
ferred to  Daniel,  chapter  2,  especial- 
ly verse  44,  which  sets  forth  the 
application  of  King  Nebuchadnez- 
zar's dream,  as  interpreted  by  Daniel 
700