[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: FACTS AND FIGURES. | Author: Unknown]

FACTS AND FIGURES.

	SWITZERLAND is a little cramped-up
country, but she sent us during the month
of June over a million and a half francs’
worth of silk ribbons, watches and cheese.
	AMONG the curiosities of Brazil is the
pottery-tree. The trunk does not exceed a
foot in diameter, but it grows to the height
of 100 feet. The chief peculiarity, how-
ever is in the nature of the wood and bark,
which contain so much silica that they are
used in the making of earthenware. The
fresh bark cuts like soft sandstone.
	A BROOKLYN gentleman mentions an ex-
traordinary instance of longevity in a single
family. There are five old ladies at his old
homestead. Four are widows, one is a
spinster. Their ages are as follows: Deb-
orah, ninety-six; Mary, ninety-five; Re-
becca, eighty-six; Elizabeth, eighty-two;
Harriet, seventy-six. They are daughters
of Capt. Zophar Weekes. His wife (their
mother) was a native of Jamaica, L. I., and
lived till over ninety. The father came
from near Huntington, L. I. The first,
third and fourth are the permanent occu-
pants of one house. All of them are well
preserved, able to go about and attend to
light work, and with the exception of a
little deafness in two instances have their
“faculties” scarcely impaired.
	MR. J. J. H. Gregory of Marblehead,
Mass., offers to give, during the coming
winter, a loaf of bread, morning and eve-
ning, ro every person in that town, who will
call upon him.


MISS Irene Smith is President of the
Excelsior Elocutionary Society of Corvallis,
Oregon, Miss Lou Taylor is Treasurer. 
	A SCRIPTURE lesson from Punch: Precep-
tor—“Now can, any of you tell me anything
remarkable in the life of Moses?” Boy
—“Yes, sir; he was the only man who broke
all the commandments at once!"


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿PEN AND SCISSORS.
	IF a bird in the hand is worth two in the 
bush, it is no less true that a thorn in the
bush is worth two in the hand.
	IT is said that every woman appears dif-
ferent to every man, and every nature has
its separate watchword, which answers to
one and will not correspond to another.
Not always "just so."
	IT is related of Sir James Simpson, the
celebrated English physician, that the Duch-
ess of Buccleuch drove up to his door, and
sent her footman to tell that she waited
without. "Tell the Duchess," he replied,
"That Dr. Simpson is engaged with a wash-
erwoman."
	A THEATRICAL paper recently contained
the following advertisement: "Alice Gil-
more and her mother, Fanny Gilmore, have
consolidated, and will hereafter travel to-
gether, and be known as the Gilmore sis-
ters." This combination will be one of the
events of the season!
	DABNEY Jones, becoming restive under
a ten years term in the Washington Terri-
tory Penitentiary, got out his jack knife,
cut a hole in the concern, and stepped out
into the world. They are now going to put
on an additional layer of laths to make the
thing secure.
	THE word "imp" originally signified
"young man." Edward VI. is so styled in
a letter of Crammer, and a young son of
Dudley, Earl of Leicester, who, as is sup-
posed, was poisoned by his nurse, is des-
cribed as an imp in the inscription on his
tomb at Warwick.
	AN exchange feels sorry to learn a Ger-
man chemist has succeeded in making a
first-rate brandy out of sawdust. So are
we. What chances will the temperance
movement have when a man can take a rip-
saw and go out and get drunk on a fence
rail.
	THE moderator of a certain Presbytery in
Scotland is reported to have said to a candi-
date for the ministery, who had left broom-
making, "My young friend, the Presbytery
believes that all men should glorify God in
some way—some by preaching and some by
making brooms—and that you are one who
should make the brooms."
	A MINISTER, having a cultured, judicious
wife, invited her free criticism on his ser-
mons, much to his profit. On one occasion,
having preached from the text, "Remember
Lot's wife," he asked her opinion of the
discourse. Her reply was: "I think, hus
band, it was one of your poorest efforts, and
I would advise you to have nothing more
to do with other men's wives."
	AT a recent session of the Asiatic Society,
Mr. L. Schwendler showed a crow's nest,
made of pieces of telegraph wire, twisted
together in a most ingenious and knowing
manner. He said that lately such nests had
been frequently found, and that the crows
often selected telegraph posts, between
which and the telegraph wires they built
those wire nests, causing what is known as
"earth" and "contact," and interfering with
communication. Crows, however, were by
no means the only animals interfering, by
their domestic arrangements, with overland
telegraphy. Wasps build their mud nests
in the porcelain insulators, causing, in rain
and dew, leakage from the wire to the
ground. Birds of prey frequently dropped
dead fish and other offal upon the wires,
causing contact. These were all frequent
[Column 2]
sources of temporary interference with
telegraphic communication upon overland
lines, and they, combined with many other
facts not necessary to mention, seemed to 
show that it would be a very great advan-
tage to use subterranean telegraphs instead 
of overland lines.


