SPARROW'S WORTH I know that thou art mindful of each sparrow's fall and yet can guide a nation's destiny, then still be ready for answering a call from one who is in need of help like me. I feel secure in thy awareness of my needs and that I have been taught the power of prayer. I do not know of faith the size of mustard seeds, my faith is larger than my heart can bear. My faith is not the kind to be described by size," nor yet the sort dependent on a sign, it is root-deep in knowledge, Lord, that thou art wise and that thy will be done, thy will, not mine. I feel a kinship with each falling bird, I know my sparrow's worth of need is heard. —Kathryn Kay The Cover: § Formal Garden, Portland, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts I Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: I} Reflection of Branches Photograph by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Art Layout: I Dick Scopes liustrations: [I Mary Scopes 161 Son Near antl Ser I had the opportunity of reading in the October Magazine, the article ''Recipe for a Family Home Evening," by Lillian Y. Bradshaw, and I surely enjoyed her suggestions. Reed A. Benson, Fairfax Station, Virginia Having lost our first little baby, my wife and I were very touched by the poem ''David," (by Udora Morris, December 1968). We felt that we could emphathize quite strongly with ''David's'' parents, and so we were grateful for your having printed the poem. Hoyt W. Brewster, Jr., Gardena, California Dear Relief Society Magazine: It is with regret. And tears that I must say goodbye. My sight is so bad and no repairs can be given it, so I cannot read you anymore. For thirty years and more I have enjoyed you, but now I am unable to read the wonderful stories and articles. Goodbye Magazine. I hate so to see you go. I am eightyfour years old—and can see to get around but cannot see to read. Mrs. Amy Bennett, Downey, Idaho (Editor's note: Sister Bennett's letter has been referred to the Church department for the Sightless and she is now receiving the 'New Messenger Talking Book Magazine,"' and the Relief Society Lessons and Gospel Doctrine Lessons on records.) The article written by Mae R. Winters in the November 1968 Magazine (''The Apron") recalled so many happy memories of the past and brought tears to my eyes as I pictured my mother Mary Jane Doney Lowe, truly a great pioneer, performing the very same tasks with her dear aprons. Thank you, Sister Winters, for bringing back those precious memories so beautifully written. I do love and appreciate our inspired Magazine. It has been in my home for more than half a century. Aletha L. Handy, Franklin, Idaho I was tickled pink when I picked up my December Relief Society Magazine and saw the article ''Candy Animals—A Family Tradition."' For almost six years my family and I have been making lollipops—the year around, using six different molds of cast aluminum. We have been using almost the same recipe as the one in the Magazine, using half a batch at a time to fill these six molds. Each mold has three cavities, allowing us to make eighteen lollipops at a time. We had just about given up on finding any molds after looking for years, and then we found them in Minnesota. These molds are so inexpensive almost anyone could afford at least one. The reindeer, Santas, and Christmas trees are ideal for Christmas. There is a turkey, a chicken, and a rooster for the rest of the year. Lollipop sticks, special flavoring and colorings may also be purchased through the company. The molds are $1.65—and you can have them to hand down to your children. A catalogue may be purchased for 25c. Address: Maid of Scandinavia, 3245 Raleigh Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55416. Margaret Morrill, Price, Utah During the last few months, since I have been on my mission, I have found the true beauty of the messages in The Relief Society Magazine. Periodically we receive copies of the Magazine to pass on to investigators—and I always read it from cover to cover. Nelda Platt, Glenside, S. A. Australia I would like to express my appreciation to Mrs. Berg of Heber City, Utah, for having The Relief Society Magazine sent to me, as I am not a member of the Church. The many articles and stories make most interesting reading to me and my Irish friends to whom I pass my Magazines along. Edna Jordan, Belfast, lreland 162 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 163

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from In Memoriam— Rosannah Cannon Irvine) ===
The General Board of Relief Society acknowledges with appreciation her contributions to Relief Society and Relief Society members throughout the Church who knew and admired Sister Irvine extend heartfelt sympathy at her passing. 182 Notes t 4 Sis BOUND VOLUMES OF 1968 MAGAZINES Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1968 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine, page 239.) The cost of binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $3.25, leather $5.25, including the index. A limited number of 1968 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2.00 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1968 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake libraries. Copies of The Relief Society Magazine index for personal binding can be secured from the General Board office for 20¢ prepaid. Volumes bound at the Deseret News Press include a free index. To press my lips, Upon a fair cheek or a brown, Of my three sons, So long I have stooped down. But suddenly today to my surprise, I find that I must lift my eyes, To meet their eyes; That I must stand on toe tips, And reach up to kiss their lips. These tall young sons, THOMAS, Each straight as any pine— HAROLD, Can they be mine? AND RICHARD Soon I must share them, Soon I know that they will go. But, oh, I am so happy; That I have had, Three small sons to stoop to, Three tall sons to reach to, Clean sons to give, That others may live. —Ann Willis 183 Mission Of The American Red Cross Emil E. Henderson @ The American Red Cross is the instrument chosen by the Congress to help carry out the obligations assumed by the United States under certain international treaties known as the Geneva or Red Cross Conventions. Specifically, its Congressional charter imposes on the American Red Cross the duties to act as the medium of voluntary relief and communication between the American people and their armed forces, and to carry on a system of national and international relief to prevent and mitigate suffering caused by disasters. All the activities of the American Red Cross and its chapters support these duties. The accomplishment of its mission of health and welfare services at United States military installations in this Country and overseas and to the civilian population across the Nation is a task of great magnitude. Its success depends on the participation and involvement of thousands of volunteers enthusiastically willing to share their time and their talents in the service of others. There is further dependence upon the generosity of those who contribute of their means to finance these humanitarian programs. Services offered by the Red Cross are many and all are dedicated to the health, safety, and peace of mind of people. Whether it be a Home Nursing course offered through cooperative efforts of Red Cross and the Relief Society—emergency action on behalf of a serviceman in Viet Nam—disaster aid to flood victims along the Mississippi—rescue of a drowning child and the administration of First Aid—blood supply in hospitals across the land— services to patients in hospitals by kindly volunteers—or food for the starving children in far away Biafra—every single effort is guided toward giving the ill more opportunity to regain health, the homeless a place of abode, and the discouraged hope for the future. The Red Cross, as much as any organization on the American scene, has erased from the public mind the image of volunteers as serene dispensers of charity. Serene they may be, but they are workers. They do big jobs and small ones; they handle unpleasant tasks as well as pleasant ones. They bring skill and efficiency to their efforts along with understanding and compassion. They come in all ages, sizes, and colors, bound together by one primary motivation—the desire to serve their neighbors. In a recent statement, Mr. E. Roland Harriman, National Chairman, said, "The Red Cross is unquestionably the largest volunteer organization in the country, and in the volunteer spirit lies the Nation's greatest strength." 184 "A Gift of Love" Addie Belknap Pierson @ Helen. The first time I saw Helen was the day we moved into our first "real'' home. She came over to borrow the proverbial cup of sugar, welcome us, and help. And help she did. We were very new to the area; it was Jeff's first job after college. Between commencement day at his school and the commencement of his working days, we had had three days. All used in traveling. So there I sat amid boxes, barrels, and dirt that first morning. I was going over my agenda for the day—I was a modern organized house engineer—and had listed: 1. Make bed (the only thing we had unpacked the night before). 2. Clear away breakfast things (sweet roll wrappings and milk carton). 3. Get dressed. 4. Start unpacking. I should have put No. 4 before No. 3, as all the clothes I had out were one traveling suit and one nightgown. As I was musing over the problem, there was a loud knock, a cheery hello, and, suddenly, a Say, could I borrow some sugar?" tall angular woman, cup in hand, smile on face, was sprawled out across my very own _ kitchen floor. Wondering how the smile had stayed on, and making a mental note to find a more convenient place to keep Jeffs books on mathematical data and abstract math than in the doorway, I offered my hand to help the poor lady up. She seemed to come up at all angles, brushing herself off, but with no need for assistance. "My name is Helen—Mom should have called me Grace— Helen Jorgenson. I live in the duplex, closest side to you folks. Say, could I borrow some sugar? Don't have it all out yet? Well, why don't I just help you unpack it and a few of your other necessaries? Howard, that's my husband, and I were glad to hear someone had rented this place. With just a bit of elbow grease and water, it will be looking really pretty again. My goodness, no wonder I tripped—never was much good at arithmetic. I suppose abstract algebra has to do with arithmetic?" The sudden silence in this running dialogue stunned me so that I could not answer, only 

185 March 1969

 watch as Helen stacked one box of books on the other, picked both up and walked into the hallway. It was just as well. Evidently the silence was actually a fade-out, since I soon heard, 'Where do you keep your soap and water?" echoing back to me from the living room. That's how Helen and I met. We were sort of a Mutt and Jeff team, she being about 5'10" to my 5'2". We had a difference in ages, she was thirty and I was only twenty-two. Both our husbands were away a lot, Jeff was getting started in his chosen profession (work Helen always called it). Actually I never met Howard, her husband, for over a year. "My man is a sailorman," she told me later. "A good man but madly in love with the sea and anything that sails. We met during the war, you: know. I worked in a factory near the harbor and I used to watch the ships dock. One day a bosun's mate came up. He stood in my pathway, and along comes Howard, my husband you know, j

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (1 segments, 19,900 chars) ===

Number 3 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford  Relief Society in The Welfare Plan Elder Henry D. Taylor Assistant to the Council of the Twelve ST TT DIL ns p * » al eRUUReE anes " x @ It is an honor, sisters, to be invited to participate in this very important meeting here today. I have been asked to speak on some of the cardinal principles of the Welfare Plan. One of my major assignments as a General Authority, and one that brings me extreme personal satisfaction, is to be associated in the Welfare Program of the Church. This program has attracted much favorable publicity, and many have praised the members for their earnest and sincere desire to stand on their own feet, make their own way, and to care for each other without calling on public assistance. Welfare principles are not new. From its very organization in 1830, the Church has: 1. Encouraged members to establish and maintain their economic [Address delivered at the independence. _ Stake Board Session of the 2. Encouraged habits of thrift and Annual General Relief Society the avoiding of debt. Conference, October 3, 1968] 3. Fostered the establishment of employment-creating industries. 4. Stood ready at all times to help needy, faithful members. 164 From the very beginning, the Lord has had great concern for the poor and has expressed this concern in the following words: I, the Lord, stretched out the heavens, and built the earth, my very handiwork; and all things therein are mine. And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it must needs be done in mine own way. (D&C 104:14-16.) (Italics added.) As you read the Old Testament, the New Testament, the Doctrine and Covenants, and other Church works, you will discover that there is one theme which runs consistently through all of those scriptures, and that is, "remember the poor." The care of the poor and the needy was of special concern to the Christ when he was here upon the earth. The scriptures voice the sentiment and doctrine that it is the duty of those who have to give. To those who are in want, and great blessings shall come to those who obey this law. The early 1930's were dark days that tried men's souls. A deep economic depression had spread over the country. Fortunes were wiped out. Men of wealth became poverty stricken. Factories and businesses' were closed. There was widespread unemployment. Bread lines formed, and there was want, hunger, and despair throughout the land. In the wards and stakes of the Church, bishoprics and stake presidencies were doing everything possible to care for their members. The First Presidency was greatly concerned with this grave condition, and in 1933 sent a questionnaire to the Relief Society in The Welfare Plan wards to determine the resources in the hands of the bishops to care for their people. By 1936, after prayerful consideration, a plan had_ been formulated; and in the April General Conference, the First Presidency called for renewed emphasis upon the welfare phase of the gospel, and the Welfare Plan was announced. In introducing the plan, the First Presidency explained the reason for its establishment in the following words: Our primary purpose, said the First Presidency, was to set up, in so far as it might be possible, a system under which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of a dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift, and self-respect be once more established amongst our people. The aim of the Church is to help the people to help themselves. Work is to be re-enthroned as the ruling principle of the lives of our Church membership. (Welfare Plan Handbook, page 1.) It will be observed that idleness is denounced and work glorified in this statement. Our forefather Adam received the pronouncement from the Lord, "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground." (Genesis 3:19.) Again, the Lord said to the Church on February 9, 1831: Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer. (D&C 42:42.) Thus, it is made plain that the Lord expects man to work. Church members should, therefore, be self-sustaining to the extent of their own powers. No true Latter-day Saint will, while physically able, voluntarily shift from himself to others the burden 

165 March 1969

 of his own support. So long as he can, under the inspiration of the Almighty, and with his own strength and labor, he will supply himself with the necessities of life. A Church member who is unable to provide for himself should then look to his relatives for assistance. No person should become a charge upon the public welfare or the Church as long as his relatives are able to care for him. All Church members should accept the responsibility, insofar as they are able, to care for the needy among their own kin. The Apostle Paul taught this doctrine when he stated: But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel. (I Timothy 5:8.) The late President Stephen L Richards aptly declared: I think my food would choke me if I knew that while I could procure bread my aged father or mother or near kin were on public relief. The concepts have been summarized in the following statement: Church welfare accepts as _ fundamental truth the proposition that the responsibility for one's economic maintenance rests (1) upon himself, (2) upon his family, (3) upon the Church, if he is a faithful member thereof. (Welfare Plan Handbook, page 1.) The Welfare Program stands ready to help those who cannot help themselves or who cannot obtain sufficient aid from family members, but no Latter-day Saint should anticipate that anyone, other than himself, will provide for his own needs. What can we do to prepare ourselves to care for our own 166 needs? I would suggest the following: 1. Obtain an adequate education; learn a trade, skill, or profession so that remunerative employment can be secured. 2. Live within our incomes. As I told you Relief Society sisters on a previous occasion: "Don't let mamma's yearnings exceed Ppapa's earnings." - 3. Avoid excessive debt. Necessary debt should be incurred only after very careful and prayerful thought, consideration, getting all the best advice that we possibly can, and keeping well within our ability to repay. We have been counseled to "Avoid debt as a plague." 4. Acquire and store a reserve of food, clothing, and cash on a sensible, well-planned basis. In the matter of storing food, Elder Harold B. Lee has wisely counseled: We have never laid down an exact formula for what anybody should store, and let me just make this comment: Perhaps if we think more in terms of what it would take to keep us alive in case we didn't have anything to eat, that last would be very easy to put in storage fora year... Just enough to keep us alive if we didn't have anything to eat. We wouldn't get fat on it, but we would live; and if you think in terms of that kind of annual storage rather than a whole year's supply of everything that you're accustomed to eat, which, in most cases, is utterly impossible for the average family, I think we will come nearer to what President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Advised us way back in 1937. (See address of President Clark, Conference Report, April 1937, pp. 26-27.) The key figure in the Welfare Plan is the bishop: By word of the Lord, the sole mandate to care for and the sole discretion in caring for the poor of the Church is lodged in the bishop. It is his duty and his only to determine to whom, when, how, and how much shall be given to any member of his ward from Church funds and as ward help. Whoever and whatever the help he calls in to assist him perform his service, he is_ still responsible. (Welfare Plan Handbook, page 6.) Since the earliest days of the Church, the Relief Society has been and still is the bishop's chief help in administering to those in need. The Relief Society has been trained and prepared to handle certain phases of Welfare work better than any other agency. The bishop has at his disposal two major resources to carry out his responsibility in caring for the poor: Commodities generally produced on the 600 agricultural projects, and processed in canneries owned by the ward and stake members. A flour and feed mill, a coal mine, and clothing manufacturing projects are Church-owned. These commodities are used to stock the 102 bishops storehouses, and from these, the bishops may requisition food, clothing, and other items to aid those in need. It is satisfying to note that the production budget has been filled 97.3 per cent on a Church-wide basis over the past twenty-two years. The other major resource at the disposal of the bishop is the fast offering fund. Contributions are from free-will cash offerings of members who abstain from two meals per month and pay the equivalent amount—or a more generous contribution to the bishop. He_ uses these funds to provide for the cash needs of welfare recipients, such as to pay rent, utilities, hospital, and medical bills. After the bishop's initial visit to the home of the needy, he will direct the Relief Society president to make a personal inspection of the home and review household needs and to let the family feel her sisterly solicitude and sustained interest in their welfare. He will indicate to her whether the family is to receive partial or full assistance. Relief Society in The Welfare Plan When the Relief Society president analyzes and determines the needs, she will write out a bishop's order and return it to the bishop, for only he has the authority to sign and issue welfare orders. Your General Relief Society Presidency has outlined in detail specific recommendations and suggestions regarding these visits. The Welfare Program is important. Caring for the poor is important. It has been stated that one of the foremost reasons for giving the financial law of the Church was so that the needy and the suffering might be cared for. It seems that this purpose had a preferential claim above all other purposes on the funds of the Church. It is understood that at one time when President Grant was instructing a stake presidency, he stated that before the Church would aliow its members to suffer want, it would close every school, every seminary, and every temple. Those physically able are urged and expected to work for the Church assistance they receive within the limits of their ability and health. The Church is strongly opposed to a dole of any kind, whether it be county, State, or Federal. (A dole to us means "receiving something and giving nothing in return."') Those receiving Church assistance are expected to _ work. Brigham Young once said: My experience has taught me, and it has become a principle with me, that it is never any benefit to give, out and out, to man or woman, money, food, clothing, or anything else, if they are able-bodied and can work and earn what they need, when there is anything on the earth for 

167 March 1969

 them to do. This is my principle, and I try to act upon it. To pursue a contrary course would ruin any community in the world and make them idlers. (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 274.) A few years ago, a man went to his bishop and_ practically demanded that the Church aid and assist him. The man was ninety-five per cent blind and used a white cane in his walking. He was thoroughly convinced that he was not able to earn a living. The bishop explained to him that if he were to receive assistance from the Church, he would have to earn that help. The man was most indignant to think that the bishop was so shortsighted and unsympathetic as to feel that he had to labor and earn what he was to receive. However, the bishop insisted, and the man responded. The bishop personally took him to Welfare Square. He was assigned to label cans. The first few days and weeks were difficult. But, gradually, the young man gained more speed and skill, and, within a month's time, he was the fastest, neatest can labeler in the whole cannery. One day he came to the bishop and said if he could label cans this well and do a few other things which he had been taught, he surely ought to be able to take some training at the Blind Center. The bishop helped the young man and his mother during the time that the boy was in the school for the blind. At the conclusion of the course, the bishop assisted him in securing a job—a fine position. From that time on, he has been able to work and to support himself fully, and his mother, and 168 has required no financial assistance from the Church or others. Generally speaking, the Welfare Plan is regarded as a temporal program caring for the physical needs of the people, but the great spiritual aspects of the program should never be overlooked. To the Lord, all things are spiritual, for he has said: Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal.... (D&C 29:24.) In a talk given by President McKay, then a Counselor to President Grant, just six months after the announcement of the Welfare Plan in 1936, some prophetic utterances were made when President McKay said: I do not know of any activity with which we have been associated which promises more fruitful results in temporal and spiritual achievement than this Church Security Program. It is going to stand out in the Church history as significant... After all is said and done, the greatest blessings that will accrue from the Church Security Plan are spiritual. Outwardly, every act seems to be directed toward the _ physical: re-making of dresses and suits of clothes, canning fruits and vegetables, storing foodstuffs, choosing fertile fields for settlement—all seem strictly temporal, but permeating all of these acts, inspiring and sanctifying them, is the element of spirituality. (Conference Report, October 1936, page 103.) The program is spiritual, but it is difficult to build a person up spiritually when he is physically cold and hungry. The temporal needs must first be met, and then spiritual blessings may follow. Although members of the Church contribute their time and their means, there should be more to it than that. There must be a sharing, and with their contribu- tions should go their prayers, good wishes, a brotherly and sisterly concern, interest, and love. During 1967, some 46,519 of you good women of the Church assisted on various welfare projects—doing a temporal work to bring both temporal and spiritual blessings to others, and, incidentally, to yourselves, because of your unselfish participation. You sisters can give encouragement, sympathy, and inspiration where needed, and, certainly, can be responsible for a great spiritual uplift in the lives of those needing assistance. My dear sisters, the Welfare Program is not on trial. The foundation is firmly laid; it is well established and has been in operation for over thirty-two years. The basic concepts have been tested and proved to be sound. We know the road that we should travel. The Welfare Program is here to stay. Elder Harold B. Lee, who for a quarter of a century served as managing director of the General Church Welfare Committee, and who was associated with the program from its very beginning, has made this observation in reference to the permanency of the Welfare Plan: "This program will last as long as this Church exists as a Church." Shortly after the Church was organized, the Lord gave to the saints what might be considered the "perfect economic system." This was the law known as the. United Order. For a variety of reasons, the saints were not able to live this law; and later tithing was given as a substitute law. We look forward to the time when we may again have the Relief Society in The Welfare Plan privilege of living the United Order. The First Presidency has made this_ prediction: "The United Order will be established by the Lord in his own due time and in accordance with the regular prescribed order of the Church." In the meantime, though, I have this assurance—the Welfare Program is a training field which will prepare us for that brighter day when we may again have the blessing of having the United Order. A statement from one of the brethren on this is instructive. He said: It is not asserted that the Welfare Plan is the United Order, but perhaps there is a much greater nearness of approach than we have been accustomed to think. Safe it is to say that a complete living of the law governing this plan, and the practice of the principles involved, would make the transition into the organization of the United Order not too difficult. (Albert E. Bowen, The Church Welfare Plan.) It is my strong and abiding testimony that the Welfare Program was instituted under the inspiration of our Heavenly Father, and that President Grant, through inspiration and revelation from the Holy Ghost, did set up this Welfare Plan. It is not something that was just thought up over night, and, being an inspired program, it will not fail. The Lord has declared that it is his purpose to provide for his saints, but it must needs be done in his own way. It is my firm conviction that the Welfare Plan is the Lord's way today of caring for his people, to which I testify in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. 169 "The Salt of the Earth' w Perhaps one of the greatest of all recorded discourses is that known to us as "The Sermon on the Mount" given by the Savior to his disciples and devoted adherents who followed him to a mountain near the Sea of Galilee in order that they might hear more of his teachings. These were people who had been attracted by the power of his matchless words and by the miracles he had performed. They felt constrained to forsake their all, and follow after him. In this great sermon, the Savior declared he had not come to destroy the law (the law of Moses) but to fulfill it. He taught the higher law— the law of love, "... Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you." (Matthew 5:44.) The beginning of The Sermon on the Mount sets forth the very essence of true religion and its attendant blessing. Then, in a 170 mode of direct personal address, the Savior pronounced those disciples who sat listening to be the worthy benefactors of mankind when he declared: "Ye are the salt of the earth " (Matthew 5:13.) This is an interesting analogy. Salt is the great preservative. It prevents deterioration and spoilage. It freshens and sweetens. It serves as a corrective—a purifier. It brings out flavor and gives pungency. In using this analogy, the Savior made clear that the small band of righteous disciples would be as a condiment that would arrest corruption, purify mankind, and bring desirable flavor to earth life. Along with this pronouncement, however, the Savior sounded a warning note as he continued, "but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it [the earth] be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out " (Matthew 5:13.) With this warning, the Savior demonstrated his recognition of the tendency of man, including the so-called righteous, to lose his saline or purifying qualities. He raised the pertinent question as to how, then, corruption should be stamped out, and the earth be purified. Thus he emphasized the urgency of his disciples' remaining steadfast. Through the years, the term "the salt of the earth," has been appropriately applied to individuals and to groups whose character, purity, and nobility of life have served as leaven to inspire, uplift, and benefit others; those whose characters are above reproach, and whose acts are prompted by the most righteous of motives.