The Relief Society Magazine - August 1967, Vol. 54, No. 8

Cliff Dwelling Peggy Tangren In this ancient house I hear Shelling of corn dried on the ear And its crunching on a grinding stone. I am not alone, Voices are in every room. I hear a loom, A baby cry, a dog baying at the sky. From far below, Down in fields where farmers sow, A cloud is seen, and a water call Echoes from a sandstone wall Where bins are built for keeping grain Away from field mice and the rain. Mothers sew as they have always sewn, Though the thread be thong and the needle bone. The sun is cool, the shadows long On a homing trail, and the fathers' song Wings to the ledge, and on the edge Children lean to watch them come Up the ladders. Kneeling, some Blow the smoldering charcoal hot Under an earthen cooking pot. Ancient, empty, silent, and yet The walls of a home cannot forget.

The Cover: Pine-Fringed Lake at Naples, Maine Transparency by Eric M. Sanford Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Mesa Verde, Near Cortez, Colorado Photograph by Willard Luce

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

In the March 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, Elder Gordon B. Hinckley enumerated four challenges and responsibilities of Relief Society activity to help us appreciate our opportunities. For the Relief Society Anniversary observance we used these challenges on beehives at each end of the serving table and the lapel pins we made for the sisters. Whenever it is my privilege to help in Relief Society activities, my Magazine affords great pleasure, while aiding me with innumerable suggestions and materials for inspiration.

Linda Chambers Houston, Texas

Please thank Mary Scopes for her lovely art work for my story "Automation," in the May issue of the Magazine. There are so many outstanding features in that issue that I am happy to be a part of it. I enjoyed the editorial "Timeless Words" by Vesta P. Crawford.

Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho

I have just finished reading "These Things Endure," by Alice Colton Smith (May 1967). It is beautifully written, encouraging, and inspiring. Such an article has much to offer to the women of the Church, wherever they may be.

Grace F. Arrington Pacific Palisades, California

The cover of the April Magazine is the epitome of spring. It makes my heart glad just to look at it. I loved the story by Sylvia Probst Young, "And It Shall Be Given You." It illustrates so clearly how we are often blind to our own weaknesses, and how prayer can help us find the strength to come to grips with them. Thank you for publishing stories such as this which give insight into problems we all have to face.

Arlene Larsen Bascom Orem, Utah

562

The Magazine has brought me closer to our Heavenly Father and his purposes. I am thankful for Relief Society and other Church organizations that help us to live full lives. I especially enjoyed the poem "Inviolate," by Lael W. Hill (April frontispiece), the article "Lake Country, England," (by Mabel Jones Gabbott), and "The Patient Soul" (by Rose Openshaw). Each Magazine seems better than the last, and they are all effective missionary tools.

Ruth E. Yashko Cocoa, Florida

I have tried many of the recipes in the Magazine, and have found the one for "Dilly Bread" (June 1966) to be exceptionally good. I know the lesson materials are divinely inspired, and the talents expressed in creative prose and poetry are rewarding to the many readers. I am particularly fond of the work of Eva Willes Wangsgaard; for she ably describes in many ways my feelings towards life and about life and living "Over night's purple hill, tomorrows come to offer faith, new hope, another chance."

Mary W. Stauffer Nashville, Tennessee

Editorial Note: Sister Wangsgaard passed away in April 1967, closing a lifetime of family devotion, loving service to neighbors and friends, and lasting literary achievement.

I have been a member of The Church for just over a year, and find great joy in attending Relief Society, and in reading the beautifully illustrated Magazine which I receive monthly. I am secretary-treasurer in our ward Relief Society.

Iris H. Cooper Hatfield, Herts., England

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.