[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 569 | Special Feature | Family Vacations Can Be Fun! Part II Lillian | Y. Bradshaw]
[Family Vacations Can Be Fun! Part II Lillian Y. Bradshaw]

569 August 1967

 Friday morning we placed the bags in the front room in groups, so that each knew which he was responsible for while getting on and off the train. Even Tom had the responsibility of his own bag and Teddy bear. COOKING AND EATING All facilities and equipment were provided. However, because joy in vacationing depends on the ease with which meals can be prepared and dishwashing not become a burden, we planned to use paper plates and cups for every meal. These were not the dull, plain white paper plates, but gay, colorful ones. We bought them in small quantities so as to have many changes. We used my electric frying pan, only, for cooking. Otherwise, we depended on local fresh fruit and the different specialties of various communities to add zip and interest to the meals: shoo-fly pie from Pennsylvania, clam cakes from Cape Cod, lobster from Boston. Very, very good was the huge, deep, tart lemon pie we found in Palmyra, New York, as we awaited the beginning of the magnificent Mormon Pageant. At noontime we ate sandwiches and fruit. The cereal we bought for each morning was in small individual boxes of all varieties. The boxes we numbered from one to nine beforehand, and, as each called a number of his choice, he received the cereal box with the corresponding number. We chose boxes that were perforated for opening so that milk could be poured in and they could serve as dishes. After each meal, we had only the silverware to wash and 570 put away, and, occasionally, the frying pan. OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES Each of us was responsible for his own clothes being packed and put away each day, with dirty clothes being put into the duffel bag we brought for this purpose, and making his own bed and stowing away blankets. We could have the bus in shipshape order in thirty minutes, when on a tight schedule. Other chores were no problem. We simply worked as a team, with myself as the foreman for duties in the bus, and Blair as foreman for all duties outside the bus. Amazingly, we found Dick to be an excellent mechanic, and he finally took over all the details of hooking up the bus to the facilities when we needed to pull into a trailer court. Kathy was an inspiration to all, as she cheerfully, uncomplainingly, went about her duties, after spraining her ankle the first part of the trip. As well-planned as a trip can be, with children, may I prescribe the only medicine that really works: early to bed, early to rise, makes a trip more fun for the wise. BOOKS As we approached a particular site of interest, I would read to the family a story telling of the events which took place there. The books we didn't have for a particular spot, we purchased and then read together. I purchased two cardboard milk cartons used for carrying four one half gallon bottles of milk. Books and maps fitted into them remarkably well and kept everything neat and orderly. We also took good, interesting, entertaining books for different levels of reading ability. Blair and I each took a copy of Those Who Love, by Irving Stone, the story of President John Adams and Abigail. This was an excellent background material for visiting Boston, Concord, Lexington, New York, and Philadelphia. An amazing reaction came over the children as we traveled. At first, for two days, they wandered through the bus and were irritable as we learned to live in close quarters, very much together, and without TV. After this period, they began to reserve these good books, with each in his turn "speaking for that book" next. Before the trip was over, each had read everything on the bus he could lay his hands on. Even Suzie challenged herself beyond her reading level. It was marvelous. Their contentment was contagious. It is a family tradition with us that on any trip I read to them all as they sit on their beds at night just before going to sleep. This book must be well-chosen and have high interest. May I suggest Where the Red Fern Grows, by Wilson Rawls, and Wrinkle in Time, by Madeleine L'Engle, as being two of the best books to keep all ages, even Dad, demanding "just one more chapter." We'll always remember: The heavenly peace and quiet as we sat on the grassy slope overlooking the valley of Adam-ondiAhman. As a family, we still speak of it in reverent tones. Our unexpected swim at CraigFamily Vacations Can Be Fun ville Beach at Cape Cod almost upset the entire trip. We just wanted to see what it looked like, _and when we found the surf was heavy and white-capped, and the wind fairly whistling with glee, we almost tossed care to the wind and could have spent the remainder of the trip at the Cape. There was our enchantment as we watched the gulls early in the morning pluck their hermit crabs for breakfast from the ocean, and then fly over the hard pavement of the parking lot and, from a height of twenty to thirty feet, drop the shell so as to crack it, and then swoop down to devour the crab inside. The parking lot became such a clutter of shells that a mechanical sweeper was necessary to clear it off for the day. Sailing on a_ three-masted schooner named the 'Spray' around Boston Harbor made Irving Stone's book Those Who Love come alive. The special tour by eerie moonlight, with the security officer, through stockade and dwellings of the first community in America at Jamestown, with the shadows and quiet rustling of the trees, made our skin creep at the thought of an Indian raid. With wonderment, we contemplated the Pilgrims traveling across the ocean on three small sailing boats. The walk around Walden Pond of Thoreau fame and the quiet of the woods as we slept overnight at Walden Breezes, Concord, Massachusetts, are memories to treasure. They had even greater meaning as I recalled to the children the Relief Society lesson I had heard, when the life of Thoreau and his thoughts, while 

571 August 1967

 writing at this beautiful spot, were taught. Early the next morning, with thick mist rising and sunrays just piercing through, we all felt as though lifted into another time and world, as we visited the Minute Man statue where the shot was fired that was "heard round the world," so long ago (from "Concord Hymn," by Ralph Waldo Emerson). So much more to tell. We saw Monticello—Thomas Jefferson's home, The White House, the Statue of Liberty, and it seemed that we were living briefly in the glorious early days of our country. The reverent feeling we had, as we stood beside a tree in the Sacred Grove—a tree old enough to have been a witness when Joseph Smith saw God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. Afterwards, at the testimony meeting in the Grove, a number of young girls who had come to take parts in the pageant told of their missionary experiences. I am overcome with sentiment as I remember my daughters whispering that this they wanted to do, also, someday. How grateful we were to have our books when we arrived five minutes too late to go on a tour of the Kirtland Temple. We lifted one another to see through the windows, and we had keen compassion for those who arrived too late to get in at the dedication over a hundred years ago. What a thrill to contemplate what it must have been like to be there then and know that Jesus Christ and angels once appeared in this building. We visited Peter Whitmer's farm, though the original home no 572 longer exists. I tremble to think we might have missed it. So much took place here, and in the woods and farm land surrounding this spot—the supernatural help David Whitmer received with the farm work, as he prepared to go for Joseph and Oliver Cowdery in Harmony, the completion of The Book of Mormon, the organization of the Church in April 1830, the testimony of the three witnesses, and so much more. The excitement and interest of all were evident as we saw archeological students spading the earth at Brigham Young's and Wilford Woodruff's homes in Nauvoo, so that all would be as when they lived there. In visualizing another Williamsburg (Virginia) in Nauvoo, Illinois, as plans were unfolded, we felt we were seeing history being made. We saw Liberty Jail and Carthage Jail and thought of the tragic scenes enacted there, and the lasting imprint on Church history. By now this constant, repeated contact with history was no longer just another tour; it all began to make its impression. Places and buildings were no longer just stone and brick, but events of tremendous import. The trip, as wonderful and exciting as it was, had lasting effects upon the family as a whole and as individuals. We all grew in appreciation of our heritage, the beautiful country of the United States, and the good people everywhere. We had _ always thought it so; now we know it to be true. Now we know how dear each of us is to the others in the family. We took time and learned to listen to each other and learned of likes and dislikes. We laughed with one another over little things, and we found time and opportunity, as parents, to teach by actions true values—honesty in paying for groceries, appreciation and courtesy for good in other cultures. Above all else, we had time to let one another know how deeply we felt about our country's heritage—the men and women who loved freedom more than life, and then our very own heritage of men and women and children like ourselves who loved God so much they made it possible for us to return to Salt Lake City, to the home we love best, in a green valley surrounded by majestic mountains. Home — sweet, sweet home! NOTES A YEAR LATER—1967 Was it difficult to take the children on a vacation? Oh, my, yes—very difficult. But each trip it Capitol Building, Williamsburg, Virginia has 'had its rewards, and now, with this trip, those rewards are so great as to leave no doubts ever again — it was worth any effort. With a vacation came the concentrated view of all our teachings during the previous year. We became aware, keenly aware, of the many strengths in our children and ourselves. We saw the lessons taught in Family Home Evening bear fruit. The stature of our children opened boundless vistas. We saw them for the first time in many ways and loved and respected what we saw. They came back with an honest respect for one another's talents and a feeling of new confidence in their own abilities. To us has come a special warm feeling all wrapped up in the word family. Perhaps, because of this, we seem to have a greater understanding and deeper love for God and the gift he gave of his Son Jesus Christ. 573 ¢ Lucy Burt stood on the long porch of her white, weeping-rock house which stood on an incline and overlooked the valley. It was late summer and the intense heat had passed. The days simulated' summer, but the evenings whispered that autumn was closer than they liked to think. Most of the things she had wanted to do were still undone. She and John still had to take that camping trip to Flaming Gorge that they had planned since spring. A couple of groups had planned to get together, and hadn't because of the heat. There were a lot of other things to do, too, unless it was to be written off as a lost summer. Lucy looked toward the silver sliver of lake in the west, then glanced at the manuscript in her hand: "Our Town."