[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 609 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

Relief Society Activities British South Mission, Thames Valley District Bazaar, Aylesbury November 5, 1966 Virginia Archer, former Supervisor, British South Mission Relief Society, (President and Sister Archer are standing in center) reports: "The town of Aylesbury is in the very center of the County of Buckinghamshire, of which it is the county town. Each year the Relief Societies of the Thames Valley District hold an annual Christmas bazaar together. In 1966 it was suggested at the leadership meeting, held in March, that the bazaar should be held at Aylesbury. The next few months became very busy arranging for the various attractions. Each Relief Society had its own stall. The stall had a variety of goods, all beautifully made and the choice of work on sale ranged from a Cindy Doll to a full-size quilt. There was evidence of many hours spent sewing, knitting, and baking. In the center of the hall, along with the pictorial screens (depicting scenes in the history of the Church), the missionaries had set up a stall well-stocked with pamphlets and Books of Mormon. Refreshments were served by the district Relief Society presidency." Joan Spratley Child is the new supervisor of the British South Mission. 

609 August 1967

 Southwest British Mission, Plymouth District Relief Society Displays First Quilt December 18, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Mildred Spencer, wife of the Building Supervisor; Helen Grant Barton, former Supervisor, Southwest British Mission Relief Society. Back row, standing, beginning at the right: Jean Wise, First Counselor; Pearl White, President; Jean Hodgson, Second Counselor. Sister Barton reports: "December 18, 1966 marked the date of our. First District Conference held in the new chapel in Plymouth. President James A. Cullimore had just officially opened it a few days before. This also marked the. Occasion of the first quilt to be made by the Relief Society in the Plymouth. District. Sister Mildred Spencer, who had never quilted before, taught the sisters how to quilt, and the finished product is shown in the picture. The sisters enjoyed the new challenge of making the quilt and hope to make many more. Sister Barton bought the quilt and is taking it around the mission to show the other Relief Societies." Marie Flachman Bradshaw is the new supervisor of the Southwest British Mission. Brigham Young University First Stake (Provo, Utah) Presents Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, February 19, 1967 Sixth from the left, second row: Joyce Lunceford, Secretary-Treasurer; ninth, tenth, and eleventh, fifth row: Beverly Polson, spiritual living class leader; Linda Moody, Counselor; Lynette Elder, organist; at the left, third row:, Sherry Weyland, chorister. Della C. Crockett, President, Brigham Young University First Stake, reports: "Bighty-three sisters from Brigham Young University First Stake blended their voices to furnish music for quarterly conference February 19, 1967. Included were fourteen sisters from the ward Relief Society presidencies, and five sisters from the stake Relief Society board." West Utah Stake, Pioneer Ward and Provo Second Ward Officers Prepare for Birthday Parties, March 1967 Left to right, officers of Pioneer Ward Relief Society: Eleanor S. Rees, Secretary-Treasurer; Pearl S. Jackson, First Counselor; Luella B. Jensen, President; Beatrice C. Patterson, Second Counselor; Esther M. Moulton, President, West Utah Stake Relief Society; officers of Provo Second Ward Relief Society: Cheryl B. Christensen, First Counselor; Merle T. Halladay, President; Jennie V. J. Bailey, Second Counselor; Bertha O. Nielson, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Moulton reports: "This picture of the Pioneer Ward and the Provo Second Ward Relief Society officers was taken just before their birthday parties. In 1942 when the two boxes shown in the picture were closed, these two wards were part of the Utah Stake, with a Relief Society membership of about 77 and 119 members. Now, in 1967, this same two-ward area is the West Utah Stake, with nine wards and a Relief Society membership of 841 sisters. It is interesting to wonder if the next twenty-five years will bring about as great a change. One thing we are sure of, and which will not change, is the influence for good that the Relief Society is now, and always will be, in the homes of the women who are active members of this wonderful organization." 

610 August 1967

 Central German Mission, Pioneer Dinner, Dusseldorf March 7, 1967 Mary B. Beesley, Supervisor, Central German Mission Relief Society, reports: '""We send greetings and a few words to describe what we are attempting to do here for the observance of the 125th Anniversary of Relief Society. We have distributed the little play "The Gift'? In every branch and hope sincerely that it will be put on as I know we all want it to be done. Last week we invited the mission Relief Society presidency and the district leaders, with their partners, to the mission home in Dusseldorf for a pioneer dinner. We served a typical dinner of chicken, green peas, mashed potatoes, cole slaw with pineapple, baking powder biscuits, and apple pie with homemade ice cream. Then we sent out recipes in German. Our table setting featured covered wagons and miniature spinning wheels which were made for the occasion. There were also small red-checkered sunbonnets at each sister's place, and matching checkered napkins. ° "The branch Relief Society here has just finished another lovely quilt. Several other branches have expressed a desire to make quilts, and we have shown many pictures of quilts from the Magazine." Tulsa Stake, Coffeyville (Kansas) Branch Relief Society Anniversary Observance, March 17, 1967 Left to right: June Hurst, Secretary-Treasurer; Reva Barnhill, Second Counselor; Carlene McWhirt, First Counselor; Inice Bever, President. Virginia Jacobson, President, Tulsa Stake Relief Society, reports: "A threetiered cake, commemorating 125 years of Relief Society, centered the table, flanked by vases of antiqued flowers made by the group at homemaking meetings. The sisters met in the multi-purpose room of their newly completed chapel for a covered-dish dinner at six-thirty. Sister Bever conducted a special program prepared by Eva Howard, after presenting the book 'The History of Relief Society,' to the Branch President Eugene G. Carns for the branch library. After the inspiring program, the guests were invited to inspect the displays prepared by each class leader. There was also a display by the music leaders one on home storage." Napa Stake (California), Napa Second Ward Honors Elderly Sisters at Birthday Party, March 17, 1967 Front row, seated, left to right: Flora Wheeler; Elsie Burtis; Alice Barry; Stella Tucker. Back row, standing, left to right: Dora Jensen; Mary Taylor; Lottie Auger; Ethel Holtz. Dorothy Blaisdell, President, Napa Stake Relief Society, reports: "At their lovely birthday party the Napa Second Ward Relief Society presented a short sketch of the life of each of the sisters shown in the picture, and presented each of them a beautiful pink and white carnation corsage. The program continued with the presentation of 'The Gift.' Bessie Auger is president of Napa Second Ward Relief Society." 

612 August 1967

 Anaheim, Fullerton, Garden Grove, Huntington Beach, Santa Ana Stakes Present "Galaxy of Music,'' February 10, 1967 Seated, center front: Florence J. Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society; on the right: Lois Anderson, President, Fullerton Stake Relief Society; Alberta Gunnell, President, Santa Ana Stake Relief Society; to Sister Madsen's left: Marjorie Kerr, President, Huntington Beach Stake Relief Society; Glenna Woolf, President, Anaheim Stake Relief Society; Afton Minson, President, Garden Grove Stake Relief Society; Alta Sorensen, Anaheim Stake organist; directly in front of Sister Sorensen: Marybeth Done, Anaheim Stake chorister. Sister Woolf reports: "The Anaheim Stake was the hostess for the 'Galaxy of Music' concert held February 10th. The Singing Mothers of Fullerton, Garden Grove, Huntington Beach, and Santa Ana Stakes were invited to participate and enjoy the evening with us, with a total of 182 Singing Mothers from the five stakes. Each stake presented a special song by the Singing Mothers, and also an instrumental number. It was a thrill and a privilege to have Sister Florence J. Madsen with us, and to have her conduct several numbers." South Box Elder Stake (Utah) Pioneer Memorial Nursing Home Relief Society Holds Anniversary Party, March 13, 1967 Standing at the back, officers of the Nursing Home Relief Society, and stake Relief Society president, left to right: Lenora Holmes, organist; Faye Laney, Counselor; Duella Victor, President; Fontella Scofield, Counselor; Iva Lou Nebeker, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society. Sister Nebeker reports: 'It was a memorable afternoon for the sisters at the nursing home. The Brigham City Fifth Ward Relief Society presented "The ' Gift' and it was greatly enjoyed. Easter decorations and a beautiful birthday cake added a decorative touch to the occasion. A number of the sisters have expressed their appreciation of Relief Society and how much the meetings mean to them." Cincinnati Stake (Ohio), Fairborn Ward Bazaar November 1966 Left to right: Janice Wise, homemaking leader; Carol Heinz, Counselor; Mitzi Brandt, President; Glenda Carlson, Counselor. Juanita E. Laurents, President, Cincinnati Stake Relief Society, reports a successful pre-Christmas bazaar which featured smocked pillows, feather flowers, appliqué tablecloths and runners, embroidered items, special "lovable" handmade toys, and wall hangings for children's rooms. Quilts, aprons, clothing, and decorative figurines were popular, and knitted and crocheted clothing for dolls was an especially "quick-selling" display. 614 Settee etn deerme pertatsnenr—re ne August 1967 'et aq } I 4 i 4X North Sacramento Stake (California), Roseville Ward Display at "Giant Sidewalk Bazaar,'' October 1966 Freda Thayne, President, North Sacramento Stake Relief Society, submits a report from the Roseville Ward Relief Society: "For the last four years, in October, the Roseville Ward Relief Society has been invited to participate in a giant bazaar. It is held on the sidewalk of the local shopping square and is for nonprofit organizations only. We have enjoyed the opportunity of not only being able to sell our needlework, crafts, and baked goods to the public, but also we feel that our participation is an exceedingly good missionary tool. We have been top prize winners each time. Last year we used a large hive as our theme. This year, we chose to pattern our booth after the poem 'Sing a Song of Sixpence,' representing a giant pie with a garden attached. We displayed our baked goods on the piecrust, and our needlework in the garden where '... The maid was hanging out the clothes.'