[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 7 | Fiction | The Golden | Chain Chapter]
[The Golden Chain Chapter]

hospitals, both to heal the body and the mind, assistance to women while in prison and after release, youth guidance work, detention homes, parent-teacher associations, to name a few. In different countries different names are given, but the work is basically the same. While these services are generally manned by salaried personnel, of necessity, for trained guidance and continuity, the success, extent, and effectiveness of the programs are dependent, in large measure, upon the good offices of volunteers. It is the people to people work which humanizes the proffered service and helps to accomplish its purposes.

As a Latter-day Saint woman becomes a mother, her time and duties are centered primarily in the home with her husband and children, but a mother who gave service to some worthwhile cause before marriage, will have become conscious of her own involvement with the community, and, in all probability, set aside time to engage as a volunteer, especially in programs which touch her children and community.

Relief Society members are trained to give service. They are trained to act upon the words given Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith "to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life." They know that they do not live on an island.

Then, when the children leave the home, the wife and mother, once again, can offer her volunteer services to that cause to which her training and interests lead her. As a member of the Church, she makes friends of others outside her own neighborhood. She further broadens her outlook on life, and may be an example to others through her dedication to service and her love for others.

There is an urgent need, at this time, for volunteers in the hospitals, for volunteers in strengthening the Church's specialized social services, and for other programs mentioned.

The great commandment is to love one's neighbor as oneself. One's neighbor may live next door or miles away. Volunteer service is soul-satisfying. Dedication to a worthwhile cause helps one to be about one's Father's business.
                                                                                    —M. C. S.

35

Notes to the Field

[ILLUSTRATION: Woman at desk writing]

Bound Volumes of 1966 Magazines

Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1966 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine, page 77.) The cost of binding the twelve issues in permanent cloth binding is $3.25, leather $5.25, including the index. A limited number of 1966 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2.00 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1966 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries.

Copies of The Relief Society Magazine index for personal binding can be secured from the General Board office for 20¢ prepaid.

Volumes bound at the Deseret News Press include a free index.


Memorial Honor Funds Discontinued

By action of the General Board on March 23, 1966, the honor funds of Relief Society to memorialize past presidents of Relief Society and others were discontinued. The Poem Contest formerly honoring Eliza R. Snow will continue as a feature of the Relief Society Magazine just as is the Relief Society Short Story Contest inaugurated in 1942 as a Centennial feature.


WAITING IS WINTER

Kathryn Kay

                    Waiting is coma,
                    Time of emptiness,
        The lonely interval between goodbye
        And the return which terminates heart-stress,
                    Releasing tight-held tears too deep to cry.
        Waiting is the interim, the hyphen
        Connecting time-was with time-yet-to-be;
        The long, long days and nights when moments siphon
        More moments while we watch helplessly . . . .
                    But waiting, also, is remembering,
                    Waiting is winter, thinking of the spring!

36

[ILLUSTRATION: March of Dimes poster showing a young child with text "PLEASE fight birth defects" and "JOIN MARCH OF DIMES"]

George P. Voss
Vice-President for Public Relations

Love works both ways. The child born less than perfect gives his love as freely as all children do. In return, he needs the kind of love that means help and hope for his future.

More than a quarter of a million babies born each year in this country need this special kind of love. They need expert medical care that can improve—and sometimes completely correct—almost eighty per cent of the serious conditions caused by birth defects.

This is the kind of care available at more than seventy-five March of Dimes Birth Defects Centers throughout the United States. Early diagnosis and proper treatment are given—tender care for those who need it most. The child born less than perfect can be helped across the barriers of disability to find a full, productive life.

Your March of Dimes contribution helps finance the Birth Defects Centers. You can help to care for the children who need your consideration and your remembrance. Your help is a measure of your love.

Fight Birth Defects — Join the March of Dimes

BEYOND THESE TEARS

Mabel Jones Gabbott

When I look back, let me remember
The lovely things and beautiful we knew:
The day we met, the ever-burning ember
Of our love, the happy times we threw
Cares to the wind and laughed together,
The hours we shared each other's heart . . .
Remembering thus, it will not matter whether
One day or two or more keep us apart;
For we will know love lasts beyond these years,
Beyond these lonely nights, beyond these tears.

37

Christmas
Begins With
a Tree

Marilyn McMeen Miller

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a Christmas tree on the left, and three figures (appears to be two children and an adult) on the right]

■ After the last string of children had skipped out into the cloak hall, gathering boots and mittens on the final strains of "Jolly Old Saint Nicolas," and the tinsel and nutshells and ribbon from the party had been swept into the baskets, everything seemed to be desperately quiet. As Miss Gold fumbled into her hat and coat, she felt tears stinging her eyes. She imagined these children going to their homes and she ached to follow them. But she saw herself cramped in her musty apartment correcting notebooks —both from her own classes and from the classes of Miss Pool who had been ill for so many days.

More at Christmas than at other times, Miss Gold reflected, life had seemed to pass her by. A boy she once loved had been killed in an automobile accident. Through the years no one else had seemed to want her for his wife. Last year her mother had died, joining her father, who had passed away many years before.

Miss Gold pulled on her gloves and jostled the stacks of papers under her arms. If only she had not promised Roberta Pool she would help her with the tedious notebooks. It seemed an extra burden just when her heart should be light and beating in time with "Jingle Bells" and "Deck the Halls With Boughs of Holly."

From the second story window of her apartment, Miss Gold saw the lights of the city sparkling far off over the hill. She stamped off her galoshes, turned up the radiator, and rubbed her hands.

There was surely some way to make Christmas possible to bear this year. Finding it was the problem. She might take in a show—she might dine at the Lantern, her favorite place to eat. But then she was tired of always going alone. There was her new ward. She recalled they were planning some kind of MIA party. But there were no single people her age. She was almost forty. No one was really interested in a wornout schoolteacher. She shuddered to realize that the years had crept up on her this way. She brushed a shock of hair from her eyes and felt the dry

38
