[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Practical | Author: Johnson]
[Practical Nursing, a Dignified Lifetime Career Maria Johnson]
Practical  Nursing,  a  Dignified 
Lifetime  Career 
Maria  Johnson,  R.N.,  BS. 
Utah  State  Consultant  for  Practical  Nurse  Education 
Formerly  Head  of  Department  of  Practical  Nursing, 
Central  Utah  Vocational  School,  Provo,  Utah 
Director  of  Nursing  Service  and  School  of  Nursing, 
Dr.  W.  H.  Grove's  Latter-day  Saints  Hospital, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
AMONG  vocations  for  women, 
practical  nursing  has  forged 
ahead  as  one  with  a  future 
that  offers  income,  security,  and 
great  satisfaction. 
Today  there  are  two  general  types 
of  nurses  providing  nursing  care  in 
hospitals  and  health  agencies,  the 
professional  or  registered  nurse  and 
the  trained  practical  nurse.  This 
trained  practical  nurse  is  not  to  be 
confused  with  the  practical  nurse 
of  yesterday,  who  may  have  complet- 
ed a  short  course  in  nursing  or  may 
have  been  untrained,  having  picked 
up  some  nursing  skills  as  she  cared 
for  her  own  family  or  gave  a  helping 
hand  to  a  neighbor. 
Many  factors  in  our  society  have 
combined  to  make  -an  increased 
number  of  nurses,  both  professional 
and  practical,  essential  to  the  health 
of  our  communities  and  nation.  To- 
day there  are  430,000  active  regis- 
tered nurses,  yet  50,000  more  are 
needed.  A  recent  survey  showed 
two  and  one-half  million  people,  one 
out  of  every  sixty  Americans,  receiv- 
ing some  kind  of  nursing  care  daily. 
To  help  solve  the  vital  need  for 
nurses,  practical  nursing  schools 
have  been  established.  These  schools 
provide  an  approved  educational  pro- 
gram in  which  the  student  is  pre- 
Page  658 
pared  to  share  in  the  care  of  the 
sick,  in  rehabilitation,  and  in  the 
prevention  of  illness.  Upon  gradua- 
tion she  takes  her  place  as  a  highly 
respected  member  of  the  health 
team,  working  with  and  under  the 
supervision  of  a  registered  nurse  or 
doctor,  in  providing  nursing  care  in 
hospitals,  in  homes,  in  doctors'  of- 
fices, and  in  public  health  agencies. 
She  is  prepared  for  her  job  and  has 
the  confidence  of  the  public  and 
those  with  whom  she  works. 
These  approved  schools,  unknown 
before  World  War  II,  now  number 
500  and  every  state  and  territory  has 
a  licensing  law. 
The  National  Association  for 
Practical  Nurse  Education,  the  Na- 
tional League  for  Nursing,  the 
American  Nurses'  Association,  and 
the  United  States  Office  of  Educa- 
tion have  worked  together  to  pro- 
mote sound  educational  programs. 
Standards  have  been  set  up  and 
curriculum  guides  prepared  to  help 
the  schools  meet  basic  requirements 
for  preparing  practical  nurses  to 
take  their  place  on  the  nursing  team. 
Most  of  these  programs  are  for 
twelve  full  months.  A  few  require 
eighteen  months. 
The  confidence  the  public  has 
come  to  ha\'e  in  these  graduates,  is