[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science—Weighed in the Balances | Author: John Farr Larson]
Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life
Lesson 17—Weighed in the Balances
Elder John Farr Larson
For Tuesday, January 27, 1959

Objective: To learn of the factors which influence deviate behavior, and how they may be used advantageously in the prevention and treatment of juvenile delinquency.

LATTER-DAY Saints, with their concepts of family life and regard for human values, are vitally interested in the problems of wayward youth. Those who tread the path of perfection and exaltation move ever onward and upward and, by their faithfulness, they are blessed. But what of the one who falls from the path? May he be restored? What protection is afforded those whose walk is faltering?

The Gospel Plan, given to help man overcome the enemies of his soul, contains strong influence to prevent delinquency and to restore those who have erred. It is natural, therefore, for Latter-day Saints to be interested in the causes of deviate behavior, preventive steps, and the help which is available for those who have been imprudent.

What is a delinquent child? In law, a delinquent child is one who commits an act, which, if committed by an adult, would be a crime. A crime is an act, or omission to act, constituting an offense against the community or state. A crime may include the violation of personal rights, but the offender must answer to the public authority for his act or omission.

In this lesson we shall follow no technical definition of delinquency, but rather concern ourselves broadly with wrongdoing.

The Why of Delinquency

A perplexed expression and the time-worn question "Why?" usually characterize the reaction to crime. This may be experienced by a mother or father whose child has done wrong, by those who know of the offender or his crime, and often as not, by the offender himself.

Dereliction is often perplexing, yet considerable knowledge is available on why some individuals violate the established rules of conduct. Knowledge of causes is important, for it provides helpful clues in reformation and suggests steps to keep us in the path of innocence.

The causative factors of delinquency have certain characteristics, which, in summary form, are:

1. There is no single cause of delinquency, rather the causes are multiple.

2. Causes of delinquency are personal in the sense that a given factor will not influence two persons in exactly the same way. No two persons are alike. No two persons experience the same environment. To understand misbehavior, therefore, we must know the individual as well as his environment. An individual's behavior is also purposeful. Behavior from the view of the offender is rational. He generally acts to satisfy a need such as to make himself happier or more comfortable.

3. The offense is not necessarily indicative of the problem. To illustrate, the impulse to steal may come from a variety of stimulations. One child may steal to compensate for an inferiority. Another because of a lack of proper training. Many children steal to obtain the attention of a parent. Some of these children are clumsily reaching out in this way for a parental expression of love. The desire to have and possess sometimes stimulates theft. Possession of things gives status to some children.

Multiple causation in behavior makes it difficult to lay down specific principles which may be followed in dealing with the infringements of youth. Therefore, as we consider particular situations and problems, keep in mind that many other facets affect the individual, and that a diagnosis cannot be made without considering all of them.

Personal Factors

An important factor in behavior is the physical body. Personality conflicts often develop when physical growth fails to follow the normal course and, even with normal growth, the attendant anxieties and feelings of insecurity often produce rather serious conflicts. Some persons are embarrassed at their small stature. Others are stimulated by their strength and physique. Normal physical growth greatly affects the personality. During adolescence, for instance, when growth and social development come at such a rapid pace, most youngsters get feelings of inferiority and anxiety. Often these feelings are contributing factors in wrongdoing.

Physical defects often suggest inferiority feelings and, to compensate, some persons perform acts which are deviations from rectitude. Delinquent behavior may result from deep personal conflicts which arise in a variety of ways.

The need to grow intellectually and to give expression to this drive is so strong that any attempt to thwart it, or even failure to encourage it, often results in uncommendable intellectual achievement. Mental capacity influences behavior. Mentally superior persons are known to get into trouble because they have far too little to keep them challenged and busy. Persons of low mentality are less likely to misbehave but are easily led by others. Some, who are mentally retarded, are unable fully to sense right from wrong.

The social development of children primarily involves steps towards independence. This development follows a normal course with individual variations, but, when it is unduly accelerated or retarded, the probability of problems is greatly increased. The child who feels socially inadequate is often observed to seek success, of a kind, by his misdeeds.

Failure to provide a climate for spiritual growth diverts the individual into unwholesome activity. Spiritual growth, which comes from a close association with Deity through prayer, knowledge of God and his ways, and by living consistent with God's teachings, makes life meaningful by providing a goal.