[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
literature, music, and art for their children. Satisfaction in play is all-important in the life of a child. Versatile parents will provide ideas and opportunities for children to have wholesome fun within the home and will "cement" parent-child relationships in so doing. The Church. The Church can play a vital role in dealing with the wrongdoer. Some of the major contributions of the Church might be summarized as follows: 1. The Church fortifies the individual against wrongdoing. This is done by teaching regard for other persons and respect for their rights; by helping young people to identify fundamental values in human behavior, as opposed to current fads; and by teaching them the true meaning of life. 2. The Church provides excellent opportunities for wholesome associations and spiritualized recreation. 3. The Church, through its leadership, provides wise counsel to Church members, encouragement to improve, and help in overcoming problems. Because the Church is so certainly on the side of right, we cannot permit the power of its influence to be lessened by our actions nor permit confusion regarding it to enter the hearts of our children. In this reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 spect, the following principles are suggested: 1. The Church and its teachings must be respected by parents so as to be respected by children. Parents should so conduct themselves as to leave no question that they stand squarely behind the Church and its teachings. 2. The teachings of the Church must be promulgated in such an_ interesting fashion that children will want the influence of the Church. 3. Church participation must not be unpleasant or used as a threat to the child. This is not to say that the consequences of wrongdoing should be withheld from the child. On the contrary, they should be taught to face squarely the realities of wrongdoing. The Role of the Community Membership in a community entails obligation. We can influence community environment and our influence should, therefore, be felt. The character and variety of our amusements have so much to do with the welfare and character of our young people that they should be guarded with the utmost jealousy for the preservation of the morals and stamina of the youth of Zion (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 321). We should work to eliminate places where young people can get into trouble, the "hangouts" and "dens of ill talk" and "ill thought," and all corrupt activities. We should encourage wholesome recreation and activities which provide opportunities for intellectual, social, and spiritual growth and development. We should create in each child a consciousness of a community responsibility to act in a fashion consistent with the laws of the land, the accepted culture, and the teachings of God. Health, recreational, and educational services should be such that LESSON DEPARTMENT each contributes to the healthy personality development of each child in the community. This implies sound planning and wise execution of plans. Special Services for Delinquent Children The delinquent child should be treated as society's charge, not its outcast. Such a concept contemplates a variety of diagnostic and treatment services to unravel the skein of delinquent behavior. Many professional persons are called upon in the performance of these tasks. They include doctors, lawyers, dentists, psychiatrists, psychologists, and social workers. The social work profession deserves special mention. It is this profession which provides persons trained in the undertanding and direction of human _ behavior. Social workers serve as probation officers, case workers, recreational and institutional workers. The best services of professionally trained persons are provided by those who have a genuine love re children and a desire to help them attain desirable goals. In order to do a reasonably adequate job of dealing with delinquent youth, the following services are essential: 1. Juvenile Courts which have a philosophy of seeking the ""Why"' of behavior, and having sought and found the "Why," to apply the appropriate measures and services to restore the child to accepted behavior. 2. Good probation services. This contemplates persons professionally trained in social work, case loads which permit adequate time on each case, and adequate administrative and technical supervision of probation officers. 3. Proper detention facilities. This foresecs a wholesome place, adequate super- 709 vision, and a proper philosophy. Detention is intended not as a place of punishment, but rather one of safekeeping, if needed, while awaiting appearance in court, return to home, or to protect the child against himself. 4. Specialized diagnostic and treatment facilities are needed for children who are extremely emotionally disturbed. In many communities this takes the form of a child guidance clinic, staffed with a psychiatrist, psychological and _ psychiatric-social work services. 5. Case work services. Delinquent children and their parents often need professional help in understanding one another. Case work services are needed for delinquent children in their own homes and for those who are placed in foster homes. The selection and supervision of a good foster home is a technical job. 6. Some delinquent children require institutional care. Such institutions should be more than places of human storage, they should be equipped to meet the special treatment and training needs of their wards. A deterrent to the acceptance of an enlightened philosophy of dealing with delinquent behavior is the feeling that a person who commits crime should be punished. Based upon the Mosaic law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, this view has a rational basis. One of the most effective ways of teaching is to learn realistic behavioral limits. The normal child who disobeys his parents and is punished finds punishment disagreeable and is thus impelled to conform to his parents' wishes. The child who touches a hot stove learns the foolishness of his conduct. A delinquent child, however, does not always respond in a rational way. Indeed, his delinquency itself may be an irrational response. Since delinquency stems from a variety of causes, including, in some cases, a resentment against unwise punishment or the use of 710 Use O>r Zz ame ddress ity & State Music Suggested for Use by Relief Societies in Connection With Course on America's Literature - BEAUTIFUL SAVIOUR 0. -16 NOW THANK WE ALL OUR GOD.20 O BREAD OF LIFE I 10 O SACRED HEAD NOW WOUNDED 15 PRAISE TO THE LORD ww. 16 I LOVE THY KINGDOM _ WW 16 ALL MY HEART THIS NIGHT REJOICES = 20 MY GOD, HOW WONDERFUL.16 WE THANK THEE, JESUS, DEAREST FRIEND 16 LAMB OF GOD, PURE AND HOLY.18 GOD THE FATHER, BE OUR STAY.18 ONCE HE CAME IN BLESSING.25 AND WITH

SONGS, I WILL CELEBRATE 25 JOSEPH, DEAREST JOSEPH MINE.22 THE LORD, MY GOD, BE PRAISED.22 Music Sent on Approval this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. LJ On Approval CO Charge CJ Money Enclosed —— a mmm lst South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVOe Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 authority, we must realize that punishment must be used wisely and knowingly, if it is to be used effectively. Ce tules out punishment for punishment's sake alone. Let us not get a distorted view of our youth. 'That there is too much delinquency is undebatable. 'The constant publication of delinquency data has a tendency to blacken all young people. While most young people have problems, as they mature, by far the great majority of them are not only law-abiding citizens but they are making unusually commendable contributions to the communities in which they live. Let us, therefore, approach the problems of delinquency with care and searching inquiry, with resistance against delinquent acts but with understanding of the individual, without vengeance. Let us take advantage of the things we know help prevent delinquent behavior; help each person to learn and live an acceptable pattern; and for those who do wrong, seek to provide adequate services to assist them in solvying their problems. If this be our approach, our children will not be found wanting when "weighed in the balances." Questions for Discussion. List some of the offenses which fall — the delinquency category? How can they be avoided? 2. Why is it important to be aware of the services available in our various communities for dealing with delinquency?. Why is a child's school adjustment an <ilidiginst factor in his behavior pattern? Discuss reading skill in particular. LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. Why do we prefer to say "children with problems" rather than "problem children" when speaking of youth who have erred? 5. How can parents "stay close" to their children? 6. Why is it important for parents to know where their children are and what they are doing at all times? 7. Discuss: Children love discipline. Supplementary References 1. Gospel Ideals, Davin O. McKay, chapter 31, page 402. 2. "The Wayward," STEPHEN L RicuArps, The Improvement Era, June 1957, ee) 392. 3. "The Prodigal Son," Davin O. McKay The Improvement Era, February 1958, page 79. 4. "Cleanliness," Emma Ray Riccs McKay, The Relief Society Magazine, November 1957, page 716. 5- "Getting Tough Doesn't Help," EvizaBeETH McCain, National ParentTeacher, March 1957, page 5. 6. "Helping Children Solve Problems," Science Research Association, Inc., 57 W. Grand Avenue, Chicago 10, Illinois, 40 cents per copy. 7. "Back to What Woodshed?" Public Affairs Pamphlet, 22 East 38th Street, New York 16, New York, (No. 232, 2 cents each). 8. "Wanted: Someone to Trust," JERE Merritt, reprint from Woman's Home Companion, September 1955, National Probation and Parole Association, 1790 Broadway, New York 19, New York. 9. "A Style of Our Own" (dress standards), SPENCER W. KIMBALL." 10. "Our President Speaks,' Davip O. McKay.* 11. "Your Coat of Armor," Harotp B. Iain * 12. "Strength Through Clean Living," Mark E. Petersen.* *Y. W. M. I. A., 40 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah, 10 cents each, $1 per dozen, $6 per 100. 711 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 mites 35 150 to 300 miles — 39 300 to 600 miles W ee 45 600 to 1000 miles 0 -2- -54 1000 to 1400 miles 0- --...64 1400 to 1800 miles — 0002 202.. 76 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah m 2 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 Birthday Congratulations