[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 01 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: Children in Relief Society Marianne C. Sharp]
North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 38, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Whom and Where Will You Marry? F1Ray L. Christiansen Assistant to the Council of the Twelve President, Salt Lake Temple wholesome couple, who after their marriage had come into the Church as converts, came recently with their family of young children to the temple to receive their endowments and_ to be sealed as a familv. 'They had come from a distant city. The husband made it known that his wife was suffering from a disease which ls considered incurable. It was a real struggle for her to gather sufficient strength for the temple services. But when she and her husband kneeled at the altar and were there sealed as husband and wife forever, a smile of deep satisfaction came over her beautiful countenance. Then when her young children, dressed in white, were conducted into the sealing room, she wept with joy. After the children had been sealed to their parents and the family were promised that if they were faithful, they should come forth in the resurrection as a family, she said quietly to them, "It doesn't matter now. We'll be together again and forever. It doesn't matter now!" Well, no doubt it didn't matter nearly so much as it would have if that family had not had the wisdom to act and not procrastinate; to take hold of their blessings while they were obtainable. The assurance that there would be a grand family reunion, even though some members of the family were taken by death, Page 644 gave that father and mother, as well as their children, the courage and the fortitude to meet the hazards of life., To be together forever with those you love most! What a blessing! What comfort! What anticipation! Sealing of families for time and eternity is one of the greatest blessings that ever was conferred upon the human family. Yet it is a principle which has always existed with God. If in this life only we have the hope of association with our companions and with our children, the purpose of rearing families would be comparatively meaningless. We are living not merely for the moment, but for eternity. Our temples, those costly structures which have been built in the past and which will continue to be built, are prepared primarily as sanctuaries wherein ordinances and powers may be given to make possible the perpetuity of home and family — wherein husband and wife and children may be bound in an everlasting union transcending the limitations of this mortal life. What a meaning this principle gives to marriage; to the home and to the family! 'To preserve the family relationship here and hereafter is, perhaps, the most important purpose of life, and of the gospel. That such relationships and associations hereafter should be possible is consistent WHOM AND WHERE WILL YOU MARRY? With reason. All righteous parents, all righteous people have a natural, inborn desire to associate forever with those they love. But it is consistent, also, to believe that we must conform to the laws and to the conditions that make such associations possible. God is a God of order; a God of law and not of confusion. For all who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were imstituted from before the foundation of the world (D & C 132:5). F course, the time to be married right is when we are married. Surely the Lord delights in seeing our Father's children take hold of their blessings as soon as they are made aware of their availability. Some couples, like the one mentioned in the beginning, are married before they are made acquainted with the principle of marriage for eternity. In these cases permission is given for such people to enter the temple and receive their blessings after civil marriage, provided they are living lives that are worthy in every way to do so. 'Temple ordinances for the dead are intended for those who have died without a knowledge of the gospel, but who would have accepted it had they been permitted to live. 'Those who have been taught the necessity of entering the temple, there to receive the ordinances of the endowment and of sealing and then through indifference refuse or neglect to do so, are placing in jeopardy the exalted status that could be theirs in the life to come. Indeed, now is the day of our salvation! 645 Through the prophet Amulck the Lord has said very pointedly: For behold, this life is the time for men to prepare to meet God; yea, behold the day of this life is the day for men to per form their labors. For after this day of life, which is given us to prepare for eternity, behold, if we do not improve our time while in this life, then cometh the night of darkness wherein there can be no labor performed... (Alma 3: 32939) - The people to whom Amulek was speaking had had the gospel taught to them. They knew what was expected of them if they qualified themselves for the fulness of joy in the life to come. We have in this life opportunity to repent and to prepare ourselves (if we do not delay that repenting too long), but none of us may expect to have a second chance to live our mortal lives. Someone has wisely said: "Now is the time to take hold of your blessings." Not long ago a sixteen-year-old girl was asked to speak in one of the sessions of a quarterly conference. She had been given only ten minutes to clear her mind and evaluate her blessings. With deep feeling she said, "I am grateful for wise parents. They have carefully helped me to chart my course in life. Many times my mother has encouraged me to live a pure life so that I could look forward to entering the temple in a few years. Whenever I have gone on a date I have, upon returning home, sort of 'reported in.' Even though my parents might have retired, I usually sit on the side of their bed and tell them everything. My desire is to be married worthily in the temple to a boy worthy of taking me there and I don't want to do anything that would disqualify me." 646 HAT a blessing to children are parents wise enough and sufficiently concerned to counsel with their children and warn them against the pitfalls of life; parents who explain the blessings the temple brings, and who inspire their children to look forward to entering one of these holy places in worthiness. In giving counsel to the members of the Church, Brigham Young said: Be careful, O ye mothers in Israel, and do not teach your daughters in future, as many of them have been taught, to marry out of Israel. Woe to you who do it; you will lose your crowns as sure as God lives (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 196). If parents do not take the pains to teach their children all of the principles of the gospel as soon as they are old enough, the condemnation will be upon the parents. 'To teach our children "... The doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands," and other principles of the gospel, including the principle of eternal marriage, is a strict commandment of the Lord (D & C 68:25). In this teaching of children, fathers and mothers must not rely entirely upon the Church to direct the thinking and the lives of their children. 'The Church can only supplement the efforts of the parents, and it is not sufficient that parents merely admonish now and again. What we wish our children to seek must be spelled out in the lives of their parents. Even though our sons and our daughters may forget much of what they hear, they will never forget that which they feel. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 The emphasis that parents place upon the things of life has a lasting effect upon the children. If, therefore, our sons and our daughters know that we place highest in the values of life the blessings received in the temple; if children see their parents living on a high plane, keeping all the while the commandments, and observing the laws of God, it will have a lasting effect upon them. As a rule, the teaching that is done by exemplary living has a greater impact upon the lives of children than does any other form of teaching. One can preach a better sermon with his life than with his lips. While living proper lives, parents should actually teach the relative values and blessings extended in connection with marriage in the temple with those received elsewhere. 'This can be done without discussing the sacred temple ordinances themselves. At least, young people should understand the fact that when members of the Church are married outside of the temple they can be married only for the duration of their lives in the flesh, and that when they die their martriage ceases to exist, even if they are worthy to enter the celestial kingdom. For, if they are permitted to enter into that kingdom, they do so as servants, not as sons and daughters. They are not entitled to nor qualified for the fulness of the celestial kingdom. 'The Lord has said of these: Therefore, when they are out of the world they neither marry nor are given in marriage; but are appointed angels in heaven; which angels are ministering servants, to minister for those who are worthy of a far more, and an exceeding, and an eternal weight of glory. WHOM AND WHERE WILL YOU MARRY? For these angels did not abide my laws; therefore, they cannot be enlarged, but remain separately and singly, without exaltation, in their saved condition, to all eternity; and from henceforth are not gods, but are angels of God forever and ever (D & C 132:16-17). In light of this revelation the thought may enter the minds of some as to the status of those unmarned women who would have entered into the marriage covenant but have not had opportunity to do so, under the proper conditions. I take the liberty to quote here a beautiful statement made by President Joseph Fielding Smith in regard to this. Said he: You good sisters, who are single and alone, do not fear, do not feel that blessings are going to be withheld from you. You are not under any obligation or necessity of accepting some proposal that comes to you which is distasteful for fear you will come under condemnation. If in your hearts you feel that the gospel is true, and would under proper conditions receive these ordinances and sealing blessings in the temple of the Lord; and that is your faith and your hope and your desire, and that does not come to you now; the Lord will make it up, and you shall be blessed — for no blessing shall be withheld. The Lord will judge you according to the desires of your hearts when blessings are withheld in this life, and he is not going to condemn you for that which you cannot help (Elijah the Prophet and His Mission, page 32). Our sons and daughters should be helped to understand that "marriage is ordained of God," as stated in the 49th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Marriage is designed for noble and lofty purposes, the chief of which is to bring forth children in honor and to teach them to love the Lord. The sacredness and decency of marriage must be 647 impressed upon our boys and girls. Thoughtless, hasty marriages usually flounder in regrets and sorrow. Therefore we must advocate high standards of courtship, the choosing of mates with similar standards and comparable religious views. GPEAKING to a large audience of young people assembled in the tabernacle a few years ago, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Of the First Presidency gave this warning: You young people are trifling with your divine destiny, you are treating lightly a great commandment, you are casting aside as dross the greatest opportunity that comes into your life, when you fail or refuse to be married in our temples where husband and wife may be sealed for time and for all eternity by the man bearing the Holy Priesthood of God. A civil marriage — and that is all that any marriage is that is performed outside the temple — merely legalizes marital relationship. It has none of the effects of a sealing for time and eternity. If you young people think enough of one another to marry at all, you should love one another enough to wish to perpetuate your association forever. If you do not think enough of one another for that, you may well hesitate long before you go forward in life otherwise. The situation is not changed by having your bishop or president of your stake or some ex-bishop friend, or like person, perform the ceremony for time. All these are civil marriages only. When two souls have a true regard for each other, a genuine affection — not merely that which is sometimes called love, but which is merely physical attraction — when they are really united in spirit with the same lofty ideals and standards, loving each other, trusting each other, having respect and admiration for each other, with sincere recognition of virtue and honor, loving the 648 good and the beautiful, having a disposition and a firm desire to avoid the weaknesses of the mortal flesh; when such people are thus joined together and sealed according to the ordinances and ceremony which the Lord has instituted, there is something reassuring and joyous in the thought that though death may part them, yet in the resurrection they shall come forth and enjoy the fulness of the blessings of the family relationship. These living souls will go on increasing in that affection and love and admiration and power and dominion and even to exaltation. Their family will continue forever. There will be no more parting because there will be no more death. Happiness and joy will abound. They will find themselves in the presence of God, the Father, and of Christ, the Son, and holy beings of that degree. 'They will associate and participate in all that is good and great and elevating, and _ all eternity will be opened to them, and they will comprehend the workings and the designs of God, and the mysteries of God will be unfolded unto them. They will, in fact, live in a state of never-ending happtness. Of course, these blessings are realized only when we seek them and, as the Lord has said, "When ye abide in my covenant." My what disappointment, what regret, what remorse, will be felt by those who, because of neglect or indifference, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 fail or refuse to enter into the marriage covenant according to the way God has designed it! But those who receive these powers in worthiness, and abide by them, shall arise when the Lord shall call them, and they will be Christ's at his coming. In the words of President Charles W. Penrose:. He will call our sleeping dust to life, and they will (still) be joined together, not only in spirit and body, but as happy parents they will come together again, standing at the head of their posterity as Adam and Eve will stand at the head of the multitude who are quickened and raised from the dead. Whom will you marry? Where will you marry? Where will you live after you die? These are questions which each individual must answer. But the Lord has given a plan for eternal success and happiness. This is the great day of temple building in the Church. Because of the deep concern of the First Presidency, three temples have been built in foreign lands within the past three years in addition to the beautiful one erected in Los Angeles, California. Our beloved President David O. McKay has traveled many thousands of miles to dedicate these sacred and holy temples that the blessings of the Lord may be poured forth upon the saints, making possible, even for those in many foreign countries, to become endowed and sealed as families forevermore. Let us take hold of our blessings "while the day lasts."