[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
684 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1958 
Photograph   submitted  by   Erma   L.   Snowberger 
WILLAMETTE  STAKE   (OREGON)    SINGING  MOTHERS  PRESENT  MUSIC 
FOR  STAKE  QUARTERLY  CONFERENCE,  April  13,  1958 
Made  Evans,  the  chorister,  and  Erma  Gibson,  accompanist,  are   standing   in   the 
center,  front,  left  to  right. 
Erma  L.  Snowberger  is  president  of  \\'illamette  Stake  Relief  Society. 
Photograph  submitted  by   Pearl   A.  Heaton 
CACHE  STAKE  (UTAH),  LOGAN  NINTH  WARD  ANNIVERSARY  PARTY 
March  15,  1958 
Lucille  S.  Binns,  President,  Logan  Ninth  Ward  Relief  Society,  reports:  "This 
social  was  planned  around  the  theme  Birthdays.  Many  no\el  and  original  ideas  in  table 
decorations  were  used  on  the  twelve  tables,  each  one  arranged  to  represent  a  month  of 
the  year.  The  one  hundred  members  and  special  guests  \\  ere  seated  at  tables  representing 
their  birthday  months.  This  idea  created  a  friendly  atmosphere  and  informal  con- 
versation as  the  sisters  compared  birthdays  and  enjoyed  a  delicious  turkey  dinner  pre- 
pared by  chairman  Melba  Johnson  and  the  following  committee  members:  Mabel 
Michaelson,  Verna  Call,  Lucinda  Larsen,  Rita  Raymond,  Ruth  Mae  Watkins,  Carma 
Spencer,  Veta  Winget,  Louise  Nebeker,  Annie  Keetch,  and  LaPreal  McCrary.

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
685 
"Toasts  and  tributes  to  each  month  of  tlic  year  eleverly  written  in  verse  by  Cnrma 
Speneer  were  given  by  Margaret  W'ooHams,  Afton  Hansen,  Elsie  llul)bard,  LaPreal  Me- 
Crary,  LuGene  Sorenson,  Luana  Merrill,  Joy  Allen,  Emma  T^elix,  Lois  Moser,  Sylvia 
Loosli,  Lynette  Carter,  and  Belle  Prince.  Bonnis  Seeholzer  delighted  the  group  with 
three  lovely  soprano  solos.  Iler  accompanist  was  Lynette  Carter.  Virginia  Lee  touched 
briefly  on  the  true  spirit  of  Relief  Society  and  then  introduced  Ruth  Croff,  who  related 
the  events  and  organization  of  the  first  Relief  Society  meeting.  Clara  Bcrnston  gave 
an  informati\e  review  of  the  history  of  the  Logan  Ninth  Ward  Relief  Societ\-  and  paid 
tribute  to  former  presidents  who  ha\e  passed  away. 
"The  living  past  presidents  of  the  ward  are:  Iris  Harris,  Ann  Call,  Pearl  Heaton, 
Mary  Noble,  Stella  Israelson,  Helen  Hickman,  and  Lucille  Binns.  They  were  presented 
with  gifts  and  honored  with  tributes." 
Pearl  A.  Heaton  is  president  of  Cache  Stake  Relief  Society. 
Photograph   submitted  by   Alta   H.   Taylor 
CALIFORNIA  MISSION,  YUMA  DISTRICT  MSITING  TEACHERS 
HONORED  AT  VISITING  TEACHERS  CONVENTION,  March  15,  1958 
Left  to  right:  Bell  Miller,  oldest  Relief  Society  teacher;  Mamie  Scott,  youngest 
teacher;  Louise  WestONcr,  District  Relief  Society  President;  Grace  Angus,  District  \isit- 
ing  teacher  leader;  Tasma  Dansie,  forty  years  of  service;  Henrietta  Allen,  highest  per 
cent  attendance. 
Alta  H.  Taylor,  former  president,  California  Mission  Relief  Society,  reports:  "This 
district  was  organized  into  the  Yuma  Stake  March  27,  1958,  with  Louise  S.  \\'esto\er  as 
stake  Relief  Society  President." 
Lela  Lee  Udall  is  the  recently  appointed  president  of  the  California  Mission  Re- 
lief Society.

LESSJON   DEPARTMENT 
cJheolog^ — The  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Lesson   12— A  Message  From  Him  Who  Is  Eternal 
Elder  Roy  W.  Doxey 
(Text:  The  Doetrine  and  Covenants,  Section  19) 
For  Tuesday,  January  6,   1959 
Objective:     To  indicate   that  by   modern   rexelation   the   Lord   has   leavened  the 
religious  world. 
Revelation  to  Martin  Harris 
OEVELATIONS  111  The  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  are  better  under- 
stood if  information  is  known  con- 
cerning their  historical  background. 
Although  Section  ig  is  one  of  the 
most  important  doctrinal  revelations 
received  by  the  Prophet,  we  do  not 
ha\'e  specific  information  about  its 
origin.  In  other  sections  of  this 
book  of  scripture,  we  have  become 
acquainted  with  some  facts  about 
Martin  Harris  to  whom  this  re\'ela- 
tion  was  addressed  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  It  is  appar- 
ent from  the  revelation  that  the 
Lord  felt  the  necessity  to  call  Martin 
to  repentance  at  this  time.  (See 
verses  13,  20.)  Although  he  had  re- 
ceived the  blessing  of  being  one  of 
the  Three  Witnesses,  it  appears  that 
he  had  yet  to  learn  obedience  and 
to  be  reminded  of  the  suffering 
which  comes  from  nonrepentance 
(verse  15).  The  reference  in  the 
Page  686 
last  part  of  verse  20  to  the  time 
when  the  Lord  withdrew  his  spirit 
from  Martin,  which  caused  him  to 
suffer,  may  have  reference  to  the 
time  when  the  translated  portion  of 
The  Book  of  Mormon  was  lost.  (See 
D  &  C  Sections  3  and  10.) 
Important  Doctrinal  Teachings 
Although  Section  19  has  much  to 
say  to  and  about  Martin  Harris,  it 
is  a  revelation,  among  many  others, 
which  emphasizes  important  doc- 
trinal teachings.  At  the  outset  there 
is  revealed  the  truth  that  Jesus  is 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the 
Great  I  AM  or  Jehovah,  as  he  was 
known  in  the  Old  Testament.  (See 
verse  1.)  Because  he  did  the  will 
of  the  Father  in  becoming  the 
Atoner  for  mankind,  Jesus  is  able 
to  destroy  Satan  and  his  works  at 
the  end  of  the  world  (verses  2,  3). 
There  follows  in  this  revelation 
the  familiar  scriptural   standard  of