[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The New | Author: Nibley]
[The New Zealand South Mission Preston R. Nibley]

ment. It is probably sufficient here to remind ourselves that when we know the extent of the suffering of Jesus, we should appreciate more fully the love which he and the Father have for us in providing by the atonement an opportunity to escape from an endless misery, as subjects of Satan. (See 2 Nephi 9:6-27, especially verses 7-9, 21; Alma 42:14-15; Luke 22:44; Mosiah 3:7). It would be impossible for anyone to describe adequately the great suffering of Jesus as he took upon himself the sins of mankind. President John 'Taylor has given us a description of Jesus' suffering: The suffermg of the Son of God was not simply the suffering of personal death; for in assuming the position that He did in making an atonement for the sins of the world He bore the weight, the responsibility, and the burden of the sins of all men, which, to us, is incomprehensible. Groaning beneath this concentrated load, this intense, incomprehensible _pressure, this terrible exaction of Divine justice, from which feeble humanity shrank, and through the agony thus experienced sweating great drops of blood, He was led to exclaim, "Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me."" He had wrestled with the superincumbent load in the wilderness, He had struggled against the powers of darkness that had been let loose upon him there; placed below all things, LESSON DEPARTMENT His mind surcharged with agony and pain, lonely and apparently helpless and forsaken, in his agony the blood oozed from His pores. 'Thus rejected by His own, attacked by the powers of darkness, and seemingly forsaken by His God, on the cross He bowed beneath the accumulated Joad, and cried out in anguish, "My God, why hast thou forsaken me!" When death approached to relieve Him from His hormble position, a ray of hope appeared through the abyss of darkness with which He had been surrounded, and in a spasm of relief, seeing the bright future beyond, He said, "It is finished! Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit" (Mediation and Atonement, pages 146-147). Two Plans The benefit of the atonement for personal salvation arises out of our obedience to the laws and commandments of the gospel. 'The forgiveness of sins comes to us by this obedience to the ordinances of the gospel and by enduring to the end, walking in obedience to the commandments. (See 3 Nephi 27:13-21; D & C 18:22.) When we contemplate the great love which God has for mankind in providing redemption through the plan of life and salvation, we may also exclaim with Lehi's son Jacob, as recorded in 2 Nephi, chapter g: O the wisdom of God, grace! O how great the goodness of our God! O how great the plan of our God!... O the greatness and the justice of our God! O the greatness of the mercy of our God, the Holy One of Israel!... O how great the holiness of our God! (2 Nephi 9:8 ff.) his mercy and On the other hand, there is the cunning plan of the evil one. In Jacob's exhortation, he reminds his brethren to: 691. Remember the awfulness in transgressing against that Holy God, and also the awfulness of yielding to the enticings of that cunning one. Remember, to be carnally -minded is death, and to be spiritually-minded is life eternal (2 Nephi 9:39). Do you feel as Jacob felt in expressing his gratitude to God for the Gospel Plan?