[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Gladys | Author: Board]
[Gladys Sessions Boyer Released From the General Board]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
687 
judgment:  namely,  that  all  men  will 
be  judged  according  to  their  works. 
(See  D  &  C  19:3;  Revelation  20:13.) 
But  verses  4  through  12  make 
known  an  important  doctrinal  con- 
cept of  the  character  of  God.  The 
importance  of  this  doctrine  is  best 
indicated  in  the  historical  back- 
ground in  which  it  was  given.  When 
one  knows  the  beliefs  of  Joseph 
Smith's  period  concerning  hell  and 
punishment,  he  is  prepared  to  un- 
derstand how  the  modern  Prophet's 
theological  teachings  paved  the  wav 
for  a  far  nobler  understanding  of 
God  than  that  conceived  by  an  apos- 
tate world.  It  was  not  that  Joseph 
Smith  had  discovered  these  theo- 
logical teachings  in  the  Bible,  but 
rather  that  the  Lord  revealed  them 
to  him.  There  is  another  phase  of 
this  subject  which  is  important  to 
realize.  It  is  that  a  change  has  come 
about  in  the  Christian  world  rela- 
tive to  the  doctrine  of  hell  and  pun- 
ishment that,  sometimes,  makes  it 
difficult  for  some  Latter-day  Saints 
of  this  generation  to  appreciate  fully 
the  message  given  by  the  Savior  in 
the  First  Vision.  Some  may  find  it 
difficult  to  understand  why  the  Lord 
would  say  to  the  inquiring  boy  Jo- 
seph Smith  that  he  must  join  none 
of  the  churches: 
...  for  they  were  all  wrong,  and  the 
personage  who  addressed  me  said  that  all 
their  creeds  were  an  abomination  in  His 
sight:  that  those  professors  were  all  cor- 
rupt; that  "they  draw  near  to  me  with 
their  hps,  but  their  hearts  are  far  from 
me;  they  teach  for  doctrines  the  com- 
mandments of  men:  ha\ing  a  form  of 
godliness,  but  they  deny  the  power  there- 
of (D.  H.  C.  1:6). 
''Chiistian'  Doctiine  Changed 
That  a  decided  change  has  come 
during  the  past  century  in  Christian 
thinking  relative  to  hell  and  pun- 
ishment is  well  expressed  bv  George 
Harris  in  A  Century's  Change  in 
Religion.  He  says  that  everlasting 
punishment  is  seldom  mentioned  in 
the  pulpit  now  (1914);  that  ''hell" 
is  seldom  uttered.  The  concept  of 
a  morally  ruined  man  has  come  to 
be  considered  as  the  character  being 
debased,  rather  than  of  extreme 
physical  suffering.  He  states  that 
the  unquenchable  fire,  the  worm 
that  does  not  die,  are  belie\'cd  to 
mean  corrosion  and  decay. 
The  ''AhonnnabJe"  Doctrine 
But  when  did  this  new  thought 
arise?  Several  decades  after  the  days 
of  Joseph  Smith,  even  as  late  as  the 
last  quarter  of  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, theologians  were  teaching  a 
doctrine  which  was  an  abomination 
in  the  Lord's  sight.  Just  what  was 
that  doctrine? 
Some  ideas  held  then  and  to  some 
extent  today  were  brought  to  the 
attention  of  people  in  England  as 
\\'ell  as  the  United  States  by  the 
Dean  of  Canterbury  in  a  series  of 
sermons  delivered  in  Westminster 
Abbey,  No\'ember  and  December 
1877.  In  the  Preface  to  his  book 
Eternal  Hope,  Dr.  F.  W.  Farrar 
states  that  the  common  \'iew  is  ( 1 ) 
that  at  death  there  is  passed  upon 
every  impenitent  sinner  an  irrevers- 
ible doom  to  endless  tortures,  cither 
material  or  mental,  of  the  most 
awful  and  unspeakable  intensity; 
and  (2)  that  this  doom  awaits  the 
vast  majority  of  mankind. 
In  further  exposition  of  these 
common  teachings,  the  Dean  said 
in  one  of  his  five  sermons: 
What  the  popular  notion  of  licll  is, 
\ou,  my  brethren,  arc  all  aware.  Many 
of  us  were  scared  with   it,  horrified  with

688 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1958 
Otto  Done 
MARTIN  HARRIS  HOME 
Wayne  County,  New  York 
it,  perhaps  almost  maddened  by  it  in  our 
childhood.  It  is  that,  the  moment  a 
human  being  dies — at  whatever  age,  un- 
der whatever  disadvantages — his  fate  is 
sealed  hopelessly  and  forever;  and  that  if 
he  die  in  unrepented  sin,  that  fate  is  a 
never-ending  agony,  amid  physical  tor- 
tures the  most  frightful  that  can  be 
imagined;  so  that,  when  we  think  of  the 
future  of  the  human  race,  we  must  con- 
ceive of  "a  vast  and  burning  prison,  in 
which  the  lost  souls  of  millions  and  mil- 
lions writhe  and  shriek  for  ever,  torment- 
ed in  a  flame  that  never  will  be  quenched." 
You  have  only  to  read  the  manuals,  you 
have  only  to  study  the  pictures  pub- 
lished, though  but  rarely,  by  members  of 
our  own  Church,  and  more  frequently  by 
Roman  Catholics  on  the  one  hand,  and 
some  sections  of  Nonconformists  on  the 
other,  to  see  that  such  has  been  and  is 
the  common  belief  of  Christendom. 
To  illustrate  the  horrible  concept 
of  hell  as  taught  in  an  earlier  day, 
Dean  Farrar  quotes  several  examples, 
among  which  are  these  two  from 
Jonathan  Edwards: 
The  world  will  probably  (!)  be  con- 
verted into  a  great  lake  or  liquid  globe  of 
fire,  in  which  the  wicked  shall  be  over- 
whelmed, which  shall  always  be  in  temp- 
est, in  which  they  shall  be  tossed  to  and 
fro,  having  no  rest  day  or  night,  vast 
waves  or  billows  of  fire  continually  roll- 
ing over  their  heads,  of  which  they  shall 
ever  be  full  of  a  quick  sense,  within  and 
without;  their  heads,  their  eyes,  their 
tongues,  their  hands,  their  feet,  their  loins 
and  their  vitals  shall  for  ever  be  full  of 
a  glowing,  melting  fire,  enough  to  melt 
the  very  rocks  and  elements.  Also  they 
shall  be  full  of  the  most  quick  and  lively 
sense  to  feel  the  torments,  not  for  ten 
millions  of  ages,  but  for  ever  and  ever, 
without  any  end  at  all.  .  .  . 
An  apostate  ''Christian"  world 
had  gone  astray  in  fostering  such 
teachings  concerning  eternal  punish- 
ment and  hell  ( spirit  world ) .  It  had 
lost  a  true  understanding  of  the  re- 
lationship of  God  and  mankind  as 
a  parent-child  relationship.  The 
understanding  of   the  character  of

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
689 
God  was  perverted  by  a  false  con- 
cept of  his  plan  for  his  children. 
People  eventually  revolted  against 
this  position  by  even  denying  the 
existence  of  and  the  power  of  Satan 
in  the  world.  (See  2  Nephi,  chap- 
ter 28.) 
The  Lord's  Answer 
The  revelation  given  for  Martin 
Harris  sets  forth  the  Lord's  answer 
to  the  abominable  doctrine  de- 
scribed above  as  a  preparation  for 
the  preaching  of  the  true  doctrine 
of  Christ  in  this  dispensation.  Verses 
4  through  12  of  The  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  Section  19  follow: 
And  surely  every  man  must  repent  or 
suffer,  for  I,  God,  am  endless. 
^\^^e^cfore,  I  revoke  not  the  judgments 
which  I  shall  pass,  but  woes  shall  go  forth, 
weeping,  wailing  and  gnashing  of  teeth, 
yea,  to  those  who  are  found  on  my  left 
hand. 
Nevertheless,  it  is  not  written  that 
there  shall  be  no  end  to  this  torment,  but 
it  is  written  endless  torment. 
Again,  it  is  written  eternal  damnation; 
wherefore  it  is  more  express  than  other 
scriptures,  that  it  might  work  upon  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men,  altogether 
for  my  name's  glory. 
Wherefore,  I  will  explain  unto  you  this 
mystery,  for  it  is  meet  unto  you  to  know 
even  as  mine  apostles. 
I  speak  unto  you  that  are  chosen  in 
this  thing,  even  as  one,  that  you  may  enter 
into  my  rest. 
For,  behold,  the  mystery  of  godliness, 
how  great  is  it!  For,  behold,  I  am  end- 
less, and  the  punishment  which  is  given 
from  my  hand  is  endless  punishment,  for 
Endless  is  my  name.     Wherefore — 
Eternal  punishment  is  God's  punish- 
ment. 
Endless  punishment  is  God's  punish- 
ment. 
How  do  these  scriptures  give  one 
a  concept  of  punishment  and  hell 
which  brushes  aside  the  accumulat- 
ed error  of  many  centuries?  In  or- 
der for  man  to  escape  the  suffering 
caused  by  the  misuse  of  his  free 
agency,  he  must  repent.  Punish- 
ment for  the  unrepentant  is  in 
accordance  \^ith  the  demand  of 
justice.  See  verses  15-19;  Alma 
34:14-16,  but  the  Lord  declares 
that  there  is  an  end  to  "endless  tor- 
ment'' (D&Ci9:6).  In  explana- 
tion of  the  use  of  "endless"  and 
''eternal"  in  connection  with  pun- 
ishment, the  Lord  explains  in  \'erse 
7  that  these  adjectives  are  more  ex-
