		INDIAN SUMMER.

Fair Indian Summer, mellow, calm and sweet,
	Another of thy golden days is done;
In mystic silence glide thy viewless feet
	While sinks again to rest thy gorgeous sun.
The herds' faint lowing from the meadow dells
	Floats like an echo on the dreamy air,
The mellow tinkle of their distant bells
	Suggests faint music from Cathedrals fair.

The husbandman rejoices in the store
	Which he from bounteous Mother Earth hath won,
And smiling Plenty blesses o'er and o'er
	The sturdy toiler whom she calls her son.
My days drift by in idle dreaming spent,
	Unheeding daily duties left undone;
This halcyon season seems a riddle sent
	Which I all vainly waste my moments on.

The soft air whispers strange mysterious things
	Of Summer gone and Winter yet to come,
And other, deeper tones which strike the hidden strings
	Whence over my soul's saddest music rung.
I torture my dull senses to disclose
	The meaning of vague hints of pain and fear,
Like wild unrest behind this sweet repose,
	Or stormwinds closing in the smiling year.

Like sorrow come unbidden to the feast
	Where joy with all his chosen friends sits down—
Like blighting Hate from out the cold, gray east
	Where Love's warm sun before was smiling down—
As such do I distrust this meek repose,
	This languid grace, this hazy, golden glow,
False as the hollow truce when ruthless foes
	Pause but to strike a surer, deadlier blow,

Why must the sweetest dream but wake to fears?
	The fairest season usher storm and cold?
The brghtest hopes but end in grief and tears?
	The loveliest bud a cankerworm unfold?—
My heart grows faint, my eyes are dim with tears—
	My youth like some sad ghost before me stands—
For all the glorious hopes of those bright years
	She grasps but straws in eager, empty hands.

Life seems untrue to every promise given,
	And mocks ach lofty aim with cruel scorn!
Oh tell me! is there even truth in Heaven?
	And why, oh why! were poor frail mortals born?
My weak and wavering gaze now sadly roves
	To rest upon yon mountain's waving line—
Their calm, majestic grandeur of repose.
	Rebukes this childish restlessness of mine.

Their sentry pines each lofty summit crown,
	Their ripening woods and thickets redly gleam,
And from their fruitful chambers trickle down.
	To bless the vale, full many a sparkling stream.
The low, red light gilds every dome and swell,
	In tender shade the bosky hollows rest—
Oh! restful hills! teach me your lesson well—
	In blessing others we are doubly blest.

And Thou, whose just will hid from mortal sight
	I dared to weakly question even now,
Forgive! and lead my faltering steps aright;
	And, like Thy mountains, may I never bow
'Neath cloud or storm, but, steadfast and serene
	Through good and ill, still patiently await
Whatever in Thy wisdom Thou dost deem 
	Is for Thy loving child a fitting fate.
