OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.
			["Augusta Grant" is signed in cursive here]
	Your "Protest" which appeared in the 
last EXPONENT is, to say the least, amus-
ing.
	I do not profess to be a reader of character,
but still, I consider myself safe in making
the following statements. You did not 
mean all that you said. You thought you
did, for at the moment of writing you felt
just as you wrote. You often feel like that
and give vent to similar sentiments, but
after all you do not mean it.
	You "detest the men!" No father was
ever blest with a more obedient and loving
daughter, no brother ever knew a more
obliging and affectionate sister than you are.
In conversation, both with your own and the 
opposite sex, you are vivacious and enter-
taining. You should avoid sarcasm, to cul-
tivate it would not improve your charming
proclivities. You wish to please and you
do it. And when you marry—which will
be at no very distant day—you will make a 
most admirable wife.
	You do not believe that all the men are
"conceited" and full of "vanity." You
know of those whom you consider noble and


gifted; and no woman has a higher appre-
ciation of true manly worth than you have;
none entertain more exalted ideas of what
men should be.
	You are one of the glorious girls with
which—thanks to our judicious and faithful
mothers—our communities are being filled;
one of the pure souled, high minded, noble
hearted, and clear headed.
	You have plenty of admirers, but so far,
none of them have been so fortunate as to
discover the magic key to your heart.
Sometimes, in hours of quiet meditation,
you would give almost anything if some
one would come along of the right sort, upon
whom you might bestow your heart's best
treasures; for really they are becoming bur-
densome to you, you have carried them so
long alone.
	A great world of warm, emotional feel-
ings pent up in one little heart! The very
idea is enough to awaken the sympathies of
a colder nature than mine. Do not, how-
ever, presume that, heedless of your kindly
warning, I have a notion to submit myself
to your tender mercies, by troubling you
for a pair of mittens. Not this time.
		Respectfully,
							HAL.


