R. S. REPORTS.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association in 
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms Oct.
16th, was very largely attended, and the 
utmost in erest manifested in the proceed-
ings of the meeting,  After the usual exer-
cises and reading of minutes from the diff-
erent secretaries; President Mrs. M. I. Horne
called upon Elder J. F. Wells to speak to 
the sisters.  He spoke approvingly of the 
efforts of the young ladies of the Retrench-
ment Societies, and he said he must ac-
knowledge that at present they were ahead
of the young men.
	Mr. E. W. Tullidge also made some re-
marks by invitation, in which he applauded
the sisters highly in their labors and enter-
prise for the good of humanity, and the cul-
tivation of all those higher faculties which
are most conducive to refinement and eleva-
tion of character.
			Santaquin Sept. 26, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
We held our seventh annual meeting of 
the Relief Society Sept. the second, on which
occasion we had a most happy time.  Visi-
tors were present from Payson and Goshen,
also some brethren from the north. Many
of the sisters talked of the goodness of God
and the blessings of the Gospel and how 
thankful they were that the time had come
when they could renew their covenants
with the Lord, and commence anew.  They
talked with a freedom that astonished the 
brethren.  Our Bishop is beloved by the 
people: he spoke of the importance of wo-
man's part in the Church of Jesus Christ,
exhorted them to go right to work and man-
ufacture their own hats and bonnets: hats,
caps, and gloves for the brethren, also cloth
slippers and shoes; but not neglect to culti-
vate the mind; told them to lead out in that 
gentleness of manner which characterize a
true Christian.
	Financially our Society is prospering.
Our President, for her zeal and faithfulness
in promoting the welfare of the Society and 
encouraging the sisters in the line of im-
provement, deserves a word of praise.
JULIA D. WILSON, Sec.
GOSHEN, Sept. 16th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
We as a settlement have been blessed
with good health this summer with the ex-
ception of the last two weeks, during which 
we have had considerable sickness, but
none fatal as yet.  I hope by the blessing of 
God the sick will soon recover.
	We have a Relief Society organized here,
and it is doing well for the size of the settle-
ment.  We hold two meetings each month,
and a good spirit generally prevails in them.
We have funds in the Provo Woolen Facto-
ry, and in the Goshen Co-operative Mercan-
tile Institution.  We have donated to the 
temples and to the P. E. F. Company, not 
forgetting the needy at home.
Please accept of my best wishes for your
temporal and spiritual welfare.  I remain
your affectionate sister in the New and Ever-
lasting Covenant,
MARY JOHNSON.
MORONI, SANPETE Co., Oct 6th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
Knowing you have a desire for the welfare
of the Daughters of Zion, I take the liberty
of writing a few lines to inform you that,
since our beloved Sister Snow and company
visited us we have increased in numbers.
She said that all virtuous women should be-
come members of the Relief Society.  I 
trust that the good counsel we received from
our sisters will make a lasting impression
upon our minds, that we may not be hear-
ers of their words alone but doers of it also.
It is only by doing the things that we are
commanded that we shall obtain a celestial
glory in the kingdom of God.  We feel to 
anticipate the time when we shall see a 
temple raised in Sanpete Co., that we may
go through that house and do our duty for 
the dead as well as the living, so that we
may become saviours on Mount Zion.
The sisters are united and we are striving
to do good in helping the missionaries, who 
have been called to go to the nations of the 
earth to preach the gospel, with means.
We organized a Young Ladies' Retrench-
ment Association last June.  They have 
commenced braiding straw to make their 
own hats, and are willing to encourage
HOME MANUFACTURE.
Times are dull and money scarce, that has
been the cause of our not renewing our sub-
scription, but hope that we shall be able to 
continue to take your valuable paper.
JANE BAILEY, President.
CHRISTIANA CHRISTIANSON
SARAH HOLLY      Counselors.
ANNE DASTRUY, Secretary.


