HOUSEKEEPING MADE EASY.

	Regarding theories only as nicely poised
speculative principles—to be more admired
than practiced—we pass them lightly by,
and deal with the facts of commonplace
things of every day life, For the benefit
of the young housekeeper, just embarking
on this chequered voyage, we would re-
peat the few simple principles given to us
twenty-five years ago by an experienced,
practical friend, in favor of which we now
declare after so long a test. First, look with
care that nothing be wasted; second, a place
for each article, and always in its place.
This is easy even for those who occu-
py small houses. A few bags, each with
two eyelets, by which to hang against the
wall in some convenient place, will aflord
ample storage for a great number of articles.
One will contain the hosiery for a family;
another, the waste scraps, fit only for the
ragman; in another may be deposited in
neat rolls, the larger pieces for future need.
One should always be provided in the pan-
try for holding spare tea cloths; balls of
cotton, also, are quite safe in such a place.
Thirdly, see that everything is kept scrupu-
lously clean. Once a week the labors of the
laundry should embrace and cleanse each
solid garment or piece of cotton or linen,
no matter how small or unimportant it may
seem. Let no garment pass from the iron-
ing-board to its fixed deposit without being
in perfect readiness if called for at any mo-
ment. Especially is cleanliness desirable
in all culinary operations. First, in the
proper care of stove furniture, well washed
and rinsed, then dried and hung or placed
on shelves, then rinsed again with scalding
water before being used; this will insure
freedom from the least particle of impurity.
	The comfort and elegance of a meal con-
sists not so much in the elaborate display of
china, glass, and silver, or the great variety
of viands, as it does in simplicity and neat-
ness. A snowy, well-ironed tablecloth,
with bright service neatly arranged, and a
few well prepared dishes, chief among
which are the soft, fresh bread, and sweet
golden butter, from out a dairy kept sweet
be plenty of pure air, and whose pans are
regarded as carefully as though they were
china vases. With these few easy princi-
ples accepted as guides, many a gloomy
house would be converted into a cheerful,
smiling home. Many a poor man would
become wealthy. Comfort and plenty would
take the place of disquiet and want.
	In every well regulated home there are
seasons and hours for recreation; both for
body and mind. Rest consists not in the
entire cessation of labor but we find it
most and sweetest in the change from
drudgery to some lighter employment in
which the mind takes a pleasing interest;
something that calls into exercise the
pleasing emotions of our nature, from the
constant exercise of which we receive a
healthy vigor that laughs at nostrums. A
thrill of joy sends the blood through its
channels with an accelerated motion that
drives disease away. Hence, we find the
care of flowers of so great consequence, and
assign to them a place in every home.


WE have social strengths. Our affection
towards others creates a sort of vantage or
purchase which nothing will supply. I can
do that by another which I cannot do alone.
I can say to you what I cannot first say to
myself. Other men are lenses through
which we read our own mind.—Emerson.


