THE GENIUS OF LETTER WRITING.

	Kind reader, did it ever occur to you that
letter-writing requires not only cultivation,
but, to be really successful, one must have
some talent inherent or intuitive?
	It is certainly an accomplishment, and one
refining to the mind and heart.
	In this so-called "fast age." steam-press, loco-
motion and telegraphy take foremost places,
and even genius, unless of a particular quick,
brilliant, or practical order, is below par. Re-
cently we heard a gentleman say in speaking
of a celebrated author: "I don't take much
stock in that kind of thing, it isn't the style
now in society." He was evidently a society
man, polished in manner and capable of con-
versing fluently, but seemingly took large stock
in whiskey, tobacco and politics.
	But society with its faults is not our subject,
and we forbear criticism upon it; excuse us for
trespassing.
	Telegraphy does away with much of the real
labor of letter-writing, enables one to save
time, strength, brains and fatigue, but it is
too expensive a luxury to be indulged in by all
classes upon all occasions, even were it adapta-
ble to all.
	The generality of people think letter-writing
a very ordinary thing; one may often hear
the remark made upon the question being
asked whether a person writes (or composes, to
be more explicit): "Well, yes they can write a
tolerable good letter;" meaning that they can
scratch off a few hurried lines, and know
where to date and put their signature, which
by the way is more than some people ever learn
in a lifetime.
	That letter-writing is a prolific source of de-
velopment to the mind and heart, to the writer
and receiver, is scarcely thought of.  Yet such
is the actual fact, as can be abundantly proven;
also that the letters of any certain age, if well
written and to the point, handed down to
other generations, might give one ideas upon
almost all the different topics of the times, the
business capacity, the status of the money
market, the government, etc.  Touching upon
these subjects, one might combine much of the
history of a past nation from the letters of some
of the most prominent writers of the time.
	This style of letter might not perhaps require
any particular talent in the writer, but even
these, if written in good feeling and with tact,
may be pleasing and genial in their way, and
not uninteresting to dis-interested persons.
	Some persons possessing good natural abili-
ties and a fair education fail to make themselves
at all entertaining in writing letters.  They
have no taste for it, or very frequently think it
only superfluous, a waste of time, and all that
sort of thing.
	Letters of friendship are among the finest
productions of this style of composition; letters
that when you read them you know are genuine
they carry the conviction with them; there
seems soul in them; they almost possess indi-
viduality they partake so much the character
of the writer; such letters are treasures to be
preserved.  It may be a time will come when
the dear hand that traced the lines in loving
thought and tenderness will be cold in death,
but in perusing them one may again unseal the
fountains of the past, and feel that nearness
that characterized the flow of loving words and
affectionate sentiments.  How deeply people
can sympathize with each other by letter, even
though separated by land or sea; acquain-
tanceship can be maintained, and social con-
versation carried on, thoughts and feelings
communicated with a cordiality and natural-
ness which will bring the absent friend before
one almost in living presence.  Such letters
are like whispers, or the echo of a whisper.
But to write them one must have faith in the
friend to whom they are writing and the full-
est confidence and trust in their friendship, and
then there will be no wall of reserve, no crusti-
ness of constraint.
	There are people whose letters  seem to
partake of themselves; they are a thing apart;
they lack genuineness; should you meet them
after reading their letters you would almost
question whether they had written them. Not
because they surpassed the individual, in
merit, or feeling, or tone, but were something
entirely dissimilar in character.  It is because
they leave themselves and the opinions they
profess, the sentiments they entertain, entirely
out, and shrink from committing them to pa-
per.  When you have read their letters you
know no more of the person than you did be-
fore.
	To be able to write a letter that will speak
to the heart, that imparts individuality with-
out self-consciousness, one must be possessed
of a soul which is eloquent in feeling, and of
sympathies which are undefinable.
	In conclusion it can only be said that the
person who can impart such personality in
letters as will transport you into their atmos-
phere and tell you more of their life in ten
minutes than another could in so many years,
possesses the true genius of letter writing.
	Kind reader, if your patience is not exhaust-
ed with so frivolous a subject, anon you shall
hear from us again under the title of old let-
ters.


