HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE NEW and substantial iron front of the
Co-operative store is now being put up, and the
roof covered with metal.
	ELDER W. C. Staines, Agent for the perpetu-
al Emigration Fund, arrived in this city, from
New York, Friday evening Nov. 5th, in good
health and spirits, having concluded his labors
for the present season.
	MEETINGS IN the New Tabernacle have been
discontinued for the winter, and hereafter will
be held in each ward meeting house, and the


[Column 1] 
sacrament administered every Sunday after-
noon, at two o'clock.
	TELEGRAM FROM Mr. Mark Croxall announ-
ces that the Elders who were appointed to New
Zealand and Australia, arrived in San Francis-
co Nov. 5th. and sailed for their destination on
the 10th.
	MISS JEAN Clara Walters the favorite actress
has arrived in this city from Virginia City,
Nevada, being, on account of the fire, unable
to continue her engagement there. She has lost
all her wardrobe in the fire, which is the sec-
ond time she has had her wardrobe burned.
Wednesday, Nov. 17th, she will have a benefit,
in the Salt Lake Theatre.
	SOME MOST distinguished gentlemen have
visited Salt Lake recently. Baron Rothschild,
Prince Frederick of Wittgenstein and Count
Turenne; they stayed for a few days in this city
visiting the most attractive points of interest.
The Baron and Count went while here to Par-
leys Park to see the Ontario and other mining
property in that district.
	THOSE WHO are interested in the raising of
silk etc., will be pleased to hear of the success
of Mr. J. C. Walker, of Mill Creek. He has
raised, the past season, 40lbs. of dried cocoons,
and 2,500 silk worms, from 2,000 eggs. The
work was principally performed by children.
	THE LAST company of European emigrants
arrived in this city Nov. 3rd The company
consisted of 123 persons, mostly from Great
Britain. They have had a pleasant journey on
sea and on land, and not a death occurred
among them from the time of their leaving
home until they arrived in Salt Lake City.
	THIS CITY has appropriated considerable
means for the Virginia sufferers, Mayor Wells
and Council voting $500 from the city treasury.
Several citizens gave $100 apiece. The young
peoples "Wasatch Literary Assocation appro-
priated $35 from their society funds. The
Young Men's Debating Club, the Zeta Gamma,
gave $25. This speaks well for the benevolent
capacity of the members.
	A PROCLAMATION for a day of Thanksgiving
and prayer has been issued by his Excellency
Gov. W. Emery, in accordance with the recom-
mendation of his Excellency the President of
the United States. Thursday, Nov. 25th is the
day set apart and specified by the proclamation
as a day of public thanksgiving praise and
prayer, to be observed by the people as on such
occasions, by religious services in the respect-
ive places of worship.
	THE SECONND term of the academical year of
the University of Deseret commenced Thurs-
day Nov. 4th, the first term having closed on
Wednesday. The examination in political econ-
omy, trignometry, surveying and zoology re-
flected considerable credit upon the institution.
At the commencement of the new term, classes
were organized in intellectual philosophy, hu-
man phsiology, analytical geometry and En-
glish grammer. An evening class in English
grammar was organized in the University
building on Tuesday evening Nov. 8th.
	THE CLOSING exercises of the first term,
this year, of Miss M. E. Cook's Graded School
at the Social Hall took place Friday afternoon
Nov. 12th, Recitations, essays, select readings,
Dialogues, songs and music composed the pro-
gramme. All passed off successfully reflecting
much credit upon the worthy principal and as-
sistant teachers as well as the pupils. There
were a few visitors present. It would be en-
couraging to both pupils and teachers, if par-
ents manifested a deeper interest in these mat-
ters.

[Column2]
	IT IS with the most tender feelings of pro
found respect and esteem we record the death
of a beloved friend and sister in the Church,
we have known from our childhood, Mrs. Ur-
sula Haskell, who departed this life on the
19th of October 1875, in Paris, Idaho, Territory.
She was born in New Salem, Franklin Co.,
Mass., May 12 1799. Her parents were Consi-
der and Phebe Hastings, and descendants of
the Pilgrims. She was baptized into this churchMarch 1st 1842, and has ever been faithful and
true to her integrity as a Latter-day Saint.
She possessed all those lovable qualities of
mind and heart which invariably endear and
attract. In every circumstance of life wheth-
er in prosperity or adversity she was the true
genuine lady and Christain; no murmur at mis-
fortune was ever heard from her lips. She
passed away without sickness or pain only a
gradual weakening and failing of the whole
physical system. In the year 1860 her only
daughter died leaving nine children, the two
youngest twins only two years of age. She de-
voted her life to the bringing up of these child-
ren, who were just as dear to her as her own;
and they mourn for her loss as for that of a
mother. Deceased has many friends and rela-
tives in New England. We can safely say of
her as Henry Clay said of Madame Le Vert,
"She had a tongue that never spoke evil of any
one."


