A CAUTION TO YOUNG HUSBANDS.

	It appears strange perhaps, that in writ-
ing for a woman's paper I should choose such
a subject. But the truth is, I know several
young gentlemen who take great interest
in the EXPONENT and never fail to read it.
And of course there are many others with
whom I am not acquainted, who will be
more likely to notice the hints I propose to
offer, here, than if they found them else-
where. I do not suppose that in what I
have to say there will be anything new, or
that our intelligent young men do not al-
ready comprehend, if they have ever
thought upon the subject; but are not those
who seek to instruct obliged to repeat over
and over again the same lessons in order to
impress them upon the minds of the learn-
ers? Yes, and the same lesson must often 
be given in a variety of ways to be rendered
comprehensible to each member of the class.
	So I hope my humble effort may not be 
vain, but that what I write may prove, if
even in a single degree, beneficial to some
one. 	
	Young gentlemen then, whoever you are,
do not imagine you "know it all" when in-
deed you know so little; but be willing to be
advised, even by a woman.
	In choosing a life companion, do not al-
low yourself to be so romantic as to suppose
a girl who would consent to be your wife
can be all angelic and free from mortal 
foibles. If, however, you must indulge such
thoughts, that the momentary bliss exist-
ing during the time of engagement and the
"honeymoon" may really seem to embody
heavenly completeness, when you find out
your mistake, which you are sure to do
sooner or later, do not suffer yourself to be
so thoroughly disappointed as to loose the
proper respect for your wife that you are
morally bound to retain. Try to be consist-
ent. Do not consider that a woman should
be faultless. She is born like yourself with
weaknesses which must be overcome; and
you should graciously extend to her the
same charity you hope to receive.
	The folly of over-estimating woman's
worth is by no means so gross as that despi-
cable spleen which characterizes some little
minds--the idea that woman is so inferior
to man that she has no right to a voice nor
even  an opinion of her own. Don't set too
high a value on your own abilities young
man; and do not be so outrageously practi-
cal as to undertake life, married life, with-
out the essential stimulant--PURE TRUE
LOVE!
	I know a young man who, the second or
third morning after the nuptial ceremony
had taken place, opened conversation with
his hopeful young bride in the following
manner.
	"My idea is to begin married life in a
manner that can be sustained.
	"We will not have any "honey-moon,"
then we shall never have regrets over its
waning. I realize that we differ materi-
ally in our natures and also in our educa-
tions; but I think I shall be able to modify
you--that is, mold you over, and make of
you just what I want, in time. For the
present, I must do the best I can. It will be
your place simply to do as I tell you, so you
will have an easy enough time of it. I shall
myself unravel all the knotty questions and
direct how things shall be done.
	"I must now go away on business, shall
be back after awhile. You may clear off
the table and do up your work, and we will
resume this conversation at a future time,
as it is necessary that we come to a correct
understanding."
	Many will think that a man twenty years
old who could speak thus, was a fool; yet he
was not. On the contrary, he had many
fine traits of character, but he did know
how to make himself a good and agreeable
husband. The LOVE was wanting, on his 
side, altogether. And the young wife who
looked upon him with a sort of exaggerated
admiration, akin to that romantic love which
imagines its object faultless, was doomed to
severe disappointment.
	Remember that the most perfect under-
standings that can be arrived at before mar-
riage should be. No matter how tenderly a 
couple may be devoted to each other, a
broken engagement is far less deplorable
than an unhappy marriage.
	If you, young man, know of any pecu-
liarity in the character of the girl you
wish to marry, of which, as your wife you
would like her dispossessd, do not be so cow-
ardly as to forbear mentioning it until af-
ter marriage. Even at the risk of loosing
your chance of becoming a husband just 
when and where you would like, it is best
to talk frankly and feelingly upon all im-
portant subjects, and, as I said before, gain
as perfect an understanding of each others
disposition as possible.
	It is an excellent plan, one of mutual im-
provement, to agree beforehand, that what-
ever one notices of a disparaging nature in 
the other, shall be courteously brought in-
to consideration. Also that if one shall un-
wittingly touch the feelings of the other in
a painful manner, the case shall not be al-
lowed to slumber but be instantly made
known, that an explanation may be given.
Then, hold to these good resolutions, and it
is as easy to live in peace and have ever in-
creasing love with all its beautiful tenden-
cies to cheer life's pathway, as, on the other
hand, to be continually fault finding and at
variance.	
	There are very many important points to
be considered in connection with this
highly interesting subject, young married
life. To enter upon its course in the right
way is the great secret. Avoid the first
frown, the first impatient word, the first sel-
fish action; and there will follow no quarrels
and no heart-aches. There should be no
waning to the true "honey-moon;" it should
shine forever, and husbands and wives
should never cease to be lovers.
