	PRAYER, WORKS, AND FAITH.

	It is not enough, dear girls, that we pray
at least three times a day upon our bended
knees, and almost constantly in our hearts.
If this alone would save us, we might all be
saved too easily. If this alone would exalt
us in the eternal world, the exaltation
would be of too little worth. It is indeed
one of the greatest blessings, that we may
apply to the Almighty for aid in all our du-
ties, and feel the sweet assurance that He
will hear and help us. But He will not
do for us what He has given us power to do
for ourselves. It would be utterly useless
for us to appeal to Him to give us clothes
and sustenance were we to sit idly down
while in good health and able to work for
our own livings. It would be equally ab-
surd for us to pray for the rest and the glory
which the faithful Saints are to receive,
unless we labor like them to do good and as-
sist in preparing the Kingdom in which we
hope to find inheritance. Unless we work
for salvation earnestly and continually, we
will be disappointed if we expect to gain it.
The prayer of faith ever availeth much; but
if we have failed in any particular to keep
the law of the Lord, it is impossible for us
to approach Him and ask favors at his hand,
in perfect faith. We know that He is ever
merciful, much more so than the tenderest
earthly parent; hence we venture to ask
for a continuance of His blessings, even
when we know we have not done His will
in all respects. But how much more faith
we might have if we kept all the command-
ments, and suffered not our hearts to be led
away from our truest and safest Friend at
any time. How much more confidence we
should have in asking, if we lived each day
and hour in a manner that would give us
implicit assurance that we were worthy to
receive the blessings we want.
	We must carefully and promptly attend
to our prayers, that the good Spirit may love
and abide with us; we must work diligently
and earnestly, that our faith may be pure
and that nothing may stand between us and
our God in the way of our receiving the
gifts and blessings that are for us. Thus may
we obtain salvation and an exaltation in the 
Celestial Kingdom.
