		A CRITICISM.

	Even in this day of reform and attempted re-
generation, remarkable inconsistencies are man-
ifest in the lives and opinions of many intelli-
gent people. A practiced physician declares
against girls and women filling the positions of
school-teachers, dry-goods clerks and composi-
tors, because of the injurious effects likely to
follow their being too much on their feet. He
does not, perhaps, reflect that no reasonable ob-
jection can be made to a person sitting a good
portion of the time in occupying either of these
positions. He finds no fault, however, with a
woman standing all day over the wash-tub or
at the ironing-board. No, these are generally
considered as wholesome exercises. He does
not express any regret that his own wife and
daughters spend more than half the time on
their feet, over a heated stove, washing dishes
and keeping the house in order. Yet women of
experience will testify that there is nothing
more tedious and wearing than these never
ending in-door household drudgeries.
	A noted politician denounces the idea of wo-
man dabbling in politics" as something that
would "prove corrupting and degrading to
her." Yet in his own home, when he is pres-
ent, scarce an hour or a half hour passes in
which some unpleasantness does not occur.
He is constantly waging petty war-fares with
members of his own household, yet is a profess-
ed advocate for "peace and purity where wo-
man exists." The supposition might arise,
that he considers woman has no right to an ex-
istence on this earth at all.
	Men take, too, such positive stands. They
KNOW they are right! There cannot be a pos-
sibility of their having made a mistake in the
opinions they have adopted. Young men, not
yet out of their thirties if they have even en-
tered them, know more than their fathers or
grandfathers ever thought of in all their lives.
and as for the aged aunt or grandmother who
has been acquainted with the world and its do-
ings for more than nine tenths of a century—
pooh! her experience isn't worth a snap of the
fingers, no matter if her faculties are exceed-
ingly bright and unimpaired. Had she known
when young, what her children's children
know now, she might have been at least forty
years younger than she is to-day. The old sys-
tems were all fallacies, and the great wonder is
that grandfathers and grandmothers, and un-
cles and aunts ever lived to be parents, or to do
any other good in the world.
	O yes! young men of to-day are thankful
they are not like their fathers were, although
they are ready, most of them, to acknowledge
that their fathers were BETTER men than they
are. But those fathers were so easily humbug-
ged, and were really so straight-laced that they

[Column 2]
could not enjoy life as they might have done.
And so these sons consider it an improvement
on the old styles to go at loose ends, regardless
of the counsel and examples of men of experi-
ence and understanding; and—alas!—too often
are God Himself, His laws and doctrines left
out of the question, this self-knowledge be-
comes so self-sufficient.
	Were it the weak, shallow and narrow-mind
ed only, who fall into this error, the pity of
them would be much less. But following in
the same train, are found large hearted, gener-
ous and talented young men, sons of noble and
gifted sires, who—but for this lamentable self-
conceit—would be models of real excellence. It
seems hardly natural that this grievous mis-
take should be made by hard thinkers and pro-
found students, yet it is so. And could such
but once realize what a display of ignorance
they parade in other peoples' eyes, while show-
ing off their brilliant ideas to their own satis-
faction, they would be too much chagrined to
have any desire ever again to repeat the pro-
cess, and would surely begin at once to amend
their fault, or rather to rid themselves thereof.
Ah! they would be more chary of their treas-
ured gems of scholastic lore in the future.
	
	"Oh had some pow'r the gift ta gi us,
	To see ourselves as ithers see us
	It wad fra mony a blunder free us
		And foolish notion." 

	Never were the words "much learning hath
made them mad," more applicable to any class
of people than they are to certain individuals
of our day. O young men! better less learning
and more humility, less theory and more wis-
dom; better for yourselves and for the world if
you bring your souls to reverence God more and
your own superiority less.


