		THE DRAMA OF LIFE.

	"All the world's a stage, and all the men
and women merely actors!"
	How wide the place of action, and how,
vast the number of actors!
	As we look beneath, around, above, what
a ceaseless shifting of scenes do we behold!
What different grades of talent and its ad-
vancement appear before us!
	Casting our eyes upward, we see men and
women who by dint of patient labor and per-
severing courage have attained an honora-
ble fame, and well merited prosperity; and
as the play draws to a close, and they pre-
sent themselves in the last act, they feel
the proud consciousness of having enacted
their parts faithfully, and nobly; and that
the applause of an appreciative multitude
will certainly follow the dropping of the
curtain which hides them forever from its
view. 
	Below these we see many others in the
prime of life and vigor, ambitious of suc-
cess, pushing onward toward the eminence
that towers above; and which they are de-
termined to reach before the end of the
great drama, when they too, will be call-
ed upon to make their final bow.
	On each side of the place where we stand
we may see a still greater number—young
actors like ourselves, hardly risen from
the ranks of the supernumeraries. These
have received the first part, and are on the
point of making their debut on the stage of
active life.
	And now is the time for serious and deep
reflection. What is this part that has been
cast to us? What is the character we are to
represent? And what remains for us to do
that we may perform our part creditably,
and thus insure promotion? For we, too,
are anxious, as were our predecessors to ap-
pear some day before the public in the role
of a star.
	We must commence at the bottom round
of the ladder; study diligently and compre-

[column 2]
hensively; note every detail; form a true
conception of what we study; keep our sen-
ses alive; watch and wait for the cue, and
then walk boldly out upon the stage and do
our best.
	If we play our small parts well, promo-
tion will surely follow; and if we persevere
and strive to excel, use noble means to reach
the summit of our ambition,keep a clear head
and an honest heart, success is certain. Op-
position should never appal us; treat rivals
with courtesy and charity. Never encour-
age doubts "they are traitors" and those who
utter them to discourage us are unworthy
of notice. Press on and we will rise above
them just as surely as the sun rises daily
above the eastern hills.
	Though in our time we may be compell-
ed to play many different characters, still,
every actor has his forte; and in determin-
ing what ours are, great judgment is neces-
sary, for on this point often depends the
happiness of a life.
	We must think deeply, and think for our-
selves. We are all endowed with talents of
different kinds, and are not fitted to fill the
same stations in life.
	To make the most of their gifts is a sol-
emn duty imposed on every one, and one for
which all will be held to answer at the last
day.
	In choosing our walks in life we should
"consider well, wherein kind nature meant
us to excel,” and having satisfied ourselves
as to this, let onward be our motto, and with
an unfaltering trust in God,and heedless of
the scorn of the cold and jealous world,
slowly but surely mount to the eminence
whereon lies the reward for virtuous indus-
try.
							THESPIS.
	Bingham Canyon, Oct. 31st, 1875.


