	IS WOMAN THE ONLY SEDUCER?

	"Pearl Parsons" made this pertinent in-
quiry in a late Journal and then went
on to answer it in the negative by
giving an experience of her own. I will
strengthen her story by relating one which
I know to be true.
	Some years ago a young lady, one of a
party of gentlemen and ladies journeying
for pleasure to the West, noticed on taking
a seat in a car at M., an elderly gentleman,
very respectable in appearance, who, seeing
her about to put a traveling bag into the
rack, which was a work of some difficulty,
offered to do it for her. She accepted with
a bow, receiving a hearty and polite one in
return. She then turned her attention to
the prospect from the window, and had quite
forgotten the gentleman until a seat beside
her was vacated upon arrival at a station,
when he took it and commenced a conversa-
tion in which she participated decorously,
being a very correct and dignified lady, not
much of a talker and reserved with stran-
gers. He knew she was one of a party com-
posed of respectable and educated people,
and took part in the conversation which of-
ten became general, and a certain something
which caused her to consider him in the
ministry.
	About dusk, before the lanterns were
lighted, he drew nearer, and, ere long, con-
ducted himself in a manner unbecoming
and utterly uncalled for. She quietly arose,
and coldly saying "allow me to pass,"
changed her seat. Never to this day has
she enlightened her companions as to why
she changed her seat, nor did they dream
how grossly she had been insulted.
	"Why did you not summon the conduc-
tor and have the scoundrel turned out of the
car?" I enquired, when she told me the
story.
	"I did not wish to spoil the pleasure of
my friends, nor to get into the paper in any
such disgusting way! I went to the plat-
form and stood there for a few moments as
if for a change. But my heart beat fast
and my temper raged dreadfully. I never
had such hard work to control it before nor
since, thank God. And he was—"
	Here she paused, hesitating and looking
at me searchingly.
	"Go on, never fear I'll speak his name if
you are unwilling to have me," I said.
	"Three or four weeks after, in my native
State, I attended a Convention, commera-
tive of an important event; several excel-
lent speeches had been made, when the ora-
tor of the occasion took the stand, and in 
him I beheld the miscreant who had made
my journey from M. so shameful a remem-
brance." 
	"He'd have caught it then had I been in 
your place," I interrupted.
	"He did, and he will never forget it. I 
moved my seat until I was very near and
directly in front of him. When he beheld
me he turned pale even to his lips, and
faltering, nearly fell. Then, "a sudden
faintness" was whispered about me. He
speedily recovered, and casting upon me an
appealing glance, he proceeded with his ad-
dress. Twice since, in public places, in ros-
trum or pulpit, in large cities—his own one
of them—I have brought him to his level.
Perhaps he has behaved differently since,
I doubt it, however. Sometime an expos-
ure will ensue. I don't believe I am the
only Nemesis on his track."
	After some urging she gave me his name.
As yet it is unknown to fame (of this kind
I mean).
	I think my friend did hardly right in
keeping the matter secret from her friends.

[column 2]
Had she exposed him he could not have
gathered laurels at the convention referred
to, nor have had other opportunities for per-
sonal aggrandizement, which have followed
him thus far. I heartily wish every wo-
man would, fearless of consequences, take
active immediate measures to tear off the
sheep's clothing from the backs of the
wolves that attack them. These remorse-
less creatures know full well how hard it is 
for a woman to come out before the world
and cry, "Behold the man!" But it should
be done. It is the only way to make sure
that sometime there may come a millenni-
um, when only the right man will be in the 
right place.				M. A. A.
—Woman's Journal.


