	BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	"Seek to be good, but aim not to be great;
	A woman's noblest station is retreat;
	Her fairest virtues fly from public sight,
	Domestic worth, that shuns too strong a light."
	The author of the above was a very great
man; a man of brilliant genius and exten-
sive knowledge; learned in science, and one
who held a distinguished name and rank;
but alas! he was exceedingly uninformed
in regard to women. One would judge
from his views here expressed, that woman
was incapable of having an opinion of her
own upon any subject.
	We who live in the Nineteenth century,
many of us, differ with this great poet,
writer and novelist, Lord, Member of Par-
liament, etc.; we hold other views on
the subject. I am very much afraid that
this author's style of woman would only be
a living specimen in very exceptional cases.
	There are thousands of women who never
have the opportunity of proving whether
they possess domestic worth; they have no
fireside to sit by, no table to preside over,
and no husband to provide them with the
shelter of a home.
	In marking out woman's course of con-
duct, he has failed to take a broad view of 
the matter; he was evidently thinking of
one woman only, and that one undoubtedly
his wife, or his servant; certainly she was
not his companion in literary work; etc., or
he would have formed a better conception
of womanly character.
	What did the great Creator bestow upon
woman such wonderful talents, gifts and
qualities for if not for use? Would He cre-
ate something for nothing? No; for He
has shown us clearly that all things are
created for a purpose, to fill a certain sphere
to perform a certain work, to complete a
plan which was marked out, and understood
by the great devisor.
	If woman cannot radiate beyond the do-
mestic circle, then thousands are created for
no purpose whatever.
 	But why philosophize like this? it is all a
sheer nonsense; women have not only a
work to do at home but abroad for all man-
kind. This work is more complicated than
that of man, for whereas men are only ex-
pected to fill one office or calling usually,
women are always expected, under all cir-
cumstances, to fill at least two, and perform
the real labor of a dozen. Man singles out
a profession, or a trade, he spends a speci-
fied amount of time in making himself ac-
quainted with his business; if he marries he
is just as competent to discharge the duties
of his profession; marriage does not interfere
with him in the least.
	How is it with woman? Vastly different,
I assure you. When she marries she takes
upon herself the cares of housekeeping and
all its accumulation of work; next comes
maternity and its increasing anxiety and re-
sponsibility. And yet she has capacity to
enjoy and endure even more, how many
men would manifest similar courage? Many
women, in addition to housekeeping, the
care of children and husband, have found
time to pursue, to some extent, other em-
ployments, and to improve and cultivate
their own minds.
	It would be a deplorable thing if women,
who married and were rearing families,
settled down to think this was the end of
their usefulness, that hereafter there were
only meals to get, little children to wash
and dress, sewing, knitting and all the

[Column 2]
minor details of home-life to be attended to.
In the mean time husband is keeping up
with the times, and everything new he
recognizes, and familiarizes himself with
the progress of the age. How much bene-
fit does the wife derive from his knowledge?
Very little. Occasionally he may give her
some information if it suits him, but in a
general way, if the wife asks her husband
for information he replies in monosyllables.
	What remains to be done then? inform
one's self. I know numberless instances
where a man has married a girl fresh from
school and society, or from some sphere
where she had been accustomed to see and
hear and understand what existed in the
world around her, and he has immediately
shut her out from all association except his
own, and perhaps some personal friends,
and if she had the newspaper to read and
now and then a magazine to look over,
seemed to think it all that could be expected
of him. If he took her sometimes to a
theatre or lecture it was a favor (or she
ought to consider it so.) If this contented
the man, or satisfied him, it would be a lit-
tle more commendable; but unfortunately
the husband is the one who is dissatisfied
and don't know what's the matter; his wife
ceases to be companionable, she is old fash-
ioned in her notions, she cannot talk inter-
estingly as she once could, her dress doesn't
please him, she is not nice enough, her hair
is not arranged according to his taste, her
manners are less polished, in fact, she is be-
hind the times; he can perceive that, but
thinks not he is at fault. He sees other
ladies who have not married so soon per-
haps, or who have not married so soon per-
haps, or who are not so completely swal-
lowed up in their husbands, that appear to
better advantage than his wife, and yet he
can not, for the life of him, understand what
is the reason.
	Women have quicker perception in these
nice points of distinction than men; they
readily discern slight, neglect, or want of
affection, and usually begin to grieve, de-
spond or murmur; neither of these will
ever raise them in their own estimation,
and one must have self-respect before they
can inspire it in another.
	The time has gone by when women may
sit idly down and wait for a lover or hus-
band. There is too much to be done, there
is no room for idlers; there is an essential
work that women can do; I do not believe
there are too many women in the world,
there is work for them all, if they will come
to the rescue; it is because so few are will-
ing to work, or understand what is expected
of them, that a few must do it all; but let
all be awakened to the wrongs that must
be righted, to the down-trodden and suffer-
ing ones, and the world will see that wo-
man's work is not simply to multiply and
replenish, but to renovate and restore; to
cultivate and develop the highest instincts
and aspirations, and to subdue and crush
out the evil tendencies of mortality.
	Let woman speak for herself, she has the
right of freedom of speech; let her voice
be raised against immorality and impurity;
let her thoughts and aspirations flow out in
the clear fountain of light; if she is herself
pure, her words will carry conviction with
them. God has not made woman in vain;
she has a place to fill, a work to do, and if
she seeks diligently unto the Lord He will
appoint her work. But women are too slow
in moving forward, afraid of criticisms, of
being called unwomanly, of being thought
masculine. What of it? If men are so
much superior to women, the nearer we
come up to the manly standard the higher
we elevate our sex.

[Column 3]
	Mothers, make yourselves companionable
to your boys; it is the best way to give
them exalted ideas and sentiments of wo-
men. Recently I heard a boy, in speaking
of women, declare he could not bear to see
a woman push herself forward, and place
herself in a position fit only for men. His
idea of a woman was to stay at home and
keep the house, etc. If she wanted to
study and improve her mind at home that
was all very well, but not to make a public
display of it.
	It may be well enough to have learning:
one never makes use of, but in my opinion
it is exactly similar to having clothes you
never wear, or a grand parlor you never
use. To keep one's mind bright and active
one must use their faculties; and a little
learning put to some practical use is far bet-
ter, in my opinion, than endless stores of
information left to moulder away in the
prison-house of the human mind. Gold
hoarded up may benefit posterity, but let
one be ever so learned and if they never
write, or talk, or teach, who is benefitted
by it? Who do they make happier or bet-
ter?
	Woman's work in this day and age is not
only an individual work, but a universal
work; a work for all her suffering sister-
hood; and it will want all the courage and
heroism it is possible to arouse in the rising
generation to stem the current of vice and
evil, and so purify the earth that the Mil-
lennium can be ushered in.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 9, 1875. 
[The following is written sideways on the right margin of column 1]
E.B. Wells


