INTEGRITY OF CHARACTER.

	Young men should be deeply impressed
with the vast importance of cherishing
those principles, and of cultivating those
habits which will secure them the confi-
dence and esteem of the wise and the good.
	A young man may be unfortunate, he
may be poor and penniless, but if he possess
unbending integrity, and unwavering pur-
pose to do what is honest and just, he will
have friends and patrons, whatever may be
the embarrassments and exigencies into
which he is thrown. The young may thus
possess a capital of which none of the mis-
fortunes and calamities of life can deprive
them.
	We have known men who have suddenly
been reduced from affluence to penury by
some overwhelming misfortune, which they
could neither foresee nor prevent. To-day
they were prosperous, to-morrow, every
earthy prospect was blighted, and every-
thing in their future aspect of life was dark
and dismal. Their business was gone, their
prosperity gone, and they feel that all is
gone; but they have a rich treasure that
nothing can take away. They have integ-
rity of character, and this gives them in-
fluence, raises up friends, furnishes them
with pecuniary aid, with which to com-
mence life once more, under auspicious cir-
cumstances.
	We cannot too strongly impress upon our
young men the importance of abstaining
from everything which shocks their moral
sensibilities, wounds their conscience, and
has a tendency to weaken that nice sense
of honor and integrity so indispensable to a
good character. "Integrity of character!"
Who ever possessed it, that did not derive
untold advantage from it? It is better than
riches, it is of more value than "diamonds
and all precious stones;" and yet every man
may possess it. The poorest may have it,
and no power on earth can wrest it from
them. Young men, prize integrity of char-
acter above all earthly gifts.


THEN only can we pray with hope when
we have done our best. And though the
means cannot effect that which we desire,
yet God will have us use the likeliest means
on our part to effect it. In vain shall Mos-
es be upon the hill, if Joshua be not in the
valley. Prayer without means is a mock-
ery of God.—Bishop Hall, 1574.


