			WOMAN'S VOICE.

	Beloved sisters of the Relief Society, my
whole soul is filled with adoration, thanks-
giving and praise to God our Father for His
loving kindness extended toward us, in
granting us the privilege of living in this
age of light and knowledge, when truth is
revealed to His children in all its purity
and excellence.
	I would hold sweet converse with you
upon the glorious principles of the Order
of the Son of God, as revealed through our
Prophet and Seer, Brigham Young, and we
would thus see how amicably the require-
ments of this order compare with God's

[column 2]
laws as revealed through His Son. As it is
impossible for me to see all, I will here ex-
press some of my views and send them to
the EXPONENT, confident, that if through
the Spirit of God I write anything worthy
of your perusal, you may each receive it
through its columns.
	Jesus said: 22nd chapt. Math. "Thou
shalt love the Lord Thy God with all thy
heart, and with all thy soul and with all thy
mind. This is the first and great com-
mandment; and the second is like unto it.
"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself."
On these two commandments hang all the
law and the prophets.
	Now we cannot love God with all the af-
fections of the heart, and with all the ener-
gies of the mind and body, without a know-
ledge of His character and requirements.
Hence the necessity of referring to revela-
tion to know His character and laws. In
so doing we find God is omnipotent, omnis-
cient, unchangeable; a God of justice, judg-
ment, mercy and truth, long suffering, com-
passionate and impartial, and in every na-
tion he that fears God and works righteous-
ness is accepted of Him.
	Believing these revelations of the ex-
cellency of God's character, we can but
adore and praise the holy name of God our
Father; and the enquiry naturally arises,
how shall we prove our love to God. Jesus
Christ (who is one with the Father) has giv-
en us a rule by which we can prove our love
to God. St. John 14 chapt. 15 verse. "If
ye love me keep my commandments."
Again 23rd verse, "If a man love me he
will keep my words." 24th verse, "He that
loveth me not keepeth not my sayings."
Then if we wish to evince our love to God
we must keep all His commands as reveal-
ed through His Son, and our prophets Jos-
eph Smith and Brigham Young, not one
alone but all their sayings, devoting all our
energies, mental and physical, to His ser-
vice, with all which he has given us unre-
servedly. Then we are to show our love to
God by imitating the excellency of his char-
acter, in all the circumstances of life, show-
ing our love for knowledge by the acquisi-
tion of the same; of justice, mercy, truth,
long suffering and love, by the exercise of
the same in our daily walk and conversa-
tion. And like our Father in Heaven no
respector of persons, but one with all those
that fear God and work righteousness.
	The second commandment: "Thou shalt
love thy neighbor as thyself." Jesus Christ
tells us how to obey this law, Math. 7 chapt.
12 verse: "Whatsoever ye would that man
should do to you, do ye even so to them,
for this is the law and the prophets."
	Sisters is not this in accordance with the
teachings of our Prophet and Seer Brigham
Young, that joined hand in hand we devote
our all in building up the kingdom of God.
And does he not show us by example that
we must love our enemies, bless them that
curse us, pray for them that despitefully use
and persecute us; and in so doing, accord-
ing to the words of our Saviour, we shall
be "like our Father in Heaven, who send-
eth His rain on the just and unjust."
