HYGIENIC NOTES.

	The Herald of Health furnishes the following
People who have warm friends are healthier and
happier than those who have none. A single real
friend is a treasure worth more than gold or prec-
ious stones. Money can buy many things good
and evil. All the wealth of the world could not
buy you a friend nor pay you for the loss of one.
"I have wanted only one thing to make me happy,"
Hazlitt writes, "but wanting that I have wanted
everything. And again: My heart shut up in a
prison-house of this clay, has never found, nor


will it ever find a heart to speak to." We are the
weakest of spendthrifts if we let one friend drop
off through inattention, or let one push away an-
other, or if we hold aloof from one for petty jeal-
ousy, or heedless slight or roughness. Would you
throw away a diamond because it pricked you?
One good friend is not to be weighed against all
the jewels of the earth.
	Preservation of the eyes is thus treated upon by
the Herald of Health. First take good care of the
health. The eyes are apt to suffer with the body
and become weak when it is weak; and in connec-
tion gives the following general rules: When writ-
ing, reading, drawing, sewing etc., always take
care that the room is comfortably cool and the feet
warm, that there is nothing tight about the neck,
that there is plenty of light without dazzling the
eyes, that the sun does not shine directly upon the
object one is at work upon, that the light does not
come from in front; it is best when it comes from
over the left shoulder, that the head is not very
much bent over the work; that the page is nearly
perpendicular to the line of sight; that is that the
eye is nearly opposite the middle of the page, for
an object held slanting is not seen so clearly. That
the page or other object is not less than fifteen in-
ches from the eye.
	In any case when the eyes have any defect,
avoid fine needle-work, drawing of fine maps and
all such fine work except for very short tasks, not
exceeding half an hour each, and that in the morn-
ing. Never study or write before breakfast by
candlelight. Do not lie down when reading. Nev-
er play tricks with the eyes, as squinting or rolling
them. The eyes are often troublesome when the
stomach is out of order. Avoid reading or sew-
ing by twilight or when debilitated by recent ill-
ess especially fever.


