THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS

	In what way can one become most success-
ful in this almost universal occupation? Who
shall tell us? There are seemingly as many
roads to take in this fascinating pursuit as there
are individual minds in existence. And is
there a profession, calling or object, which has
so many earnest votaries as this attractive en-
terprise?
	It is the monomania of all classes of socitey,
all ranks and ages. From the cradle to the
grave, as soon as the faculties of the child de-
velop, the mind reaches out after that particu-
lar object which suggests itself as productive
of happiness; and unconsciously one becomes
more or less absorbed according to the condi-
tion and organization of their nature and de-
velopment. All mankind are similarly acted
upon under this all-prevailing influence.
	The great Creator seems to have implanted in
man this instinct to search after happiness. Is
it a shadow or a phantom, eluding one at every
turn in life, and shifting and changing with
every crook and angle in the rugged and un-
certain pathway, bright and glowing in the
distance, but vanishing at the near approach of
the real? Is it an ideal pastime that can nev-
er be made subservient to the practical individ-
ual organization? Can one have any correct,
conception of an ideal that has not a real?
Must not every ideal of the imagination flow
from the existing real. Fancy conjures up pic-
tures in the mind, but all these pictures have
their realities in embodiment in some shape
or form. Fancy re-creates from the real; there-
fore an ideal happiness is only symbolical of
the real, true, genuine coin. We know it ex-
ists, but where or in what guise, and what
course to pursue to attain it is the grand ques-
tion. 
	There are so many different ideas in the world
concerning what really constitutes happiness,
that one is puzzled sometimes in the pursuit,
by not understanding exactly what they want
themselves. Happiness is conditional, and it
flourishes best, and produces the most practica-
ble results in connection with duty.
	Again the question may arise, what is duty?
One's own conscience, if they have preserved
it sacredly, will suggest intuitively wherein
duty lies; and such a conscience never misleads
or betrays; and having this testimony in one's
favor they are as happy in themselves as it is
possible to be. And yet many will tell you ex-
ternal circumstances are the promoters of hap-
piness: kind friends, and wealth, and health
and a clear sky, a sunshiny day, a moonlight
evening, and many other outward sources.
That these tend to elevate the spirits and bring
with them pleasurable enjoyments is perhaps
true, but there is no permanency in any or all
of them. A cloud may burst over the clearest
sky, or obscure the sun, or moon; misfortune
may take away wealth; one may be in perfect
health to-day and to-morrow sickness or death
may come. But if one does not depend upon
any of these accessories for happiness; only
their duty to God and His laws, one may have
comfort under all the varieties of circumstan-
ces, which make up the individual life.
	Happiness in my opinion, although still de-
pendent upon one's own actions, is not merely
a personal matter; it bears strong relations to
all mankind. If one possesses true inherent
intelligence they invariably reach forth to
grasp other minds, other lives, other interests;
and to associate them with theirs in harmony
and congeniality; consequently they increase
their burdens, and also their stores of happi-
ness, as well as enlarge their capacities for the
same.
	Happiness might be accounted the recom-
pense for work; if one labors to do good, al-
though their efforts may often fail or they may
be unappreciated even by those they most de-
sire to benefit, yet the result should always be
conducive to happiness because it increases
their knowledge of themselves, their own indi-
vidual nature becomes disciplined and their
courage strengthened. They can perchance dis-
cern wherein the failure was in part due to
themselves, and that may inspire them to
greater and more sublime efforts.
	Happiness certainly requires some firm basis,
some fundamental conditions, and yet the
criminal, the coward, the wretch, who preys
upon society, or the pockets of his fellow-men,
may have his own idea of the pursuit of hap-
piness, even though he has no right to it. But
perhaps their miserable instincts are satisfied,
and that constitutes what they in their incon-
sistency term happiness.
	But those who taste the sublime joy of duty
fulfilled, who allow their hearts to expand in
the truest benevolence and love for their fellow-
beings, who seek to ameliorate the condition of
others, must be upon the broadest road in the
pursuit of happiness.


