HOME AFFAIRS.

	PROFESSOR BARFOOT and C. R. Savage have a
stand at the Townsend House, where they will
keep for sale newspapers, photographic views
of Utah, mineral specimens, etc.

	ALEXANDER T. WHITE, the new Chief Jus-
tice, with his wife, son and daughter, was wel-
comed to this city on the afternoon of Sunday,
24th ult. We understand they took quarters at
the Townsend House.

	A COLD, cloudy season set in about the 25th
of October, as is nsual for the time of year, as
if to give warning of the approaching winter,
bid people beware and prepare for its ravages.
We hope for a little more bright, warm sun-
shine, however, before the chilly winds begin
to sigh in real earnest; “The melancholy days
have come!"


[Column 1]
	IN READING the Exponent, ladies, do not fail
to notice the advertisements on the last page.
Our design is, in advertising as in other re-
spects, to give place to nothing in these col-
umns that will not be of interest and benefit
to our readers. We take pleasure in recom-
mending especial attention to be given to the
Co-operative Institutions and Home Industries
established among the people here.
	ERRATUM.—In the Acrostic, "President
George Albert Smith," which appeared in the
EXPONENT of Oct. 1st, by the mis-placing of
words at the end of the second and third lines,
the rhyme is impaired. It should read:
		Prepare this sacred relic room,
			Receive this holy trust
		Enshrined with love and tears, O tomb!
		Sad offering—dust to dust!
	THE MOST destructive fire which has ever
raged in this city occurred Thursday evening,
Oct. 28th, on East Temple street opposite the
Wasatch Hotel, and burned all the buildings,
offices, stores, shops, etc., from the White
House to Yeoman's saloon just north of the
Walker House. The loss is estimated at $25,-
000. The firemen, it is said, performed their
part energetically and creditably; much praise
is due them.
	PROFESSOR J. L. Barfoot has recently opened
a commission agency and deals in minerals
and specimens of that kind. The Professor is
thoroughly versed in his business, and we
heartily wish him the patronage and success he
deserves. Orders can be left at the Deseret
Museum, or addressed through the Post Office,
box 816. Professor Barfoot has for some years
been Superintendent of the Museum in this
city.
	RECENTLY WE have received communications
for publication from different places and par-
ties, without the persons real signature at-
tached. We presume the parties to be young
persons who are ignorant of the laws of publi-
cation, otherwise they would know better. It
is proper and required of every contributor to
furnish the editor with their real name. Some
time ago these rules were published in these
columns, now we find it absolutely necessary
to re-publish it.
	MR. MARK Croxall was the recipient of a
complimentsry benefit at the Salt Lake Thea-
tre, on the evening of Saturday, Oct. 23rd. The
well-filled house showed the appreciation of the
public for the abilities and efforts of the mas-
terly cornet player, and the bill was varied
and attractive, so that all concerned were, or
should have been, pleased with the result. Sev-
eral parties have been given for the benefit of
some of the missionaries who have lately
started and are about starting on missions,
some to foreign countries and others to the
States.
	SUPT. COM. Schools, O. H. Riggs, reports
that he has recently visited, in that capacity,
the districts of Salt Lake County; fourteen dis-
tricts have schools now in regular session, in
which are enrolled 884 pupils; five other dis-
tricts will open their schools the first of No-
vember. He complains that the trustees of
more than half the districts have not sent in
their reports as required by law; the time for
sending in these reports was extended to the
30th of October; after that date no report could
be received, and such districts as are not re-
ported, forfeit their claims to any portion of
the public funds.
	THE MISSIONARIES who were called at the
last Conference to go to Europe, left this city
Tuesday morning, October 26th, for their fields
of labor. Among them of our acquaintance

[Column 2]
were H. G. Park for England, Martin Lenzi
for Switzerland, and Rulon S. Wells (son of
President D. H. Wells) who is to labor in Ger-
many. Mrs. S. P. Teasdel and her eldest
daughter accompanied the missionaries. Mrs.
Teasdel goes to visit her friends but more par-
ticularly for the benefit of her health which
has been declining for some time. The mis-
sionary party intend sailing from New York
for Liverpool on the Guion Steamer Dakota on
the third of November. We wish them pros-
perity them in their labors, and that each one
may fill the mission upon which he has started
honorably and satisfactorily, realizing the bless-
ings of health and the Holy Spirit.


