WOMAN'S RECORD.

	THE late Woman's Congress in Syracuse,
New York, was presided over by MISS
Maria Mitchell with dignity and tact.

	MRS. Lucas, John Bright's sister, is now
Grand Worthy Vice Templar for England.
Mrs. Margeret E. Parker fills the same posi-
tion in Scotland.

	MARY Kyle Dallas now occupies the posi-
tion formerly filled by Fanny Fern, and it is
said receives a salary of 7,500 dollars. This
is certainly not unfortunate genius.

	MISS Edmonia Lewis is a colored girl
who has become renowned as a sculptor; she
is at present in St. Paul Minnesota, and will
exhibit at that place some of her works of
art.

	MISS Josephine Jewell the daughter of
Postmaster General Jewell, was married
Wednesday evening Oct. 13th, to W. E.
Dodge of New York; the ceremony took
place in Hartford Conn., and was followed
by a most magnificent reception.

	MRS. Everet Green, an English lady, is
engaged upon a very extraordinary work
for a woman to undertake; it is a Calendar
of Domestic State Papers, and it is said the
first volume, which has already been pub-
lished, dates back to the year after the
death of Charles I, and relates to the pro-
ceedings of the Council of State.

	AN elaborate piece of worsted work exe-
cuted by Mrs. Keach, a very elderly lady,
has been recently exhibited at a fair in
New York State. The size of the work is
six feet long and four wide. She performed
it in eighteen months, working ten hours
each day. It contains 1,857,600 stitches and
has twenty figures of men women and
horses. The whole represents the death of
George Douglas on the battle field, after aid-
ing Mary Queen of Scotts to escape from
Lochleven Castle.

	MRS. Mary Gay Robinson of Brooklyn,
New York, has by determination, energy
and perseverence become a successful re-
porter for newpapers, dailies and weeklies.
She has had many difficulties to encounter,
but has struggled through. Meeting such
obstacles as the objections of friends, poor
pay and hard work. The Boston Woman's
Journal says this is one of the departments
of business for which women are eminently
qualified, and we heartily concur in the
opinion, but it will want courage, firmness,
and strength of character, to withstand
comment and criticism.


REMEMBRANCE is the only paradise out
of which we cannot be driven away. In-
deed our first parents were not to be de-
prived of it.—Richter.


