		TRIFLES AND DUTIES.

	The burden of the cry from many a con-
scientious heart, tender, loving and gentle;
these little things, trifles so insignificant in
themselves that they cannot be told, scarcely
defined in one's own mind, yet they fret,
wear, worry and irritate poor weak mortals
almost beyond endurance.
	After all are they really trifles? there are
very few things in this life that do not have
a significance, or carry with them a conse-
quence. If they are of no particular im-
portance to another, perhaps they may be to
the individual life which is encountering
them. These little trifles make up the sum
of human existence, which effect for good
or evil the life of the individual, the asso-
ciations, the influence, the tone and the
bearing of the sphere in which they move.
There is a great deal said about duty and its
results, is it not closely interwoven with
trifles? Persons are too apt to think it is
mighty efforts, and tremendous means that
move the world, but the trifles which seem
so small and not worth heeding, have much
more bearing upon life, character and fu-
ture existence here and hereafter, than one
is apt to imagine. If one is careful to do
their duty conscientiously in trifles (as they
are called) they will almost invariably form
correct habits of living and so systematize
their conduct and affairs that the result will
be a well-regulated life, household or family.
How often is it remarked I have a little
cold, it is only a trifle, and yet that trifle
may end in death; or I have over-fatigued
myself, or heated my blood, it is nothing, a
mere trifle, yet how often attended by the
most serious consequences. It would be
well, for the young especially, and for all
indeed to look upon every duty however
trivial it may seem, as constituting an im-
portant part of the great whole that makes
up the business and enjoyment of life. A
kind word, a smile, or a tear of sympathy,
all these are very little things but how wel-


come to the receiver. If one could realize
the vast amount of happiness which might
be conferred gratuitously in the associations
of every-day life, the world would be a much
more desirable place to live in.
							B. B.


