OLD AGE AND GREAT WORK

	Those men who have written on the
achievements of their fellow-men have
dwelt with most interest on the work of
the young. Alexander and Napoleon are
constantly adduced as examples of the pro-
digious power of youth for execution. In
literature we are told that Byron died a 
youth; so of Chatterton and Kirke White,
and many others of their class. Indeed,
every department of achievement is exam-
ined with great care, and the result of all
is, as many teach us, that the young do the
great work of the world. We must infer,
therefore, that after a man has reached a 
certain age—say sixty—he might as well
lay aside his implements of labor, and step 
aside, for the young gentry to carry on the
great enterprises of life. An admirable
procedure this! Away with such an absurd-
ity! When a man has reached his three
score he is ready, if he has been just to his
mind and body, to do the most magnificent
work of his whole life. Of course, he can-
not do this if he has wrenched his voice to
pieces by the time he was thirty, or addled
his brain by stimulants and late night work,
or by any irregularity in life and labor. It
is not difficult to find among living men
most excellent examples of the union of
old age and brilliant achievements. As
Americans we are habitually reminded that
our great men die young. But we have
abundant proofs to the contrary. Our own
poet Bryant is an aged man, and the great-
est literary triumph of his life is his latest
book, the translation of the Iliad. He has
been working ever since he was a freshman
at college, and his editorials in the Evening
Post would make a small library in them-
selves. And instead of his being an excep-
tion to the law of longevity and labor, we 
claim that he illustrated what would be the
rule if we only remained true to the re-
quirements of mind and body. Who is
more sprightly than Bancroft, now nearly
eighty, and yet who among us has done
more steady service for fifty years?—Chris-
tian Advocate.


Perfect valor is to do unwitnessed what
we should be capable of performing before
the whole world.


