		"THE GOOD TIME COMING."

	There is doubtless less extravagance indulged
and consequent want produced in the world
through wasteful desires than from mistaken
opinions in regard to economy. It is one thing
to be willing to act with prudence and consis-
tency at all times-another to know how to do
so.
	A great failing with many laboring people is,
they try to accomplish too much in too little
time. Vast quantities of work of various kinds
are turned off hands only half done. This in
reality amounts to nothing less than a waste of
materials, a waste of mortal strength and a
double waste of precious time. If but half the
work were done and well done, that it might
reflect credit instead of discredit upon the per-
formers and accord full value for time and
means expended, this great drain would be
averted.
	Another very general mis-use of time and
strength, is the spending too large a portion of
both for things of minor importance, while
frequently the more essential ones, as care of
the health, attention to religious duties. return-
ing friendly courtesies and being genial and
agreeable, are done in haste, or left for leisure
moments which never come.
	Imagine a man or woman occupying a posi-
tion where week in week out, year in, year
out, the same routine of daily duties must be
rigorously performed. No chance for recrea-
tion or rest; or if a few hour's liberty is taken
now and then, there must be an extra pull
either beforehand or afterward. Such cases are
plentiful, because, alas! the work like the
wealth of the world is so unequally divided.
With more union there would be increased
strength; "many hands make light work."
	But nature has given to each one the desire
to become rich, or at least to lay up something
for the coming "rainy day." And with a di-
vision of work must come a division of the
profits. And labor as one may, scarcely is suf-
ficient received to supply actual needs.
	With this view, the best and brightest days
of many a life is worn out in absolute drudg-
ery. Of course, "hope keeps the heart whole"
-the hope of "a good time coming."
	A time when the hard earnings may be
quietly and peacefully enjoyed without the
necessity of undue exertion to keep along. A
sweet time when there will be opportunities
for social entertainment, and all the little pleas-
antries of life which appear so charming at a 
distance while engaged in by others.
	But how much better it would seem if, some-
how, circumstances might be brought about so
as to afford daily rest and just recompense for
labor to all. So that one should not be weighed
down with too heavy burdens, wearing life out

[column 2]

too fast; and another sighiug over ill health
caused by inaction, slowly dying for want of
exercise, or throwing life away on frivolous
pleasures. So that all might sometimes feel
that "the good time" had really come and that
their efforts and anticipations had not been 
vain.
	We can imagine the organization of co-op-
perative systems through which all labor might
be rendered comparatively easy, and be properly
done in proper time. So that the very practi-
cal lesson, "what is worth doing is worth do-
ing well," might never be lost sight of amid
the hurry-skurry and head-long rush through
life.
	But the failings spoken of above are general
and can only be remedied by a union of efforts.
It rests with the people, when the Lord will
have it so, to usher in the long looked for good
time that is sure to come, when all have
learned how to use each portion of it, letting
not the smallest particle go to waste.


