LITERARY MARRIAGES.

	Literary people are more liable to matri-
monial difficulties than other classes be-
cause they so rapidly exhaust one another.
A literary man who is obliged by his profes-
sion to advance in knowledge will soon reach
a higher plane than that occupied on the
wedding day. It is possible that such an
instance may witness a separation of thought
and culture such as could never occur in the 
life of a farmer. Hence the wife of a lit-
terateur may become merely his housekeep-
er instead of his companion. By the same
rule we notice the impropriety of a woman
strictly literary in taste, marrying an illit-
erate man. We have a number of female
writers who have attained rank in the world
of letters, and are married to men whose
sole distinction is found in their wives. The
latter increase in mental culture, while their
husbands are engrossed with the cares of
business. They have but little social im-
portance except being the provider or oc-
casional escort. The woman finds that her
husband does not equal, and soon ceases to
be her real companion. Such a woman must
pursue a solitary path or find congenial so-
ciety elsewhere. Some years ago, Mrs. Sig-
ourney was a popular writer, but it was lit-
tle known that she was the wife of a mere
carpet dealer in Hartford. He was very
proud of her talents, but all that such a man
could do was to offer the tribute of his praise
to his more gifted wife and be contented to
assume the place of the weaker vessel.
	It has been questioned whether such
unions can be formed advantageously, but I
think experience is in the affirmative. A
united life of this character should be mu-
tually educational. Woman is generally a 
good scholar, while man from the affected
and assumed importance of the sex,often ob-
jects to receiving lessons from a wife. In
this he commits a great mistake. Another
error on the part of literary men (especially
the clergy) is the expectation of conjugal
praise for their performances. Clergymen
are generally ravenous for flattery, and as
long as a wife administers it her words are 
acceptable, but if she offers judicial cen-
sure, it is very unpalatable. A really sensi-
ble preacher, if he have a clear-headed wife,
will find her criticisms very useful. It is 
said by Scott, the commemtator, that he
read his sermons to his wife before deliver-
ing them in the pulpit, and found her sug-
gestions very valuable. Two working ed-
itors of this city are married to two very
clever writers, whose earnings are large.
The subject of literary marriages has been
handled admirably by Gilbert Hamilton, in
his volume of letters entitled "Intellectual
Life." Dr. Johnson's remark may be quo-
ted in the negative. "A man," says he
"is, as a general thing, better pleased with
a wife when she cooks a good dinner than
when she speaks Greek." It is to be re-
membered, however, that in Johnson's day
everybody did not, as at present, live in
boarding-houses.—Ex.


