			GENERAL.
	The election in Ohio, Nebraska and Iowa
took place Oct. 12......A terrible tornado
visited Milford Penn. Oct. 16, it lasted 30
minutes and destroyed houses, fences, trees
etc......A severe shock of earthquake was
felt in Calcutta also in Sylhet and in Eas-
tern Bengal Sept. 3rd......The Consul of Si-
beria reported to the London press the pro-
gress of their war with the barbarous tribes;
there were five engagements in which the
Siberians were victorious......There were
heavy gales on the coasts of Great Britain
on the 14th of Oct., several coasters wreck-
ed and a number of lives lost......The Ala-
bama Constitutional Convention has decided
to provide separate schools for children of
African descent......Bridesbury U. S. Arse-
nal near Philadelphia was recently blown to
atoms, two persons were killed and several
severely injured......A communication has
been made to the secretary of the Treasury,
of gold in Alaska, in paying quantities......
Prof. Baird of Washington, has presented
the Fish department in Canada with 100,000
eggs of the California salmon......Great
Britain is credited with having more steam
vessels and tonnage than all the rest of the
world......Mr. John W. F. Hobbs a million-
aire of Northhampton Mass. started in life
by running a line of omnibuses which he
borrowed the money to buy; he drove one
of them himself. Recently he gave $10,000
to build a school-house.
			FOREIGN.
	The British negotiations with China are
making favorable progress; Minister Wade
obtained the guarantees which he consider-
ed necessary from the Chinese Government
......The Kaiserhof (hotel) in Berlin, said to
be the finest structure of the kind in Ger-
many was burned recently......Disastrous
inundations caused by recent rains are re-
ported to have occurred in Leicestershire
and Warwickshire, some lives were lost, rail-
roads damaged and heavy destruction of
property......Assurances from the Atlantic
coast are that peace is firmly established in
Bolivia......The French Ultramontanes are
trying to accomplish the building of a rail-
way from Jaffa to Jerusalem, and are mak-
ing up capital by issuing shares.


