	BY MRS. HATTIE F. BELL

If you're ever going to love me,
	Love me now, while I can know
All the sweet and tender feelings
	Which from real affection flow.
Love me now, while I am living;
	Do not wait till I am gone,
And then chisel it in marble—
	Warm love-words on ice-cold stone.

If you've dear, sweet thoughts about me,
	Why not whisper them to me?
Don't you know t'would make me happy.
	And as glad as glad can be?
If you wait till I am sleeping
	Ne'er to waken here again,
There'll be walls of earth between us,
	And I couldn't hear you then.

If you knew some one was thirsting
	For a drop of water sweet,
Would you be so slow to bring it?
	Would you step with laggard feet?
There are tender hearts all 'round us,
	Who are thirsting for our love,
Shall we begrudge to them what Heaven
	Has kindly sent us from above?

I won't need your kind caresses
	When the grass grows o'er my face.
I won't crave your love and kisses
	In my last, low, resting-place.
So if you do love me any,
	If it's but a little bit,
I'd rather know it now, while I
	Can, living, own and treasure it.


[Column 1]
	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
						Sept. 12th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is an old saying, "Better late than
never," so I think in regard to writing an
article for your paper.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor to
our island home. It is sent to Sister Lam-
bert, through her mother I presume. She
is very kind to loan it to the rest of us, so
we all enjoy reading its contents.
	I am much pleased to learn of the great
interest which the women of Utah are
taking in promoting home industries, and
in many other ways assisting the brethren
in the great work of the last days.
	Woman was made to be a helpmeet for
man, not a ruler nor dictator. Every mar-
ried woman can do much in aiding her hus-
band in carrying out the principles of the
"United Order." Union of feelings and
interests must begin in families. If a man's
family is united with him in all things they
can accomplish much. From this nucleus
it extends to neighborhoods, then to wards,
cities, &c., until all are united as one.
	Last Sunday, the 5th inst., Prest. Alma L.
Smith, Brother and Sister Lambert and my-
self, met with the saints at Kahana, went
in the carriage, had a very pleasant ride.
Kahana is the land which was purchased by
the natives in June, 1874. It is situated
about eight miles south of Laie. They pay
$6,000 for it, have paid $3,000 and given a
mortgage on the place for the balance. They
seem to be united, and are doing well. We
held meeting with them, dedicated their
new meeting house, administered the Sacra-
ment, organized a branch of the Chruch,
appointed a President and counselors.
President Smith offered the dedicatory
prayer, which was very appropriate. After
which he delivered a very interesting dis-
course, which was listened to with marked
attention by the congregation. At noon we
partook of a native meal. The table was
spread in the meeting house. The meal
consisted of poi, fish, beef, pork and small
shell fish resembling snails. Our beverage
was water. The dinner was served in good
native style, and looked quite inviting.

[Column 2]
Our ride had given us an appetite, and, I
assure you, we did justice to our dinner.
	In the afternoon Bro. R. G. Lambert held
forth; his discourse was not lengthy, though
very good; several native elders also
preached. About 5 p. m. we left for home,
after a hearty shaking of hands with the
Saints of Kahana.
	About two weeks since, Prest. Smith was
in Honolulu. Having a little matter of
business with the king, he solicited an in-
terview, which was readily granted. His
Majesty received him at his palace, with
pleasure. They conversed familiarly on
many topics, Utah and her people among
the rest. His Majesty entertains a friendly
feeling towards our people. At the close of
the interview his Majesty spoke of making
a visit to Laie on business, and appointed
Friday the 17th inst. for his visit. He
comes as a private citizen, with one or two
other gentlemen. Will dine with us.
	I am getting on nicely with my school.
Have twenty pupils, who are very regular
in their attendance, and are interested in
their studies. Had a public examination
of my pupils last Friday the 10th inst. The
exercises passed off pleasantly. Have closed
my school until after Conference, realizing
that a little rest from school labors would be
beneficial to my health. Our Sunday School
is in good condition. The English lan-
guage is taught exclusively, all who attend
the school are much interested in learning
it. Many grown persons attend.
	Work on the plantation is progressing
well; a new crop of cane is being planted;
for some time past they have been busy
plowing, and are getting on well with it
from what I can learn.
	All is peace on Laie, the brethren and
sisters, both foreign and native, are feeling
well. We all enjoy the spirit of our mis-
sions, but at tines we feel a little lonesome,
our number being so small, only four of us.
Who would not be?
	We have meetings every Sunday at 10 a.
m. in the meeting house for the natives; at
2 p, m. our Sunday School meets, and at 7
p. m. we have a prayer meeting and sing-
ing for us foreigners; we meet alternately
at each others houses.
	Brother and Sister Woolley are on the
island of Kauai, about one hundred miles
from here. He went as a missionary to
preach to the people and learn the language;
she went for "an out," and we hear that
she is enjoying herself finely.
	Bros. S. P. Richards and B. Stringham
are on the island of Hawaii traveling and
preaching. Bros. Wm. Pulsipher and W.
H. Branch are traveling on the islands of
Maui, Molokai and Sanai. We have heard
from them all recently, they are well and
feeling first rate. We expect them all here
at Conference, and anticipate a happy re-
union after a separation of some five months.
