IS FRIENDSHIP DYING OUT?

	There is a common belief, which perhaps
is just, that there is not so much friendship
in the world as there used to be. Various
causes have been assigned for this—that
men are less heroic, more querulous, more
selfish, more domestic. In my opinion the
real cause is want of time. And it must be
remarked that to keep up friendship, it is
not sufficient to have spare time now and
then; but you require an amount of cer-
tain and continuous leisure.
	Observe under what conditions of life
friendship, has had the greatest sway; and
has been most prominently developed. There
are still great friendships among boys at
school and young men at college. There
have been great friendships in compara-
tively barbaric times, for barbarism always
insures a certain continuity of leisure,
there were instances of signal friendship.
	What we call civilization has, up to the
present time, made increasing demands up-
on each man's time. Should this civiliza-
tion ever be a prosperous and successful
thing, it will give an assured continuity of
leisure; and then you will see that friend-
ship will revive amongst men.
	As an illustration of what I mean, I have
no doubt that benevolent persons must in
general have a large capacity for friendship;
but the evils of the world are so great, that
their attention is absorbed in the endeavor
to mitigate those evils. Great writers of
fiction of the present day have described
satirically persons whose whole minds are
so devoted to benevolent projects that they
even forget family duties. The whole of 
that class of person would afford excellent
material for friendship if their affections


were once freed from the predominent de-
sire to benefit the world in general, where-
as now the lamentable aspect of the world
compels them to devote all their energies to
the removal of that particular evil which
happens to have most attracted their benev-
olent imaginations.
	“Then, again, the monstrous size of great
cities in our age tends to diminish the pos-
sibility of maintaining close friendship
	All I would contend is, that men and wo-
men have the same capacity for friendship,
the same delight in it, the same craving
for it, as heretofore; but that an imperfect
civilization has rendered the manifestation
and even the reality of friendship more dif-
ficult, principally as regards the want of cer-
tain and continuous leisure.—Chimney Cor-
ner.


