FLOWERS.

	IT is wise not to lose a friend to whom
you can do a kindness, or from whom you
can take one.
	GOD gives every bird its food, but does
not throw it into the nest.
	HE that speaks the truth will find him-
self in sufficiently dramatic situations.
	THE grand essential elements to happi-
ness are something to do, something to love,
and something to hope for.
	NO chastening for the present seemeth to
be joyous, but grievous; nevertheless after-
ward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of right-
eousness unto them which are exercised
thereby.—From the Bible.
	EVERY one must find out for himself the
key to the riddle of life. It is of no use to
have it told. Some do not hear, while
others misunderstand it.
	BETTER have God for your guardian than
the Bank of England for your possession.
You might spend the wealth of the Indies,
but the infinited richness of God you can
never exhaust.
	LET it not be imagined that the life of a
good Christian must necessarily be a life of
melancholy and gloominess; for he only re-
signs some pleasures to enjoy others infi-
nitely greater.—Pascal.
	WHEN we are least moved by heavenly
love, we sympathize least with human in-
firmities; so, also, when we are fullest of
heavenly love, we are most compassionate
to human misery, and best fitted to cope
with the troubles and infirmities that beset
us.
	"PEACE does not reign in outward things,
but within the soul. We may preserve it
in the midst of the bitterest pain, if our
will remain firm and submissive. Peace
in this life springs from acquiescence even
in disagreeable things, not in an exemption
from suffering.—Fenelon.
	IF a man or woman is fit for work God
appoints the field of labor and of action.
He does more; He points to the myriads of
down-trodden, suffering men and women
and says, in language plain to be under-
stood, by the whisperings of the spirit of
humanity and truth—"Work with me for
the redemption of these my children, these
the sheep of my fold, the lambs of my
flock;" and those who stoop and falter,
wasting time and energies to whine over
neglect or poverty, or the ridicule and snarls
of the world, give the sign of their own
littleness.
	Enjoy the present, whatever it may be,
and be not solicitous for the future; for if
you take your foot from the present stand-
ing, and thrust it forward to to-morrows
event, you are in a restless condition. It
is like refusing to quench your present
thirst by fearing you will want to drink the
next day. If to-morrow you should want,
your sorrow will come time enough, though
you do not hasten it. Let your trouble tar-
ry till its own day comes. Enjoy blessings
this day, if God sends them, and the evils
of it bear patiently and sweetly, for this
day is ours. We are dead to yesterday and
not yet born to to-morrow.—Jeremy Taylor


A YOUNG man recently died of consump-
tion at East Wilton, the disease having been
caused by the inhaling of the dust in the 
stone-crushing mill in that town. Several
young men have died in the same town,
from the same cause within the past few
years.


