	PERSONAL.
	Oscar XI, king of Sweden, has written a 
book called Charles XII, as "King, Warrior
and Man"......Gen. Sheridan had a banquet
given him at the Palace Hotel San Francis-
co......Professor James C. Watson of the
Michigan University discovered a new
planet on the 18th of October......Ex-Sena-
tor Chandler of Michigan has been appointed
Secretary of the Interior and sworn in......
Prince Bismarck has been suffering from
rheumatism......The Prince of Wales has
reached Egypt on his tour......Ole Bull is
about to make a farewell tour of Europe......
Col. John B. Lewis, the author of "The
Harp of a Thousand Strings," died recently
in Franklin Co., Miss......Ralph Waldo Em-
erson has been lecturing recently in Chicago
...Prof Proctor has been giving a series of lec-
tures on astronomy in Boston commencing as
heretofore with the Transits of Venus......
Robert Dale Owen has recovered and recom-
menced his literary labors......Prof. Jenney
of the geologist expedition spent five months
in the Black Hills.
	GENERAL
	Reports say that building is going on rap-
idly in Virginia City, the people are recover-
ing their spirits......Postmaster General Jew
ell is said to be opposed to the total repeal
of the amendment of the Postal law on third
class mail matter......A severe gale on Lake
Michigan, recently caused several schooners
to be driven ashore and lost, no report of
loss of life......Baltimore proposes to cut a
tunnel six miles long for the purpose of let-
ting water into the city from Gunpowder
Creek, cost $20,000,000......It is said the
mules in the Pennsylvania coal mines,
hundreds of feet below the surface and
half a mile from the shaft have the epizooty,
though they have not been above ground
for months......Machinery Hall, one of the
Centennial buildings has been completed;
it covers twelve acres of ground......The
National Gold Bank and Trust Co., San
Francisco have gone into liquidation......
More than 20,000,000 postal cards were is-

[Column 2]
sued last month by the Post-office Depart-
ment at Washington D. C......At San Beni-
to, Cal., there has been a severe shock of
earthquake......Alsace and Loraine are to
have a central government established at
Berlin......McCloskey, Manning and Cullen
were present at a banquet given at Guild-
hall, Dublin on Thursday Nov. 11th......A
steamer has been sunk at the entrance of
the harbor of Boulogne, France......The ca-
ble companies of New York have agreed
upon seventy-five cents in gold per word.
	FOREIGN.
	Raffail Bro's., merchants of London, have
failed. Liabilities, $3,000,000......The Inter-
national Exhibition at Santiago, Chili, which
opened with a great deal of pomp and splen-
dor on the 16th of Sept. is said to have been
a great success......The French Ministry of
France, talk of introducing an income tax,
and extending it to private firms etc, and to
all persons and companies which make an in-
come above a certain amount......The river
Trent overflowed recently, causing destruct-
ive floods in Lincoln county England......
Liverpool papers state that there is likely to
be a new line of steamers between that port
and New York next year......Messrs. G. D.
Neroulsos & Co., merchants of London and
Manchester have failed; liabilities, $250,000
......Santa Domingo is tranquil in political
affairs, but the Republic is said to be bank-
rupt financially......A Byron Club is to be
formed in London, its object to commemor-
ate Byron's genuis and his heroism and
sympathy for Greece......Sixty-seven manu-
scripts of plays have been sent to Theodore
Michaelis, based on the American revolution.
Several leading dramatists have contributed.


