PEN AND SCISSORS

	IT does not signify if a man is small, he
wants a great coat.
	WHAT'S in a name? D. Seaver drives a
St. Louis milk wagon.
	A POPULAR writer speaking of the ocean
telegraph, wonders whether the news trans-
mitted through the salt water will be fresh.
	NONE are so poor as those who, having
money yet through a miserly spirit, deprive
themselves of the use and benefit of it.
	"LATIN and Greek are all right," said a 
Delaware farmer as he halted his team, but
gimme a man who can plow around an apple
tree 'thout toughing the roots."
	A GENTLEMAN drove a sorrowful looking
horse into town, and stopping in front of an 
inn, he requested a small boy to hold him a 
moment. "Hold him!" exclaimed the boy;
"just lean him up against the post—that'll
hold him."
	A GOOD man made a pathetic address to 
a Sunday School in Zanesville, O., recently,
and in concluding he requested them to 
sing "Jordan," instead of "Jordan's Stormy
Banks." He was astonished to hear shout-
ed in one unbroken chorus:—"Jordan am a
hard road to trable."
	BE frugal, not mean; prudent, not subtle;
complaisant, not servile; and active in busi-
ness, but not its slave. There are also four
other habits which are essentially necessary
to the happy management of temporal con-
cerns; these are punctuality, accuracy, stead-
iness and dispatch.
	THE other day a ragged red-eye man
stopped a Detroiter on the street and asked:
"Say, mister, lend a feller a dollar, will you?"
"No, sir!" was the emphatic reply. "Why
won't you?" "Because I don't know you,"
replied the citizen. "Well, you wouldn't 
let me have it if you did, so hand her out,"
was the cool reply.


IT is estimated that the tunnel between
England and France can be completed for
$30,000,000.


THE decrease of the public debt during
September is $3,342,562; decrease since
June 30, 1875, $6,222,499. Bonds issued to
the Pacific Railroad Companies, interest
payable in lawful money; Principal out-
standing, $64,623,512; interest accrued and
not yet paid, 969,362; interest paid by
United States, $28,202,807; interest repaid
by transportation of mails, etc., $6,396,524;
balance of interest paid by United States,
$21,806,283.


