HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Graham Soda Biscuit.—One quart of graham
flour, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in two-
thirds of a teacupful of molasses; mix with milk
and water.
	Rye and Indian Drop Cakes.—One pint of In-
dian meal, one half-pint of rye meal, two eggs, two
spoonfuls of molasses, a little salt; work it with
cold milk so as to drop from a spoon into hot fat;
be sure to have a smooth batter.
	Ginger Snaps.—One-quarter of a pound of su-
gar; one quarter of a pound of butter, the same
of lard; beat them well together; one pint of mo-
lasses, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, one teaspoon-
ful of soda dissolved in a wine glass of milk, flour
sufficient to roll them thin, and bake quick.
	In using porcelain kettles, when fruit etc., sticks
to the bottom, put in warm ashes, and cover with
cold water; let it remain a few minutes, pour off,
and wash; if not clean the first time, soak again,
and longer.
	Paste which will keep unchanged in warm or
damp weather may be made in the following man-
ner: Put a tea-spoonful of powdered alum in two
quarts of water; and let it boil. Mix a pint of
flour smoothly into a pint of cold water, and stir
it into the boiling alum water, continuing the boil-
ing and stirring until the flour is cooked and the
whole is clear, like starch. Add to this about
half a tea-spoonful of essential oil of cloves or
cinnamon, strain through a wire gauze or perfora-
ted tin strainer, and bottle in wide-mouthed jars,
which should be corked to keep out dust.
	Graham Crackers.—Have some soft water,
either cold or tepid, in a mixing dish, and sift nice
meal slowly through the fingers into the water,
stirring until too stiff to manage with a spoon;
then mould the dough on a board with the hands
until it is about as stiff as for common biscuit. Roll
it with a rolling pin about three fourths of an
inch thick, and cut with a round cookie cutter and
lay on a baking tin, not greased but dusted with
flour, so the cakes will not touch each other. Bake
about 30 minutes in a pretty hot oven, making
them sharp and crusty or tender as preferred.
Take them from the oven in a pan or bowl and lay
a napkin over them to steam awhile, then lay
them in neat little piles on plates for the table.
They are excellent and more popular now than
any other form of bread.
	Canning Fruit.—The fruit should be perfectly
fresh, and the sooner it is canned after it is taken
from the tree or vine, the better. If a small quan-
tity, say half a dozen quarts, is cooked at one time,
the color of the fruit and the uniformity of the
cooking will be better than if a larger quantity is
attempted. There is no necessity of using an ounce
of sugar in a gross of cans. The fruit will keep
just as well without it and be far more grateful to
a healthy appetite. Glass cans with glass tops, a
rubber band and a screw-ring give best satisfaction,
as they can be sealed and unsealed in a moment's
time. As for the process, when the fruit is done,
pour it scalding hot into the cans, let them remain
untouched fifteen or twenty minutes, till the fruit
settles, then fill them full again and seal up. If
the can is placed on a very wet cloth it will not
break when the scalding fruit is put in it. Turn
the cans, after screwing them up tightly, bottom
side up, and if no syrup leaks out, no air can get
in. When cold set them away in a dark, cool clo-
set.


INDIA has 750,000 acres devoted to the
cultivation of opium.


