	MY BELOVED SISTERS OF THE ASSOCIA-
TION:—I hope you will excuse the liberty I
take in giving you a few of my ideas con-
cerning the way in which the Saints of God
should conduct themselves in houses which
are set apart for the purpose of divine wor-
ship, and of giving and receiving instruc-
tions in the principles of eternal life and
and salvation.
	I am afraid that many of us do not realize
what great privileges we enjoy, or we would
surely seek more earnestly to understand
why we have obeyed the Gospel, why we


are gathered to the land of Zion, for what
purpose we attend meeting, or what object
we have in attending Sunday School. We
are taught that "Order is heaven's first law."
I would like to ask how many of us observe
that law when we enter a house of worship,
or any place where we come together to be
instructed in the ways of righteousness.
Instead of walking in as Saints of the Most
High should do, we come in with as much
pomp and authority as if we had everything
under our own control, and instead of sit-
ting still and listening to the Elder who is
preaching for our benefit, we talk of this or
that, like as not about our beaux, or about
some excursion we have been on, or what
Miss so and so wore at the last party. Thus
we pay little or no attention to the discourse,
which is the very height of ill manners, as
well as a source of great annoyance to the
speaker and those about us who desire to
hear him.
	If anything is likely to grieve the Spirit
of the Lord away from us, it is disorder
and confusion. I do not object to a friendly
shaking of hands, or a kindly greeting of
brethren and sisters, but such conduct as
described above is decidedly out of place in
a house of God.
	We may learn the greatest lessons from
God in His own works. See, for example,
how He has placed the heavenly bodies
in order, how the greater light is set to rule
the day and the lesser light to rule the
night, how the earth revolves around the
sun, the day is divided from the night, and
the seasons of the year roll round in perfect
order. And if we ever expect to dwell in
the presence of God we will have to observe
good order not only in His presence but in
all places and under all circumstances. But
if we at any time conduct ourselves in such
a manner as will grieve the Spirit of the
Lord from us, we will lose many of the
blessings which we would otherwise obtain.
And inasmuch as we have held up our
hands to sustain those in authority over us,
whether it be president or counselors, super-
intendent, bishops or teachers, let us treat
them with due respect, and observe good
order at all times when they are addressing
and instructing us. And if we are called
upon to perform any duty, let us do it will-
ingly, promptly and cheerfully, for our time
is too precious to be spent in trifling. Let
us, my sisters, pray God to bless our Presi-
dent, Sister Howard, with wisdom and 
knowledge that she may be the better able
to teach us things that are for our benefit.
Let us pray for each other and seek dili-
gently to become one in faith and works,
that we may be owned and blessed of God.
