[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: ". . . Be Faithful and Diligent in Keeping the Commandments of God . . ." Christine H. Robinson]
visiting  cJeacher    //  Lessages  — 
Truths  to  Live  By  From  The  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Message  8—"  ...  Be  Faithful  and  Diligent  in  Keeping  the  Commandments 
of  God,  and  I  Will  Encircle  Thee  in  the  Arms  of  My  Love"  (D.  &  C.  6:20). 
Chiistine  H.  Robinson 
For  Tuesday,  May  6,  1958 
Objecti\'e:  To  show  that  the  only  way  to  cam  and  share  God's  love  is  through 
keeping  his  commandments. 
/^OD'S  profound  love  for  his  chil- 
dren here  upon  the  earth  runs 
as  a  golden  thread  throughout  the 
scriptures,  both  ancient  and  mod- 
ern. God's  love  is  the  magic 
alchemy  which,  if  we  will  but  let  it, 
can  transform  the  common  incidents 
of  life  into  wonderful  experiences 
for  the  growth  and  development  of 
our  souls. 
We  as  earthly  parents  arc  con- 
cerned with  the  welfare  and  pros- 
perity of  our  children.  We  try  to 
rear  them  in  an  atmosphere  of  trust 
and  love,  and  seek  to  guide  and  di- 
rect them  past  the  pitfalls  and  dan- 
gers along  life's  way.  Our  Father  in 
heaven,  whose  love  is  perfect,  is  ever 
mindful  of  us,  his  children.  Since 
the  beginning  of  time,  he  has  sought 
to  lead  and  direct  us  into  paths  of 
righteousness.  lie  has  given  us  the 
opportunity  of  coming  to  this  earth 
so  that  we  might  grow  and  progress 
through  life's  experiences.  In  order 
that  we  might  dwell  with  him  for- 
ever, in  his  all-encompassing  love: 
...  he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son,  that 
whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not 
perish,  but  have  everlasting  life  (John 
3:16). 
We,  as  parents,  particularly  ap- 
preciate those  of  our  children  who, 
by  obedience  to  the  teachings  and 
regulations  of  our  household,  show 
their  love  for  us.  ''A  wise  son  mak- 
eth  a  glad  father  .  .  ."  (Proverbs 
15:20).  So  it  is  with  our  Father  in 
heaven.  We  must  hearken  unto 
his  word  and  be  obedient  to  his  laws 
if  we  expect  his  love  and  blessings. 
He  has  told  us  ''I  love  them  that 
love  me  .  .  ."  (Proverbs  8:17).  And 
''If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  command- 
ments" (John  14:15). 
Recently,  there  appeared  in  a 
newspaper  a  picture  of  a  woman 
wdth  tears  streaming  down  her  face, 
clutching  lovingly  the  flag  of  the 
free  country  in  which  she  had 
just  been  granted  citizenship.  This 
touching  scene  has  been  repeated 
thousands  of  times  in  recent  years, 
when  people  from  oppressed  lands 
have  found  a  haven  of  peace  and 
security  in  the  free  countries  of  the 
world.  In  every  case,  however,  be- 
fore earning  the  protection  of  free- 
land  citizenship,  it  was  necessary 
that  these  individuals  be  willing  to 
follow  the  rules  and  laws  and  abide 
by  the  "commandments"  estab- 
lished by  these  countries  for  citizen- 
ship. Not  one  of  these  individuals 
gained  such  privileges  and  blessings 
Page  129