[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Fiction | Title: Social]
Social Science —Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 14—Families Have Neighbors Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, May 27, 1958 Objective: To show the importance of wholesome neighborhood relationships on the family life. ONE element of happiness involves the satisfactions which we receive from our associations with others. It is our nature to be gregarious but, even without this characteristic, it is almost impossible for any one of us to isolate himself from others. In this day and age the fact that we will have people around us is certain, irrespective of our own wishes and desires. 'The satisfaction and happiness we receive from these associations are dependent almost entirely upon our own efforts. A good neighbor knows that where much is given, much is received. And who is our neighbor? Ordinarily we consider our neighbors to be those who live in close proximity to us. In early times, the extent of our neighborly associations was limited by distance and numbers, but as transportation and communication developed, the neighborhood frontier gradually expanded until today it extends to all the world. 'This expansion has brought new neighbors, some whom we never see, and with it new responsibilities for us as neighbors. There are certain fundamental characteristics which combine to make a good neighbor. There are certain things we should not do. There are certain qualities and attitudes which we must have Page 138 if we are to be good neighbors and the field of service in being a good neighbor is almost limitless. As we examine this subject, we shall know that a Latter-day Saint must be a good neighbor, if he is properly applying that which he has been taught. The Law of Moses When the Lord revealed the Ten Commandments to Moses on Mt. Sinai, two of these commandments had to do with our neighborly relations. Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbour's (Exod. 20:16-17). Significantly, most of the teachings concerning neighbors as found in the Old Testament related to things which we should not do. In Proverbs, for instance, we were admonished against imposing upon and visiting too much with our neighbors as follows: Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour's house; lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee (Prov. 25:17). LESSON DEPARTMENT The Psalmist had the consideration of one's neighbor in mind when he said: Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill?... He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour (Pss. Moe @)s From Jeremiah we are cautioned against imposing upon our neighbors: Woe unto him that buildeth his house by unrighteousness, and his chambers by wrong; that useth his neighbour's service without wages, and giveth him not for his work (Jeremiah 22:13). The Old Testament advice is just as good and pertinent today as it was centuries ago. We all know our neighborly relations are better if we do not carry tales concerning our neighbors, if we do not express jealousy of them and seek things which they possess, and if we avoid criticism and impositions. It is significant to note that the violation of the two "neighbor commandments" given Moses can account for most of the strife between men and nations in all ages. Love Thy Neighbor As Christ unfolded his teachings, it became evident that being a good neighbor entailed more than refraining from doing certain things. Let us examine his teachings in this respect. A lawyer once asked the Savior what he should do to inherit eternal life. Jesus said unto him, "... What is written in the law?..." (Luke 10:26). In reply the lawyer referred to the written law of the day, which was: 139 Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself (Luke 10:27). Jesus told him he had answered right and said: "... This do, and thou shalt live." 'The lawyer pursued it further by asking: "And who is my neighbour?" In reply the Savior told the story of the good Samaritan. (See Luke 10:30-36.) After telling this story Jesus asked the lawyer this question: "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves?" (Luke 10:36). And the lawyer answered: "He that shewed mercy on him." And Jesus said unto him, "Go, and do thou likewise" (Luke 10:37). Thus the Savior suggested a good neighbor formula. The secret of successful neighborhood living was summed up when Christ gave the following counsel: Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets (Mt. 7:12). Further refinement of the Christian attitude towards others is found in Matthew: Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is_ perfect (Mt. 5:43-44, 48). 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 And in Luke we find solid advice by which we may deal with our neighbors: Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven: Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again (Luke 6:37-38). For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he (Prov. 23:7). The way we feel in our hearts towards others determines the kind of neighbors we are. 'The family is a neighborhood in miniature. The feeling which we have about others was created and is nurtured in the family setting. (In this connection see Lesson 11, "As the Twig Is Bent.") The child who has learned to give and take, who has acquired a gentle mode of conduct, and whose parents have a_ satisfactory relationship with the adults in the neighborhood, has a good chance of being a successful neighbor. Being a good neighbor involves the constant process of evaluating our thoughts and actions in relation to our neighbors. Fortunately our thoughts and actions can be improved. We can discard those which are harmful and develop those characteristics which make us good neighbors. 'This is the process of perfection and it is applicable in our relationships with neighbors as well as in our own exaltation. Just as the family influences the neighborhood, so does the neighborhood influence the family. The neighborhood is a child's first contact with the world outside the home, and fortunate is the child who finds this contact pleasant and agreeable. 'The neighborhood helps mold the child, and parents should therefore give sober thought in selecting a neighborhood in which their children will be surrounded with desirable influences. Let us now consider some of the elements of being a good neighbor. Respect for Our Neighbor Respect for one's neighbors is essential. It implies tolerance, friendliness, forgiveness, overlooking the mistakes of our neighbors, and refraining from speaking evil of them. On one occasion President Joseph F. Smith said in General Conference: We admonish you not only to keep the greatest of all the commandments that has ever been given of God to man, to love the Lord your God... But we exhort you also to observe that second law... To love our neighbors as yourselves; return good for evil, do not revile others because you are or may be reviled.... I desire to impress... Upon... Parents the necessity of properly instructing and teaching their children with reference to this glorious principle, charity and love, that love for our neighbor that will enable us to cherish his rights as sacredly as we cherish our own, (and) to defend his rights and liberties... (Gospel Doctrine, page 256). If we have respect for the person of our neighbor we will be honest in our dealings with him. If thou borrowest of thy neighbor thou shalt restore that which thou hast borrowed; and if thou canst not repay then go straightway and tell thy neighbor, lest he condemn thee. If thou shalt find that which thy neighbor has lost, thou shalt make diligent search till thou shalt deliver it to him again (D. & C. 136:25-26). LESSON DEPARTMENT As a good neighbor, we should be happy in the accomplishments and successes of our neighbors and should not be jealous of their attainments. Likewise, even if our neighbor has wronged us, or makes a mistake, we should carefully avoid criticism and never delight in his misfortune. Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth: Lest the Lord see it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him (Prov. 24:17-18). Friendliness Towards Neighbors Perhaps the most contagious desirable characteristic in any neighborhood is a spirit of friendliness. To the resident of long standing it gives a sense of security and contentment. 'To the newcomers, it spells a warm welcome and a feeling that all is well in their new location. It results in lifetime friendships that survive any number of geographic changes and sometimes develops into relationships even closer than those existing among members of the same families. Friendly neighbors are always the same and usually instill into their children a sense of loyalty toward other neighbors. This feeling remains with the children and is carried to new neighborhoods as they establish homes of their own. Joint neighborhood projects are appropriate in some neighborhoods, such as Christmas lighting projects, children's parades, and baby-tending exchanges. These promote friendliness, merriment, and wholesome, co-operative fun. A friendly household is courteous and hospitable to the neighbor who 141 calls. Especially is this true when "Church neighbors" come to call. How important it is that bishoprics, ward teachers, Relief Society visiting teachers, and other Church _ representatives receive a cordial welcome from all family members. Radio, television, and other pursuits should be set aside while the family plays host to such visitors. This same friendliness and hospitality can be cultivated by the family when invited guests are entertained in the home by special appointment. "Am I My Brother's Keeper?" Nothing warms the heart more than to feel that one's neighbor has a genuine interest in his welfare. Many families have been moved to investigate and join the Church as a result of the kindness shown them by the Relief Society during sickness, accident, death, or other emergency. 'The answer to Cain's question, "Am I my brother's keeper?" is the force which underlies all of the service rendered by the Relief Society and other Church auxiliaries, Priesthood quorums, the missionary system, the Church Welfare Program, and neighborly gestures made by individual Latterday Saints. We do not merit the name "saint" or "neighbor" unless our daily actions coincide with this philosophy as consistently as our Sunday observances do. Tolerance of Neighbors' Views and Conduct Many Latter-day Saints find themselves living near neighbors of other faiths, or in communities of contrasting beliefs and practices to our own. 'This provides an excellent opportunity for us to view our way of life in its proper perspective 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 and accept our neighbors the way Christ intended. Our convictions need not be compromised in any way, but we should, in all humility, learn to appreciate our neighbor's virtues, overlook his faults, and hope that he will be charitable enough to do the same with us. Our children should be taught that there is good in all mankind, but that our standards are based on what we have been taught and the great responsibility we assume as Church members. We can teach the gospel best to our neighbors by the lives we live, not by discrediting the beliefs and practices of our neighbor. Newcomers should be extended a hand of fellowship and brotherhood in a Latter-day Saint community, invited to participate in our activities, and when opportune and appropriate, the gospel should be explained to them.... If any man obey not our word by this epistle, note that man, and have no company with him, that he may be ashamed. Yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother (2 Thess. 3:1415). Forgiveness for Neighbors As human beings, we often find ourselves in error, one way or another. We lean heavily on the principle of repentance for ourselves, but may be slow to forgive mistakes in another. As families and neighbors we need to cuitivate the ability to forgive one another. Christ admonished us to forgive men their trespasses (Mt. 6:14-15) not once, but seventy times seven if necessary (Mt. 18:21-22). He gave the classic example of forgiveness in his encounter with the adulteress (John 8:1-10), as well as the test which any man must take before he accuses another, None of us can pass that test, so it behooves us to dismiss our grudges and heed counsel such as given by President Joseph F. Smith:... We ought to say in our hearts, let God judge between me and thee, but as for me, I will forgive. I want to say to you that Latter-day Saints who harbor a feeling of unforgiveness in their souls are more guilty and more censurable than the one who has sinned against them. Go home and dismiss envy and hatred from your hearts; dismiss the feeling of unforgiveness; and cultivate in your souls that spirit of Christ which cried out upon the cross, "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." The man who has that spirit in his heart and keeps it there will never have any trouble with his neighbor.... (Gospel Doctrine, page 256). In spite of conscientious effort to be a good neighbor, misunderstandings and differences sometimes arise. To solve these differences we must first put our own houses in order, avoid spreading evil gossip to others, and without anger discuss the differences with our neighbor. Moreover if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother (Mt. 18:15). New Opportunities for Neighboring In view of our complicated, rapidpaced living today, the world is in dire need of "good neighbors" and men everywhere are looking hungrily for good Samaritans. The word "neighbor" denotes far more than one nearby. Its greatest meaning entails outward giving of one's self in the interest of one's fellow men. The priest and Levite, in Christ's parable, both came close enough to befriend the wounded man, but only the Samaritan earned the designation of "neighbor." When our hearts are right, being a good neigh- LESSON DEPARTMENT bor becomes more than a responsibility—it becomes a privilege. Fach of us should "search our hearts" and see how we can improve our neighborly relations. We should contemplate our homes and see, in the words of President David O. McKay, "whether the spirit of our homes is such that if an angel called, he would be pleased to remain" (President David O. McKay, October Conference, 1951). If we cannot give an unequivocal and affirmative reply to this query, we have yet some changes to make. There is a destiny which makes us brothers; None goes his way alone. And whatever we give unto the lives of others Comes back again into our own. Supplementary References 1. "Relief Society Assists in Welfare Program for Marysville, Yuba City Flood" —Alice I. Ferrin, The Relief Society Magazine, April 1956, page 226. 2. "When Mother's Reputation Was at Stake"—Nedra Stone Nickell, The Relief Society Magazine, June 1956, page 381. 3. European Relief—last war. 4. "A Pictorial Portrayal of the Tabernacle Choir in Europe," Improvement Era, January 1956, page 16. 5. "The Expanded Indian Program," Spencer W. Kimball, The Improvement Era, December 1956, page 937. 6. "Welfare in the Church," Alfred W. Uhrhan, The Improvement Era, December 1956, page 810. 7. "Comparison — and Covetousness," Richard L. Evans, The Improvement Era, January 1957, page 44. 8. "The Golden Rule in Action," Fred Schwendiman, The Improvement Era, May 1957, page 314. 9g. "Thy Neighbor as Thyself," R. G. Hansen, Ph. D., The Improvement Era, May 1957, page 342. 10. "A World of Neighbors," Bonaro W. Overstreet, National Parent-Teacher, June 1957, page 15. 143 Sacred Music Church Pianist Use Oo > Z 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah ame ddress ity & State for the CHAPPELL'S SACRED SONG FAVORITES $1.25 CONCERT TRANSCRIPTIONS OF FAVORITE HYMNS 1.00 LORENZ SACRED PIANO DUETS 1.50 PIANO HYMN VOLUNTARIES— VOLS. 1, 2, 3 220..-.222eseeeeeeeeea. 1.50 SABBATH DAY MUSIC 1.25 SACRED MUSIC PIANO SOLO 1.50 SACRED PIANO SOLOS 1.00 SACRED MELODIES WITH VARIATIONS 0..0.-2--- ee 1.25 SACRED HOUR AT THE PIANO 1.50 SUNDAY PIANO MUSIC __ 1.25 TRANQUIL HOURS 00 1.50 TWENTY PIANO DUETS TRANSCRIPTIONS I 1.25 TWELVE SACRED SONGS 1.25 Music Sent on Approval this advertisement as your order blank l I! 1! Please send the music indicated above. I C] On Approval L] Charge i C Money Enclosed: I ' J ' 1! 1 \ i ' [ DaynesMcdo_I mmm E. Lst South 145 worTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO Salt Lake City 11, Utah 144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 Sail For EUROPE July 25, 1958 NEW ZEALAND (New Zealand Temple Dedication) It is possible that we might have one or two Temple Dedication reservations left. Write to us immediately if you are interested. HISTORIC TRAIN Write for itineraries for the European and Historic Train Tours. Get your reservations early as groups will be limited. The Historic Train will include the Pageant at the HILL CUMORAH. For further information write or phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 ®@ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover.

The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles — 02. 35 150 to 300 miles —_ - uw. 39 300 to 600 miles — 000...45 Pe] 600 to 1000 miles 2.0 -54 1000 to 1400 miles W000..64 1400 to 1800 miles ~ 00002022. 76 Over 1800 miles - 22.. Eee eee.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 11. Gospel Doctrine, Joseph F. Smith, "Love Your Enemies," chapter 18, page 337: Questions for Discussion 1. In what way has our neighborhood circle widened in the last fifty years? Since the time of Christ? 2. Describe the best Latter-day Saint neighbor you ever had. The best nonLatter-day Saint neighbor you have had. Did they have characteristics in common? 3. How does one select a neighborhood when moving to a new _ location? What part should children play in making the choice? 4. What steps have been taken by the Latter-day Saints to be good neighbors to the Lamanites? 5. How does the Relief Society help us to be better neighbors? 6. In what ways can we be "our brother's keepers?" Birthday Congratulations