[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: On | Author: Bunker]
On Starting the Day Right Wilma Boyle Bunker I am wondering if I, as a mother, realize how much my own morning outlook affects the entire family. If I am critical, high-strung, and discouraged, the atmosphere of the entire household becomes tense and forbidding. On the other hand, if I set about my morning tasks with a confident, unhurried, and optimistic frame of mind, I can send everyone to work and school happy and ready to tackle the problems of the day. I know there are mornings when things just don't run smoothly, when it is hard to remain calm and unruffled. That is the time I should remind myself that a bad day at the office for my husband, or a poor grade in a test at school for my son often can be traced to a gloom-ladened breakfast table. I believe I have it within my power to help shape the kind of day my family will have. Whether it will be one of depressed frustration, or one of confident achievement depends a great deal on how the day begins. It is my job as a homemaker to keep the house clean, to wash and iron and mend the clothes, and to serve nutritious meals. But it is also my duty as a wife and mother to try to create a serene and optimistic beginning to each day's activities. Elizabeth's Children CHAPTER II Olive W. Burt Synopsis: Carol Wilson, the only unmarried one in her family, attends the funeral of her sister Elizabeth and tries to comfort the motherless children. Kathy, the eldest niece, begs Carol to stay and take care of them, but Carol, who is an artist, returns to her work in the city. Their grandmother will care for them. RENT Gibson, managing editor of Your Home Magazine, and Carol's boss, met her at the airport as she returned to the city from Wyoming and the funeral of her sister, Elizabeth. "How did it go?" Brent asked solicitously, as he greeted her. Then, before Carol could answer, he went on, "It was rugged, I can see from the way you look. 'Take it easy today, Carol. 'Try to rest and not to think. But [ll tell you one thing— I'm mighty glad to have you back. I was afraid you'd decide to desert me." His voice, Carol noticed, held a note of deep sincerity, not called for by the casual words. Carol raised her eyes to the familiar face, and then shifted them quickly. Once in awhile she caught a look like that in the man's eyes, and it always troubled her. They were business associates, that was all. And there was no reason for that intent, tender expression. "You weren't hoping instead of fearing, now, were you?" she tried to sound teasing, but she was too bone weary to make it believable. Brent, too, was trying to sound casual. "Not just afraid, terrified!" he said, and grinned down at her. Page 114 "A Wyoming ranch house filled with noisy kids is no place for my chief artist." Then he went on relentlessly, "Your Mother's Day cover is about due, you know!" That was more like Brent. Carol smiled suddenly. "Slave driver! But it'll be ready." Back in her little studio, under the pressure of work to be done by a certain time, work that she loved to do, Carol felt release from the tensions of living. She could push Elizabeth's children back in_ her mind and lose herself in the creative effort required by her painting. And as an overtone to this effort, completely filling her consciousness, was the desire to create something that would meet the critical approval of Brent Gibson. As she stood before her easel she was subtly aware of what this picture must be. She hadn't consciously planned it, but it was there, in her mind's eye, complete to every small detail. She began to sketch in the rough outline of her idea. Her hand, trained and obedient, moved almost involuntarily in response to her imagination. HEN Brent Gibson dropped in a few days later to see how she was progressing with the assignment, he looked at the nearly completed painting and gave a low whistle of surprised admiration. "That's great, Carol! Truly great!" he said earnestly. Carol looked up, gratified at his ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN genuine approval. His eyes moved from the painting to the artist, and he regarded her thoughtfully for a long moment. It was as if he were reappraising her, re-evaluating her. She flushed a little in embarrassment, and, to cover this emotion, she asked, "Do you get the significance?" "Of course. Who could miss it?" He turned his gaze again to the painting. It was Carol's memory of that evening in the bedroom with Elizabeth's children — the children who had lost their mother and were clinging to her in place of their mother. It showed a small girl at her mother's knee, praying. But the figure of the child alone was visible. Of the mother, only the skirt of a soft robe showed, with the bare feet of another child on the mother's knee, lifelike against the heavenly blue of the robe. It was the expression on the praying child's face that told the story. Somehow Carol had managed to convey in those rapt, peaceful features the whole essence of security and love —the security and love found at a mother's knee, with the spirit of God hovering, almost tangible, over them all. "It's a beautiful thought, Carol," Brent said softly. "And different. You've contrived to depict the essence of a mother's love, and without showing her face at all. It's great! For you've put here what any observing person must have realized—that the love between a mother and child has nothing at all to do with the mother's appearance. Always artists are showing the mother's face—and making her beautiful. But," his voice caught, "it's the love that is important."