[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Life Is | Author: Gould]
(To be continued) Life Ie Not a Holiday Anne S. W. Gould IFE. Is an education, we learn whether we want to learn or not. We should realize that trials and troubles are lessons to be learned, the steps by which we climb and grow. This realization should take the bitterness out of our trials; because we progress step by step, onward and upward, all our life. Life is not a holiday, life is an education. FROM THE FIEL =e Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relicf Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for ''Notes From the Ficld" in the Magazine, January 1958, page 47, and the Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Margaret R. Jackson NEW ENGLAND MISSION, PORTLAND (MAINE) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY DISPLAY OF PLANTS AT BAZAAR, October 158, 1957 Left to right: Sally Ann Chase, Secretary-Treasurer; Alberta N. Richardson, First Counselor; Ruby S. Marino, Second Counselor; Mildred H. MacDonald, President. Margaret R. Jackson, President, New England Mission Relicf Socicty, comments on this outstanding bazaar: "There were twelve tables, including fancywork, homemade pastries, candy, preserves, aprons, dolls, and many other articles. Decorations were fall leaves, in all their beauty, and pine branches." Page 119 120, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 Photograph submitted by Faye K. Nielson SOUTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, September 8, 1957 Front row, seated, left to right: Berneice Anderson; Beth Gregerson; Florence Staples; Faye K. Nielson, President, South Sevier Stake Relief Society; Nola Ware, pianist; Golda Bush, stake chorister; Dean Yergenson, organist; Della Ware; Reva Christensen; Mildred Christensen; Lucille Williams. Second row, seated, left to right: Julia Burr; Myrtle Peterson; Ida Johnson; Lucy James; Dona Bokman; Floral Rasmussen; Jennie O. Winget; June Barney. Back row, standing, left to nght: Myrle Morrey; Rosalie Marble, Secretary; Ethel Herring; Lena Barney; 'Talitha Nielson; Marie Larson; Fiametta Adair; LaVerd Hansen; Helen Swalberg; Genevieve Tietjen; Lou Ella Lee; Ruby Hooper; La Verne Daniels. Photograph submitted by Dorothy S. Blaisdell SANTA ROSA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 27, 1957 Front row, standing at the right, left to right: Catherine Newman, stake organist; Dorothy S. Blaisdell, President, Santa Rosa Stake Relief Society; Alameda Neilson, stake chorister. Also appearing in the group are First Counselor Catherine Woolley and Second Counselor Sarah Neerings. 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 Photograph submitted by Myrle B. Johansen EMERY STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT ANTHEMS FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 1957 In the center of the front row are seated: Myrle B. Johansen, President, Emery Stake Relief Society; to the left: Alice Day, Second Counselor; Claire Hunter, stake chorister; to the right: Neva Jensen, First Counselor; Jane McClanahan, stake organist; Ona Tuttle, stake literature class leader; Ruth Litster, guest conductor from Cleveland Ward. Anna B. Larsen, guest conductor from Ferron Ward, was not present when the picture was taken. Photograph submitted by Ora H. Petersen DANISH MISSION, ODENSE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY TABLE DECORATED FOR THE OPENING SOCIAL, September 30, 1957 Ora H. Petersen, President, Danish Mission Relief Society, reports: "After the recently innovated summer vacation, the Relief Societies in each branch in Denmark held an opening social. All districts have reported an increase in attendance and activity. Many novel and original ideas for table arrangements were introduced. From Odense Branch came this picture of one of the most unique and beautiful arrangements, NOTES FROM THE FIELD ls using autumn leaves, fall flowers, and part of the food as decoration. A shining silver channel graced the length of the table, in which sailed specially cut open-faced sandwiches in the form of miniature boats, each flving a Danish flag in the stern. (Danish open-faced sandwiches are both appetizing and decorative, and are world renowncd.) Also serving as decoration and food were luscious grapes and red and yellow apples. In addition, creamed chicken and asparagus in patty shells and lemonade were served. Because so many attended the opening social, and because the lesson books have been printed in an attractive, small size, which is easier to carry, even though twenty-five per cent more books were printed this year, they have all been sold, and it will be necessary to print more. "Special book marks on which was written "The Glory of God Is Intelligence,' 'Read the Scriptures,' in gold lettering on blue, were presented as favors to each woman who attended. Aftcr the luncheon, the new lesson book was presented, then a program, with talks and music, was enjoyed by all." Photograph submitted by Verney J. Olson SOUTH SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAIT), BURTON WARD TOY DISPLAY AT BAZAAR Verney J. Olson, President, South Salt Lake Stake Relief Socicty, reports a successful toy-making project by the Burton Ward Relicf Socicty: 'In the picture is Geneva Birch, chairman of the toy making project. Sister Estella Walborn is Work Director Counselor. Under the supervision of Sister Birch 110 toys were made from scraps and used materials, with the exception of the monkeys, which were made from socks. 'he toys were all stuffed with nylon scraps from a factory, and so the profit was nearly one hundred per cent clear. It was a beautiful display of various toys, and it was a delight to see the joy the ward members showed in buying the toys. All but three toys were sold. Ledia Burrows is president of the Burton W 'ard Relief Society." > Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain to the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand (D. & C. 88:78). =e 3 Pali DEPARTMENT —t Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 8—The Restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants: Section 13) For Tuesday, May 6, 1958 Objective: To point out the importance of the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood. Divine Authority Necessary ONE of the great events in the restoration of the gospel was the conferring of the Priesthood upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. In this lesson we shall consider some of the implications of this subject. As Latter-day Saints we know by modern revelation that in the beginning the Priesthood was given to man as a necessary part of the plan of redemption. 'There are a number of Biblical examples where men usurped authority and incurred severe punishment. (See 2 Chronicles 26:16-21; Acts 19:13-16.) Men who act without God's authority will be rejected in the day of judgment, declared the Savior. (See Matthew 7:21-23.) Background of Section 13 In preparation for the formal reestablishment of the Church of Page 124 Jesus Christ, or kingdom of God upon the earth, the Lord sent his messengers to confer the authority necessary to effect that organization. It was while Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery continued the work of translation of 'The Book of Mormon that they went into the woods to pray and inquire of the Lord respecting baptism for the remission of sins, that was mentioned on the plates. Joseph Smith continues his account by writing:... While we were thus employed, praying and calling upon the Lord, a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of light, and having laid his hands upon us, he ordained us, saying: Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth 'LESSON DEPARTMENT until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness (D. & C. Section 13, See also The Pearl of Great Price, The Wutings of Joseph Smith 2:68-69 ). He said this Aaronic Priesthood had not the power of laying on hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, but that this should be conferred on us hereafter; and he commanded us to go and be baptized, and gave us directions that I should baptize Oliver Cowdery, and that afterwards he should baptize me. Accordingly we went and were baptized. I baptized him first, and afterwards he baptized me—after which I laid my hands upon his head and ordained him to the Aaronic Priesthood, and afterwards he laid his hands on me and ordained me to the same Priesthood—for so we were commanded. The messenger who visited us on this occasion and conferred this Priesthood upon us, said that his name was John, the same that is called John the Baptist in the New Testament, and that he acted under the direction of Peter, James and John, who held the keys of the Pniesthood of Melchizedek, which Priesthood, he said, would in due time be conferred on us, and that I should be called the first Elder of the Church, and he (Oliver Cowdery) the second. It was on the fifteenth day of May, 1829, that we were ordained under the hand of this messenger, and baptized. Immediately on our coming up out of the water after we had been baptized, we experienced great and glorious blessings from our Heavenly Father. No sooner had I baptized Oliver Cowdery, than the Holy Ghost fell upon him, and he stood up and prophesied many things which should shortly come to pass. And again, so soon as I had been baptized by him, I also had the spirit of prophecy, when, standing up, I prophesied concerning the rise of this Church, and many other things connected with the Church and this generation of the children of men. We were filled with the Holy Ghost, and rejoiced in the God of our salvation (D. H. C. 1:39-42; also The Pearl of 125 Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith 2:70-73.) Jesus' Evaluation of John the Baptist John the Baptist was considered by Jesus to be one of the greatest of the prophets. He said: " Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist..." (Mt. 11:11). In commenting upon this statement, the Prophet Joseph Smith observed that the miracles performed by John could not have constituted his greatness, but three things pointed up John's greatness: First, he prepared '" the way before the face of the Lord"; second, he was entrusted with the mission of baptizing Jesus; and third, at that time, John was the only legal administrator in the affairs of the kingdom in holding the keys of power. (See D. H. C. V:260- 261.) We are indebted to modern revelation for additional information about John the Baptist and the Priesthood he held. 'The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 13 tells of some of these powers. Section 84 makes known that his calling was to administer the "preparatory gospel" (verse 26, 27), and that John was ".,. Baptized while he was yet in his childhood, and was ordained by the angel of God at the time he was eight days old unto this power, to overthrow the kingdom of the Jews, and to make straight the way of the Lord before the face of his people, to prepare them for the coming of the Lord, in whose hand is given all power" (D. & C. 84:28). John the Baptist was a resurrected being when he restored the Priesthood. (See Matthew 27:52, 53.) 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 An Old Testament Prophecy Jesus often referred to the law and the teachings of the prophets. Upon one of these occasions, he appled the fulfillment of an Old Testament prophecy to the mission of John the Baptist as one who should prepare the way for his coming. As we briefly examine this prophecy, let us see how it also fulfills John's mission of restoring divine authority in the latter days: Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and the Lord whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in: behold, he shall come, saith the Lord of hosts. But who may abide the day of his coming? And who shall stand when be appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire, and like fullers' soap: And he shall sit as a refiner and putrifier of silver: and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness (Mal. 3:1-3). John's Two-Fold Mission As indicated, this prophecy was fulfilled in part during Jesus' lifetime, for he referred to the "messenger" of this prophecy as John the Baptist who prepared the way before him. (See Matthew 11:10.)

It is very clear, however, that this same messenger, John the Baptist, was also to prepare the way of Jesus Christ before his second coming. These elements in the prophecy confirm this fact: first, Jesus was to come suddenly to his temple; second, the coming of John the Baptist would occur in the last days. Otherwise, these questions would not be relevant: But who may abide the day of his coming? And who shall stand when he appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire, and like fullers' soap (Mal. 3:2). The expression "refiner's fire" refers to the great heat required to bring ore into a fluid state making possible a separation of the precious metal from the dross with which in nature it is usually found mixed. "Fuller's soap" was used to cleanse garments and to whiten them. Thus we see that these expressions definitely refer to a burning and cleansing process, both of which are associated in the scriptures with the second coming of Jesus (See Malachi 4:1; II Thessalonians 2:8; and D. & C. 101:23-24.) Third, the sons of Levi were to offer an offering in righteousness. To ascertain whether these three points of Malachi's prophecy were fulfilled during Jesus' mortal ministry, all one need do is ask these questions concerning that period: (1) Did Jesus come suddenly to the temple of Herod? (2) Were the questions asked in the prophecy fulfilled in the ministry of Jesus? (3) Did the sons of Levi of that day offer an offering in righteousness? The answer to each one of these questions would have to be answered in the negative. They could be answered only in connection with Jesus' great second coming. But before that second coming, John the Baptist was to prepare the way by bringing again to the earth the power or authority to act in the name of God. We may say today that John the Baptist has fulfilled his two-fold mission: first, as the forerunner of the Savior in the meridian dispensation (See Mark 1:2-4; John LESSON DEPARTMENT 1:19-23), and second, as the forerunner of Jesus' second coming by the restoration of divine authority in preparation for the re-establishment of the kingdom of God upon the earth. In a similar way Isaiah also foretold, in his fortieth chapter, the coming of John the Baptist in the last days. (See Isaiah 4o0:1-5; Matthew 3:12; Luke 3:2-s.) Aaronic Priesthood to Continue When John the Baptist conferred the Aaronic Priesthood upon Joseph and Oliver, he used words which might suggest that the Priesthood so conferred would continue on the earth only until the sons of Levi would offer their prophesied offering in righteousness. 'This interpretation, however, can not be held because of a recognition that as long as mortality continues there will be a need for the performance of the ordinances of the preparatory gospel with which that Priesthood is associated. 'This point is confirmed in Oliver Cowdery's report of this event. He said in his testimony, quoted later in this lesson, that the Priesthood would continue that the sons of Levi might offer their offering. Some Lessons From the Restoration of Priesthood The Aaronic Priesthood was restored one year before the Church was organized. From the opening of this dispensation of the gospel, the Prophet Joseph Smith was being prepared for that formal organization. In addition to the numerous visits with the angel Morom, Joseph's knowledge was greatly en- 127 hanced by the restoration of the Priesthood. As one examines the circumstances which occurred on that beautiful day of May 15, 1820, he realizes how important this event was. Let us indicate some of the truths which are suggested by the event itself. (1) 'Uhe Aaronic Priesthood is the power by which baptism is performed; (2) a valid baptism must be performed by immersion; (3) baptism is for the remission of sins; (4) the ministry of angels comes through sincere faith; (5) ordination to the Priesthood is done by the laying on of hands; (6) the Aaronic Priesthood is limited in its powers; (7) the restoration of Priesthood confirms the apostasy; (8) life after death is affirmed by the resurrection of John the Baptist; (9) John the Baptist acted under the direction of Peter, James, and John, the apostles, indicating the difference between the lesser and greater Priesthoods, and also that all who hold the Priesthood act under the direction of one who holds the keys of the Priesthood; (10) the higher Pnesthood was promised. Other lessons and truths might also be obtained from this one important event—the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood. Oliver Cowdery's Testimony Of the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood, we also have the testimony of Oliver Cowdery, written September 7, 1534.. On a sudden, as from the midst of eternity, the voice of the Redeemer spake peace to us, while the veil was parted and the angel of God came down clothed with glory and delivered the anxiously looked for message, and the keys of the Gospel of repentance. What joy! What wonder! 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 what amazement! While the world was racked and distracted—while millions were groping as the blind for the wall, and while all men were resting upon uncertainty, as a general mass, our eyes beheld— our ears heard. As in the "blaze of day"; yes, more—above the glitter of the May sunbeam, which then shed its brilliancy over the face of nature! Then his voice, though mild, pierced to the center, and his words, "I am thy fellow-servant," dispelled every fear. We listened, we gazed, we admired! "Iwas the voice of an angel from glory—'twas a message from the Most High, ard as we heard we rejoiced, while His love enkindled upon our souls, and we were rapt in the vision of the Almighty! Where was room for doubt? Nowhere; uncertainty had fled, doubt had sunk, no more to rise, while fiction and deception had fled forever I shall not attempt to paint to you the feclings of this heart, nor the majestic beauty and glory which surrounded us on this occasion; but you will believe me when I say, that earth, nor men, With the eloquence of time, cannot begin to clothe language in as interesting and sublime a manner as this holy personage. No; nor has this earth power to give the joy, to bestow the peace, or comprehend the wisdom which was contained in each sentence as it was delivered by the power of the Holy Spirit! Man may deceive his fellow man; 'deception may follow deception, and the children of the wicked one may have power to seduce the foolish and untaught, till naught but fiction feeds the many, and the fruit of falsehood carries in its current the giddy to the grave, but one touch with the finger of his love, yes, one ray of glory from the upper world, or one word