[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Joy in | Author: Rawlins]
[Joy in Service Jennie Brown Rawlins]

Cook slowly twenty to thirty minutes until tender. BERNER POTATOES Hanni Wysard 3 Ibs. Boiled potatoes salt to taste 2 tbsp. Butter or fat Peel potatoes and cut in slices, brown in frying pan with butter or fat, salt to taste. Form in a mold and cover with plate or lid. Cook for about fifteen minutes slowly until it forms a light brown crust. 'Turn upside down on plate and serve. This can be served with green salad and cold meats. ORANGE SIRUP FOR DRINKS Anna Gallati 2 qts. Cold water sugar to taste peelings of five oranges lemon flavoring to taste Pour cold water over peelings of oranges, let stand for five days in cool place or refrigerator. Strain the juice off, add half as much sugar as juice, cook to the consistency of light sirup, add a little lemon flavoring. Let it cool, put in bottles, and cover until ready for use. Keep in cool place. Serve with ginger ale, or other carbonated beverages. STRAWBERRY PIE 3 Ibs. Strawberries 1% Cc. Sugar 2 eggs 3 ¢c. Flour 3 tbsp. Butter or margarine 1 tsp. Baking powder peeling of 1 lemon Put some sugar over the strawberries and let them stand until there is some juice. For the batter, mix the eggs with the butter or margarine and the sugar, and stir well. Add the flour, the baking powder, and the grated lemon peeling and stir. Fill the mixture in a pie pan and bake. When the crust is cold, put the strawberries, without the juice, on it. To the strawberry juice add 1 c. Water and 1 tbsp. Sugar, then cook. Dissolve 2 tbsp. Corn starch in 1 c. Cold water and add to the cooking juice. Cook it slowly for about four minutes and pour hot over the sugared strawberries on the pie. Serve cold. It is very good with whipped cream over it. <>< On &ntering a Small Boy in the Hospital Elsie McKinnon Strachan How shall I tell you of his small-boy need, Whose days have been bright meadows in the sun, Whose willingness outrides a pinto's speed When love endorses any task begun? How shall I tell the charm of praise: that one Soft word will quiet his initial dread? The tribute of your smile, warm-lit with fun, May ease his Hoppy-hat from tousled head— But, nurse, say cowboys all wear spurs to bed.