[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Edwards]
[Work Meeting: Debts and Trouble William F. Edwards]
(A  Course  Recommended  for  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Discussion  8— Debts  and  Trouble 
Elder  WiJh'am  F.  Edwards 
For  Tuesday,  May  13,  1958 
Objective:  To  recognize  that  there  are  occasions  when  going  into  debt  is  proper 
and  desirable,  but  that  personal  debts  are  undesirable,  generally. 
r\ISCUSSION  4  on  'Making 
Money  More  Valuable"  intro- 
duced the  subject  of  debts  by 
emphasizing  that  savings  should 
precede  spending.  That  lesson 
should  be  reviewed  as  a  part  of  this 
discussion. 
When  Debts  Are  Justifiable 
Buying  a  Home:  Few  people  can 
save  enough  to  buy  a  home  without 
a  mortgage,  except  by  delaying  the 
purchase  of  their  home  too  long. 
The  most  precious  time  to  own  a 
home  is  while  the  children  are 
young,    and,    usually,    a    home    is 
bought  when  savings  are  available 
only  for  the  payment  of  the  equity 
—a  good  down  payment— and  mod- 
est furnishings.  This  is  a  justifiable 
occasion  to  go  into  debt,  if  the 
following  rules  are  followed: 
1.  The  total  cost  of  the  home  in  condi- 
tion for  occupancy  is  reasonable  in  relation- 
ship to  one's  current  and  prospective  in- 
come. For  people  of  modest  to  average 
means,  the  total  cost  should  not  exceed 
four  times  current  annual  income,  or,  if 
the  outlook  is  for  considerably  increased 
income  within  a  reasonable  period  of 
time.  To  invest  more  in  the  home  will 
probably  mean  that  there  would  not  be 
sufficient  income  to  cover  other  essential

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
131 
items,  and  thus  life  could  become  a  con- 
stant struggle.  "Home,  Sweet  Home"  is 
a  desirable  and  reasonably  priced  home. 
2.  Sufficient  funds  have  been  saved  in 
advance  so  that  the  home  can  be  furnished 
for  living  without  added  debts  beyond  the 
mortgage.  Some  of  the  most  difficult 
family  problems  ha\e  been  precipitated 
when  people  have  failed  to  make  allow- 
ance for  the  cost  of  preparing  the 
grounds,  buying  furniture,  and  setting  up 
housekeeping.  Important  though  it  is  to 
own  a  home,  most  people  will  find  it 
wise,  if  space  can  be  rented,  to  delay  the 
buying  of  their  home  until  they  ha\e 
accumulated  these  savings. 
3.  The  mortgage  is  paid  off  as  rapidly 
as  possible.  This  policy  is  sound  for  two 
reasons: 
a.  The  first  is  the  general  goal  of 
being  out  of  debt,  which  has  been 
proved  wise  through  generations  of  time 
and  among  all  peoples, 
b.  The  second  is  because  of  the  cost 
of  borrowing  money.  Obviously  the 
real  cost  of  a  home  is  what  has  to  be 
paid  out  of  one's  income  to  acquire 
the  home.  It  requires  $13,324  to  re- 
pay a  $10,000  loan,  with  interest  at  6  per 
cent,  in  monthly  payments  over  a  ten- 
year  period.  It  requires  $19,332  to  re- 
pay the  same  loan,  if  extended  over 
twenty-five  years.  This  means  that  in- 
creasing the  period  of  repayment  of  the 
loan  from  ten  to  twenty-five  years  in- 
creases the  cost  forty-five  per  cent. 
When  people  borrow  money,  they  are 
usually  paying  a  higher  price  than  they 
think,  since  the  true  cost  is  the  amount 
that  must  be  repaid,  including  interest 
and  other  charges. 
Financing  an  Education:  Borrow- 
ing money  to  finance  an  education 
is  justifiable  and  often  wise.  The 
development  of  one's  talents  pre- 
pares one  to  render  greater  service. 
The  expenditure  of  this  borrowed 
money  helps  the  individual  to  ac- 
quire the  ability  to  earn  more 
money  with  which  to  repay  the 
loan. 
When  Debts  Are  Not  JustiBMe 
It  should  be  recognized  that  what 
is  proper  for  one  person  under  cer- 
tain circumstances  may  be  unwise 
for  another.  We  must  be  our  own 
judges  and  not  the  judges  of  others, 
remembering  that  each  enjoys  or 
suffers  the  consequences  of  his  own 
acts.  The  following  are  suggested 
as  warnings: 
1.  It  may  be  proper  to  go  into  debt  to 
buy  an  automobile  if  it  is  indispensable 
in  connection  with  one's  work  or  as  a 
means  of  transportation.  Otherwise,  sav- 
ings should  precede  the  purchase  of  the 
automobile.  The  writer  recalls  a  family 
that  appears  to  ha\'e  been  blessed  greatly 
with  opportunities  and  means,  who  were 
married  in  1929  and  purchased  their  first 
second-hand  car  for  cash  in  1936  and 
their  first  new  car  for  cash  in  1947. 
The  writer  has  known  of  young  men 
who  quit  college  because  of  the  burden 
of  payments  on  a  car.  Many  a  student 
has  obtained  an  inferior  education  be- 
cause of  neglecting  studies  due  to  exces- 
sive hours  spent  in  part-time  work  at  a 
low  salary  to  finance  a  car.  Surely  a
