[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Fiction | Title: Never | Author: Romney]
See also "Recipes From the Swiss-German Mission," 101, by LaVelle D, Curtis on page Never Wish for the Moon Dorothy S. Romney ORNA carefully tucked her drowsy baby into his crib and tiptoed out of the nursery. Sleeping in his high chair took the edge off his drowsiness, and he sometimes wakened and missed his nap completely. 'This, she thought grimly, was not the morning for a missed nap. Fortunately, she had caught him just as he was beginning to nod, and he had slept through the transfer. She took an unhappy look at the mess in the living room. No one but another mother of two small boys would believe she had cleaned it thoroughly yesterday. Lorna made a mental schedule of all she had to do before Bill brought his out-of-town clients home for dinner at six-thirty—a horrible hour for guests! "Living room and dinette, forty-five minutes: pies—one hour; feed young Bill—half an hour; type Bill's brief—one hour; Primary—two hours, including prayer meeting, and traveling time. Cut flowers, clean the bathroom, make beds, hang out wash, press a dress, set the table." And then she remembered! She hadn't as yet prepared her activity for her class today. She'd intended to cut the sticks from the poplar trees in her backyard yesterday, but it had rained—sticks for the windmills she had promised the children would be today's activity. Even a mathematician like Lorna could realize, almost immediately, that there weren't enough hours in any one day to do all of it. "Something's got to go," she told herself, Page 90 "and there's only one thing that can—Primary." It would be embarrassing, when she had expressed her opinion so often of teachers who called at the last minute with excuses. "But what else can I do?" she asked herself. Bill's career was important. As a struggling young lawyer, he needed all the help she could give him, both in typing his briefs, and entertaining his customers. As she walked to her typewriter she glanced through the window, and saw Hilda, the Brooks' maid, sweeping their front sidewalk. Now if I were the wife of a successful doctor, and lucky enough to have a maid, I could spend all afternoon reading, and greet my guests fresh as a daisy, she thought, somewhat bitterly. Maybe I could get Nell Brooks to teach my Primary class. BYUt of course she couldn't—that had been tried before—and Nell always had a lame excuse why she couldn't serve on different committees. Lorna felt a little ashamed of herself for these thoughts. After all, Nell had been kind enough to take Ricky to the park this morning, to keep him out from under Lorna's feet. And she was a lovely person —a little hard to get acquainted with, but very pleasant. Thé Brooks had recently moved from Lorna's home town, and although she hadn't known Nell or any of her family there, she felt she had some home folks near, NEVER WISH FOR THE MOON She thoughtfully inserted paper in her typewriter. 'The machine buzzed on in the silence of the almost deserted neighborhood, and she was halfway through the "whereases"' and the "party-of-the-first-parts," when the commotion began. She heard a car stop in front of the house. She looked out. Nell and her two boys and Ricky got out. Ricky was wailing loudly. Lorna left her typewriter and rushed out. "Don't be alarmed," Nell said, "{t's nothing serious. I took them through the zoo, and a tiger growled and frightened Ricky. He ran, stumbled, and hurt his knee. He wanted you." "Oh, is that all?" Lorna. Asked, relieved. She bent down and Ricky hugged her tight, his hands grimy. "The tigers won't hurt you, darling, they're safely locked in cages." 'The knee was scarcely scratched. "Come on," Nell said, extending her hand to the now smiling Ricky, "we'll have lunch at my house." When he hesitated, she offered, "Pink lemonade." She knew he could never resist pink lemonade. "Oh, thank you," Lorna said gratefully. "The baby just went to sleep, and I've Bill's brief to Wiper "It's nothing," Nell cut in, looking slightly embarrassed at Lorna's gratitude. "Besides, think of the peace and quiet I'll have while my two wild Indians are at Primary with you. 'Trading them for an hour with your adorable Bill is the best exchange ever." Lorna didn't have the courage to tell Nell just then that she was considering calling Sister Lambert and begging off Primary today. She was 91 glad when Nell and the boys disappeared through the opening in the hedge. She frowned as she walked back into the disorderly living room. She could see through the dinette to the kitchen, where the breakfast dishes were stacked and awaiting their turn. The hands of the clock pointed to ten. LORNA sat down again, and typed so fast her fingers almost tripped over each other. About one o'clock Bill popped in to pick up his papers. He took a dismayed look at the living room. "Tl get at it as soon as the baby wakes up and I dare use the vacuum," she assured him. "But sixthirty is so early. Couldn't you stall them until seven? Take a tour of the city, or something." "Tll try," he promised. His only comment on the papers she had typed so carefully and painstakingly was to look at the backs of the sheets and say, "Good girl! You got the carbons in right side to this time!" She still hadn't called Sister Lambert. She promised herself she'd do it the minute she finished the breakfast dishes and washed the best china which hadn't been used for so long it was dusty. She almost dropped one of the plates—$2.75 each and out of stock now—a wedding present—when the phone rang. It was Sister Lambert. "Could you possibly take Sister Martin's class in with yours today?" she asked. "Her mother has taken ill." When Lorna didn't reply immediately, she urged. "There are only four of them, you know."