[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V45_02_00_Misc]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President
Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor
Helen W. Anderson - - - - - Second Counselor
Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Mildred B. Eyring
Elna P. Haymond
Edith S. Elliott
Louise W. Madsen
Gladys S. Al
Annie M. Ellsworth
Florence J. Madsen
Aleine M. Young
Charlotte A. Larsen
Mary R. Young
Leone G. Layton
Josie B. Ba
Edith P. Backman
Mary V. Cameron
Blanche B. Stoddard
Christine H. Robinson
Winniefred S.
Afton W. Hunt
Alberta H. Christensen
Manwaring
Wealtha S. Mendenhall

VOL. 45 FEBRUARY 1958 NO. 2

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices:

$2.99 = HANDY SCRIPTURE (UID: I — Handi Benjamin Alward All scriptures supporting the main features in the - Restoration of the Gospel are assembled and_ orper ganized for immediate reference in this handy, pocket-size book. Missionaries who use the standard missionary teaching plan will especially welcome this boc yk. " $75 THE DOCTRINE. AND, COVENANTS and the FUTURE Roy W. Doxey In twelve succinct chapters, the author brings to the fore the unique features of The Doctrine and Covenants and points up the three principal purposes of this Standard Work: to warn the world, to tell events of the future, and to give evidence of the reality beyond the grave. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, 44 East South Temple l Salt Lake City, Utah, I I Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) I have an account. I I Please charge for the numbered (encircled) books: 1 2 3 Amount enclosed $ I! INIGIT i ecncsocecoe ieee ee I I L\ ck ra ee ae neSS I I SAY cee cr cegurenrrere ree: Zone State. I ' Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. SS SS ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee ee es ees oe) EMl-27-164-36798 OCi 58 Who Left Jimmy Out? It's really surprising how many children are "left out in the cold" when it comes to life insurance provisions. Usually it happens this way: Parents set up a wellplanned insurance program. They include in the policy the names of all of their children: Then along comes little Jimmy. Unless the policy provides for future additions to the family under the beneficiary clause, little Jimmy will be literally left out. It's something you just wouldn't want to happen to your children. How long has it been since you took a close look at your own policies? It's a good practice to make sure your present insurance is keeping pace with those important events in your family life —a new job, a new home, family additicns, etc. We at Beneficial Life believe in service. Your Beneficial Life agent will be happy to check these important changes as they affect your insurance program. There is no obligation. "CHILDHOOD" the most unusual baby book you ever saw! A teddy bear, a rag doll, and a music box try to identify their room-mate. As_ they disocver "clues," the baby's height and weight, vital dates and names become part of the story—which is, in turn, the story of your own baby right up to the first day of school. There is even a photo album, and an attached envelope for baby's valuable papers, and even a record of immunizations, childhood diseases, etc. 32 pages with full-color illustrations. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Beneficial Life Building, Salt Lake City, Utah; For copy, send 25c to cover handling and mailBENEFIC I A I j LIFE. Ing. Ms 0 7p 7, Nj ee nN ey - "ip Beneficial Life Bldg: Salt Lake City, Utah Street