[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
A  few  years  back  my  dear  mother  gave 
me  a  most  wonderful  birthday  gift.  It  was 
a  subscription  to  our  wonderful  Relief 
Society  Magazine.  I  have  enjoyed  it  so 
very  much  and  wish  to  thank  my  mother 
and  everyone  who  has  made  this  Maga- 
zine possible  to  me. 
— Fontella  Varney 
Dearborn,  Michigan 
I  want  to  express  how  much  I  enjoyed 
the  September  Relief  Society  Magazine, 
and  the  cover  was  so  interesting  to  me  as 
I  have  climbed  to  the  top  of  that  Pagoda 
(Tiger  Pagoda  in  Hong  Kong,  China) 
several  times,  and  the  view  from  the  top 
is  breathtaking.  The  picture  brought  back 
many  memories  of  our  missionary  work  in 
China. 
— Hazel  M.  Robertson 
Provo,  Utah 
I  have  been  an  admirer  of  our  wonder- 
ful Magazine  a  year  now,  since  after  a  visit 
to  a  cousin  in  Provo,  Utah.  I  find  many 
wonderful  things  in  the  Magazine,  it  is  a 
delight  to  receive  it. 
— Louise  Carroll 
Washington,  Michigan 
Thank  you  for  publishing  my  poem 
"For  You  at  Christmas"  in  the  December 
issue  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  It 
surely  was  a  thrill  to  appear  in  the  same 
Magazine  again  with  Iris  W.  Schow  and 
Mabel  Law  Atkinson.  We  appeared  to- 
gether as  winners  in  the  1951  Eliza  R. 
Snow  Poem  Contest.  Since  then  Sister 
Atkinson  and  I  have  become  pen  pals, 
and  I  surely  watch  for  and  enjoy  every- 
thing she  writes.  I  think  that  Iris  W. 
Schow's  poetry  shows  great  talent,  it  is 
very  rich  and  deep,  the  diction  is  beauti- 
ful. Her  mother,  Eleanor  W.  Schow, 
writes  with  a  great  depth  of  feeling  and 
tenderness,  so  beautifully  expressed  in 
"Blessed  Among  Women,"  in  the  De- 
cember issue.  I  believe  the  poetry  in 
The  ReUef  Society  Magazine  is  some  of 
the  best  I  have  ever  read,  and  it  is  an 
honor  to  be  published  in  this  Magazine. 
— Sylvia  Probst  Young 
Midvale,  Utah 
MY  GUEST 
I  have  a  very  special  guest 
Who  comes  to  call  and  stays, 
And  she  is  just  the  sweetest  thing — 
With  unpretentious  ways.  .  .  . 
She  has  a  multitude  of  friends. 
But  she  still  has  time  to  spare; 
I  know  she  would  come  into  your  home, 
If  you'd  invite  her  there. 
Please  subscribe  to  your 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
— Arlene  L.  Guy 
Manteca,  California 
We  all  enjoy  The  ReJiei  Society  Maga- 
zine very  much  out  here  in  the  mission 
field.  It  is  the  "bridge"  or  "path"  over 
which  we  can  travel  right  into  the  very 
hearts  and  homes  of  the  sisters  everywhere. 
—Flo  Cole 
Dewey,  Oklahoma 
Each  issue  of  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine is  a  wonderful  help,  and  gives  one  so 
much  inspiration.  I  especially  enjoy  the 
editorials. 
— Camille  C.  Nuffer 
Bozeman,  Montana 
Page  74

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Monthly   Publication   of   the   Relief   Society   of   The   Church  of   Jesus    Christ   of   Latter-day    Saints 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  GENERAL  BOARD 
Belle  S.   Spafford  -------  President 
Marianne  C.  Sharp  ------  First  Counselor 
Helen   W.   Anderson  -----  Second   Counselor 
Hulda  Parker   
Secretary-Treasurer 
Anna  B.  Hart  Evon  W.  Peterson  Mildred  B.  Eyring  Elna  P.  Haymond 
Edith  S.  Elliott  Louise  W.  Madsen  Gladys  S.  Boyer  Annie  M.  Ellsworth 
Florence  J.  Madsen  Aleine  M.  Young  Charlotte  A.  Larsen        Mary  R.  Young 
Leone  G.  Layton  Josie  B.  Bay  Edith  P.  Backman  Mary  V.  Cameron 
Blanche  B.  Stoddard       Christine  H.  Robinson        Winniefred  S.  Afton  W.   Hunt 
Alberta  H.  Christensen  Manwaring  Wealtha    S.    Mendenhall 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Editor          .-__--------  Marianne  C.  Sharp 
Associate  Editor          ._--------  Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager           ----------  Belle  S.   Spafford 
VOL    45  FEBRUARY   1958  NO.   2 
(contents 
SPECIAL  FEATURES 
Family  Unity   
 Dantzel   W.    Nelson     76 
The   Swiss-Austrian   Mission   
 Preston    R.    Nibley     88 
A  Relief  Society  Tribute   
 Maurine   R.   Goold  100 
Joy  in  Service
