[Vol47 | September 1960 | Sequence: 22 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and far

Will you accept my sincere, heartfelt thanks for The Relief Society Magazine. The pictures are wonderful and they show what the members achieve. It is a beautiful Magazine containing such various and interesting reading. In the April issue, the poem "Charity" by Iris W. Schow is the true message.
—Mary Leutens
Brussels, Belgium

I read all the stories in The Relief Society Magazine, as well as all the other matcrial. I like to call it my Magazine, because it emphasizes the arts that should be mine — cooking, sewing, homemaking, and the art of being a successful wife and mother. 'The stories either present common problems or bring to life the wonderful spirit of our pioneers. It seems good to have a Magazine which presents the views of Latter-day Saint women.
—Dorothy C. Little
Lewiston, Utah

A few days ago I received my first copy of The Relief Society Magazine, and have truly enjoyed reading it. My husband and I are especially interested in the story "Orchids in the Snow' by Rosa Lee Lloyd. We moved here to Dillingham a short time ago, and I am_ experiencing some of the same strange things as Sharry.

Dillingham is located on the coast of Bristol Bay and can be reached only by air and water. Therefore, our way of living is a big change from that in Utah.

There are only four members of our Church here, and three of them are our family. The remaining member, Lyle Smith, has been wonderful to make us feel at home. We are enjoying very much the chance to be pioncers in the jet age.
—Mrs. Martha Morgan
Dillingham, Alaska

I do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. The stories are so refreshing and wholesome. Also, I like the articles, and, of course, the poems. The women who do this writing must be "deep thinking" and sincere.
—Mrs. L. B. Dovey
Deepfield, Australia

I have seen and felt the spirit of Relief Society in action. I am the mother of eight wonderful children. When I had the first four I had no time for any outside activities, including Relief Society.

Then my mother gave me a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine, and I began to develop an interest in it. J started going to Relief Society and taking an active part. As a result, I can see the difference in my home. Our home has a distinctly different atmosphere.

There is a mellowness that never existed before. For several years I have taken four tiny ones with me to Relief Society meetings and have proved for myself that young mothers can and should attend Relief Society.
—Cora Thinnes
Ogden, Utah

I have intended for some time to write and tell you how much I enjoy our Magazme. I read it through and pass it on to friends who enjoy it. My friends Mr. And Mrs. E. B. Anderson, West Jordan, Utah, have sent it to me for some years, and I appreciate it.

They came to see me two years ago.

They are grand people. The Magazine stories are such wholesome reading, and the covers and pictures are lovely.
—Agnes Fisher
Vancouver, B. C. Canada

Years ago my mother added The Relief Society Magazine as part ef my Christmas gift, and each year she has subscribed for me. I can truly say that it is the only Magazine that comes into our home that I always read from cover to cover. I have never failed to find a story, poem, lesson, or article that hasn't seemed to answer my problems, lift my chin up, or make me smile again, when needed. I have always felt that the messages and material in the Magazine were written for me and directed to me, especially, as an individual.
—Ora] M. Clayton
Glendale, California