[Vol47 | September 1960 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Are You | Author: Crookston]
[Are You Happy? Marvel Sharp Crookston]

The scriptures are filled with accounts of individuals and nations which were destroyed because of this sin. It is not new, but it ls real and it is with us. There has SLEEP WHEN THE WIND BLOWS probably never been another time when so many people enviously desire to have what others have, as now. Modern means of communication and modern selling techniques may be responsible. It is possible now for people to see exactly what others have, their homes, their clothes, their jewels, all their personal possessions. No one can be unaware of the aggressive advertisers. Keeping up with the Joneses — a modern form of covetousness — has become the most common sin of the age, so common in fact that it is not recognized as such by those who commit it. Yet is not this sin, in a very real measure, responsible for many of the other sins — breaking the Sabbath day, lying, stealing, adultery, murder, war? And does not this sin bring about much of the anxiety, discontent, ill health, and musery with which otherwise "good" people are afflicted? Why are so many people in debt? Why are so many women employed outside their homes? It may seem more difficult for those who have little to avoid covetousness. Perhaps it is, but those who have much are not without responsibility for the prevalence of this sin. They also can be covetous, and are often vain, and by indulging their desires and displaying their possessions, they arouse the envy of others and compound the evil. To have wealth is not sinful; to display it can be. The Tenth Commandment as given in Exodus is noticeably more detailed than the other negative ones, as if to make it more emphatic. It surely is not less important. The Lord has always known the weaknesses and the needs of his children. He has given many laws 571 which are designed to help them develop the ability to love him as he desires, and to love each other unselfishly. 'The law of sacrifice, the law against covetousness, the law of tithing, the present Church Welfare Plan are all preparatory to the law of consecration, under which there will be no rich and no poor, and which we must accept and live completely before we can live with the Lord. Since we are obviously not yet prepared to live that higher law, we should try carnestly now to obey the lesser ones. Some of these laws may seem, on first thought, to be purely temporal; but we are told by the Lord that all his laws are spiritual, that none of them is temporal. As mortals, we are physical and spiritual beings combined. 'The body and spirit are one and cannot be acted upon separately. Hatred, anger, jealousy, worry, greed, cause tension, ulcers, strokes, and heart attacks. Ignoring the Word of Wisdom or refusing to pay tithing and offerings leads to loss of faith, apostasy, moral and spiritual decay. All divine laws are designed to benefit God's children eternally as well as to give them happiness here. HE dangers of covetousness have been recognized by wise men in all eras. Socrates (469-399 B. C.) is reported to have said, '""Those who want fewest things are nearest to the gods." And often when he was looking in at auctions, he would say, "How many things there are which I do not need.' Horace (65 B. C. - 8 av.) the Roman poet said, ""he covetous man is ever in want." The apostle Paul wrote to the Colossians, "Set your affection 572 on things above, not on things on the earth" (Col. 3:2). And _ to Timothy he wrote: But godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and raiment let us be therewith content. But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts.... For the love of money is the root of all evil (I Tim. 6:6-10). How can we attain "godliness with contentment"? What changes must we make in our thinking and our practices? In the beginning, man was given the responsibility of providing, through his own labor, the physical necessities for his family. He was to govern, protect, and cherish them. 'The woman was to bear children, to be a homemaker and a help meet to her husband, subject to him in righteousness. 'Together, they were to bring up their children in righteousness. 'These original assignments have never been changed. How well are we playing our roles as women now? 7E hear much about "woman's rights" today, but let us look, now, not at her nghts only, but at her responsibilities as a wife and mother. She is a help meet to her husband. She must conserve and use wisely the necessary material of livelihood which her husband _provides. She must recognize and meet the needs, and respect the rights of all members of her family, including herself. What are important needs and tights of family members? First, of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-—-SEPTEMBER 1960 course, they need the material things: adequate shelter, food, and clothing. More importantly, perhaps, each needs the love, respect, confidence, appreciation, and cooperation of all the family. 'They all need peace of mind. Each needs time to work without interference, time for a hobby, time to sing, to play, to laugh, to pray, time to be alone. Are we homemakers managing our homes so that these needs of our families are met? What can we do to make twenty-four hours a day and our present income adequate for all these things? Many of us will be compelled to change our habits. Most of us are more or less closely akin to the pack rat. We accumulate and _ hoard things for which we have no need or use or just because we see them, or because someone else has them.