VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1883.	No. 4.


AFFECTIONATELY.

TO MRS. MARINDA N. J. HYDE

	[On the 68th Anniversary of her birth.]
MY DEAR SISTER MARINDA,
						On this natal day
A small tribute of love, o'er your threshold I lay,
I now meet you in age—I have known you in youth,
Ere Cumorati unbosomed the Records of Truth.
Since then we have labored together in love,
Where the Spirit of God showered down from above.

Your heart all unselfish—your hand never slack,
Has been kindly extended to help those that lack;
With true greatness of soul you have sought out and
										blest
The sad and afflicted, and cheered the distressed,
Until "Mother in Israel." the title your due,
The pure daughters of Zion accord unto you.

With me, in our friendships, you've ever been true,
And my heart's full of blessings for yours and for you.
What a prize, honest friendship, a gem never sold
For the purchase of favor, nor the purchase of gold;
You are true to yourself—to your friends, and to God—
You've acknowledged His hand, and "passed under the
										rod."
Be your coming years happy—your last be your best,
Then bright as a sunbeam you go to your rest,
And receive the reward of your labors of love,
In the midst of the just in the mansions above.
If perchance I precede you, by first passing through,
To the loved ones, I'll bear a good record of you.
							E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City, June 28th 1883.


[Column 1]
A SUMMER STROLL.

	'Tis a lovely morning! How cool the air,
how blue the sky, how sweet the voices of the
birds, how beautiful the flowers. What rest
and comfort to leave the dusty, busy town and
find a place so calm and peaceful. ’Tis indeed
a morn of summer splendor.
	Walk with me, dear friend, a little while,
through these lovely lanes, hedged in on either
side with wild rose and sweet brier bushes, and
note the little birds and squirrels, the white
rabbit, the chipmunk, as we pass along.
	All nature is so beautiful! Do you see in
yonder tree that yellow breasted blackbird,
and there close by his modest plumaged mate?
There must be a nest somewhere in these rushes,
yes, there it is with four little birdies in it, oh,
what sweet, pretty, happy things! Look to the
right. Did you see that gray squirrel running
in and out of the bush? There it is again; how
cunning he is. Let's rest awhile on this poor
fallen tree. How shattered and tortured it looks
—this fallen pine. Perchance one fair, bright
morn it stood as proud and happy as those stately
brothers there, waving their smiling boughs
in the glorious sunshine; and now all its bright-
ness, all its gladness, all its glory is dead and
gone, and here it lies mouldering in the dust, shot
down in all its beauty by the wrath of the rag-
ing heavens. How often in the happiest, fairest
day of life, the saddest, heaviest blow doth fall.
Poor fallen pine, once the fair dwelling of the
merry birds, now only a leafless, broken trunk.
	These are lovely flowers peeping up from
the grass; there are the little pink and purple
daisies with their great golden centers; how
often in childhood's days we gathered them and
wove our "daisy chains," and wound them
round and round ourselves, laughing at our-
pictures in the crystal water, and weeping when
the fickle chain faded and severed.
	How many chains we have woven since and

[Column 2]
wound them round and round our hearts, think-
ing them as beautiful and lasting as pearls,
and finding them as frail and fickle as daisies.
	There are butter-cups too and sweet-peas and
red-bells, sweet clover blooms and lovely white
lilies. Children of the soil, eyes of the mead-
ows peeping at us in the morn as the stars of
heaven gaze at us in the night.
	What a little impudent chipmunk, staring at
us so, how dare he come so near. Perhaps he
has a home near this old tree, and fears we
might molest it. To every living thing there
is always a spot somewhere on the earth dearer
than all other places, and this is home; man
with all his powers loves not more his palace-
of splendor, than these poor, creeping crea-
tures love their little hovels. Let us worry
him no longer, but hasten on and view other
beauties of this summer morn.
	How sweet the meadows are—what perfume
so lovely as the new-mown hay. That's the
sound of the medlark; did you hear it? And
there perched in that old cottonwood is a robin
what bird more enchanting than the plain,
homely robin. Some love the bright colored
birds of the south, I admire them, but only
love the plain, sweet songsters of the grove and
meadow, who tell their happiness to the worjd
by their sweet notes.
	Do we not more dearly love the one whose
soul is happy though her dress is plain, than
the one who flaunts the gaudiest colors, and
little cares what state the heart or mind is in,
so that the dress is beautiful and gay.
	The clouds are gathering in yon western sky
and there is still another spot along this pretty
walk for us to see so we must hasten on. It
lies across this pasture to the left, do you not
see that sheet of shimmering water there?
Along the shore some pretty shells may be
found which I would gather as a remembrance
of this morn.
	How kind is our Father in Heaven! No
matter where we stray, there is always some-
thing to delight us. Life has its pains and sor-
rows, but it also has its joys and gladness, just
as the day has its sunshine and shadow; and
the sorrows only make the life more beautiful
and complete. One who has never had a sor-
row knows not his own joys.
	The shadows of life, like those of day, only
mellow the glaring light and give it its varied
tints and colors. No matter how dark the
night is, there is always a morning awaiting us.
	These trees near by will give us shelter from
the approaching storm, and it is near us for
even now I feel the drops of rain, and faster,
faster yet, they come,
	Under the thick foliage of these gracious
trees we find protection from the storm, while
all around the heavy rain drops fall. 'Twas
only for a moment—and now the angry clouds
part and the pretty smiling blue peeps in be-
tween, We have wandered far to day, and
must seek our home. Let us not retrace our
steps, but take another way. Life holds so
many ways that no matter how beautiful the
paths we have passed, nor how rugged, and
steep the ones we meet, one would always
rather wander on than turn back again to the
ones trodden before.
	In dreams, and dreams alone, can the
past come back as beautiful and fresh as ever.
For in reality changes ever come, and a sin-
gle moment can make a change in any thing.
							CONSTANCE.


HABIT.

	Habit may be defined as a condition of mind
or body, which results from the frequent per-
formance of an action. Man is called a crea-
ture of habit. When a habit is once firmly
established it becomes our master, and we
rarely have sufficient strength of will to over-
come it, although it be condemned both by
reason and experience. Habits are good or
bad, as they are the results of actions that are
right or wrong. People often justify bad
habits because they find difficulty in overcom-
ing them; but the habitual drunkard who is
unable to govern his appetite, that is ruining
himself and distressing his family cannot say
he does no wrong because his habits are bad
and it is to late to reform them. Bad habits
are the fruits of bad actions; but the fact that
a man is unable to break the habit is no excuse
for the wrong.
	We should obey the teachings of conscience
it is the highest authority to which we can ap-
peal. If we think an action right we are
under the strongest obligations to perform it; if
we feel it wrong nothing should induce its
commission. If we neglect to listen to the ap-
peal of conscience once we lose our self-respect,
and feel a sense of shame and meanness. If
we commit the wrong the second time its warn-
ing voice is not so loud, and finally, after re-
peated failures to gain attention, it ceases to
urge us to do right. The law of habit which
enables the conscience to grow each day stronger
and more certain in its indication of right will
so surely if neglected and abused cease entirely
to give its friendly advice. It is a dangerous
habit to neglect the kind whisperings of so
friendly a monitor. The sum of a person's
good and bad habits constitutes his character
If the good is in excess he is said to have a
good character; if the bad predominate his
character is said to be bad.
	Can habits be changed? Yes, they may be
changed, but it is easier to avoid bad habits
when they are shown to us, than to correct
them after they have begun to control our ac-
tions. The habits of an old man are not often
improved. Youth is the time to form good
habits; if we have formed bad habits we may
overcome them the same way we acquired
them, that is, by practice. If the conscience
tells us that any habit is wrong it is our duty
to change it. There is nothing brave or manly
in giving up the hope of reform, or in whin-
ing and conplaining with a cowardly "I cant."
It is folly to expect to break off in a day the
bad habits that have been growing for years.
The reform can only be accomplished by con-
stant, careful attention, by courageously watch-
ing and fighting against the disposition to do
wrong. It is not an easy undertaking. Keep
busy. Idleness is the strength of bad habits.
Do not give up the struggle when you have
taken your resolution once, twice or a dozen
times; any failure only shows how much need
there is for your increasing efforts. When you
have failed to accomplish your desire, think the
matter over and endeavor to understand why
it was you failed so that you may be on your
guard. Be honest with yourself, and never
think you can bear a tempation.	H. L.
	Coveville, Cache Co., Utah, May 18th, 1883


You find poetry nowhere, unless you bring
some with you.—Joubert.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	It reminds me of a time in my father's early
history, previous to his hearing of "Mormon-
ism." It was in 1823 when he received the three
first degrees of Masonry in the lodge at Victor
Flats, Ontario Co., New York, and in 1824,
previous to receiving all of the rights up to the
Royal Arch Masons, the Morgan affair broke
out and the Masonic Hall in Canandaigua
was burned by anti-Masons, and all their re-
cords consumed. It seems that the Masons
were persecuted and the same unjust proceed-
ings were heaped upon them by the anti-Ma-
sons that have been upon those who hold the
Priesthood. "Not as many as three of us,"
father says, "could meet together. unless in se-
cret, without being mobbed. I have been
driven from my houses and possessions with
many of my brethren belonging to that fra-
ternity five times, by mobs led by some of
their leading men.	*	*	*	I have
been as true as an angel from the heavens to
the covenants I made in the lodge at Victor.
*	*	I wish that all men were Masons
and would live up to their profession, then the
world would be in a much better state than it
is now." The Prophet Joseph after becoming
a Mason said that Masonry had been taken
from the Priesthood. In Nauvoo I was ac-
quainted with the widow and daughter of Mor-
gan who exposed Masonry. I remember once,
when but a young girl, of getting a glimpse of
the outside of the Morgan's book, exposing
Masonry, but which my father always kept
locked up. Now if men should be true to Ma-
sonry and hold sacred their covenants to that
or any other fraternity, why in the name of
conscience should not our covenants to the
Great Master Mason be held as sacred? Yes,
and more binding and the greater should be
our obligations. At all events we intend to
prove true to our integrity and hold to the
sacred covenants and institutions which we
know have been established by the Almighty,
and are calculated to put mankind in posses-
sion of the means of salvation, temporal as
well as spiritual, and to bring us into our pro-
per sphere and relationship to God our Hea-
venly Father, and which has given to women
as well as men the true key that can unlock
the mysteries of the eternal worlds—bringing
back to our recollection those glorious things
which we lost remembrance of in coming down
to this dark world as wanderers in the paths
of darkness, ignorance and degradation. It
teaches ns to be virtuous, honest and upright—
to subdue and bring into subjection our fallen
natures, and requires us to put away our vani-
ties and not indulge in any thing which is low
or that would be offensive to God or the celes-
tial beings. These things were taught to ns in
that Holy Sanctuary, and ought to be riveted
upon our minds and upon those of our child-
ren, so as to be remembered and lived up to
in all coming life: And though we have come
far short of living what we profess, still we hope
to do so in time. But if because of the faith
and integrity of our hearts we are to be perse-
cuted and threatened—innocent women impris-
oned and the liberty and lives of an honest
and God-fearing people to be jeopardized be-
cause they are determined to be true to their
covenants, obedient to His commands; we want
them (who are the enemies of God) to know
and understand that we shall continue to
throw ourselves upon His mercy instead of
theirs—into the hands of men who have long
since proven themselves to be liars and trai-
tors, not only to their couutry, but to them-
selves and to their God; whom we know to be
doubly dyed in the darkest pools of filth and

[Column 2]
corruption; and we wish them to understand
that it will take more prisons and fetters than
they can provide to bind the souls of men, or
even to make of a Latter-day Saint a coven-
ant breaker—to deny or give up one of the
principles of our holy religion, the celestial
order of marriage not excepted, and every
attack made upon us only increases our faith
and determination to stand firm to the end,
come life or come death.
	Saturday, December 20, 1845, father wrote,
"President Young having slept in the Temple
last night was early at his post and dictating
in relation to the business of the day and ar-
ranging the workmen in order, etc., after
which he listened to a reading from Captain
Freemont's journal by Franklin D. Richards.
*	*	*	*	*	The morning was a very
beautiful one—the sun shining clear and
bright through the east windows of the room
in which the party were assembled.	*	*
The reading was finished at ten o'clock, at
which time Miss Eliza R. Snow handed in a
list of the females washed this morning, which
list she has taken for several days past. At
seventeen minutes past nine a.m. we com-
menced washing in the male department.	*	*
	"President Young left the Temple about
half past four o'clock to be absent for the
night.
	"At five o'clock a meeting was held in my
room.	*	*	We offered up thanks to
God and asked for the health of Bishop Whit-
ney's youngest child, also for mine, and that
God would turn away the wrath of this gov-
ernment from us and overrule things for
good."
	My mother's three youngest, David, Charles
and Brigham had been suffering from the
whooping cough for a month or more previous
to this, and continued to all winter. Her
babe and Bishop Whitney's were dangerously
sick with it when we were compelled to leave
Nauvoo in the month of February, 1846.
	"Sunday, December 21st," writes his clerk,
"According to appointment on Sunday last a
meeting was held in the east room.	*	*
Seventy-five persons were present, Elder H. C.
Kimball presiding." After mentioning the
names of the brethren and sisters, he says,
"At five minutes before eleven the song,
"Glorious things of thee are spoken" was
sung—Father John Smith then made a few re-
marks—blessed the bread and it was handed
round by Bishop George Miller—The wine
was blessed by Bishop Miller and handed
round by him. While the wine was passing
around Elder George A. Smith arose and ad-
dressed the congregation. He thanked God
for the privileges this day enjoyed, and spoke
of the difficulties under which the church had
labored to attain to the blessings we now en-
joy. Another thing he thanked God for—
Already had more than five hundred persons
passed through, and therefore, if half of them
should be like the foolish virgins and turn
away from the truth, the principles of the
Holy Priesthood would be beyond the reach
of mobs and the assaults of the adversaries of
this Church. Order was one of the laws of
heaven. When we come together	*	*
and unite our hearts and act as one mind, the
Lord will hear us and will answer our prayers.
He related an instance of some children being
healed and cured of the whooping cough in one
night through the prayers of himself and Elder
Woodruff in Michigan, while they were there
on a mission. Said that whenever they could
get an opportunity they retired to the wilder-
ness or to an upper room, they did so	*	*	*
and were always answered. It would be a
good thing for us	*	*	every day and pray
to God and in private circles.	*	*	*
We are different from what we were before we
entered into this quorum,—Speedy vengeance
will now overtake the transgressor. When a

[Column 3]
man and wife are united in feeling, and act in
union, I believe that they can hold their child-
ren by prayer and faith, and will not be ob-
liged to give them up to death until they are
fourscore years old. Sometimes men trifle and
destroy the confidence which each ought to have
in the other, this prevents a union of faith and
feeling. The apostacy of Thos. B. Marsh was
caused by so small a thing as a pint of strip-
pings—and his oaths bronght the exterminat-
ing order which drove us all out of Missouri.
	"The woman ought to be in subjection to
the man—be careful to guard against loud
laughter—against levity and talebearing. He
expressed his unfeigned love for the brethren
and his confidence in their endeavors to keep
these rules. "The Spirit of God" was then
sung. Elder Kimball next addressed the
meeting. He concurred in all that had been
said, the observation of these things is most
essential. About four years ago next May
nine persons were admitted into the Holy or-
der—five are now living, B. Young, W. Rich-
ards, George Miller, N. K. Whitney and H. C.
Kimball, two are dead, and two are worse than
dead. You have not got all you will have if
you are faithful. He spoke of the necessity
of women being in subjection to their hus-
bands, "I am subject to my God, my wife is
subject to me and will reverence me in my
place, and I will try to make her happy. I
do not want her to step forward and dictate to
me any more than I dictate to President
Young. In his absence I take his place ac-
cording to his request. Shall we cease from
loud laughter?	*	*	Will you never
slander your brother and sister? I will refer
your minds to the covenants you have made,
by an observance of these things you will
have dreams and visions.	*	*	*
We shall not be with you long. We cannot
rest day nor night until we put you in posses-
sion of the Priesthood.	*	*	If we
have made you clean every whit, go now to
work and make others clean."	*	*
There are from seven to twelve persons who
have met together every day to pray ever
since Joseph's death, and the people have been
sustained upon this principle. Here is Brother
Turley has been liberated by the power of
God and not of man.
	"Elder Cahoon bore testimony of the impor-
tance of those things which had been spoken,
and rejoiced in the idea that the things he was
taught in the beginning were the same things
now taught and remembered, and it is so be-
cause they are eternal things.
	The assembly was then formed for prayer,
and Elder John Taylor being mouth the whole
congregation united with him in prayer.	*	*
At ten minutes past two the meeting was dis-
missed and another congregation met in the
same room.
	"At three o'clock sand "Hosanna"—prayer
by Orson Hyde, after which by invitation of
Elder Kimball who presided (President
Young not having been at the Temple to-day,
and the duty of presiding having devolved
upon Elder Kimball as the next in successiou)
Amasa Lyman addressed the assembly, he
said, "Doubtless with most of the present as-
sembly it is the beginning of a new era in
their lives—they have come to a time they
never saw before—they have come to the com-
mencement of a knowledge of things, and it is
necessary that they should be riveted on
their minds. One important thing to be un-
derstood is this, that those portions of the
priesthood which you have received are all es-
sential matters.

To be Continued.


Do not wait for extraordinary opportunities
for good actions, but make use of common
situations. A long walk is better than a short
fight.—Goethe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR MOTHER'S VOICE.

Oh, many are the thrilling sounds,
	E’er falling on the ear,
At which the heart with rapture bounds,
	While starts the trembling tear.
		Some love note pure,
		Some charming call  
	To make our souls rejoice,
But dearest, holiest of them all,
		Our own sweet mother’s voice,
	Our mother’s voice, our mother's voice.

When far away from that dear home,
	Made radiant by her smile,
Her prayers still bless us as we roam,
	Her words we lisp the while.
And if from other lips there flow
	The	blessings	and the prayer,
Though kindly greetings friends bestow,
	We miss her accents there,
Our mother’s voice, our mother’s voice.

Her songs of love, when others sing,
	Lose half their magic power;
To her our thoughts will fondly cling
	In every passing hour.
Where’er our wandering footsteps stray,
	Whatever be our lot,
That angel voice our hearts doth sway,
	It cannot be forgot,
Our mother's voice, our mother’s voice.
							SELECTED.


[Column One]
	A VENERABLE WOMAN.
PRESEMDIA LATHROP KIMBALL
		  [Continued.]
	It is impossible to give anything like an ac-
count of the sufferings and trials of the peo-
ple during their stay in Winter Quarters, and
had it not been for the faith and the determina-
tion to serve God, and to persevere in well
doing, thousands would have sunk under the
heavy burdens and afflictions. But the grace
of God sustained them, and they trusted Him
implicitly. Sister Presendia herself had many
spiritual manifestations, and especialy during
the winter of 1847, after the return of the
pioneers from the Salt Lake Valley. Many
things were shown to Sister Presendia, and al-
most as it were the heavens opened to view, for
her comfort and consolation in the time of her
great sorrow and sacrifice. These were sacred
things, given her for her own benefit, and to
show her what the future would be if she main-
tained her integrity to the cause she had es-
poused.
	Sister Presendia has frequently remarked,
that she was never so thankful for anything
in her life as for the manifestations she received
in those trying times at Winter Quarters; for
it hadkept her from yielding to temptations, to
doubt and murmur,and had supported and given
her courage in the darkest hours of her lonely
widowhood. When sorrows of various kinds
had pressed heavily, and her cup seemed to be
running over with bitterness, she could recall
to mind what had been shown her in vision,
and the promises made to her if she proved
faithful and true.
	Early in the Spring of 1848 a few of the 
Mormon Battalion found their way back to
Winter Quarters, on the Missouri River,
where they had left their families when they
were called to go to Mexico. They returned
almost literally starved; having undertaken to
cross the desert with pack mules, and be-
ing overtaken with storms and often losing
their way, lying at night on the ground beside
their mules; they persevered while their provis-
ions held ont, but when their store was ex-
hausted, they first cut up their saddles and
cooked the rawhide, then one by one the ani-
mals that had been so faithful and carried 
them so far, had to be sacrificed to appease the
pangs of hunger, and keep life in their bodies.

[Column 2]
Sister Presendia says she can never forget the
sight these brethren presented when they ar-
rived at Winter Quarters, ragged, barefooted,
their feet bleeding and torn, they seemed more
dead than alive, and looked very like Mohe-
gans, so rough and uncanny. They had to be
nursed and fed with the greatest care they had
been so long without food. One of these men
was Edward Martin, who died, in this city,
about a year ago. The others Mr. John Tib-
bets and Thomas Woolsey. Sister Presendia was
much affected by this circumstance, and al-
ways looked upon it as a miracle, their being
preserved to cross over such a wilderness in
the dead of winter, and find their way without
guide or compass.
	In May of the same year, Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards and other
leading men of the Church, started enroute for
the valley, each of these brethren in charge of
a large company of Saints. Sister Presendia
and her little son Oliver left Winter Quarters
on the 6th of May. Her son George had not
followed her according to promise. Many
women had to drive their own team, yoke and
unyoke their cattle, milk their cows, if they had
any, and cook over the camp fires; the hard-
ships incident to a journey of this kind are
calculated to bring out all the weak points of
character, and to prove the integrity of the in-
dividual to the cause in which he may be en-
listed. Everyone who has crossed the plains
over the sand ridges, through the sage brush,
encountering Indians, buffaloes,wolves, etc., etc.
will, I am sure, bear me out in the assertion I
have made. Sister Presendia, like many others,
had much to endure, and drove her own team,
part of the way though in delicate health, and
sometimes unable to sit up; her cares and labors
were varied and numerous, but she enjoyed the
spirit of her religion, and was happy in feeling
that she was about to reach a place of refuge,
where the Saints could worship God according
to the dictates of their own consciences. She
however arrived here on the 22nd of Septem-
ber, and settled down to home life in the Old
Fort. January 6th, 1848, Sister Presendia
was confined with a daughter. The little one
was named Presendia Celestia, and was a very
bright and handsome child. The baby was a
great comfort to the lonely mother, who had
left her home and come thousands of miles
away. She grew to be very beautiful and in-
telligent and attractive. No daughter was
ever more fondly loved in infancy than this
little one, indeed she seemed rightly named
Celestia, for she was more like a celestial being
than a mortal one. On one occasion Presi-
dent Young inquired her name, and was told it
was Presendia Celestia; quick as thought he
said, celestial Presendia; and so it seemed she
was spirituelle in form and feature. Her
mother's heart was entwined around her so
firmly, that it seemed as though to be separated
even for a short time was almost insupportable.
But the purest and dearest are often taken in
infancy.	
			To be Continued.


[Column 1]
MUSIC.

	Reader, when you breathe even this word,
has it not a pleasing sound? Does it not pene-
trate the recesses of your heart and strike ten-
der chords, whose vibrations have cheerful
echoes? Favorably impressed with the word, 
let us peer into the nature and effects of the
art. Nestled close in the heart of every hu-
man being we find an appreciation of music;
in some clearly defined, in others awakened
only by peculiar circumstances, and on rare
occasions. Who has not been relieved by 
hearing the emotions of the heart portrayed 
by strains of music, in whose supernatural
charms we find power to soothe the aching

[Column 2]
heart, of assuaging sorrow, and even calming 
the aroused passions of the brute. 
	Go with me to the uncomely wigwam, or
battle ground of the uncouth savage, what
do we find? Music—employed and regarded
by those illiterate, benighted people as it is by 
our Christian world. Those rude, ungainly
instruments do their part, (as did the minia-
ture, ridiculed spy-glass of Galileo) urging the
warrior's faith; permeating through every vein
vim and courage; and like a stimulant reviv-
ing his exhausted form, cheering him on, on
to victory! Pass from this scene and note
the disconsolate mother leaning over her dar-
ling babe, whose fragile form (not prepared to 
encounter the chilling blasts of this cold
world) is fast yielding its mortal part to earth;
how pained and set her features, as she reluct-
anly yeilds her treasure, amd painfully 
watches its gentle spirit ebb with each fleeting 
moment; suddenly a heavenly strain of music
is wafted through the open window-- mark
 that change of countenance! those features 
seem calmed by the holy mystery of those 
sounds; something whispers that her rose-bud is
welcomed by seraphs; she is seemingly permit-
ted to peep into the horoscope of the future,
and in  doing so is assured that the chain now
severed will ere long be welded forever; that a
reunion will eventually come when mother 
and child, clasped in one long affectionate em-
brace, will enjoy unalloyed bliss in that world 
eternal where music dwells supreme.
	Music is not an art of recent development,
but has taken an important part in the graat
"drama of life" from the beginning. Our earth
launhed from the hands of its Creator had
accompanying phenomena, which in their var-
ied tones produce music.   Hark! the elements 
combine even while I write, and  proclaim in 
deep, fearful, roaring thunder, 'tis true. How
infinitely grand are those bass notes, telling in
their monotonous rumble of a greater, mightier
power than mortals can conceive! Is this not
music in its grandest, most perfect form? For
a moment we are now lost in the depths of a 
thickly wooded forest; how mournfully the
wind howls through the branches, natures own
harps; listlessly moaning, then suddenly burst-
ing into a violent passion of mingled grief and
sighs, and dying away into a pathetic requiem.
Those minor chords! What a seraphic tremor
in the human heart they cause!
	In fancy now we are seated by the choerful
peat fire of the fisherman; the gentle rain is
pattering on the roof, which, with the interve-
ning crackling of the embers, drums a lively
tune; a lull in the chat; the drops come faster;
through the windows the pale moon is seenoc-
casionally peeping from behind a dark Nimbus,
then hurrying on, seemingly driven from her 
path by the huge black clouds, far in the dis-
tance comes the sound of waves, one after an-
other; alternately roaring, moaning and dying;
now voluminous, now scarcely audible; swell-
ing and receding like the beautiful tones of a 
diatonic scale. "The voice of the Great Crea-
ter speaks in those mighty tones."
	Returning now on our imaginative tour, rich,
plaintive tones, issuing froma ssanctified altar
of worship, 'round which penitents are kneel-
ing and offering thanksgiving, fall upon our 
ears. Soul-inspired-- vent is given to their feel-
ings by means of singing, and involuntarily
praises are sent to their maker. In such wor-
shhip find we not a solace for all our cares? In 
the house of God where music abides we un-
consciously enjoy elysium, and in a dreamy 
reverie, picture ourselves shut out from this
cold world and its cares by a halo of peace,
typical of Eden's atmosphere.
					JENNIE HARRIS.
	Mesa City, Arizona, May 23rd, 1883.


Virtue is a rough way, but proves at night a
bed of down.—Wotten.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELLINE B. WELLS, . . Editor. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, - JULY 15, 1883.


TO THE BISHOPS OF THE VARIOUS
WARDS.

		SALT LAKE CITY, July 9th, 1883.
	Complaints have reached us to the effect that
in some of the wards of the Territory a dispo-
sition has been manifested by some of the Bish-
ops presiding to take possession of and disburse
the wheat which has been collected by the
members of the Relief Societies.
	This wheat has been collected by the mem-
bers of this society in the various wards at con-
siderable trouble and they are the proper custo-
dians thereof and responsible therefor to the
parties from whom it has been obtained.
	No Bishop has any right, because of his au-
thority as a presiding officer in the ward, to take
possession of this grain. It belongs to the socie-
ties who have collected it, and it is their pro-
vince to dispose of it for the purpose for
which it has been collected, and it should not
be appropriated or disposed of by any Bishop for
any other object.
						JOHN TAYLOR,
						GEORGE Q. CANNON,
						JOSEPH F. SMITH,
	First Presidency of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.


PIONEER DAY.

	The 24th of July is fraught with memories
that are very dear to the hearts of this people.
The anniversary of the arrival here of the brave,
heroic pioneers who explored this mountain re-
gion when there was no trace of civilization,
must ever be looked upon as a day we should
celebrate. When we consider, too, all the
circumstances that caused the exodus of this
people from homes and associations dear to their
hearts, and that they came here because they
could have no abiding place among the so-called
Christians in this boasted land of freedom and
religious liberty, it calls forth some of the
strongest and tenderest emotions of the human
soul. The people came here a band of exiles,
fleeing from religious persecution; willing to
brave any danger, any peril for the sake of the
principles they had espoused, that were dearer
even than life itself.
	It is meet to celebrate the day with songs and
rejoicings, and to teach our children that it is an
epoch ever to be remembered by them as the
birth of freedom to the oppressed. Here they
planted the standard of liberty, and the stars
and stripes were unfurled to the breeze on that
memorable day. Thirty-six years have elapsed
since that time, and many changes have been
wrought during that period, some of which the
pioneers had never dreamed. Yet so far peace


has reigned, notwithstanding many attempts
have been made by wicked and unprincipled
men to take from this people what few privi-
leges they are permitted to enjoy as a Territory.
	At the present time perhaps there is a 
stronger influence brought to bear than at any
date previous. The incessant clamor of politic-
ians and office seekers, and also of ministers of
religion with small salaries sent out here to do
missionary work among the Mormons, has final-
ly succeeded so far as to secure inimicol legisla-
tion in Congress, and not satisfied even with
that, they still keep up the hue and cry, that
something further must be done. The fact is
this class of people are determined if possible
to wrest from the "Mormon" every right, not
only of citizenship, but the liberties and privi-
leges which every man of honor would rather
die than lose. The children of the Latter-day
Saints should know as much as possible, that
which their parents have suffered and endured
to establish themselves here and why they
came. And as a matter of history and to com-
memorate the 24th of July it is fitting to bring
our children together, that they may be duly
impressed with the importance attached to the
entrance of the pioneers into these valleys, and
with the significance of the fact that the Lord
led with a strong arm and an outstretched hand
his people up from the land of their enemies to
a place of refuge and that to Him alone they
should look for safety and protection in the time
of need.
	The Concerts which will be held in the Taber-
nacle under the direction of Evan Stephens
ought to be well patronized. Every inducement
that could be afforded has been offered to secure
a good house. The proceeds are to be used for
public purposes. For the benefit of Sunday
Schools, for the Deseret Hospital and to assist
Stephens' classes in their advancement in mu-
sic.


THE OLD FOLKS EXCURSION!

	On Wednesday, July 11th, the old folks of
this city and adjacent towns and country took
their usual excursion, this time to Provo, where
they spent the day in Brother Daniel Graves'
grove. These annual festivities for the old peo-
ple are very commendable, and are highly appre-
ciated by those who participate. To pay defer-
ence to persons advanced in years is a courtesy
and privilege that should never be neglected.
It is fitting that the younger and more active
should do all in their power to cheer and enliv-
en those who are upon the down hill of life.
	There was music and singing on the train,
and refreshments were served to all, a merrier,
happier party could scarcely be imagined.
Along the route at the different settlements
more and more were added to the numbers.
	At the grove the time was spent pleasantly;
the Provo Silver Band and Second Ward
(Provo) Martial Band played some charming
music, and Father John Colburn, aged 82,
danced a hornpipe. Father Graves deserves the
thanks of all for the kind courtesies shown to
the party, for the use of his grove and other ac-
commodations. The people of Provo all seemed
ready and anxious to render any kindness possi-
ble to contribute to the enjoyment of the occa-
sion. Ms. Smoot who has so long been ill, was
well enough to come out to the grove in a car-
riage to see and greet the company, and after
her long confinement to the house it was some-
thing of a recreation for her. Presents of vari-
ous kinds were distributed to those deserving
them for labors and good works, and all went off
well. The Committee are to be congratulated
upon their success, especially Brothers Goddard
and Savage, who are indefatigable in their ef-


forts to make the old folks happy and comforta-
ble on these occasions.


THE DESERET HOSPITAL.

	This Institution has now completed its first
year; and as it enters upon its second, we wish
it to be better understood than has been appar-
ent.
	With the approval of the First Presidency, we
commenced the Hospital, as no women on earth
except those of the Latterday Saints would have
undertaken so gigantic an enterprise, i. e. with
nothing. But we had faith in the support and
liberality of our brethren and sisters: and thus
far we have succeeded beyond our most san-
guine expectations. Many afflicted ones during
the past year, through the blessings of God on
our Hospital efforts and skill, have been re-
lieved of suffering which otherwise, probably, 
would have continued through life.
	It is very natural that in consequence of the re-
ceipt of many and frequent donations from vari-
oussources, that some persons should have im-
bibed the idea that the Deseret Hospital is con-
ducted as a charitable institution where patients
can be treated free of charge. We wish to disa-
buse the minds of those who have adopted this
erroneous conclusion.
	The Hospital is truly a benevolent institu-﻿
tion, but not a charitable one. Our sympathies
often prompt the wish that it could be such, but 
under existing circumstances it is an impossibil-
ity. Our sympathies prompt us to appropriate
much care, time and labor to furnishing and
conducting, etc., etc. (not one of the officers
and members of the Board of Directors has re-
ceived one cent for time and services rendered.)
	No person, not immediately engaged in it,
can form any correct estimate of the great ex-
pense of fitting up and furnishing the building,
and the constant outlay in providing for it, with
sixty dollars per month rent, besides full wages
to those who labor in the Hospital.
	The people have contributed generously, for
which we are truly grateful, and realizing that
the means bestowed is not our own, we use it as 
economically as circumstances will admit.
But withal, we do not propose to beg to meet
the expenses of invalids who come for treat-
ment. That devolves on the Organizations,
Bishops and County Officers of the Wards,
towns and counties of which the patients are 
residents.
	Every person, to obtain the benefits of the
Hospital, must present to the matron a Permit
signed by Mrs. E. B. Wells, the Secretary of
the Deseret Hospital Association. The Secre-
tary will require from those who are unable to
pay their expenses, a writing signed by a res-
ponsible person, or persons, that shall be a suf-
ficient guarantee for payment of Hospital fees.
Those who can pay will be received on their
own responsibility by giving satisfactory assur-
ances to the Secretary and obtaining a Permit. 
	We wish it definitely understood that cases of 
sudden injuries are exempt from the above re-
quirements.
	E. R. SNOW SMITH, President D. H. A.
In behalf of the Deseret Hospital Association.
	Salt Lake City, July, 1883.


A STRONG TESTIMONY.

	St. Mark Chapter 16, verses xvii and xviii,
"And these signs shall follow them that believe;
in my name they shall cast out devils; they
shall speak with new tongues:
	"They shall take up serpents; and if they
drink any deadly thing it shall not hurt them;
they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall
recover.,'


In the year 1840 and 1841, the Elders of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
visited the little town of Grafton, Lorain Co.,
Ohio, and there they raised up a small branch,
consisting of sixteen members. In the summer
of 1841 this branch of the Church held their
meetings in a building that was used on week
days as a carpenter's shop, and consequently
was open most of the time having no lock or
key.
	On Sunday, towards the latter part of the
summer of 1841, the teacher fetched the sacra-
ment as usual, bread and wine; (the wine being
his own make from elderberries) he left the
bread and wine in a basket under one of the
work benches while he went to dinner.
	In the afternoon sixteen persons partook of
the same; when he returned home he took the
decanter containing the wine out of the basket,
and unthinking held it up between him and the
sun when he discovered quite a quantity of sed-
iment in it. This astonished him very much,
for when he put the wine into the decanter it
was perfectly clear. He said nothing about it to
any one, but the next day he took it to a chem-
ist and had it analyzed, it was found to contain
about an ounce of arsenic. And sixteen per-
sons drank of that poisoned wine, the writer of
this sketch among the rest, and not one re-
ceived any injury. Thus we saw and realized
the fulfillment of the promise, "if you drink
any deadly thing it shall not hurt you." But 
the offending party thought the joke too good to
keep. In about three months after a very wick-
ed young man in the town said the "Mor-
mons" could not be killed for he had tried it,
said he, "I put an ounce of arsenic in their
sacramental wine and they partook of it and it
did them no harm." His name was Dhru John-
son. In about four months after this circum-
stance transpired he quarreled with a man in
a ballroom and was stabbed and killed.
	Most of the witnesses of this incident are now
dead, one did live in Parowan a short time ago
and one lives now in Brigham City, Arizona.
	It has been impressed upon my mind for some
time to send the foregoing incident of history as
it seems as if all such items should be put upon
record. JOANNA C. TEEPLES.
	Holden, June 15th, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 29


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S VOICE.

	The Saints of God gain a great deal of strength
by perusing your paper, the valuable EXPONENT.
It is a duty, and should be a pleasure to give
our feelings and meditations from time to time
to gaining intelligence, so by them as well as
by our prayers we can strengthen one another;
and how necessary it is that we should help one
another, now above all other times, when
scourges and pestilence are come upon the earth,
according to the predictions of ancient and
modern prophets. For instance, in Doctrine
and Covenants a revelation given through
Joseph Smith, December 27, 1832, that not
many days hence and the earth shall tremble
and reel to and fro like a drunken man, and the
sun shall hide his face and refuse to give light,
and the moon shall be bathed in blood, and the
stars shall cast themselves dows as a fig that
falleth off a fig tree. These predictions are at
our very door, and how necessary it is to take
His, the Lord's, counsel in this matter. Read
from paragraph 119 to 127 in the same revela-
tion. If we would do this how much it would
strengthen us at that great and awful day!
Have we anything to do? There is the rearing
of our young, our little children that God has
blessed us with; how necessary it is to implant
in their minds while young, the principles of life
and salvation; to teach them to rely on God

[Column 2]
under all circumstances; to teach them to pray.
What is more softening and touching in its na-
ture than a little child's faith in prayer? To
corroborate this statement I will relate a circum-
stance: A little boy not four years old, was
playing alone by the side of the house; the
mother was drawn from her work by hearing
him say, Amen. She stepped to the door, where
the little one was playing, and there beheld his
little table, with his bread and cup of water; she
said, "What are you doing darling?" The little
fellow looked up, his face beaming with smiles,
and said, "I'se asking the bessing, I said bess
the Bissop, and make his feets well." The
mother caught her little one in her arms, and
thanked the Lord for her treasure. I will here
explain. A short time ago the Bishop of this
place met with an accident and had to have six
of his toes amputated; and not only having the
prayers of the Saints, but the prayers of the in-
fants for his recovery was touching in the ex-
treme. I narrate this to show the spirit that is
working upon our little ones. The Lord has
kept back the noble spirits, to come and take
bodies in this dispensation, to carry out purposes
upon the earth in these last days.
	There is a great work for the Saints to do, for
the Lord has set up His kingdom never more to
be thrown down; for he says, in Doctrine and
and Covenants, Sec. 652, "The Keys of the
Kingdom of God are committed unto man on
the earth, and from thence shall the Gospel roll
forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone
which was cut out the mountain without hands
shall roll forth until it has filled the whole earth.'
Therefore, if we are partakers of this same Gos-
pel or kingdom, which we know we are, and
those who do not let them pray diligently until
they do know, can afford to stand the persecu-
tions of the evil one and his accomplices; they do
not know what power it is that impels them in
their evil work. We can truly say, in the words
of Jesus, "Father forgive them, they know not
what they do." God has said, "I will avenge
the wrongs of my people." We can afford to
wait his own time; the main thing is for us to be
alive to our duties and privileges, and all the
blessings that God has promised His Saints he
will assuredly fulfill. He has promised to fight
our battles, is He not as good as his word? Has
he not commenced already? Look at the na-
tions of the earth to-day! Who cannot acknowl-
edge His hand in this? "God moves in a mys-
terious way His wonders to perform." Let us
be wakeful to the times, and prayerful, so when
the Bridegroom cometh we will be numbered
among the wise virgins, with our lamps full and
burning.							J. E. C.
	Orangeville, June 8th, 1883.


A DELIGHTFUL PRIMARY.

	On Monday, July 9th, I was invited by Sister
Davis, President of the Primary of the Twenty-
first Ward, to be present at their annual meet-
ing, nothing preventing, I did myself the pleas-
ure of attending the same. Sisters Horne, Felt,
Toone and others were also present. There
was a fine assemblage of healthy, intelligent
and well behaved children ready to receive us;
the children opened by singing, and recitations,
dialogues, songs, and indeed all their perform-
ances were, I may say perfect, for scarcely any
prompting was needed, even little children of
three and four years of age recited without any
assistance, both boys and girls; it was really
wonderful. I do not like to particularize where
all was good, but I must name Eva Barfoot,
who exhibited decided talent in reciting; she has
the right ring in her voice, and her gestures were 
gentle and expressive; all the children did cred-
it to their teachers—and also to their mothers—


for "home tuition" was palpably visible among
them; they were promt to the call from the pro-
gramme, and any one could see it was natural
for them to be orderly and obedient; they all
seemed happy and to richly enjoy the meeting,
their sparkling eyes speaking their enjoyment. 
They were asked questions, which they prompt-
ly answered, evidently they were "at home" in 
the whole affair.
	When the programme was through Sister Felt
was called upon to address the children, which
she did in a most admirable, sweet, loving man-
ner, all her words giving edification and encour-
agement. This lady is especially qualified by na-
ture to be a teacher of children, she has the
winning tact that fascinates them, and her
teachings are full of practical common sense
principles, she is truly "a Mother in Israel."
	Sister Horne was then called upon; her teach-
ings are well known for their adaptability to all
whom she may address. Her work has been
long and able, and I trust length of days are 
stiil before her to continue the same labor of
love.
	I had nothing to do but to endorse all that
had indeed been the language of my own heart,
which I did in a few words. These primaries
are certainly the finest schools for our young
children, it seems to me to be a wide field in
which the seeds of progression and eternal life
may be freely sown, and that the produce must
be a hundred fold. Every heart in that meet-
ing seemed to be full of joy, and when we 
parted all seemed to feel it had indeed done us
good to be there. God bless the presidents and
all associated with the primaries, for it is a 
goodly work; God bless the parents of the child-
ren that compose them that they may realize
what a blessing such associations confer upon
their children, that they may ever urge upon
them to be punctual in their attendance, and
shew forth as beautiful a picture as we beheld
in the Twenty-first Ward last Monday. No 
where can that Scripture be more appropriately
fulfilled and realized: "Cast thy bread upon the
waters, and thou shalt find it after many days." 
	HANNAH T. KING.
	17th Ward, Salt Lake City.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	WE have received some very pleasant calls of
late, from very interesting people; one of them
M.s. James Couper, Glasgow, Scotland, who is
traveling in America for pleasure and informa-
tion. She spent a few days in this city and made
several calls with us on “Mormon” people. She
is a very finely educated and cultivated woman,
and has certainly had an opportunity to see and
learn something concerning our homes and insti-
tutions. She expects to sail for home on the
20th of July. We wish her a safe and pleasant
journey, and trust she may do some good in re-
moving prejudice. 
	THE delegates to the County Convention that
was held in this city, July 14th, transacted the
business for which they convened in a very
creditable and satisfactory manner. Among
other items of business they elected thirty-two
delegates to a District Convention to be held in
the City Hall, July 21st, to nominate members
to the next Legislative Assembly. Of the thir-
ty-two delegates, five are ladies, Miss Mattie
Horne, Mrs. John Q. Cannon, Miss Sarah E.
Vincent, Mrs. Charles W. Stayner, Miss Nellie
Colebrook. Among the alternates are Mrs.
Emily E. Brinton and Mrs. Isabella McGhie.
The County Central Committee of the People's
Party were sustained as follows: John Sharp, D.
O. Calder, J. R. Winder, Feramorz Little, Theo-
dore Mc. Kean, I. M. Stewart, J. S. Rawlins, A.
M. Cannon, John T. Caiue, Samuel Bennion,


John F. Snedaker, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. S.
M. Kimball, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Thomas E.
Taylor.
	REV. BRADLEY ABBOTT and wife, who
visited Salt Lake City recently, brought a let
ter of introduction to the Editor of the EXPO
NENT from a gentleman acquaintance who re-
sides in London. Mr. and Mrs. Abbott
were less prejudiced against the "Mor-
mons," and more inclined to treat our
subject in a fair and logical manner
than the clergy generally are. They are people
of broad and philanthropic views and exceed-
ingly interesting in conversation, having trav-
eled very extensively in the holy land and on
the continent of Europe, and met with people
of all nations.
	Mr. Abbott has a large parish in London, and
is a man of great influence with the clergy, and
very popular among his parishioners. His wife
too is closely associated with him in all his cleri-
cal and benevolent labors, and finds a wide field
of usefulness for womanly efforts.
	Mr. and Mrs. Abbott are both advocates for
Woman Suffrage and realize the great good be-
ing accomplished in England by the suffrage
movement.
	A GUIDE to Salt Lake City, recently pub-
lished by Joseph H. Parry, called "The Mor-
mon Metropolis," is a very good work to place
in the hands of strangers to give them correct
ideas of our city and its environs, its places of
note, manufactures and institutions. The Guide
contains a map of the city which gives a good
idea of its situation; then an "Introductory," in
which the author states that "Mormonism"
gives to the city "its unique pre-eminence
amongst the cities of Western America." The
first settlement of the city by the pioneers and
the company who followed them is given brief-
ly and yet minutely. The latitude, longitude
and scenery of the city is given, also its altitude
and other interesting matter. The book is illus-
trated, containing excellent pictures of the 
Temple Block, Salt Lake Temple when com-
pleted, The Tabernacle, Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, President Young's Residence, Grave of
President Young, Black Rock and Garfield land-
ings, also Black Rock in the Salt Lake. The
Temple and Tabernacle are described, also other
public buildings and edifices, and the commer-
cial and manufacturing interests are well ex-
plained. Schools, Churches and newspapers are
well represented in this neat and complete little
hand book, and the author seems not to have
neglected anything of importance. Data, his-
torical and interesting, is furnished, and it will
certainly be of great benefit to tourists and
pleasure seekers who stop off to visit Salt Lake
City. The book is for sale at Parry's store,
north of Z. C. M. I. Price 25cts per copy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Ann Shipley,
who departed this life June 16th, 1883.
	Whereas, an alwise Providence has called from us by
the hand of death our beloved sister,
	Resolved, that we recognize in the death of our sister,
Ann Shipley, the loss of an able, efficient and worthy
teacher in the Relief Society of South Weber.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past faithful labors and
devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and highest
respect of us all.
	Resolved, that we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved family and friends, in the loss of a
kind wife, affectionate mother and a good and respected
citizen.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy of the same be furnished the
bereaved family, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for pub-
lication.				Yours, respectfully,
						JEANETTE COOK, President.
						MARY M. FIRTH, Secretary.


Our sister now has gone to rest,
	She has gone to dwell on a brighter shore;
She has gone to meet the ones she loved,
	Whom death had parted long before.

And may the ones that hero remain,
	Though cruel fate should bid us part,
Still in our memory to retain,
	The friend that from us did depart.
	- AGNES H. COOK.
South Weber, July 7th, 1833.

	DIED, in the Tenth Ward, Salt Lake City, June 13th
1883, of pnuemonia, Laura Maria, daughter of John L.
and Regina Ness, born in Salt Lake City, September 21st,
1869.
	Also at the same place and time, June 13th, of pneu-
monia, Joseph Alfred, son of John L. and Regina Ness,
born August 24th, 1874, in Salt Lake City.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, God in his alwise Providence has seen
proper to call from our midst to a higher sphere two of 
our members, who were greatly beloved by us all for
their gentle spirits, their diligence in the Society and
the respect we have for their parents,
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we, the members of the
Primary Association, do deeply mourn the loss of our
brother and sister, and we deeply mourn with their par-
ents. May they rest in peace till the resurrection morn.
	And be it resolved, that we present a copy of these
resolutions to their parents and publish the same in
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on record.
	JEANIE MCLEAN,
	ELIZABETH EDMONDS,
	Committee.


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS

CLOVER CREEK, TOOELE CO.

	On June 22nd, a special meeting was called
for the purpose of organizing a Relief
Society in this ward, Mrs. M. A. Hunter pre-
siding. We were favored on that occasion with
the company of Sister Presendia L. Kimball
and Helen Mar Whitney, of Salt Lake. There
was also present, of the Stake officers, Sister
Mary A. Hunter, Emily Warburton and M.
A. House. The following local officers were
selected and put in office by the unanimous
vote of the people, viz: President, Sister
Jemima E. Stookey; Counselors, Sisters
America Johnson and Mary Emma Davis;
Secretary, Mrs. Barbara A. Bush; Assistant
Secretary, Miss Lena Guhl; Treasurer, Mrs.
Mary A. Guhl. The ladies from the city ad-
dressed us in the kindest possible manner; giv-
ing advice and counsel, that would be well for
us all to remember. They also expressed them-
selves gratified at the warm and cordial greet-
ings they had met with on all sides. Eulogized
to the utmost our beautiful fertile valley, and
thought we had many things to be thankful
for.
	Bishop St. Joer spoke kindly and encourag-
ingly, and assured us that we could count on
him at any and all times, as a staunch and true
friend to the ladies. As the ladies from abroad
were a little crowded for time, and wished to
reach their homes that evening, our meeting
was of necessity brief; general good feeling
prevailing.				B. A. BUSH,
							Secretary.

HARRISVILLE, WEBER CO.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	Our settlement extends some five or six
miles from south-east to north-west: in consid-
eration of the scattered condition of the
Saints it was considered advisable to divide or
rather organize another Society in the western
part of the ward, the two societies to be desig-
nated as East and West Harrisville. The or-
ganization of the Society of West Harrisville
took place on April 28th, 1881. The Stake
President, Sister Jane S. Richards, and Coun-
selors were present, also the Bishop and his
Counselors, we were also favored with the

[Column 2]
presence of Apostle F. D. Richards, who gave
us some excellent advice and instruction in re-
gard to our duties as Societies and Saints. The
following persons were elected as officers: Mary
Hegstead, President; Mary Taylor and Eliza C.
Larkins, Counselors; Christina Hegstead, Sec-
retary; and Eliza Jane Rawson, Treasurer.
Since our organization the sisters have taken a
lively interest in their meetings and in doing
what they could by way of relieving the wants
of the poor and comforting the sick, and doing
what they could to forward the interests of
the Kingdom of God.
	Our President takes an active part in all our
meetings, and leads out in every thing that
we have to do, and to show our appreciation
of her many virtues as an energetic and lively
worker, and the kindly feeling the sisters en-
tertain towards her, we surprised her with a
cashmere dress pattern and trimmings com-
plete. This was at our second annual meet-
ing, May 24th, 1883.
	We all enjoyed this meeting, and will long
remember the good spirit that was manifested
by all who spoke. We hold our meetings
every two weeks.
	Ever desiring the welfare of Zion, etc.,
		CHRISTINA HEGSTEAD, SECRETARY.

JUAB STAKE Y. L. M. I. A.

	On the 23rd of June, at ten a.m., the Young
Ladies Association of Juab Stake organiza-
tion met in conference in the Nephi meeting
house, President M. E. Teasdale presiding.
	After the opening exercises the reports of
the various wards were read, and verbal reports
given, showing the growth and improvement
of the association. The Young Ladies Jour-
nal, a manuscript paper, was read and highly
approved by the speakers. The time was nearly
all taken up according to the programme, by
the members of the association, in recitations,
songs and short speeches; after which Brother
Charles Sperry, President Paxman's counselor,
spoke encouragingly to the young ladies.
Bishop Warner, Udall and Haws and several
other brethren were present. Much good coun-
sel and instruction was given, both by the
brethren and sisters, and a good spirit prevailed.
Singing. Benediction.
			JENNIE EVANS, SECRETARY.

JUAB P. S.

	At two p.m. of the same day and at the
same place, the Juab County Stake organiza-
tion of Relief Society, held their quarterly Con-
ference by appointment, Sisters Elizabeth Ken-
dall and Jane Pixton, Counselor of our late
President, presided over the conference.
	Financial and statistical reports were read,
and verbal reports given by the presidents of
the different branches. All went to show that
the Society was in a good condition, and that
the sisters are alive to their duties, and striving
to do all they can to help on the good word.
We all sorely feel the loss of our late President
Goldsbrough, but realize that the Lord doeth
all things well; let his will be done; yet many
a teardrop fell from those over whom she had
presided.
	Our conference being held on the 15th anni-
versary of the organization of our Relief So-
ciety, the Nephi Society met in the Pelief
Hall, in the evening. President Paxman and
several of the brethren met with us, and the
Spirit of God was manifest in our meeting.
Sister McClean and Harvey were here on a
visit, and spoke to the sisters, and bore testi-
mony of the good spirit and influence they en-
joyed in visiting with us.
	Altogether we had a time of rejoicing, and
felt to thank ou Heavenly Father for the
great blessings we enjoyed.
				AMY L. BIGLER,
							Stake Secretary R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 31


PANGUITCH, GARFIELD CO.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of the Panguitch Stake of Zion,
held in the Relief Society Hall, June 1st, 1883.
On the stand, President Barbara Myers, Coun-
selors Alvira J. Clark and Sarah P. Crosby,
and several of the brethren. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of singing and
prayer, reading of minutes and reports, and the
presidents of the different societies gave verbal
reports, and also bore their testimonies to the
truth of the Latter-day work.
	President Myers made opening remarks; said
the Stake was so scattered, did not expect a
representative from every ward, but wanted
the sisters to be on hand to attend to their du-
ties as much as possible. We had a great work
to perform to put down iniquity; should set a
good example before the young, to be kind and
generous in our feelings, and not be quarrel-
some with our neighbors; wished the brethren
to meet with us, needed their counsel.
	President J. W. Crosby said he was sorry
there were not more representatives present,
urged the secretaries to get their reports up in
proper shape, said we had the ability, all we
needed was practice; regretted there was not
more interest with the young; said our societies
were for mutual benefit; wanted the sisters in
traveling round the Stake to urge the neces-
sity of storing grain, it being President Young's
counsel for years; said he wanted us to be on
our guard and cease evil speaking, and try to
entertain everything that was good and pure.
	Brother M. M. Steele said mothers should
be careful about the first impressions made up-
on their children; told us what our societies
were for, and to live up to their privileges, and
not withold the knowledge we were in posses-
sion of, but try and reclaim the erring.
	After singing and prayer, conference ad-
journed for three months.
					SARAH P. CROSBY,
								Secretary.


BELLE HARRIS' CASE.

	While this persecuted lady remains as a
prisoner without law or justice, we do not
think any reasonable person will consider it
out of order to speak in defence of the right.
Whether intended or not, the action of the
courts in this case aims a blow at the rights of
every woman in all Christian countries. With
this view, (which is a correct one) every right
minded woman in the nation should raise her
voice or wield the pen in the defence of a lady
who is a living martyr to the rights of women.
Ladies, listen! A virtuous, high-minded lady
is imprisoned for declining to answer an imper-
tinent lawyer whether she is married or single.
Let all mothers ask themselves whether they
would not think (if women have any rights)
that their daughters might be allowed to de-
cline divulging their social status without a
fine and indefinite imprisonment being im-
posed upon them. We presume the attorney
thought he could Paul Pry some from information
Miss Harris on the subject of her former
rumored polygamous relations, but this is only
supposition, as no such question has been
named, before the grand jury. The law sup-
poses nothing; with the same propriety might
a neighboring attorney ask one of our eastern
ladies whether she ever had any words with
her husband, if so, when and where? This is
no exaggeration of the case, nor does it do jus-
tice to our much injured heroine advocate of
the rights of our sex. From what we have
heard of the case, it Miss Harris had aught
but the cause of women at stake she might
have readily found an excuse to gratify the in-
quisitive attorney. Her ancestors for several
generations were highly respected American
citizens, and Miss Belle would suffer any sacri-


fice rather than bring disgrace upon her noble
sires who spent blood and treasure rather than
submit a to lighter yoke than she now wears, for
universal freedom, and especially for the eman-
cipation of women from the oppressive hand
of the legal (?) lords of creation. If noble,
high-minded men cannot alone break the foul
tyrant's rod. let the daughters of Eve stand in
the place designed by the Great Creator and
show themselves willing helpmeets, especially
when he takes the lead in the warfaae for the
elevation of women to her rightful position by
his side.
	In conclusion I ask American ladies every-
where (and especially those of my own native
State) to let their voices be heard and their
pens wielded in the defence of true and correct
principles of woman's emancipation, irrespec-
tive of condition, sect, or former station.
			Most respectfully,
					A NEW YORK LADY.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	On the sixth inst., the Y. L. M. I. Society
was held in Sister Julia Howe's parlor, which
she kindly and politely places at the disposal
of the young ladies for that purpose.
	On that day Dr. Shipp had kindly acceded
to a proposition that she should lecture for the
young sisters' instruction, and about three
o'clock the room was filled; the invitation had
been general to all who desired to attend.
Meeting was opened with the usual prelimi-
naries, singing, prayer and the reading of the
minutes etc.; and I felt there was a sweet waiting
spirit in the room—at this moment Dr. Shipp
arrived, she had been engaged with a patient,
which detained her a short time, and I was
sorry to see she had been hurried, and was
flushed with the haste she had made to be punc-
tual; but a few moments sufficed to regain all
her wonted self possession, which, in her pro-
fessional duties, is a remarkable feature. I feel
I must here say a few words in description of
this lady physician, and I confess to some
favoritism in regard to her, but still, in all I
shall say I shall only be just. I have a keen
eye to all that is admirable in the human face
or form, in gesture or expression, and certainly
in manners. Sister Shipp is formed by nature
to elaborate her profession, and of course edu-
cation has assisted in this grand essential. Let
me here say, I trust she will pardon this little
loving freedom, if she thinks it needs it, when
I assure her my heart dictates my words, and
that truth and rich appreciation inspires them.
By this prelude I introduce Dr. Ellis Shipp
upon the tapis.
	In form and feature she is a living model of
her teachings, the former being as free as na-
ture made it, and denotes a perfectly healthy
organism; yes—an athlete of the refined, elas-
tic mould; her head is well placed, and its form
denotes equilibrium of temperament and
character; the features are purely womanly;
the eye in itself a study, denoting sensitiveness,
refinement and purity; yet with all there is
much force and quiet dignity in that character,
and great power of concentration. Though
she came from a sick chamber, and evidently
had hurried to keep her appointment, and was
heated with her walk and carrying her charts;
it took but a few moments for her to regain
her usual placid manner, and at once com-
menced her lecture, which she gave with the
calm dignity of one who fully realized the
grand importance of her subject, and that she
was expiating on the wonderful and mysterious
works of the Great Creator, exhibited in the
human organism; the care and preservation of
which she desired to impress upon her
hearers; was a grand responsibility laid upon

[Column 2]
the possessor; to arouse this knowledge and ap-
preciation, was the motive-power of her lecture;
and I felt that the youthful portion of her au-
dience must have received many a startling
idea, to which they had before been strangers—
their intense silence during the whole lecture
denoted their great interest, and called forth
from the lecturer warm enconiums. I feel
much impressed with the necessity of such lec-
tures to the young, and indeed to all ages; for
how much sorrow and sickness, pain, and often
death has been caused by sheer ignorance of
the science of life in young people of both
sexes. Surely our boys need teaching in this
august science equally with our girls! yet how
little appears to be thought of educating and
cultivating this wonderful, this beautiful struc-
ture that composes the human organism. How
often do the sublime words of the Psalmist oc-
cur to me: "We are fearfully and wonderfully
made." It appears to me that the whole range
of natural history would greatly assist in blot-
ting out the present fashionable, but deadly
theory of infidelity; such a study speaks
trumpet-tongued to every honest, intelligent
soul, of a Divine Creator; and when we see such
intense study has been bestowed upon the mor-
tal part, what may we not imagine of the
glory—the surpassing glory of the immortal soul
that inhabits it! well may every thinking mind
realize the fact that, our noblest study is the
study of ourselves; "Know thyself," was the
injunction of a wise, Greek philosopher, and
thre are volumes in those two small words!
Yes indeed, and that study should be especially
incorporated in the scholastic routine of every
boy and girl, and maturer minds would do well
to make themselves acquainted with the science
of life; that they might instruct the younger.
Who is so competent as a parent to lay—at any,
rate the rudiments of such a science before their
children, that they may grow up wise and pure,
strong and healthy.
	What fortunes are spent in training, culti-
vating and improving our noblest animals,
while being, made in the image of God, is
left to blind chance, without a thought beyond
feeding and clothing—the precious mind also,
left to grow like an unweeded garden; surely,
surely there must be a day of reckoning for
such unpardonable apathy, or thoughtless ig-
norance. "Oh daughters of Zion awake from
thy slumbers"—Oh! mothers in Zion write up-
on your memories as with a pen of iron, that
your children will transmit these organizations
they are now forming, even to coming genera-
tions; if feeble, meagre and unhealthy, frail or
deformed, so will they be transmitted. Will
you not desire to look forward to a noble lin-
eage, that shall then show forth a type of their
divine origin? Remember their bodies are the
habitation of an immortal spirit! surely as Lat-
ter-day Saints, with our light and knowledge,
we ought to lay these thoughts to our hearts—or
we had better have remained in the world
where the body at any rate is watched over
with especial care, that it may develop favor-
ably.
	God bless our teachers, in whatever shape or
form they come! God bless our lecturers, that
lay before us the laws of life and health and
longevity, all of which are incomparably above
the dross of gold and silver, fine clothes, or
handsome houses—for they bestow a heritage
that the possessor will be grateful for in all
coming time, and carry through the countless
ages of eternity. Such indeed compose the
germs of the immortal being, and should there-
fore be the daily lesson of daily life, to aid and
assist in a glorious development.


God often works more by the life of the
illiterate, seeking the things which are His,
than by the ability of the learned, seeking the
things that are their own.—Ans[---].


32	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JUNE.

The queen of Summer—month of June,
	Is here with joy and song;
And oh, the roses and the posies
	So sweet, she brings along!

Cheery June days, warm and bright,
	So full of blissful life,
Give purest joy, without alloy,
	Nature with love is rife.

Her angels—butterflies, hover 'round,
	Fair types of the "new birth;"
And the white clover spreads all over
	Like snow, to cool the earth.

Love, fragrance, beauty everywhere;
	Around, below, above;
The bright birds sing, the welkins ring
	And echo, "All is love."

We, who love nature and her God,
	In sympathy can meet;
The birds are ours, and the flowers,
	Through them, in love, we greet.

We see the same sky overhead,
	The white clouds on its blue,
Or gemmed with stars—they too are ours;
	 A bond of friendship true.

Leaf, bud and blossom, fragrance, song,
	The bright blue sky above,
Our hearts atune, in merry June,
	To melody and love.

Love to God who giveth all—
	The blossom, bud and leaf;
Praise we'll sing to Natures King,
	The God of life and death.
							EMILY SCOTT.
June 23rd, 1883.


LOGAN Y. L. M. I. A.

	The regular Quarterly Conference of the Y.
L. M. I. Associations of Cache Valley Stake
of Zion was held in Logan Tabernacle, Satur-
day, June 2nd, at ten a.m. Present on the
stand were General Superintendent Elmina
S. Taylor and Sister Elizabeth Howard, Stake
Superintendent H. A. Preston and Counselors,
supported by a fair representation from the
Associations thronghout the Stake. After
singing prayer the minutes of last confer-
ence were read and approved.
	Counselor I. I. Cook made brief prelimi-
nary remarks, requesting those who were
called to make verbal reports to be brief and
comprehensive.
	Representatives from nineteen Associations
responded to the roll and briefly reported the
leading features of their meetings and the
work that had been accomplished since last
conference. The improved manner of report-
ing might be considered an index to the pro-
gress made by the Associations.
	The secretary presented the half yearly fi-
nancial and statistical report which showed an
increase in membership and the societies in
good financial condition.
	Supt. H. A. Preston expressed her apprecia-
tion of the reports from the representation and
gave a general report as Stake Supt., making
special reference to the officer's monthly meet-
ings which were inaugurated for the purpose
of securing uniformity and thoroughness in all
the associations.
	Sisters Taylor and Howard spoke at length
upon subjects of most vital importance to the
young ladies. They urged purity of thought,
word and deed, both at home and in society.
Everything should be encouraged in meetings
that has an elevating tendency. Good music,
good reading, historical and biographical exer-
cises should intersperse those of a religious
character, that the interest in the meetings
might be lively and that the mental tendencies
of each member might be cultivated.
	The Deseret Hospital was referred to by the


speakers, who explained the object and benefit
of such an institution among the Saints, and
all were invited to become contributors to a
general fund to aid in supporting it, as it is
not yet self-sustaining; small contributions col-
lected from each member would considerably
aid the Hospital in its charitable work.
	Sisters Cook and Preston made brief re-
marks in conclusion, expressing thanks for the
attendance of Sisters Taylor and Howard, and
for their valuable counsel and encouragement.
	Conference adjourned to meet early in Sep-
tember. Benediction.
			ALLY MARTINEAU, Secretary.


The only way to shine, even in this false
world, is to be modest and unassuming. False-
hood may be a thick crust, but in the course of
time truth will find a place to break through.
Byrant.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1.		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,	-	1.50

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence. 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of the Deseret National Bank, and a half
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bot. 21 and 31 North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE, AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 2d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods,
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

