VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1883.	No. 12.


LIFE'S SUMMER IS WANING.

How swift the fleeting years depart—
	Old time's stern hand we trace—
Which leaves, if not within the heart,
	Its impress on the face.
But yester morn to me it seems
	Since life's bright summer's dawn
Shed first on me its radiant beams,
	And now 'tis well nigh gone.

The hair that once was sunny brown
	Is changing fast to gray;
The pearly teeth once whit and sound
	Are falling to decay;
The eyes that once were clear and bright, 
	And sparkled like the dew,
Have now exchanged their lustrous light
	For one of sadder hue.
The face that in life's youthful day
	Was like the apple bloom,
Now plainly says that mortal clay
	Is destined for the tomb.
And with the transient bloom of youth
	That from my brow hath fled,
Lie many of its cherished hopes
	Entombed among the dead.
Yes, many castles bright and fair,
	Which fancy made complete,
Now lie like bubbles of the air
	In ruins at my feet.
And shall I mourn departing youth
	Who's evanescent joy
Hath given place to Gospel Truth,
	So pure, without alloy.
Ah, no! a thousand times more fair
	Is truth's effulgent beams,
A God to hear and answer prayer,
	Than youth's vain, fleeting dreams.
There is a beauty not of earth,
	That fadeth not away,
But for the faithful and the good	
	Increaseth day by day.
The Holy Ghost doth joys impart, 
	Which none but Saints may know; 
A balm it hath for every smart,
	A bliss for every woe;
Its joys end not with mortal life,
	Its peace can never die; 
The righteous still this gift possess
	In realms beyond the sky.
There may we meet, sweet friend of mine,
	When mortal life is through,
Where joys that fade so soon in time
	Shall be forever new.
When earth restored shall be our place,
	All pain and sorrow cease,
When Christ, the Lord, unveils His face
	To bring His Saints release.		M. A. F.


POLITICAL OSTRACISM.

	I have just been reading that (to me) amus-
ing article, the second annual report of the
Utah Commission. Let us quote from the
precious document, "It is thought that discrimi-
nation between those Mormons who practice
polygamy and those who do not, while not
likely to have much effect upon elderly men
who have already a plurality of wives and
several wives, must have great weight with
young men of the Territory, many of whom
are ambitious and aspiring, and would not like
voluntarily to embrace political ostracism."
	Well, for the sake of the honor and future
welfare of the young men of Utah, I hope that
the opinion of the Utah Commission is well


founded in that they are ambitious and aspir-
ing. Seeing that their fathers and mothers are
the most ambitious people upon the face of
the whole earth, not to obtain worldly honors,
but to become good and great, and that they
are aspiring to thrones, principalities and
powers in the celestial kingdom of our God, to
become Gods, even the sons and daughters
of God, if they were not aspiring they
would scarcely do credit to their paren-
tage and training. As for political os-
tracism, I fancy that they would scarce-
ly feel at home in any other element,
'tis their native air. Has the world ever
treated them, as brothers in the great family of
our Father? Their fathers and mothers have
counted the world well lost for the Gospel's
sake, and have freely forsaken all in obedience
to the call, "Come out of her, O ye my peo-
ple, that ye partake not of her sins, that ye re-
ceive not of her plagues."
	Brave young men indeed, if they cannot
bear political ostracism, when their parents
have not only borne that, but banishment
from civilization (so called) to a wild, barren
country, inhabited only by savages and wild
beasts, (even these were kinder than their
Christian friends) where it was hoped they could
not live. Worthy sons of such self-sacrificing
fathers and mothers. Had I a son grown to
manhood who would forsake the religion for
which his parents had suffered so much for po-
litical honors, or any other consideration, ex-
cept from an honest conviction that it was
wrong, I should be far, very far from proud of
that son.
	But I have no fears for the yonng men of
Utah. God has designed that a noble race
should be raised up in these mountain fast-
nesses, and trained in the nurture and admon-
ition of the Lord, for this purpose has the Lord
revealed that holy order of celestial marriage,
which the world make so much fuss about,
that a righteous seed might be raised up unto
Him, with greater faith even than their fathers
had, that they might bear off this great work
triumphant; and what is the world that they
should fear it, when they know they are en-
gaged in the work of the Great God?
								RUTH.
	November 1st, 1883.


PHYSICAL CULTURE.

	Gymnastics is a term of very extended sig-
nification. Among the ancient Greeks it meant
that part of physics which related to exercises
for the health. The Greeks understood well
what an intimate connection there is between
body and mind; how invariably the healthy or
sickly temperament of the one influenced that
of the other; so that when the body is strong,
healthy and active, the mind is elastic and ca-
pable of accomplishing a great deal; but when
the former is diseased and frail, the latter is
languid or depressed. The Spartans wor-
shipped the beautiful; but the beauty of the
face did not suffice; it had to be a beautiful
body; they saw the highest ideals of beauty on-
ly in the perfect human form. I quote in
brief from an article written by Dr. Holbrook
in the Herald, of Health. "The Spartans did
more than worship the beautiful and useful;
they took means to secure them. They gave
to every boy and girl such an education as
would secure to them bodily perfection. The


youths were almost continually out of doors;
every boy learned how to plant and harvest
the crops, every girl how to do household work.
The highest lady in Sparta did menial work.
In their early training in the gymnasium the
boys and girls contested with each other in the
simplest clothing—indeed in very little clothing
at all. Every physical power stood out bold-
ly. Every healthy Spartan girl was obliged
to marry; every sickly girl was obliged to ab-
stain from marriage. Girls were not allowed
to marry young; they had to be mature first.
Boys and men were treated in the same way.
No sickly young man could marry, but all
healthy ones were compelled to do so. For
five hundred years there was produced in
Greece a succession of the strongest and brav-
est men, and the most healthful and beautiful
women that have ever lived."
	I would like to say a kind word to Alice C.
Smith. I am very pleased to make your ac-
quaintance, and greet you warmly over moun-
tain and sea. You say you are a "coward
and so wear your old clothes—fetters," I am
not, but wear independently a short dress
about my work. If people do not like it they
are at liberty to dislike it, it is all the same to
me.						S. G. S.—Ex.


THE LAST CHAPTER OF SCENES IN
NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	During the week that we remained in Nau-
voo we called upon a few of our old neighbors,
among them was Dr. Weld, one of the oldest
settlers, where we spent one evening. My hus-
band's sister, Sarah Ann, accompanied us to
Mr. Hibbard's, who were also old settlers at
Commerce, and they had received the Gospel.
The "Mormons" settling there speedily in-
creased their wealth, so that instead of their
old log row a large brick mansion was soon
reared. But their worldly riches made a ship-
wreck of what little faith they possessed. We
had been associated together from the first set-
tling of Nauvoo, and the first party that my
brother William and myself attended in that
place was given on the first Christmas by their
little son and daughter, and after we were
grown up we were invited to several balls
given in their new home. In fact the old lady
had a number of times, when in a good na-
tured mood, thrown out sly hints that I might
be the wife ef her son William, who would be
the heir to their estate. Though their home
was beautifully situated upon the banks of the
Mississippi, with a lovely green lawn sloping
down from the house to the river bank, with
flowers and shrubbery, and the view from the
water was most charming, neither my ambition
nor my fancy would lead me in that direction;
for he had neither education, polish or wit.
	His father was what might be termed a fine
old gentleman, and was very generous and hos-
pitable, but his wife was quite the opposite, and
sometimes nearly a shrew. They owned large
orchards with a great variety of fruit, but to
see other people eating of it without paying
her caused her to feel very uncomfortable.
	Her son and youngest daughter were her
pets, and the latter had been lately married to
a cousin who had come there from the east.
We did not call out of any desire of our own,
but went by the request of a friend, as we were


[Column 1]
riding around for pleasure. When we entered
their door we met with so cold a reception that
it was like being in the vicinity of an iceberg.
Neither Mr. Hibbard nor his son were at
home, but the son-in-law was, and his looks
showed plainly how he felt towards "Mor-
mons," and that was the first time that we had
met him. There was but one in the room who
treated us with any degree of respect, and that
was their daughter, Mrs. Amos Davis, who was
the one we called to see. We ouly stopped a
few minutes, and before the hall door was
closed behind us we heard them roaring with
laughter, which, of course, was intended for
our ears. They thought, no doubt, that this
would crush us, but we considered the source
and felt as much relieved as though we had es-
caped from a hornet's nest. A few years after
we had settled in this valley we were told by
good authority that William Hibbard was
taken up with a gang of horse thieves some-
where in California and hung.
	Friday, the 27th of February, I bade my
last adieu to our home and city and recrossed
the Mississippi with Bishop Whitney's family,
whom he sent to camp in charge of Father C.
R. Lott, the Bishop remaining behind to see
his own and the church teams over, and he
came to the camp next day. Brother Joseph
C. Kingsbury and Wm. Clayton staid back in
Nauvoo to assist in winding up the church
business. During that time Wm. Clayton
composed a parody on the song, "Dido and I,"
and though I have forgotten the words, the
burthen of it was that the chores had been
left for the "Bishop and I," which was after-
wards sung in camp with much gusto by the
boys.
	It seems only a little time since those scenes
were transacted which I have been rehearsing.
When memory is once aroused how many a
forgotten incident comes up which has lain
hidden for years among the dusty and smoul-
dering cobwebs of the past. Just now my
mind reverts back to a lovely evening in the
summer of 1844, when strolling upon the hill
side with a young gentleman (Mr. Hatch) and
two of my girl companions who proposed, as
we came to the brink of the hill, that we
should seat ourselves upon some of the Tem-
ple rocks near by and watch the setting sun
with its beautiful reflections on the river and
our quiet city that rested in the valley below.
We little dreamed, as we sat there enjoying
the delightful scenery, more particularly the
lovely landscape beyond the Mississippi, until
the sun had sank behind the western hills, how
very soon our paths would be in separate di-
rections, and our cities abandoned to wicked
foes, and I be traveling with homeless exiles
beyond those hills towards the setting sun.
Scarcely seven years had elapsed since the
saints were driven from Missouri, and came
there weary, homeless and destitute,-hundreds
lying sick and dying with scarcely an earthly
comfort, or well ones enough to hand them a
drink of water or even to give a respectable
burial to their dead. And in the midst of
this scene my father and his brother Apostles,
who were sick, and their families, almost unto
death, started for Great Britian to fulfil a rev-
elation, and which the evil one was determined
to frustrate. But the Lord blessed them and
their families, as He had promised inasmuch
as they were obedient. And by faith and
perseverance, with the blessings of God, there
in the place of forests and sickly swamps lay a
beautiful and thriving city, with lovely farms
and villages springing up around us as if by
magic, and this had all been accomplished by
the toil and sweat of an honest and energetic
people, whose efforts and desires were centered
in the building of a Temple to the Lord. And
in this they had proven their love and devo-
tion to Him; for with willing hands and tithes
and offerings from their frugal store, and His

[Column 2]
assistance they had accomplished it, and been
endowed with those blessings and keys which
had been promised through His Prophet Jos-
eph, which were the greater riches, and of
these no man could rob them. Though the
wicked and lawless could drive us into the bar-
ren wilderness to endure the pangs of hunger
and death in many forms, and they could des-
ecrate and demolish our Temple, they could
not turn us from our faith, nor break down
the walls that preserved the virtue and chasti-
ty of "Mormon" women. We preferred to go
among the wild savages and suffer, if need be,
rather than forsake the only true religion or
to dwell in the midst of alarm. All the crimes
committed against the "Mormons" have been
allowed to go unpunished, which is a lasting
stain on our country, a boasted land of free-
dom and a refuge for the oppressed of every
nation. What mockery! The following is
from a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph:
"I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of
my church, in befriending that law which is
the constitutional law of the land. And as
pertaining to law of man, whatsoever is more
or less than these cometh of evil. I, the Lord,
make yon free, therefore ye are free indeed;
and the law also maketh you free; neverthe-
less when the wicked rule the people mourn."
	Though our people have long been oppressed
we have not lost any of that spirit and love of
freedom which inspired our fathers—the dar-
ing sons of liberty, to stand in their own de-
fense—but we shall not turn traitors to our be-
loved country nor its institutions, which we
know were formed by inspired men; but we
shall continue to sue for our rights, and leave
the rest in the hands of the Almighty, who is
already vexing them as he said He should do if
they would not cease their wickedness and per-
secution of His people.
	The testimony of the servants of God has
gone forth unto the condemnation of this gen-
eration, because the majority have hardened
their hearts against them, and in a revelation
to Joseph the Lord said, "Verily, I say unto
you, that woe shall come unto the inhabitants
of the earth if they will not hearken unto my
words. O! this anbelieving and stiffnecked
geraration, mine anger is kindled against
them." * * * * *
	"For a desolating scourge shall go forth
among the inhabitants of the earth, and shall
continue to be poured out from time to time,
if they repent not, until the earth is empty, and
the inhabitants thereof are consumed away
and utterly destroyed by the brightness of my
coming. Behold, I tell you of these things,
even as I told the people of the destruction of
Jerusalem, and my word shall be verified at
this time as it hath hitherto been verified."
The Lord also said, "Whoso layeth down his
life in my cause, for my name's sake, shall find
it again, even life eternal: Therefore, be not
afraid of your enemies, for I have decreed in
my heart, saith the Lord, that I will prove you
in all things whether you will abide in my cov-
enant, even unto death, that you may be found
worthy. For if ye will not abide in my cov-
enant, ye are not worthy of me." Concerning
those who have been afflicted and persecuted
and cast out from the land of their inherit-
auce, He said, "I, the Lord, have suffered the
affliction to come upon them, wherewith they
have been afflicted, in consequence of their
transgressions; yet I will own them, and they
shall be mine in that day when I shall come to
make up my jewels. Therefore, they must
needs be chastened and tried, even as Abraham,
who was commanded to offer up his only son:
* * * Verily I say unto you,
notwithstanding their sins, my bowels are filled
with compassion towards them: I will uot utter-
ly cast them off; and in the day of wrath I
will remember mercy."
	"I have sworn, and the decree hath gone

[Column 3]
forth by a former commandment which I have
given unto you, that I would let fall the sword
of mine indignation in the behalf of my peo-
ple; and even as I have said, it shall come to
pass.'
	It may not be out of place here to repeat a
few of the prophetic worde spoken in the Tem-
ple at Kirtland, much of which has come to
pass, and therefore our faith should be strength-
ened to believe that the whole will be as liter-
ally fulfilled. They were related to me by
Father Butterfield, of Santaquin, where I vis-
ited this summer. And Brother Charles Hyde,
the Patriarch, being at Father Butterfield's,
bore witness that he was present in that Tem-
ple, and heard the same things. The former
was doorkeeper there for two years. The Pat-
riarch, Father Smith, said, "It is a time of
peace now, but there will be a great apostacy
here among us. The judgments will commence
right here, and they will try to burn this Tem-
ple, but they cannot do it, for it will stand as a
monument for this generation to look at.
There will be men that you little think of who
will seek Joseph's life—then we shall be driven
from city to city—we shall go beyond the
Rocky Mountains into the valleys of Ephraim.
Then there'll be great excitement for Mexico
and Oregon, for the Lord will contrive a way
to call out the honest in heart." The Prophet
Joseph said, "Thus saith the Lord, the govern-
ment will send an army far away in the west
beyond the Rocky Mountains, and it will be
just before the north and south go to war, and
I will give it to you as a sign, as the Savior
gave the disciples, "When you see Jerusalem
surrounded with armies they may know that
their desolation is at hand." They heard the
mother of the Patriarch, Charles Hyde, give
the interpretation of tongues in that Temple.
Among the things spoken was that "this people
would be driven from city to city, and many
would shed their blood for a testimony to the
truth of this work, Joseph would be cast into
prison, and the people would say "Mormonism
is down." The trials would be so great that it
would seem as if the Saints could never go
through them. Then there would be another
that would be more severe than the first, and
it would appear as though they could never go
through it. Then the power of the Lord
would be made manifest, and their enemies con-
founded, and Joseph's name would then be sa-
cred among all nations." He said that some
of the Saints felt very sad over these things,
believing that the Prophet would have to die
before they could be fulfilled. We have wit-
nessed his death and the fulfillment of the
most of these predictions, and we know that
the blood of our martyrs is still crying from
the dust, and that He who has promised to
avenge His people of their wrongs will repay
our enemies four fold, and that all they have
taken from us will have to be restored with in-
terest; and let the faithless ones mark it down,
that day is nearer than many of us have imag-
ined.


90	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿"The woman's department at the Boston fair
has created surprise among those who think
women cannot invent. Some of the contriv-
ances are ingenious."
	"H. H." has a paper on Southern California
in the December Centnry. It is a description
of the founding of the "City of the Angels,"
Los Angeles, a story so picturesque and roman-
tic that the author declares it "a tale for verse
rather than for prose."
	How strange that so few people understand
what it is to stand on a principle, leaving the
consequences to take care of themselves, and
knowing that the final result of doing right is
always good!—Elizabeth B. Chace.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 91


I'LL LAY BY THE HARP.
BY MARY J. TANNER.

I had once thought to gather a bay for my brow,
	Or a laurel my crown to illumine;
But, alas, the illusion is swept from me now,
	And the poet is merged in the woman.

I had thought, when my cares and my sorrows were o'er
	And the downhill of life was inclining,
To spread out my sails for that beautiful shore,
	And bask where the sunbeams were shining.

But alas for the hopes that are centered on earth
	Where the storm clouds around us can hover;
They fade, like the spirit that's given them birth,
	Ere their brightness our hearts can discover.

We sigh for the touch of a hand that's divine,
	and long for a glory immortal;
But the light of our vision so dimly must shine
	through the mist that hangs over the portal.

We mark for our footsteps a path that is fair,
	And hope, by our labor, to gain it;
We grasp for the light that is guiding us there,
	But our hands are too weak to retain it.

As the traveler, who climbs to the top of the hill,
	Is lost in amaze to discover
Another one, higher and steeper, there still,
	He must climb ere his journey is over.

I have labored through life with a light just ahead,
	Like a star o'er my pathway to guide me,
But when I have thought on its portals to tread,
	The pleasure I sought was denied me.

I had thought in my own happy fancies to bask,
	And the thought to my soul was elating;
But my hands have grown weary with many a task,
	And my heart has grown heavy with waiting.

Then I'll lay  by the harp, for its strings are undone,
	and the sound of its music is dying;
The hopes I have cherished have passed one by one,
	and their fragments around me are lying.


PRIMARY FAIR.

PIMA, GRAHAM CO., ARIZONA.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT;

	By way of encouragement the R. S. and Y.
L. joined with the Primary in holding their first
fair at Pima, November 2nd and 3rd. Each
association was represented by separate tables,
being beautifully decorated with different
kinds of needle work, embroidery, (silk and
cotton) crochet, netting, lace ties. cushions,
cardboard ornaments, flowers, lamp mats, knit-
ting, home spun yarn, home made hats (which
met with a ready sale). The walls were nice-
ly decorated with a numerous variety of quilts,
rugs, and different kinds of ornaments. There
was also forty yards of rag carpet made by the 
R. S., and twenty yards by the Y. L., both be-
ing very good quality. We will not forget to
make mention of some very nice cotton raised
by the R. S. There was on exhibition speci-
mens of sweet potatoes weighing three pounds,
raised by E. W. East, also turnips weighing
six pounds, raised by J. W. Moody.
	As far as the Primary department was con-
cerned, it was simply beautiful, being nicely
ornamented with different kinds of pastry, but-
ter and bread, also a nice display of little toys,
consisting of picture frames, pin cushions, em-
broidery, doll's stockings, little chair and ta-
ble, rakes, butter paddles, churn dashers, ox
yokes, ladders, knives, etc., etc.; melons, pop-
corn and squashes were seen on the table,
raised by little boys under eleven years of
age. The talent displayed by the little ones
was excellent. We had almost forgotten to
mention the quilts and patchwork made by the
little girls, which were very nice, we will men-
tion the quilts and patchwork made by the
little girls, which were very nice, we will men-
tion in particular a little bed set, made by La-
prial Nuttall, aged five years, the hemming
would do credit to a ten year old girl.


We closed with a dance for the little folks,
interspersed with singing from the children.
"Watching for Pa" was sung beautifully by
two little boys and three little girls under eight
years of age.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, we re-
main, your sisters in the Gospel of peace,
			WILLMIRTH EAST, Stake Pres.
			LUCINDA GUSTAFSON, Sec.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

	I hope a few lines from our Relief Society
in Marriottsville will not be intruding on the col-
umns of our noble little paper, the EXPONENT.
Ouo sisters, generally, are wide awake to their
duties, and show their faith by their works, in
looking after the sick, the poor and needy, of
which we have some few in our midst. They
also donate liberally to the Temple in course
of erection, and whenever calls are made to
help emigrate the Saints from abroad they
always respond, and I think keep pace with
the societies in other wards. We also have a
granary, and are storing up wheat. We have
purchased an acre of land and have two hun-
dred live mulberry trees, have done what we
could in the silk culture, and expect to get
our silk reeled this fall. Our Primary Associa-
tion held their fair in September. It was al-
together a success. The little folks showed
their taste and skill to good advantage. I must
make mention of the surprise we gave our
worthy President, Mrs. Ann Bickington. On
the first day of the present month (November)
being her 67th birthday. After she came out
of fast meeting she was escorted by the sisters
to Brother and Sister William Gill’s, where a
sumptuous dinner was in waiting. About
thirty of the brethren and Bisters surrounded
the table, and were enabled to do ample justice
to the good things before them, having fasted
all the morning.
	The afternoon was spent in a very agreeable
manner. Bishop Ritchie made appropriate re-
marks, and gave much good instruction.
Others spoke of their long acquaintance with
Sister Bickington, and of her integrity and
good works, wishing her many happy returns
of her natal day. She was then presented
with many gifts as tokens of respect, to which
she replied with a short but affecting speech.
After singing, benediction was pronounced by
Bishop Ritchie, and all dispersed, leaving our
beloved Sister Bickington to enjoy herself, hav-
ing the satisfaction of knowing she was respect-
ed and beloved by all her acquaintances.
The EXPONENT is taken by a number of our
sisters, and is read with much interest; it is a
noble paper and is full of choice  reading, and
some of the wise, learned heads that have so
much to say about the down trodden women
of Utah would do well to read our little paper.
As for myself I prize it. The Scenes and In-
cidents in Nauvoo is the first thing I read; it
brings back so fresh to my own memory the
trials and persecutions of those days, for hav-
ing been identified with this Church from the
days of Kirtland, Ohio, to the present time,
and been a partaker in all its persecutions I can
testify to the truth of  many things contained
in that article; and in closing I bear my testi-
mony to the truth of this Gospel. It is of
God and will prevail. The wicked will not
have power to stop its progress, for they cannot
measure arms with the Almighty.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
						N.M. TRACY.


MORAL COURAGE.

	What is moral courage? Knowing what is
right and daring to do it in the face of all the
world, is what I call moral courage. And the


person who lacks this is lacking in that princi-
ple that makes the man or woman. For with-
out the courage to calmly pocket the sneers of
evil-doers we will never amount to anything.
The persons that can do this and remain true
to themselves have one of the noblest elements
of heroism.
	That independence based upon thoughtful-
ness is needed by the young people of to-day
more than anything else. We, as young people,
are not stern enough. We lack the moral
courage to say, no, in the proper time and
place. We are too easily influenced to do
what we know to be wrong. There are some
people who say and do (and I believe think)
as the majority, because they have not the cou-
rage to investigate for themselves. I have no
patience with such a class of beings. If we
are intelligent beings and have any brain, let
us use it, and by using it improve it; in short,
let us think and act for ourselves. We as indi-
viduals are held accountable for our acts and
doings (not the "majority"). Let us first find
out what is right and then have the moral cou-
rage to do it at all times and in all places, ir-
respective of the opinions of the "majority"
of the world.		CONSTANCE WILDWOOD.
	Nephi.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Lousia M. Alcott has in press with Roberts
Brothers "Jo's Boys and How they turned 
Out," the long-looked-for sequel to "Little
Men." It may be looked for early in 1884.

	"The sovereign people" have given their ver-
dict. Hereafter the present cheif magistrate
cannot exhibit the tanned skins of babies from
the Tewksbury almshouse. The Republicans
of Massachusetts have "saved the honor of the 
State. Amid the general rejoicing, it would
be out of place to recall the fact that not a 
mother in Massachusetts, from the tip of the
Cape to the Berkshire hills, has any legal con-
trol over the skins of her babies, whether those
babies are dead or alive. This trifle is to be
passed over now, as it has been for many a
year. Some time in the far future, when
women shall have importuned the "sovereign
people" sufficiently, some attention may be
given to this little matter; also to that other
fact, not worth naming in this important cam-
paign, viz.: that more than half the same adult
people are denied tehir right to vote. Mean-
time, "the honor of Massachusetts is safe." Is
it? And if the women have anything to com-
plain of, is it all their own fault? -- L.S.
Woman's Journal.

	BRAIN-WORK AND FOOD.-- The notion that
those who work only with their brain need less
than those who labor with their hands has
long been proved fallacious. Mental labor
causes greater waste of tissue than muscular.
According to careful estimates, three hours of
hard study wear out the body more than a 
whole day of hard physical exertion. "With-
out phosphorus, no thought, " is the German
saying; and the consumption of that essential
ingredient of the brain increases in proportion
to the amount of labor which this organ is re-
quired to perform. The wear and tear of the 
brain are easily measured by careful examina-
tions of the salts in the liquid excretions. The
importance of the brain as a working organ
is shown by the amount of blood it receives,
which is proportionately greater than that of
any other part of the body. One fifth of the
blood goes to the brain, though its average
weight is only one-fortieth of that of the body.
This fact alone would be sufficient to prove
that brain workers require more food, and even
better food, than mechanics or farm laborers,—
Boston Journal of Chemistry.


92	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, ten lines  of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 15, 1883.


[Column 1]
WHAT THEY SAY.

	We publish in this issue of our paper some
extracts from the Cincinnati Enquirer" about
"Mormon women," as given in a lecture by
Mrs. Angie F. Newman, also a few items from
the lecture by another Gentile woman who was
in the audience, and who comments on the sub-
ject as well.
	The papers of Cincinnati announced that
Mrs. Newman, of Nebraska, was in the city,
and had spent much time in Utah and closely
studied the problem of Mormonism as it relates
to women, and so forth, and that it had been
proposed to call a meeting of the ladies of all
denominations to hear her speak. Mormon
women are fast becoming a popular subject for
lectures, and by such means the Gospel is being
proclaimed because it makes honest people anx-
ious to know "whether these things be so." It
is very annoying to be thus cruelly misrepre-
sented, but the women of this Church know
that the words of the Savior are true: "He that
would be godly in Christ Jesus must suffer per-
secution." The "Enquirer" said Mrs. Newman
was prepared to give much intelligent and re-
liable information on the subject of Mormon
women. Let us see. She tells her audience
she has held argumentative conversations with
Eliza R. Snow and other ladies. We would
be glad to know who they are, for Sister Eliza
R. Snow had never heard of her, nor any other
Mormon woman so far as we can learn. How-
ever, as Mrs. Newman has told the ladies of
Cincinnati so much about Utah, we feel called
upon to speak in defense of these women she
condemns, and the homes she represents as so
degraded.
	Milton said: "So Truth be in the field, let her
and Falsehood grapple," but as regards the
women of this Church, Truth is scarcely in the
field, considering how Falsehood has been
flaunting her banner in the wind of public opin-
ion. It is time Truth came forward to the res-
cue and threw down the gauntlet in defense of
her own honor. It has been said that there is
a time when forbearance ceases to be a virtue,
it seems to us there is now a time when silence
on the part of the women of Utah would be an
ignominious reproach.
	According to Mrs. Newman the women here
are not ALL fools, and it is highly proper for
them to express themselves on what is most em-
phatically their own question, and as the race
is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong,
it may yet follow that Mormon women can
maintain their own ground and vanquish the
enemy. For Truth will eventually prevail.
Quoting the speaker's words, "Every house is
a house of prostitution!" How any sane woman
dare make such an assertion seems incredible!

[Column 2]
This is too much! Mrs. Newman from her
own statement lived here for some time in this
hot bed of iniquity, and a great many other
Gentiles manage to exist among the "Mor-
mons," and to thrive and grow rich and exceed-
ingly prosperous. They visit in "Mormon"
houses, but they probably don't know that they
are such dens of infamy. Now that Mrs. New-
man has given such "reliable information" on
the subject all the Gentiles will run away im-
mediately, no doubt, for fear of being contami-
nated.
	Mrs. Newman's assertion that "a man may
take for his wives his mother, grand-mother, or
sister" is as false as it is cruel. To speak so
positive one should have the statement well au-
thenticated, but she heard it possibly from some
wicked, designing, malicious person, someone pre-
pared to say anything false to injure the Mor-
mons. Our Savior said: "Blessed are ye when
men shall revile you and persecute you, and say
all manner of evil against you, falsely, for my
name's sake, for great is your reward in heaven,
for so persecuted they the saints that were be-
fore you."
	Mormon women are not only virtuous, but
chaste. The principle of plural marriage
itself tends to the strictest chastity, and child-
ren born in this order of marriage will, from
ante-natal influences, be purer in character. To
enter upon an explanation of this principle and
its consequent results was not our object and
would make this article too lengthy, however
briefly dealt with, but suffice it to say, nowhere
on the earth exist purer women than right here
in Utah, those who have embraced this sacred
order of marriage the world is so ready to con-
demn. Mrs. Newman with all her pretensions
evidently knows nothing of Mormon women,
their homes or associations. She says "there is
no love, care or tenderness," nothing could be
more untrue. There are no stronger ties of af-
fection existing upon the earth than those
which bind together the families who live in
the order of celestial marriage. This intensity
of affection helps them to bear the scoffs and
reproaches heaped upon them by those who can-
not understand the position they occupy, nor
the motives which influence them, and they
find comfort and solace in the society of each
other which unites them in the strongest bonds
of human sympathy, and strengthens the so-
cial strata that the Gentiles such as Mrs. New-
man and others of her class are trying to break
down and destroy. "Money," she says, "is
what is needed, and needed at once." For what,
pray? Not for the "Mormons," they are abund-
antly able to feed, clothe and educate their own
children, and are in no need whatever of pecu-
niary help. When this people were driven from
their homes, destitute pilgrims, without shelter,
by mobs who threatened the lives of even aged
men and defenseless women and children, no
one offered them aid or protection, though many
hundreds perished in consequence of the priva-
tion and suffering they were compelled to en-
dure from the persecutions of their fellow citi-
zens in this boasted land of liberty. Now the
"Mormons" are prosperous, and they would
scorn the idea of receiving money gathered
from the people of the United States to educate
their children. What about the masses of un-
educated children growing up in the eastern
citses and towns without homes, without proper
food? We read in the Boston "Woman's Jour-
nal" this evening, that Chicago has 30,000 pau-
per, Cincinnati has no doubt a moderate pro-
portion, and Salt Lake City has none; the la-
dies who contributed so liberally at the close of
Mrs. Newman's lecture to the fund to educate
the children of the Mormons, who are already
well fed and housed, as well as taught, would do

[Column 3]
well to use the means to provide for the desti-
tute and homeless in their own proud city, or if
Foreign Missions are their grand ambition there
are plenty of barefooted, half-starved children
in Ireland, and in other lands across the sea,
who need their benevolence; as for the Latter-
day Saints they spurn such offerings. The treas-
ures of the earth and the riches of heaven are
for the Saints in the due time of the Lord, and
they have no fear. There is so much opposition
just now to the Latter-day work that one can
scarcely take up a magazine or newspaper with-
out seeing some extravagent article on the Mor-
mon problem, as it is very generally termed.
	Dio Lewis' Monthly for November contains
one of the most ridiculous we have seen, writ-
ten by Dora Darmore, (Mrs. A. J. Boyer) former-
ly editor of the Golden Dawn, in San Francisco.
The lady passed trhough here in the summer of
1881. We have seen one of the articles published
in a New York paper. She wants "an army of
moral, industrious, intelligent young men" sent
here to marry the bright Mormon girls. Now, as
there are many hundreds of bright Mormonboys
expecting to marry these Mormon girls what
will Dora Darmore do with them? They will
certainly be in the way of her pet scheme be-
ing carried out, for Mormon boys are not only
very bright, but physically strong and steadfast
in purpose, and they assuredly will not be inter-
fered with in this way, so her solution of the
problem will fail. The lady has credited the
writer with some things she did not say, but on
the whole it was so long ago she has probably
forgotten what sort of language was used on that
occasion. She alludes to the care-worn counte-
nances of the faces of women in the Tabernacle,
but forgets to tell us there are any unhappy
women in the world outside of Utah, but as
most Mormon women know plenty of unhappy
marraiges outside the pale of the Church they
know how much her words are worth. Mrs.
Boyer stayed a few days in Utah, and she had
very little opportunity of seeing or judging the
character or motives of Mormon men and women.
She says, "God help and pity the unhappy
women of Utah, for the men who own them,
body, and soul, have no pity." Now, if there
are anywhere women more happy in their home
with their domestic relations, more satisfied
withtheir surroundings than these women she
pities so, where are they? As for the help of
God, the Latter-day Saints have it, and expect
to while they are faithful in keeping His com-
mandments. As for men owning women, if
women are not free and independent here,
they are not anywhere, for there is more freedom
for women in the Gospel than in the laws of
men. Mormon women are not asking for pity
form any source, they simply want justice, no-
thing more. We do not expect the world to be-
lieve in celestial marriage, but to respect our
religious belief and accord us the right the Con-
stitution of the United States guarantees to all
its citizens, the freedom of religious liberty.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN the last number of the EXPONENT, in the
article entitled, "Scenes and incidents in Nau-
voo," where Mrs. Whitney speaks of her hus-
band and herself as being proud and high-mind-
ed, it is a mistake, and should read, "light-
minded."
	A LETTER from Sister Mary Ann Hyde, of
Spring City, Sanpete Co., states that the Re-
lief Society of Sanpete Stake will hold their
Quarterly Conference at Moroni, Saturday, Dec-
ember 15, commencing at 10 a. m. Sister Hyde's
friends will be pleased to learn that she has re-
covered from her injuries so far as to be able to 
walk around now with one crutch.


[Column 1]
	ON Monday, November 12th, Sister M. I.
Horne and E. S. Taylor went to Sandy to meet
with the Relief Society and Primary Associa-
tion. The meetings were held in the new meet-
ing house, and were very well attended. Bishop
Holman was present and made some excellent
remarks. Wagon loads of sisters came over
from Union to attend the meetings and receive
instructions.
	The annual meeting of the Relief Society con-
vened at 10 a.m., Mrs. Wilhelmina Olsen presid-
ing, and the Primary meeting was held at 2
p.m. Much interest was manifested by the sis-
ters in trying to improve and renew diligence
in their labors.
	ON Saturday, November 10, we had the pleas-
ure of attending the annual meeting of the Pri-
mary Association of the Eleventh Ward of this
City, Mrs. Louie Felt presiding. There were
over one hundred children present. After the
exercises, which consisted of singing and recit-
ing from the little ones, two essays and one or-
gan solo, and the answering of questions from
"Bible Questions and Answers," remarks were
made by some of the ladies who were present by
invitation, Sisters M. I. Horne, E. S. Taylor,
E. B. Wells and M. A. Freeze, the last named
speaker dwelling with special earnestness upon
the "Word of Wisdom." After the remarks
of the sisters one of the girls of the Association
stepped forward and preceded by a few words
the presentation of a very handsome plain gold
ring to Mrs. Felt, a tribute of affection from the
children under her care. Mrs. Felt responded
in rather a touching tone, evidently affected by
this expression of their love, and said the ring
resembled her love for the children, as it was
without end. One of the secretaries then read
some verses composed for the occasion. It is
very evident that Mrs. Felt and those associa-
ted with her in this most excellent work have
won the love of those under their care, which is
a great point gained. One of the best features of
this particular Association is that regularly pre-
vious to the opening prayer the president inquires
if they know of any sick to be prayed for. And
the children state if there are any, and especial-
ly any of the members, and they are prayed for
in faith, and very often the sick have been
healed, or if not healed, benefitted by these
humble petitions, to which the most fervent
amen from the children is added. After the
meeting adjourned refreshments were served to
all in the house. These little meetings for spir-
itual education should be encouraged by the
parents, and every opportunity given for the
cultivation of faith and the Holy Spirit.
	MISS KATE FIELD gave her "Musical Mono-
logue" in the Salt Lake Theatre, Monday even-
ing, November 5th, to a large and intelligent
audience. It was something entirely different
from entertainments generally, quite original in
style and exessively funny. It was full of wit
and sparkle, and merriment was the conse-
quence. Everybody laughed, they couldn't
help it, and wouldn't if they could. If a good
laugh is a good thing for the health, then Miss
Field must have done considerable towards im-
proving the condition of her audience. To enu-
merate all the good points and elaborate upon
the entertainment would take more ability than
we possess, but will say it was thoroughly enjoy-
able, especially "The silent song," the "Spanish
Muleteer's song," with castanets, the toast of
the Englishman at the dinner party, "The Ital-
ian Opera Burlesque," etc., etc. Miss Field is a
clever humorist, and one appreciates the fact
most emphatically when they listen to her Mu-
sical Monologue. She is quite deserving of all
the papers say in her praise. No doubt her
play presented some time ago in London was
full of good hits and thrusts, as the name would

[Column 2]
indicate, "Extremes Meet." Her book, "Ten
Days in Spain," is said to be a very entertaining
work, and judging of the lady as a humorist, and
seeing the comic side of absurd and ridiculous
things, and able to present them to the public
in the most happy fashion, we should conclude
her to be adept in the style of writing bril-
liant and amusing articles on all subjects. I
suppose she will at some future time not far dis-
tant give the public some of her experience in
the West, that will be quite equal in point of
merit, jest and wittisiam to the London inci-
dents and the burlesque of Italian opera. Miss
Field is prolonging her stay in Salt Lake con-
siderably, probably to gathermaterial for future
use, in the meantime it is to be hoped that the
lady and her sharp shrewdness will be able to
discern truth from error, and facts from fiction,
and not be prejudices in her views by those who
make it their business to cram tourists, espec-
ially editors and writers. We wish her a pleas-
ant and profitable stay in our mountain home,
and success and safety in her journeyings, and
prosperity in her efforts for progress in the right
direction.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM CINCINNATI.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I send you some clippings from the Cincinnati
Commercial Gazette, and Cincinnati Enquirer,
and take a few moments of time from press-
ing duties at home and beside my mother's
sick bed to write to you concerning the lecture
of Mrs. Newman.
	"Mrs. Angie F. Newman, of Nebraska, is in
the city, and the guest of Mrs. Dr. R. H. Rust.
Mrs. Newman is deeply interested in all that
concerns the welfare of her own sex in physical,
social, and religious life. She has spent much
time in Utah, not only exhibiting a substantial
sympathy for the cause of Home Missions, but
has closely studied the problem of Mormonism,
as it relates to women, in its uses and abuses,
and is prepared to give much intelligent and re-
liable information on the subject. It has been
proposed to call a meeting, to be composed
strictly of the ladies of all denominations of the
city and suburbs, to be held on Monday next at
2:30 pm, at St. Paul M. E. Church, to meet
Mrs. Newman and hear an address. The lady,
who is said to be a very talented and attractive
speaker, is en route for the National Convention
of the W. C. T. U., at Detroit, and has consent-
ed to remain in the city for the benefit of those
who may wish to meet her.
	"The picture of Mormonism in its relation to
the classes of women are both startling and
painful. The stronghold of their system resides
in three dominant features: their missionary or-
ganizations, financial and ecclesiastical systems.
Every man, woman and child is required to
give one-tenth of everything they possess in
money and goods, and this brings in the im-
mense revenue of $1,097,000 per annum. Sever-
al hundred missionaries are employed continu-
ally, and it is expected to make two thousand
converts a year. In proselyting, the subject of
polygamy is never mentioned, but there is pre-
sented a pure organization of the "Latter-day
Saints.” They entrench themselves behind the
Christian's Bible, claiming that Jesus was the
founder of their system.
	"Among the civil features is the enfranchise-
ment of women, which is used to justify their
position and give the balance of power, and
every woman's vote serves to tighten the chains
of their degradation and bitter bondage. Women
are graded according to their capacity to work,
and children are loveless, deformed and a blank.
EVERY HOUSE IS A HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION. A
man may take for his wives his mother, grand-
mother and sister, and the presentation of their
teachings and its effects on their lives is such as
can scarcely be made in words. The basis of
their religion is polygamy, and woman's highest
office to reproduce the species. There is no love,
care or tenderness.
	"Mrs. Newman then spoke of the good im-
pressions made by the Home Missionary Socie-
ty in Utah. Hundreds of Mormon children at-
tend the Christian schools, which are the hope
of the country, and hundreds more would apos-
tatize did they dare,and a shelter were provided,
the speaker added,with much emphasis,“Ladies,
your societies are too parsimonious in paying
salaries to preachers and teachers who exhaust
all their sympathies and energies, and then
have to leave lest they starve. Money is what
is needed, and needed at once.” The most ab-
sorbed attention was elicited, and a generous
contribution given at the close of the service.”
	I went in to hear what she would have to say
on the interesting subject of Mormonism, and
will tell you that the report In the Commercial
Gazette of the speech, is correct as far as it goes.
But the reporter forgot to mention that Mrs.
Newman said of Eliza R. Snow and other ladies
there, with whom she had held argumentative
conversations for hours at a time, and then ac-
knowledged to herself that she had made no
headway at all towards upsetting the Scriptur-
al arguments they brought forward in proof of
Mormonism, that they were earnest, intelligent
and very superior women.
	That what Mrs. Newman said against Mor-
monism was in the words of a Mr. Bates; re-
peating word for word the article I sent to you:
once from the California paper. She also re-
ferred to Mrs. Stenhouse.
	Perhaps I expected too much from one who
had seen the evils of Mormonism, or I was preju-
diced, in your favor, beforehand, but I really did
not think that Mrs. Newman proved very much
against you though she is a good speaker and
seemed in earnest.
	Once I thought her arguments contradictory.
She said: "Home is a word not known in Mor-
monism; they have no homes, only kennels for
reproduction.” Then afterwards she said:
"These new converts brought from foreign
countries, many of them young girls, seeing the
Mormons in their thrifty, pleasant homes, imag-
ine that there could be no happier life than to
be one of the wives of these men, and to reign
with them as queens in paradise would be the
highest bliss; but they awaken from their
imaginative dreams in bondage, soul and
body.”
	Mrs. Newman, belonging to the upper, and
called, by her duties, to the lower strata of socie-
ty, must acknowledge that in her observations
of the rules and regulations of both, even out-
side of Mormonism, the same thing is true of
young girls and the married state. They never
learn the geography of the state well until they
get into it, then generally find that they have
traveled downward when they thought they
were going north, that the capital is Selfishness,
located on the river Lust, instead of Bliss on the 
Paradise river. Her observations certainly tell
her "in mournful numbers,'
	"That marriage bliss is mostly an empty dream,
	And things are not what they seem."
	I looked about me, before the lecture began,
and saw some familiar faces, and thought, how
well sealskin sacques and paisley shawls cover
hearts full of bitterness; I knew that some came
there because they must interest themselves in
something to take their minds off domestic trou-
ble, or go mad. And their goodness of heart
leads them into missionary work and keeps them
from taking opium or liquor to silence the cries
of their anguished souls.
	I am glad that Mrs. Newman spoke to the
ladies of Cincinnati; the subject of marriage, in
all its phases, it an important and interesting
one, and ever will be.
	As in agriculture—in fact in all nature there
is a constant demand for changes—the old stock
degenerates unless grafting, budding, and cross-
ing are scientifically attended to, so it may be
in social life. At any rate, Mrs. Newman, the
Mormons and others do well to stir and irrigate
the soil, scatter new seed; if the counsel and
the work be of man it will come to nought, but
if it be of God it will be established in due time
and cannot be overthrown.	EMILY SCOTT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHAT IS LIFE?
				-------
	What is life, is it all sunshine, is there any
who can say, "I know no sorrow?" Some live
to dress, eat, drink and be merry, but life to us
would be dreary with doubts of an eternity.
Some may possess wealth, yet it cannot keep
the loved ones from the grave, or make children
loving and obedient, or dispel the dark clouds
that are destined to pass over their horizon. If
wealth will not fill our lives with sunshine then
should we murmer at our lot? Should we sigh
for that we cannot get, and fill our lives with
discontent, and employ all our time and talents
in following the prevailing fashion, and let our
hearts grow full of pride and vanity, and for-
get what life is for? No! Life is a school, as
many express it. Then let us try with as much
energy as if we were studying to get an educa-
tion, try to train ourselves in the fear and ad-
monition of the Lord. If there is anyting
that will bring us life eternal, and make this
life pleasant, it is the Gospel; wealth cannot
purchase it, yet it is within the reach of all.
Life is too short to be wasted in frivolity. We
should improve our time while we do live, and
do all the good we can, for if we waste our time
and talents we will regret it in the life to come.
Life is a stage, and men and women are actors
on it, says Shakespeare, and when we pass off
from this stage of action, we will appear on an-
other; and happy shall we be if we have per-
formed our part well while here. May the
Lord help us so to do. Amen.           D.C.
	Springville, 1833


[Column 1]

R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS. 

PRESTON, BEAR LAKE STAKE. 
EDITOR EXPONET: 
	The Stake Presidency of Primaries, Sister
Annie Laker and Counselor, visited us March
6th. 1883, and organized a Primary Associa-
tion, which has generally been very well at-
tended. Sister Eliza Dalrymple acts as presi-
dent, and performs her duties to the satisfaction
of all concerned. We have thirty-one mem-
bers in our Association, officers included; aver-
age attendance nineteen. Our Relief Society
was organized March 12th, 1883, assisted by
Stake President, Julia P. Lindsay, and coun-
selors. Sister Martha Dalrymple acts as presi-
dent and is doing her duty as far as possible
with so few to assist in the work. We have
only ten members here now, several having left
here, but hope to be able even with this small
number to accomplish a work that will be ac-
ceptable before the Lord. With respect and
love for the noble women of Utah, we remain
the friends of truth and right. 
		AMANDA DALYMPLE, Secretary.
			NEPHI, JUAB STAKE.
	On the 22nd of September, 1883, at ten
o'clock a.m., the Juab Stake organization of
Relief Society held their 22nd Quarterly Con-
ference in the Nephi Meeting house, Mrs.
Elizabeth Kendall presiding. Present on the
stand, of the brethren, President Paxman and
Counselors, Bishops Warner and Udall, Patri-
arch J. G. Bigler, and Elder George Kendall;
of the sisters, E. B. Wells and H. M. Whitney
from Salt Lake City, the stake and branch
officers of Nephi, and others. After the open-
ing exercises and reading the minutes of last
conference President Kendall called upon
Branch President Pitchforth to represent the
Nephi branch, which she did, showing it was
in good condition, after which President E.
Kendall and J. Picton, in their usual kind
and motherly manner, made a few remarks
and gave good counsel to those present; felt
proud of their associations with the Relief
Society; spoke in praise of the teachers and

[Column 2]
members of our society. Was very pleased to
have our highly esteemed sisters with us from
Salt Lake City; did not wish to take up the
time as all were anxious to hear from them.
	President Kendall then introduced Sister
Wells, who made a few remarks. Said the
Relief Societies had made a great improve-
ment in our sisters, that they were better
women, better wives, and better mothers than
they would have been without these blessed
opportunities for development. That they are
so engaged in the good work that they do not
think half as much about the little trials they
have to pass through, but were seeking to bless
and comfort each other, and to do good to all
humanity.
	President Kendall then introduced Sister
Whitney, who said she was proud of her asso-
ciations with the sisters; was very pleased with
the singing, and also to come to Nephi.
Thought the hand of Providence overruled her
coming here. Said she was her Father's hand-
maid and was on hand to do her duty when-
ever it was made known to her. Spoke on Ce-
lestial Marraige, and how she had been greatly
blessed by advocating that principle. Made
many excellent remarks, and gave much good
advice to mothers.
	After singing conference adjourned till 2
p.m. Benediction by President Joel Grover.
	At 2 p.m. conference was continued accord-
ing to adjournment. After singing and prayer
President Kendall reported the condition of
the Mona Ward, which was good (the Presi-
dent of that branch being absent on account
of sickness). President Serena Aagaard re-
ported the Levan Ward as being united and
striving to do their duty in all things.
	Prest. Wm. Paxman was the next speaker.
Spoke of our late President, Amelia Golds-
brough, of her faithfulness, and of the able 
support of her counselors, Elizabeth Kendall
and Jane Picton, that on account of her death
it was necessary to have a reorganization. That
himself and counselors had talked the matter
over and had selected the following names for
officers: Mary Pitchforth, Stake President;
Amy Bigler and Nicolena Brown, Counselors;
Mary Hoyt, Secretary; Thirza M. Vickers,
Treasurer, who were all unanimously sus-
tained. Branch officers: Miranda Bryan, Pres-
ident of Nephi Ward; Rebecca Udall and Ann
Midgley, Counselors; Matilda E. Teasdale,
Secretary, Hannah Grover Assistant Secre-
tary; Charlotte Evans, Treasurer; and Julia
Bryan, Assistant Treasurer, unanimously sus-
tained. Levan and Mona officers sustained as
they were already organized.
	The balance of the time was taken up by 
excellent and appropriate remarks from Prest.
Kendall, Sisters Hannah Grover, Miranda
Bryan, H.M. Whitney and E. B. Wells.
	Prest. Paxman made a few closing remarks;
felt well pleased with the exercises of the day,
but felt that we had too little time to say all
the good things that were necessary.
	It was moved and carried that a vote of
thanks be returned to Sisters E. Kendall and
J. Picton for their faithful labors in the Re-
lief Society.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Patriarch J. G. Bigler.
		MARY PITCHFORTH, President.
	AMY L. BIGLER, Acting Secretary.
		    FERRON CITY, EMERY CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I deem it a pleasure to have the privilege
of mingling my voice with my beloved sisters
in the EXPONENT, though we are far off in
this vicinity, seemingly away from the society
of our highly esteemed sisters who dwell in the
northern part of this territory, notwithstand-
ing this, we feel that we are greatly blessed of
the Lord, not forgetting to thank Him for His
many blessings toward us. 

[Column 3]
Our Relief Society was organized December
10th, 1882, assisted by our beloved President, 
Annie Larsen, and her Counselors. Sister
Mary Olsen was elected President, with Sisters
Eunice Molen and Dinah Wridgley as her
Counselors; Sister Hannah E. Stevens, Secre-
tary; Sister Hannah Henry, Treasurer. Since
that time we have been striving to do our du-
ty to the best of our ability, as a Society; we
hold our meetings monthly, and they are pret-
ty well attended, considering our scattered
condition; we have twenty names enrolled;
most of these sisters are striving to do their du-
ty as far as they know and understand. We
feel to uphold and sustain our president and
counselors in all their works and ways, for we
feel that they are chosen of the Lord to take
charge of the society here in this vicinity,
therefore, in order to be united we must love
and respect them, for the Lord says if ye are
not one ye are not mine. We have a desire
to do all we can for the advancement of His
Kingdom and for the building of Temples in 
which we can receive ordinances necessary for
our progression, and all other blessings which
the Lord has promised to the faithful.
	Ever wishing to be one with my co-workers
in the Gospel of Christ, as ever your sisters,
			      HANNAH E. STEVENS, 
			Secretary R. S.
		SPRING CITY, SANPETE STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Sanpete held their
Quarterly Conference at Mt. Pleasant, Septem-
ber 15th, President M. A. P. Hyde presiding,
The usual devotional exercises were rendered,
after which the minutes of the previous confer-
ence were read, also the statistical and finan-
cial reports. There presidents who were there
gave verbal reports each of her respective
ward. 
	The President, Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde, made a
few remarks, giving an account of her labors
and experience while in the St. George Temple,
also of the accident she met with while in St. 
George, which had caused her absence so
long.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young addressed the con-
gregation upon the duties of wives and
mothers, also on the necessity of the sisters un-
derstanding politics and government, that we
might know and understand our rights. Re-
ferred to the Primary Association work said it
was an apostolic work, and should be consid-
ered as such; mothers should not neglect to up-
hold the sisters who labor in the Primary.
	Sister Horne addressed the audiance, speak-
ing of the necessity of mothers realizing their
positions and learning to think and decide for
themselves; said if mothers realized that they
were bringing forth spirits from God not one
child would grow up to apostatize. Mothers
should live near to God, avail themselves of
the privilege of receiving knowledge from
Him, keep their nature in subjection to His
laws and commandments.
	President Peterson spoke of the importance
of looking after the dead, and of drawing near
to God; said that if we were not drawing nearer
we were certainly drawing farther away from
Him. Spoke of the factory, and the necessity
of being prepared to sustain ourselves, as we
would need factorios and the grain the sisters
have been storing for several years, before
twenty years, as Babylon will fall. Said the
young men and women should take an interest
in learning different trades, as these occupa-
tions will be necessary.
	Sister Hyde felt impressed to speak in
tongues, which she did, Sis ter Young interpre-
ting. 
	Singing by choir. Benediction by Bishop
Andersen. Conference adjourned, to be held
at Moroni, Dec. 15, 1883.
		FANNY KOFFORD, Secretary R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]		
		PRIMARY MEETING.
	Primary Semi-Annual Meeting of the 20th
Ward convened on Friday, Oct. 26th. Present
on the stand, President Toone, Sisters E. S.
Clawson, L. Felt, Presendia Kimball, Fanny
Thatcher, E. B. Ferguson, Sister Mary Davis
of the 21st Ward, and Bro. T. B. Lewis.
	Exercises commenced by singing, "Love at
Home."
	Minutes read by Secretary. Essay on the
benefits of the Primary Associations, by E.
Salmon; Bible verses, recited by Frank Lewis;
Reading by Miss Lucy Savage; Recitiation by
Kate Sansom, a little toddler of three years;
Song by L. Sansom; Dialogue by Alice and
Lizzie Tibbins; Recitation from Rosie Romney;
Essay by Flora Phillips; Song by Lennie Sav-
age and Alice Clowes; Recitation by Josie Sim-
mons; Recitation by Nellie Lewis; Dialogue,
Lawrence Romney and Frank Pusey; Recita-
tion from Kate Romney; Duet by Emily Sharp
and E. Clowes; Recitation from Lily and Maud
Patten; Reading from George Ewing; Recita-
tion by Lucy Wright; Song by Ida Savage
and Ida Sansom; Essay by Georgina Toone
Recitation by Hugh Stainsburg; Dialogue by
Alice and Flora Reynolds; Recitation, Albert
Romney; Recitation, Maude Lewis; Recita-
tion, Paul Culmer; Song, Della Daynes; Reci-
tation, Isabel Romney; Dialogue, Mary Smalie
and E. Johnson; Recitation, Beatie Fowler;
Song, Martha Angell; Reading by Willard Pe-
tersen closed the exercises.
	Sister Louie Felt said that she had had a
rich treat; was glad to see so much improve-
ment, though at the last anniversary she
thought there could be no improvement; spoke
to the boys about missions; prayed that God
would bless them all.
	Sister Ellen Clawson felt as Sister Felt had
said, that every thing was so well done that it
seemed hardly possible to improve. Spoke of
the word of wisdom and hoped all the child-
ren would keep it and all the commandments
of God.
	Brother T. B. Lewis thought these anniver-
saries were the most pleasant part of the P. A's.
The children like them, the President likes
them, and your friends who visit you like
them. But if you want to make these anni-
versaries a success, you must attend punctual-
ly all your weekly meetings. Hoped the boys
and girls would be put into practice the lessons
taught in the pieces recited and do what is
right because it is right. Spoke about diph-
theria, and begged the children not to get
scared, but to attend to their duties and leave
the result to God.
	Sister Presendia Kimball felt so thankful to
meet with the dear children again; hoped they
would remember what Brother Lewis had said
and keep the laws of God and they should
grow up mighty men and women of God.
	Bro. Romney thought the children would
rather have the cake and candy than hear him
speak. Prayed for a blessings on those who
felt interested in the P. A.
	Bro. Levi Richards felt pleasure in meeting
with the children, and prayed for a blessing on
all.
	Sister Davis spoke a short time; hoped the
children would remember that God saw them
at all times.
	Sister Ferguson spoke to the children on
health and the care of their bodies while there
is so much sickness.
	Sister Toone hoped the mothers would more
frequently attend the weekly meetings. Asked
the children to thank the brethren and sisters
for their presence and invited them to come
again.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to Sister
Kate Romney for her services at the organ.
	Conference adjourned for six months, until
[column 2]
April 19th, 1884. Children sang, "I'm not too
young for God to see." Benediction by Bro.
Romney. Cakes and candy were then distrib-
uted to the children, and they were then dis-
missed. 					E. B. FERGUSON.


CORRESPONDENCE.
MESA CITY, ARIZONA.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is so seldom the good people of our isolated little
city find themselves represented in your valuable paper,
I take the liberty of forwarding you a few items. The
heat of summer is over, and we are now enjoying the
most delightful weather imaginable. But we have
found to our cost that the excessive heat and accom-
panying disadvantages of the summer season, that we
have to endure in this southern climate, are not the
greatest evils in the world. That dreadful disease, small-
pox, made its appearance in our usually healthy city
over two months ago; and although we are now free
from the disease itself, it has left foot-prints of sorrow
in a great many hearts; and right here our much abused
warm weather has proven to be our best friend, as there
is no telling where our troubles might have ended if we
had had cold weather to contend with. We have had
forty-two cases in all, and eight deaths. Quite a num-
ber were only varioloid, while nearly one third were of
the very worst type, and believed by some of our Ari-
zona physicians to be closely related to the black small-
pox. Our death rate has been very low in comparison
to other places where the malady has raged, especially
at Phenix, where they have lost nearly two thirds of
their whole number of cases; for although they have a
good hospital and excellent nurses, they lack what we,
as Latter-day Saints, prize above their learned phsyic-
ians, namely, faith in God and the administration of
His servants. We have had some examples of heroism
among our people hero that are worthy of record.
History records the deeds of many brave men and
women facing death for home and country, but who
would not choose death at the cannon’s mouth rather
than a lingering, horrible death by small-pox.
The county offered to furnish nurses, if more were
needed than could be obtained here, but our people felt
rather to trust themselves in the hands of the Lord
than outside nurses, and in consequence quite a number
entered the hospital without being protected by pre-
viously having had the disease. Sister Eliza Stewart
was one of the first to sacrifice herself at the shrine of
motherly affection, being unwilling to allow her daugh-
ter Estella, aged 16, who had contracted the disease,
to pass from under her care. She remained with her and
both subsequently  died, leaving the home circle doubly
sorrowful. Both were faithful Latter-day Saints, and
are greatly regretted by the entire community.
Another case I mnst mention, Sister Susan Savage
left her home and children at the call of suffering hu-
manity, without even the protection of vaccination, but
armed with her faith in God and her religion, and with
promises made to those that keep the word or wisdom. 
In due time she came down with the disease in its worst 
form, and although to all human appearances she had
no chance for life, through the prayers and fasting of
her brethren and sisters, and her own faith and good
care she came off victorious, and now bears her testi-
mony to the comforter that was with her during her en-
tire sickness, in opposition to the evil spirits that
sought her destruction.
Other cases I might mention, but my letter is getting
too lengthy. We feel to thank the Lord that he has
been so merciful to us as he has, and appreciate our
numerous blessings more than ever. The welcome
ringing of our meeting house bell is again heard in our
midst, our Mutual Improvement and Primary Associa-
tions will soon be in active operation, and a spirit of
animation and cheerfulness is rapidly taking the place
of the horror and gloom of our small-pox siege.
With good wishes for the welfare of the Exponent, I
remain your sister in the Gospel,	
Zulie P. Kimball
Oct. 21st, 1833.	
BURNHAM, SAN JUAN, NEW MEXICO.	
Editor Exponent;
Dear sister, some time has elapsed since I have taken
up my pen to write a line for our dear little paper, and
even now my heart is so sad I scarcely feel able to do
so. Such very sad news has reached us from the Salt
River County. Two dear sisters and one little nephew
and my stepmother have all suddenly died with that
terrible scourge, the smallpox.
Mrs. Caroline Matilda Taylor, daughter of Alvin F.
and Camera Stewart, died Sept. 4th, 1883, at Phoenix.
She was in her twenty-ninth year. Her little son,
Keith Stewart, died a short time before. It is possible
Mrs. Taylor might have lived had she not been railed to
part with her child, but this trial and the fierceness of
her disease was more than that widowed heart could
bear. An hour or so before death her reason returned,
and she called for pen and paper, and wrote a request
for her brother to take care of her two little ones she
was about to leave without father or mother.
Camera Estella Stewart died Sept. 5th, at Mesa City,
aged fifteen years and one month. She was the daugh-
ter of Alvin P. and Eliza Stewart.
Mrs. Eliza Barnett Stewart, wife of Alvin F. Stewart
and daughter of John and Eliza Barnett, died Sept. 19th,
1883, at Mesa City, aged thirty-six years and a few days.
Farewell, dear ones, for awhile. Oh, how I had
longed to see your dear faces once more on earth: lonely
and isolated as we are the thought that you, my sweet
sister, might yet be near me has been such a comfort.
God bless and strengthen my poor father in this his
hour of trial. He, too, has just been at death’s door,
but was spared to remain with the little ones now left
motherless.
It is the Sabbath day, and I am alone. The littla-
ones are at play, baby is sleeping in his cradle. It is
but one short year since we laid his mother in the silent
grave, but his sweet baby heart knows no sorrow over
it. "We that have tasted so deeply from the bitter cup,
oh, how would we keep it from these innocent lips if we
could, but, alas, we cannot only for a short time. Our
Heavenly Father knoweth all things and doeth all
all for the secret good of His children, and in wisdom
has designed that all should taste of the bitter that
they might truly appreciate the sweet. We often
think that some have no crosses to bear, yet we cannot
always read the human heart, and each one realizes its
own burdens, and a stranger cannot understand them.
It is so sad to lay our friends away when we have done
all that skill and love could devise, but when we can
only hear they have died among strangers, without one
dear one to sooth their last moments, or a loving hand
to close the eyes whose depths we love to gaze into so
well, it is sadder still, and we then learn to appreciate
the privilege of caring for the dear ones to the last. If
our trials will purify us and cleans us from dross we
will not complain. We must be trying to live worthy,
so that at any time we are called we will be joyfully
greeted on the other side by the dear ones we now feel
so sadly at being separated from. God comfort all who
are called to mourn among the Saints, and give us
faith and light to live above the trials in life. is the
prayer of your sister,
Mary Stewart Burnham.


IN MEMORIAN.

ANOTHER FAITHFUL ONE DEPARTED.

 DIED, at Logan, October 21st, 1883, Sister Ann H.
Davis, wife of David W. Davis. Deceased was born at
Pendaren, South Wales, 5th of March, 1823; was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints January 1849; emigrated to Utah 1854; moved
from Bountiful, Davis County, to Logan at its early
settlement in 1859. Although disabled in her limbs
she was always an active worker in the Relief Society
in the ward she lived in from its organization, and al-
ways ready to assist the sick and afflicted in time of
need. A faithful wife and mother in all the trials
and privations of the early settlement of this valley,
and to her death a faithful Latter-day Saint. She was
never known to complain of her situation in life, al-
though her family were depending, to a great extent,
upon her industry with her needle, yet like a true Saint
she would lay aside her own work and attend to that of
the Relief Society, which she did for many years. Sister
Davis was greatly loved by all who knew her.
	Her funeral was attended by a large number of friends
and acquaintances. Although the Relief Society has
suffered a great loss, yet it is her gain, for she fought a
good fight and kept the faith.
Sister Davis leaves a husband, three daughters and eight 
grandchildren, also a large number of friends to mourn
her loss.				CATHERINE WATTERSON.
								President R.S.
	3rd Ward, Logan, Oct. 25th, 1883.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


Yes, another has gone homeward;
	There were ties to keep her here;
With our love we would have held her,
	But the Master was so dear
That she could but heed His whisper
	As it thrilled her in the night,
Calling her to higher service
	In the land of love and light.

Oh! the hearth is poor and empty;
	None can fill that vacant place;
But we think of all her rapture
	When she saw the Savior's face.
Could she stay for eyes beseeching?
	Could she heed the hindering hands?
Jesus called, and now the servant
	By her Royal Master stands.

We have lost a standard bearer,
	Who was foremost in the fight;
True and tender, brave and loving,
	With a heart that loved the right.
But while we are weeping for her,
	She the crown of life has won;
he is resting by the river
	And has heard the words, "Well done."

And the heavens that are so wealthy
	With our dear ones gone before,
Shall be nearer, and yet dearer
	To our hearts for evermore,
Till we hear the Father's summons
	To come hither, and we go
Where all life is love and rapture,
	Where there is no death or woe.
						SARAH J. TARBET.

	It is with a feeling of regret that we are called upon
to record the death of Sister Jennette Rollins. She was
born April 9th, 1860, and died at her father's residence,
Bishop James McKnight, in Minersville, Beaver County,
Oct. 25th, 1883.
	Deceased had been residing at the Cave Mine during
the summer, and was moving home; her little brother
was driving the team, the horses became frightened and
were unmanagagble; she was thrown on to a rack stake,
which penetrated her right leg above the knee, and
came out  her thigh; after six days of intense suffereing
she expired leaving three small children, father,
brothers, sister and a large circle of relatives and friends
to mourn her loss.
	Whereas, God has seen fit to call from our midst our
sister, who was greatly loved and respected by all for
her virtuous, true and noble character, and her faithful
and untiring labors in the Y.L.M.I Association.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we, the members of 
the Y.L.M.I.A. of Minersville Ward, do deeply
mourn the loss of our beloved sister, Jennette Rollins
and that we condole with her children, father and rela-
tives in their great loss.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy be presented to the bereaved
family, also a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.    (Signed)
				LYDIA BLACKBURN, President.
				IDA HAMBLIN, Secretary.


OBITUARY

	DIED, at Centerville, Oct. 13th, 1883, of general debil-
ity, in the 79th year of her age, Ann, wife of John Hol-
land, daughter of John and Sarah Rennall. Deceased
was born in Maldon, Essex, England, Aug, 4th, 1805;
was baptized into the Church of Jesus of Latter-day
Saints June 13th, 1852; emigrated to Utah with her hus-
band and family, and arrived in Salt Lake City Sep. 2nd,
1860. The following spring moved to Centreville, where
she resided till her death. She was for years a teacher
in the Relief Society; she early learned and observed
the Mormon Creed, and died as she had lived, an exem-
plary Latter-day Saint.
	In the silent tomb she's gone to rest,
		Till the righteous dead in glory rise,
	The pure, the meek, the good, the blest,
		To meet her Savior in the skies.	COM.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Mrs. Frances D. Gage completed her 75th
birthday on Friday, the 12, ult.


Mrs. Mary A. Livermore has in press with
Lee & Shepard, her lectures, "What shall
we do with our Daughters?" "Superfluous
Women," and other lectures.
	"Sorosis held their first social meeting of the
season at Delmonico's, on the 1st Oct. Lunch
was served at one o'clock. The question for
discussion was:
	Resolved, That it is more philanthropic to
provide children of the poor instruction in in-
dustrial arts than in the higher branches of
the schools.
	Papers were read by Rev. Phoebe Hanaford,
Mrs. Esther Herman and Mrs. Meredith. The
discussion was lively. They, had also some
very fine recitations and music."
	At a meeting of the Executive Council in
Boston, Mass., October 16th, the Governor
took the ground that a woman was not a per-
son by declaring the place occupied by Mrs.
Clara T. Leonard vacant in the Board of
Health, Lunacy and Charity, amd made a
nomination for the vacancy. The correctness
of the ground the Governor has taken
in this matter will not be admitted, even
by all the parties interested, and it will no
doubt cause this question which has before
been agitated in divers places and in relation
to important matters, to come before the pub-
lic for discussion. We hope to hear more
about this matter which is of vital importance
to all women. If a woman is not a person,
what is she? What are her claims? I sup-
pose this great and wise man considers woman
a creature. We shall see what will come of
this controversy. Some wonderful enlighten-
ment no doubt.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d.
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been give to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the 
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS
	Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.	"
POEMS, by E.R. Snow, Vol. 1,	-	$1.00 "
"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
bound in cloth, $1.25, in morroco, -	1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R SHIPP, M.D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO 
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns, Wool Batting,
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linsoys,	Cassalmere,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brubee, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Offic and Residence.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.

H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Drawing of building with WALLPAPER, DINWOODEY, FURNITURE, UPHOLSTERY, H. DINWOODEY'S, FURNITURE written on building]

HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE;
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS. LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

[large F on left side]

Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods.
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

