VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1883.	No. 6.


ALLIES RESOLVE

As Allie, wrapped in thought, survey'd
	Life's scenes as time revolv'd,
And true results in balance weigh'd,
	She nobly thus resolv'd

"I'll turn my thoughts to usefulness—
	With skill my hands I'll train—
I'll treasure knowledge that will bless,
	And wisdom strive to gain.

"I will not be a silly ape,
	That fashion's pow'r can charm,
And change into a hideous shape
	My nat'ral; lovely form

"I will not furnish ridicule—
	A theme at my expense,
By pandering to folly's tool,
	The world's extravagance.

"I will not condescend to be
	An advertising scroll,
A walking sign of mill'nery,
	A glaring sidewalk stroll.

"Their fulsome praise I will despise
	Who flatter gaudy show—
I'll seek to merit what the wise
	Sincerely may bestow.

"I'll mingle elegance and taste
	With sweet simplicity,
And will not give my time to waste
	On vain frivolity.

"I'll be a woman—one of worth,
	Whose setting sun shall tell
That Allie's mission on the earth
	"Has been accomplished well."
									E. R. S. S.


FRAGMENTS

OF EPISTOLARY CORRESPONDENCE.

	Dear Lady, Shall I not say dear Sister? I
felt from the first visit with you that you were
a sister spirit, and every succeeding interview
endorsed my first impression; it seemed hard
that you were forced to go away, your health
too improved so much while here. I am sorry
to hear you are again declining in health.
My dear, you will have to return here, for
here you were well; the climate is evidently
congenial to your system, as it is generally to
new comers; and I have remarked that the
sickly are soon restored to health; there is a
freshness and a purity in this climate that is
remarkable; I myself have experienced its
beneficial effects; my nervous system, which in
early life was fearfully sensitive, became in
this climate quiet and strong; and you know
how rapidly your health improved while here.
I feel the Lord desires you to be with His
people, He acknowledges you as one of His
fold; can you not—do you not realize the truth
of my words? I feel that the world, with all
its greatness and granduer, has not charms
enough to bind a heart and brain like yours.
	The grand, the sublime and the beautiful,
with all their varied appendages, are in store
for the Saints of God of all ages, but they
have to graduate for them in the High School
of the Lord before they can attain them, or
even have the faculty to rightly appreciate
them.
	Religion is an individual affair; it is between
each one land their God, and Him alone!
No human being, no human power, whether it
be as king, potentate or president—no Parlia-
ment or Congress has the right or the power to


attempt to stand between a human being and
his God! Freedom of thought, freedom of
judgment, freedom of action in the matter of
religion is granted to all the race whom God
made in His own image, and endowed with
His own attributes, their agency is chartered
unto them to choose who shall be their God,
and in what way they shall worship Him and
acknowledge his laws and mandates, and whom
they will serve, follow and obey; He endowed
them with God-like faculties, with reason,
judgment, understanding, veneration, adora-
tion and devotion; with a spirit that is bound
to worship, yet the human being bends in
worship as naturally as the willow to the
stream, it is the umbilical cord that binds it to
its Divine Parent.
	The subject has carried me away, and I for-
got that I was writing a letter. Will you
feel I intrude? if so, pardon me, for my inter-
est in you is great and imperative for your
spiritual welfare, therefore my conscience does
not condemn me. Accept the best wishes one
human being can offer to another.
			Thy friend ever,
					HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
ADDSESSED TO Y. L. M. I. A.

AMERICAN FORK.

	Brethren and sisters, friends and members
of the Improvement Association, being called
upon to deliver the opening address, I deem it
my duty as well as a privilege to respond to
the call, trusting I may have the Spirit of God
to dictate me in the course of my remarks. It
is now eight years since the Associations were
organized, in which time there has been vari-
ous improvements. How much we have made
is before you to judge. What improvement
has been made is not entirely due to the efforts
of the young people, but to the efforts of our
kind and amiable President, who has worked
with untiring industry for our advancement
and for the good of the youth of Zion. In
my heart I feel to say God bless her, and may
all her efforts towards improvement be
crowned with success. The Improvement As-
sociation is a proper channel where good ad-
vice may be imparted unto the rising genera-
tion of this community, if we adhere to the
good counsel given. Some say they see no
particular good resulting from these Associa-
tions, such persons are found only among those
who care nothing for religion, and they have
no higher aim in life than the frivolities of
this world. How thankful would our parents
have been had they the privileges when they
were young that we enjoy! Young friends, we
have a great many advantages that our parents
did not possess.
	Are we thankful for the many blessings bes-
towed upon us, do we all realize our positions
as members of the Church and Kingdom of
God; are we fully alive to the necessity of pre-
paring ourselves for future usefulness? In the
revelations of the Lord given to us in the last
days, He says, "let the solemnities of eternity
rest on your minds;" the things of time are
small compared with those of eternity; is there
not enough in the prophecies and promises
concerning the things to fill our minds with a
determination to let the perishable things of
this world be only a secondary consideration?

[Column 2]
	The one main thing that we as young men
and young ladies in Israel lack is a proper ap-
preciation of the duties that devolve upon us;
if we knew it was at the risk of our lives to
get drunk and swear, would we do so, if we
were in the presence of a great earthly king
whom we knew would take our lives if we
committed such offences, would we gratify a
false taste or whim, throw away our lives? no,
indeed; but according to that which we all as
Latter-day Saints believe in, many of us break
the laws of that King who is able to take not
only our lives and end our earthly existence,
but he has all power over our souls and con-
trols our destinies through all eternity.
	If we knew and realized that by a few
years of hard study we could attain to all the
luxuries and honors this world affords, would
it not be an incentive that would cause most of
us to strive for it; but the Lord our Father has
promised us such blessings as are not to be
compared with any of the perishable things of
this life. For instead of the weakly, fading
tabernacle, ever subject to disease and death,
we are promised a glorious, immortal body, ca-
pable of enduring through all eternity, so also
with all things connected with our existence in
the eternal worlds, for the faithful are prom-
ised that instead of crumbling to decay as is
the fate of all things connected with this mor-
tal sphere of action, their glory and blessings
may continue and increase through all com-
ing time, and grow brighter through the lapse
of years; there are also great things awaiting
us pertaining to this life, for when the king-
doms of this world shall become the kingdoms
of our God and His Son Jesus Christ, the
children of to-day who have been reared in
the fear and admonition of the Lord, who have
rightly appreciated their privileges, and have
spent their lives in acquiring useful knowledge,
will have ample room to use all the talents
they possess. Let us be humble and prayerful,
as prayer is essential to salvation; prayer
serves to keep open the channel of communi-
cation between us and the heavens. Through
prayer the darkness that had hovered over the
earth for ages burst, and the light of everlast-
ing truth shone for it. Let us all endeavor to
be energetic and upright, and do all we can
for the further advancement of the work in
which we are engaged; let us be ready to aid
the poor and aged, for in so doing we will cre-
ate happiness; true happiness is not gained by
selfishness, but by making others happy. The
more we try to do this the more happiness we
ourselves will enjoy.
	May God give us His Spirit that we may
seek nnto him for wisdom and understanding.
And may the love of God be our guiding star
in all our Associations, is my prayer.
						ANNIE CHEPNIAN.


The lowest ebb is the turn of the tide
—Longfellow.

	Life is made up, not of great sacrifices or
duties, but of little things; in which smiles and
kindnesses and small obligations, given habitu-
ally, are what win and preserve the heart, and
secure comfort.—Sir H. Davy.

	Men seldom die of hard work; activity is
God's medicine. The highest genius is willing-
ness and ability to do hard work. Any other
conception of genius makes it doubtful, if not
a dangerous possession.—R. S. MacArthur.


42	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	I well remember the farce, and for interest-
ing particulars will refer to the "Life of Brig-
ham Young." He says, "There were my sons,
Joseph A. and Brigham jr., Brother H. C.
Kimball's boys and others who were looking
on, and all seemed at once to understand and
participate in the joke. They followed the
carriage to the Mansion House and gathered
around Brother Miller with tears in their eyes,
saying, father, or President Young, where are
you going? Brother Miller looked at them
kindly, but made no reply; and the Marshal
really thought that he had got "Brother Brig-
ham." Lawyer Edmonds, who was staying
at the Mansion House, appreciating the joke,
volunteered to Brother Miller to go to Carth-
age with him and see him safe through. When
they arrived within two or three miles of
Carthage, the Marshal, with his posse, stopped.
They arose in their carriages, buggies and
wagon, and, like a tribe of Indians going to
battle, or as if they were a pack of demons
yelling and shouting, exclaimed, "We've got
him, we've got him, we've got him!"
	"When they reached Carthage the Marshal
took the supposed Brigham into an upper
room of the hotel, and placed a guard over
him, at the same time telling those around
that they had got him. Brother Miller re-
mained in the room until they bade him come
to supper. While there parties came in one
after the other, and asked for Brigham, Bro.
Miller was pointed out to them. So it con-
tinued until an apostate Mormon, by the name
of Thatcher, who had lived in Nauvoo, came
in and sat down and asked the landlord where
Brigham was. "That is Mr. Young," said the
landlord, pointing across the table to Bro.
Miller. "Where? I can't see any one that
looks like Brigham," Thatcher replied. The
landlord told him it was that fleshy man, eat-
ing.
	"Oh, h——!" exclaimed Thatcher, "that's
not Brigham, that's William Miller, one of
my old neighbors."
	"Upon hearing this the landlord went, and
tapping the sheriff on the shoulder, took him
a few steps to one side, and said, "You have
made a mistake. That is not Brigham Young;
it is William Miller of nauvoo."
	"The Marshal, very much astonished, ex-
claimed, "Good heavens, and he passed for
Brigham!" He then took Bro. Miller into a
room, and turning to him, said, "What in
h—— is the reason you did not tell me your
name?" "You have not asked me my name,"
Bro. Miller replied. "Well, what is your
name?" said the sheriff, with another oath.
"My name is William Miller." "I thought
your name was Brigham Young. Do you say
this for a fact?" "Certainly I do," returned
Bro. Miller. "Then," said the marshal, "why
did you not tell me that before?" "I was un-
der no obligation to tell you," replied Miller.
	"The marshal, in a rage, walked out of the
room, followed by Bro. Miller, who walked off
in company with Lawyer Edmonds, Sheriff
Backenstos and others, who took him across
lots to a place of safety; and this is the real
birth of the story of "Bogus Brigham."
	They never believed for a moment that
Brigham or his brother Apostles were guilty
of counterfeiting. It was only an excuse got-
ten up for the want of a better one to drive the
"Mormons" to desperation, that they might
have an excuse for exterminating them; for
then they were looked upon as a dangerous foe
in a political point of view, the same as they
are to-day.
	Dec. 26th. "At about half past six p.m.,"
he writes, "Sheriff Backenstos came to the

[Column 2]
Temple—was admitted to the office room. * *
Had conference with President Young, H. C.
Kimball, Orson Hyde, P. P. Pratt, John Tay-
lor, Amasa Lyman and George A. Smith. He
gave an account of the occurrences at Car-
thage.	*	*	Said the United States
Deputy Marshal was in town with writs for
the Twelve and G. Miller.	*	*	*
	"Saturday, 27th.	*	*	*	None
of the Twelve present at the Temple except
Orson Pratt. At fifteen minutes past ten
o'clock the United States Deputy Marshal
from Springfield, by the name of Roberts,
came to the Temple in company with Almon
W. Babbit. He was freely admitted to every
part of the Temple to which he desired access.
He went into the tower, on the roof, and into
the attic story, passed through the various de-
partments into the east room where he intent-
ly examined the portraits and made inquiries
as to where they were severally, but obtained
no correct information. He was requested to
take off his boots in the preparation room,
which request he complied with. After re-
maining about a half an hour he departed.
About two o'clock he returned in company
with Sheriff Backenstos and a gentleman
whom the Marshal introduced to us as from
New Orleans. They visited the middle room
and the tower and departed in about a half an
hour. Doctor Bernhisel came in about one
o'clock—had borrowed the "New York Sun"
of December 9th, 1845, which contained a
letter said to have been written by Emma
Smith to the Editor. 	*	*	*
Elder Orson Pratt has been engaged in mak-
ing astronomical calculations from several ob-
servatories—he makes the latitude of Nauvoo
to be 40° 35' 48".	*	*	*
Elder Orson Hyde came in,	*	*	said that
the officers had been watching his house."
	"Sunday, December 28th. Meeting at half
past ten o'clock this day in the attic story of
the Temple.	*	*	A very large con-
gregation was present, some of the side rooms
were filled.	*	*	About two hundred
persons were present, clothed in priestly gar-
ments. President Young addressed the meet-
ing, it having been opened with prayer by P.
P. Pratt and singing the songs of Zion, "The
morning breaks, the shadows flee," and "Come
to me, etc." President Young desired them
to be wise and do honor to the cause they had
espoused, and bring no reproach upon the
character of Him who has given us of the
things of His kingdom liberally. "The keys
of the Priesthood are for the purpose of im-
pressing on the mind the order of the creation.
Adam's name was more ancient than he was.
It was the name of a man long before him
who enjoyed the Priesthood.	*	*	*
After his fall another name was given to
Adam.	*	*	The order and ordi-
nances prove the principles taught in the Bi-
ble. First, men should love their God su-
premely.	*	*	Liberty and happiness
will never shine upon men until they learn
these principles.	*	*	The love which
David and Jonathan had for each other was
the love of the Priesthood. God is a person-
age of tabernacle. The Son is a personage of
tabernacle. The Spirit, or Holy Ghost, is also
a personage, but not a personage of tabernacle,
but a personage of Spirit. God dwells in
eternal burnings—puts his hand through the
vail and writes on the wall. And any person
who goes through these ordinances, unless they
cleanse their hearts and sanctify themselves
and sanctify the Lord it will damn them.	*
We shall not be able to have another public
meeting here on account of the weight on the
floor—it has already caused the walls to crack,
prevents the doors from shutting and will in-
jure the roof. I see here 200 persons,	*	*
and the wood is to be supplied as follows—
1000 men, or as many as can be obtained, to

[Column 3]
go to the islands and cut wood, and send
teams to go and draw it to the Temple until
1000 cords have been obtained."
	"They sang the hymn, "Glorious things of
thee are spoken." Prayer by Amasa Lyman,
asking blessing on the bread. Passed around
by Charles C. Rich and George Miller. Bless-
ing on the wine asked by P. P. Pratt. While
the wine was passing around sang the hymn,
"Adam Ondi Ahman."
	"Elder Kimball next spoke—cautioned the
brethren and sisters against telling that the
Twelve were in the Temple. Alluded to the
stories in circulation that several persons had
been killed on their way through the ordi-
nances, etc., etc. After which a hymn was
sung, being led by Brother S. H. Goddard,
John Kay and William Cahoon, when they
united in prayer, Elder John Taylor being
mouth, and the congregation was dismissed by
Elder Orson Hyde. At five o'clock President
Young and H. C. Kimball, assisted by their
wives and Sister Whitney, washed and anoint-
ed for their health their three little children,
whose names are John Willard Young, Brig-
ham Willard Kimball and Mary Jane Whit-
ney."		*		*		*
	"Just at dark three of the dragoons sta-
tioned at Carthage came in with a man named
Noah Miller whom they wished to deliver up
to the proper officers. He was charged with
swindling several persons out of their proper-
ty. They brought a letter from Major War-
ren, the commanding officer, the tenor of which
was as above. This is on file among President
Young's papers, "President Young and his
wife and child, Elder H. C. Kimball and wife
and child, and several other persons remained
in the Temple over night."

To be Continued.


DRAPER PRIMARY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Yesterday, accompanied by Mrs. Louie Felt,
general President of the Primary Associations,
and Mrs. Ellen S. Clawson, Stake President,
I attended the Annual meeting of the Primary
Association of South Willow Creek, Draper,
Mrs. Smith and counselors presiding.
	In both sessions, forenoon and afternoon,
after the usual opening exercises, the time was
occupied with recitations by the children,
interspersed with short addresses by the Presi-
dent and lady visitors present. The recita-
tions were well selected and well rendered, and
all was conducted in such quiet, good order as
reflects much credit on the presiding Board.
	The influence felt was delightful, and truly
exhilarating—the interest never flagged. The
fixed attention of the children during all the
exercises was particularly pleasing, and very
remarkable. One strikingly interesting feature
of the day was, that quite a respectable num-
ber of young lads and lasses, boys and girls
nearly grown to manhood and womanhood,
members of the Association, who, for the sake
of the great benefits to be derived from these
educational opportunities, manifest a nobility
and superiority of character far above many
of their age, for they do not think it beneath
their dignity to be associated with little child-
ren. We had the proof of the benefits they
are securing to themselves before us. The
girls efficiently led in singing—one of the boys
dismissed the meeting in the forenoon, another
made the opening prayer in the afternoon, and
another, when asked by the president if he had
a recitation prepared, answered in the nega-
tive; he then arose and made a very nice ex-
tempore speech, which amply atoned for the
omission. These boys and girls are preparing
themselves for future usefulness and honor.
								E. R. S. S.
	Salt Lake City, Aug. 11th, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 48


LORD THOU KNOWEST!

There is a love that God may see,
	But must be hid from mortal eyes,
	Because it human law defies;
Because of earth it cannot be.

I speak of love—that glimpse of heaven,
	Because the heart is free as air,
	A sovereign organ, pure and fair,
That God himself to us has given.

Yes, many a heart such love has known,
	But hid it close from human view,
	And unto death to it was true,
Its last fond words, my own, my own!

The sorrow that must not be seen,
	When death that hidden treasure steals,
	And all that loneliness reveals,
And all that's left is what has been!

And what is lost to us alone,
	None knowing of the prize so held,
	The treasured "castle" struck and felled,
Yet none must hear one sigh or groan!

All gone from that poor stricken heary,
	The watchful eye—the ready hand,
	The woman's heart—It must expand
And mourn to see it all depart.

Wisdom, prudence, veneration too,
	all mingled in that humble friend,
	Whose sole appointment was to tend
His queen!—for such devotion love was due.

He served her husband, by reflection, he
	Shone into her heart—until
	He earned a niche that he himself should fill,
That by her gratitude unveiled should be.

Ye dark brow'd sophists! on your lip
	Your finger place, till you can tear
	The scales from off our eyes—beware,
You hold the balance with a righteous grip!

For queenship, who would sigh! to be
	Watched and judged, the inner life to scan,
	And all within the court of erring man!
Thou knowest Lord! we wait for thy decree.

Salt Lake City.				HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

	It cannot be expected that coming here as
the Latter-day Saints did, without money and
only provided with the barest necessities to
eke out an existence, but there would be much
privation to contend against. None were
exempt. The families of Brigham Young and
Heber C. Kimball shared in these respects
equally with others. Sister Presendia lived in
a very poor home indeed and endured much
hardship in consequence. When her little
babe was quite small she had to put up an um-
brella over them in bed to protect them from
the thick, muddy water that came down
through the dirt roofs. Mothers who have lit-
tle delicate babes sitting in their comfortable
parlors or elaborately furnished nurseries, can
have little idea of the trials of the mothers in
those early days in the settlement of this val-
ley. Brother Edward Martin who had a much
more comfortable home than Sister Presendia,
and seeing how much she had endure wading
through the deep snow in the middle of win-
ter to feed and milk her cow, offered her a
helping hand, and she spent most of her time
at his house where she was made much more
comfortable. Under all these trials and diffi-
culties Sister Presendia was patient and
cheerful, thanking her Father in heaven that
He had permitted her to gather with his peo-
ple to the Rocky Mountains, and also that she
had been a mother under the new and ever-
lasting covenant of marriage. Her little babe
grew to be a most intelligent child. During
its infancy she devoted herself to the care and
development of this little one exclusively, ex-
cept household duties, always taking her with
her wherever she went.

[Column 2]
	"While residing in the old buildings of Heber
C. Kimball's, on City Creek, called the adobie
row, one Saturday I designed visiting my sis-
ter-in-law, Caroline Huntington, of the 16th
Ward, the same place where my present home
is situated. I dressed Presendia Celestia for
the visit and let Oliver, her brother, then 10
years old, take her over to my sister Zina's for
an hour or two, until I could finish doing up
my work and get ready to go; Sister Zina lived
with President Young's family, in what was
known for so many years as the log row. Oliver
took the child up in his arms and placed her
on his shoulder with her big doll in her arms.
As they passed out of the door she turned her
head back to me with such a pleasant smile,
it was such a tender good-bye, and seemed to
make an impression upon me at the time.
Oliver took her to the east end of the row, and
she called at every room and received admira-
tion from all the ladies until she reached the
dining room, where the family were seated at
breakfast, each one speaking to her so kindly
and admiring her loveliness. Brother Young
was also at the table, and kissed her last.
Oliver then started towards home with her,
Oscar Young and several of the other boys
with him. They crossed City Creek, and Oliver
sat her down to cut some sticks to make whistles
for the boys; it was but a moment, a fatal mo-
ment too, he turned around to look and she was
not to be found. Her little brother Oliver,
to whose care she had been intrusted, screamed
and cried out "a red dress." President Young's
family heard the confusion, they left the table,
and all began the search. That portion of the
stream that passed Brother Kimball's had just
been turned into the other, and disturbed and
roiled the water, so that the child could not be
seen. Elizabeth Culvert Chase jumped into
the creek, went down stream two or three rods,
and found the child. Meantime, my poor boy
Oliver, ran home and told me he could not find
her. Instinctively I knew her fate; I felt con-
fident that when Oliver set her down she had
turned to go back to Brother Young's, slipped
off the slab and fallen in the stream. I ran
across the street to Dr. Williams', they brought
her in, dead. No one seemed to have any faith
that she could be resuscitated, yet did all they
could to restore her to life, but the vital spark
had fled. My tongue turned cold in my mouth,
I felt that I was dying. With the courage of
a martyr I restrained my grief, that I might
live for my boy, for Oliver's sake. My joy and
hope to which I was looking forward in my old
age was taken. I thought of what Brother
Joseph had said, "Children I love, and children
I will have." She was taken to my room, as
we returned Sister Vilate Kimball said, "the
flower of the flock has gone."
	"Everything possible was done to console my
son Oliver, but the poor boy could not be com-
forted; he would retire and sit under the bushes
alone for hours. I never blamed him in the
least, he loved her so tenderly, that his heart
was rent with anguish too deep for words.
Zina, Lucy and Clara Young prepared her
clothing for her burial, and she looked so beau-
tiful, so lovely. She was buried on the 10th
of May. I tried to smother my excessive grief,
but after dark I visited her grave day after
day, and there on the sacred ground gave vent
to my sorrow in tears."
	"A few days previous to the death of my lit-
tle one Brother Kimball had a curious dream,
that seemed to be a forshadowing of evil. He
dreamed that he saw a serpent carry off one of
his children; he went into every house and
warned every mother to watch her children
carefully. I watched and prayed, and that
very morning I asked God to protect my child
from accident seen and unseen through the day;
but God knew best. She was innocent, lovely
and fair, beautiful to look upon, and was un-
doubtedly taken from the evil to come.

[Column 3]
Strange indeed, but the destiny of everyone of
the Prophet Joseph's wives, that have had two
children born in the new and everlasting
covenant, has been to bury their first born in
the covenant."
	"Sister Mary A. Hubbard, who now resides
in Willard City, came and staid with me about
two months, which was a great comfort to me.
She had a lovely babe about the same age as
mine, and it took my attention, and was a
great blessing for the time. After she went
home I gradually lost my appetite, and grief
filled my heart. In the fall my health became
very poor. My sister Zina and I went to Cot-
tonwood with our children to Brother Bank-
head's, to see if the change would be beneficial.
There I was taken very ill and thought to be
near my end. I was nigh unto death, my feet
were cold, my tongue was stiff in my mouth, I
could not speak, yet I was perfectly conscious; a
candle in the room looked like the most distant
star. It was a log house, and the walls had
sunk so that the door could never be opened
or closed tight without effort, yet the door
opened by invisible hands in the middle of the
night, and my father and Joseph Smith walked
into the room. I knew by that appreciative
spiritual power, which all possess to a certain
degree, that they were in the room, and I
turned my face to the wall, feeling impressed
they had come for me, and that if I should see
them, I must go with them. I felt that it
would be too much to leave my little Oliver,
my only one now left to me, alone in the world
without father or mother, with the burden of
his great sorrow upon him, for he mourned and
could not be wholly comforted for the loss of
his little sister. Brother Bankhead sent for
Brother Kimball, he came and administered to
me, and by the power of faith through the a-
nointing and laying on of hands I was healed,
and able to return home. Several Elders ad-
ministered to me at different times. I returned
to the city after an absence of a few weeks and
soon after my health failed preceptibly. I
went into a kind of decline, which developed
dropsy of the heart, and subsequently dropsy
of the entire body."

To be Continued.


The Princess Louise has promised to send a
number of her paintings to the Foreign Ex-
hibition in Boston, next October.—Ex.
	In Omaha, Neb., 90 saloons pay into the
treasury $90,000 for license. This is one item
of the liquor question, but what about the
money the State of Nebraska must spend to
take care of the paupers and criminals, and
what about the desolated homes and broken
hearts, that no amount of money can ever
atone for.
	There is a handsome monument now being
prepared, by command and at the expense of
the Queen. It is made of Aberdeen granite,
and is to be placed over the grave of the late
John Brown in the parish churchyard of Cra-
thie. Messrs MacDonald, Field, and Co.,
Aberdeen, are executing the work. It is of a
chaste design, the chief ornamentation being the
Scottish thistle on the cornice, which is carved in
relief and a border of oak and ivy, just as it
should be. The inscription is as folows:—"This
stone is erected in affectionate and grateful re-
membrance of John Brown, the devoted and per-
sonal attendant and the beloved friend of
Queen Victoria, in whose service he had been
for 34 years. Born at Crathienaird, December,
1826; died at Windsor Castle, March 27, 1883.
'That friend on whose fidelity you count, that
friend given you by circumstances over which
you have no control, was God's own gift.
'Well done, good and faithful servant; thou
hast been faithful over a few things, I will make
thee ruler over many things: enter thou into
the joy of thy Lord."—Selected.


44	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMEN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE E. WELLS,	-	-	Editor. 
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z.C.M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	AUGUST 15, 1883


[Column 1]
AN OPINION.

	The city is getting a goodly share of visitors
this season. The gathering or reunion of
Knights Templar at San Francisco has brought
numbers of gentleman and ladies from all parts
of the United States, and Salt Lake City being
one of the curiosities of the present day, people
come to see it as they go to see Mammoth Cave
or Niagara Falls. The ignorance many of
them manifest in speaking about Mormons is
most absurd and ridiculous. For instance, a[-]-
ter walking around the city for hours, to accost
a little girl and inquire, "could they see any
Mormons?" As if Mormons were in a cage, or
shut up like so many prisoners, when in all
probability most of the people they had seen
had been Mormons. There are many of these
intelligent, educated and cultured people who
really seem to think Mormons utterly unlike all
other folks. Perhaps this is not so very strange
as "they are everywhere spoken against," but
the fact that when they come right into the
heart of the city where this peculiar people re-
side, that they ask for information from their
enemies rather than the people themselves
seems a little outre. However, they are only
following the example of the Federal officials
and Commissioners, who profess to be so deeply
interested in the welfare of the territory, but
have never in any way sought to become ac-
quainted with the people, but judge them from
an outside standpoint.
	The questions now before the public and call-
ing forth so much comment from the press all
over the country, ought, in our opinion, to be
more fully discussed right here at home.
	Why should the people who settled this val-
ley and made it habitable and desirable be dis-
franchised and regarded as criminals, without a
trial? And why should they be thus punished
by being deprived of citizenship for that which
was not an offence against the law when the
actual circumstance transpired, but was only
made so by the Poland bill of 1882. To illus-
trate let us cite one case. The person married
in 1855, in 1856 the husband died, both were
American-born citizens, descended from those
whose forefathers fought for liberty in the strug-
gle for independence. Yet this woman, a widow
twenty-seven years, at the age of sixty is exclu-
ded from the polls, forsooth, because twenty-
seven years ago she was a plural wife. One
might bring up hundreds of exceptional cases,
but to no purpose, for the commissioners have
decided that no person who ever has at any time
been connected in plural family relations shall
be eligible to register or vote.
	One item more on this subject, here are the
wives of Heber C. Kimball, every one of them
native-born, intelligent women, property owners

[Column 2]
and tax-payers. They have been widows more
than fifteen years, but they, too, are excluded
the polls. The wives of Brigham Young, pion-
eer women, who helped to reclaim these desert
lands, he has been dead six years, but it makes
no difference, there is no exception made in
favor of any of these plural wives; no consid-
eration of their present condition, because they
were once married in that, to the world, detesta-
ble order they are forever doomed, if such men
are to bear away.
	"The mills of the Gods grind slowly, but they
grind exceedingly f[--]e;" and to those who are so
ready to judge and decide, and to condemn on
the slightest pretext, let them beware, lest
judgement overtake them, and they be found
without excuse.
	The world is ripe with wickedness and cor-
ruption. Do these honorable judges, sent here
to enforce the laws, take any measures to sup-
press iniquity and check the growth of vice that
stalks abroad at noon-day? No! They are not
here to interfere with places of this kind, with
the whiskey element or disreputable places of
any sort, but to put down a religious doctrine
and practice that is obnoxious to the world, be-
cause it is in direct opposition to the practices of
the generation in which we live. What is the
status of morality in Washington, New York,
Philadelphia and Boston, the most noted cities
of the east? Why, these tourists who come
direct from these large cities tell us—that
women are untrue to their husbands, to their
marriage covenants, that rich men have not
only a wife, but one or two mistresses. That
the young girl or woman that is led away and
seduced from the paths of virtue is cast out and
abandoned; society will not recognize her, but
the seducer, the villian who has deceived, mis-
led and betrayed her, is received in society and
his crime only winked at, and Madame Grundy
allows him to pass muster because "he must sow
his wild oats."
	Is it because of the desire to benefit and ele-
vate the people that this campaign has been in-
uagurated against the Mormons? Everybody
knows better. It is to gain possession of their
property and of the public treasury. To enrich
politicians and greedy office seekers from the
hard earned profits of the original settlers. And
what have the Mormons asked of the govern-
ment, simply justice, nothing more, or not even
that but to be left alone. History tells us "jus-
tice is the essence of government," and without
it all forms of government are tyrannies. Where
is the justice of the Edmund's law, or even its
consistency, when we consider the practices of
the world? But even were Congress desirous
of crushing out and destroying the system of
plural marriage as b[-]lieved and practiced by
this people; why trample upon the sacred
principles of the Constitution by making the
law retro-active, in opposition to the very ele-
ments of ju[--]ice. To condemn and actually
punish wit[-]ou[-] j[-]dge or jury cannot savor o[-]
justice, when the law declares that even crimi-
nals shall be tried by a jury of their peers. God
has in no way manifested his displeasure at the
practice of plural marriage in the present day.
On the contrary, He has in many ways made
known to those who are partakers of his spirit,
that it is by him approved; in fact He has
commanded his servants to enter into this holy
order of marriage. It is a matter of sincere re
gret to all who comprehend the necessity of ad-
hering strictly to the basis of true government,
when such highhanded oppression can be
countenanced by the executive admisistration,
knowing that the consequences must be disas-
trous to the country itself. A great writer
has said, "Constitutions are never overthrown
till they have pronounced sentence on them

[Column 3]
selves." There are many things to be considered
when one but touches a subject that involves so
many, and such important and complicated in-
terests as that of legislating against religions lib-
erty. However unjust legislation Congress may
enact, the Mormon people can afford to abide
by it better than the country can endure its de-
moralizing and corrupting effects.


MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD.

	Miss Frances E. Willard, the celebrated Lec-
turer and President of the Woman's Christian
Temperance Union in the United States, visited
Salt Lake Lake City last week and delivered
two of her brilliant and interesting lectures.
She is very pleasing in manner, also in her ap-
pearance upon the platform is a lady that to see
is to admire; and she is no doubt capable of all
she has undertaken; easy and graceful, and
"talks a great deal with her hands;" her ges-
tures are something indescribably fascinating.
She is doing a mammoth work in the temper-
ance cause. We had the pleasure of hearing
her lecture, entitled, "Mother and Son, or The
Mother and the Boy," which was touching in
the extreme. God speed Miss Willard in her
work for temperance and the ballot. The Union
Signal, published in Chicago, Ill., and edited
by Miss Willard's sister, is the organ of the
W. C. T. U. We are glad of the opportunity
of exchanging with the Union, and shall give it
favorable notice. Miss Willard has her secretary
traveling with her, Miss Gordon, of Boston,
quite a young person, very intelligent and
agreeable, and evidently devoted to the cause
of reform. They are organizing in the principal
cities of the Union, and laying out regular cam-
paign work that must eventually result in effic-
ient and permanent organizations, in towns and
villages as well as large cities. This is laudable
work for woman and much more creditable than
to be beseeching and entreating Congress, the
pulpit and the press to take measures to coerce
the consciences of a people who are themselves
engaged in a work of reform broader and more
philanthropic than the world outside have ever
undertaken since the days of the Savior and his
Apostles.


﻿LETTER NUMBER TWO.

CLEVELAND, Ohio, July 31,1883.

MY DEAR MOTHER:
	We are ready and waiting to go to Kirtland,
and I thought as I had a few minutes I would
write just a note. Cleveland is beautiful, very.
All that John Q. Cannon said of Euclid Ave-
nue is more than true. I was perfectly charmed
with it. There are two rows of trees on either
side of the street, and the branches almost
touch as you pass through. The residences are
grand, they have such immense lawns and
drives, the largest I have ever seen anywhere.
We arrived last night about eight o'clock; took
a carriage and rode from the depot to Forest
City Hotel. We were very much fatigued, for
the road from Chicago is very tiresome, and
they do not give you time to get anything to
eat except a cracker or cake. We were obliged
to stop here as we could not get a train to go on
until to-day; we have had a splendid time; we
went up Euclid Avenue, from there to L[-]ke
View Cemetery, where President Garfield is
buried. It is perfectly lovely, situated on a side
hill; we saw his coffin in the vault and the
place where his own tomb is to be. Two senti-
nels stand guard by his tomb all the time.
Lake View is also a very lovely place.
			NIAGARA FALLS, August 3.
	I did not have time to finish my letter in
Cleveland and so shall continue it here. We


have been to Kirtland and had such an inter-
esting time. B[--]lle's uncle and aunt (Samuel
Whitney and wife) are very nice people, and
were just delighted to see and entertain us.
They are very well off and did everything pos-
sible to make our visit a pleasant one. They
took us over to Kirtland, four miles distant from
Mentor, where they live. We went all over the
Temple and up to the top, had such a charming
view of the Kirtland hills. The Temple is be-
ing fixed up by the Josephite just as it was in
the early days when our people used it * * *
We visited Mr. Samuel Whitney's old house,
also Belle's father's old place (Bishop N. K.
Whitney's) and the old store; they told us these
were more natural than any of the old places.
The store is occupied, but the house is vacant.
We went to the house where Sister Sarah M.
Kimball was married and lived, Joseph Kings-
bury's old home, Joseph Smith's and Hyrum's,
his brother, and all the old places of interest.
The old graveyard by the Temple, saw Belle's
grandfather's and grandmother's graves, also
her aunt's; they all have very nice tombstones.
The folks were all very kind and nice, and Mr.
Whitney said if we should stay another day
we should have everyone calling on us, and he
expected any way that they would write an
article about us in the paper, * * of course
our names * * were registered from
Salt Lake, and Belle being introduced as N. K.
Whitney's daughter. * *	The
whitneys are pleasant people and well educated
and their surroundings are very neat and taste-
ful.
	The scenery there is exceedingly lovely, the
most beautiful hedges of sumach and sassafras,
and I thought so much of Annie and the "Order
for a Picture," that she recites so well, (I tried
to say it over to myself, but could not remember
it) the meadows where we went to see the
hedges were so pretty, and the new-mown hay
was so fragrant, oh, how I did wish that we
were all together, how much more we would
have enjoyed it.
	We met Sister S. M. Kimball yesterday at
Willoughby, where we take the train to come
here from Kirtland, she was just as delighted as
we were, but not so surprised, as she had regis-
tered at the Temple just after us, and had
noticed our names. She is having a delightful
time; her cousin, Ellen Granger, is with her.
We left them last night at nine o'clock; they
go on to Newark, Wayne Co., New York. * *
	We have been at Niagara Falls all day. I
had not imagined them half so grand as they
are. I have never enjoyed any sight so much
in my life; I will speak of them again but have
not time now. * * * * *
	Give my love to all the folks, also Belle's. We
are hurrying so to get to Massachusetts in time
for the Dickinson meeting I will write to you
from uncle's.		Lovingly,
						LOUIE WELLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 45


[Column 1]
MUSINGS.

	In moments of deepest solitude many, many
things pass through my mind. I think some-
times, particularly after holding converse with
some unfortunate person who views every
subject from the darkest side, what a priceless
gift is cheerfulness; how the sight of a glad,
bright face cheers us in moments of sadness.
What a world of rest and joy does the face of
the husband, if at be a cheerful face, bring to
the tired, over-wrought wife and mother. On
the other hand, if it be a dark and gloomy
countenance with which he greets the loved
ones at his hearth, what a shadow seems to
accompany him there, casting a gloom over
the entire circle of home. In these reveries or
communions with myself, I cannot but admit

[Column 2]
that the husband and father has no light task
battling with the world and toiling for the
daily sustenance of his family, but would en-
treat you all, though you have great trials and
perplexities in your business with the world, do
not carry to your homes a c[--]uded or contracted
brow. Your wife may have many troubles,
though of less magnitude, may have been as
hard to bear. A kind, conciliatory word; a ten-
der look; one single endearing term will do won-
ders in chasing from her brow all clouds of
gloom. You encounter your difficulties in the
open air, "fanned by heaven [---][---] but
your wife is often shut in from those healthful
influences. Her health falls, and her spirits
lose their elasticity, and you wonder in your
heart the cause. Oh, be to her what you once
was in your happy courting days, and mark
well how the drooping flower will look up and
bloom forth again with a beauty almost celes-
tial; bear with her, she has sorrows and trials,
to which you are a stranger; but which your
tenderness and love can dep[-]ive of all their an-
guish; and above all things do not treat her with
indifference, if you would not scar and palsy her
heart, which watered by kindness would to the
latest days of your existence throb with serene
and perfect affection. Sometimes yield your
wishes to hers; do you find it hard to yield
occasionally? Think you it is not difficult for
her to give up always? Again, show yourself
manly so that your wife can look up at you and
f[-]el that you act justly and nobly, and can freely
give her entire confidence and trust to your
judgment. If husbands were a little more
mindful of these little things so important to
woman, methinks there would be many happy
homes which are to-day desolate, not because
love does not abide therein, but for the reason,
we forget or neglect to speak of it; husbands
more frequently, I think, fall into the error of
thinking it is quite needless to speak of love
after marriage, and if ever taxed with neglect
for the same, will reply, "You understand per-
fectly well that you possess my love why reiter-
ate it?" Why, indeed! The matter that ap-
pears so trivial to the husband, is to the tired
housewife of countless worth; it is literally a
part of her existence. Husbands, if you would
see your companion wear a happy face; if you
would see her bright and cheerful, at once a
faithful, loving wife and true mother, bringing
up your children in the right and proper way,
imbuing the principles of truth and religion
into their fresh young hearts and minds; if you
would bar forever the thoughts of woman's
rights from her mind, and make her think her
position at home is infinitely superior to any
political office she might ever aspire to; if you
would see all this you have but to woo her
every day, as you did in the happy past when
she was but a happy, thoughtless girl; she needs
your love and comfort so much more now than
she did then. Her cares are so numerous and
trying that ere long, deprived of her husband's
encouragement and affection, she sinks gradual-
ly into a careworn, fretful woman, a comfort to
none, not even herself, and the husband de-
plores his unhappy fate in being tied up for life
to such a shrew. He would do well to carefully
scan his own actions in the past, and see if such
a state of affairs could not have been avoided;
and your children, those bright flowers that
spring up almost unperceived into your path,
give them too a father's boundless love and en-
couragement. One of our popular writers has
truthfully said: "The father who plunges into
business too deeply that he has not leisure for
domestic duties and pleasures, and whose only
intercourse with his children consists in a brief
word of authority or a surly lamentation over
their intolerable expensiveness, is equally to be
pitied and to be blamed."

[Column 3]
	I have, no doubt, already called forth frowns
and disapproving looks from the male portion
of my readers, but let me assure them I am a
devoted friend of good men, and as there is al-
ways two sides to every subject I may some day
take the trouble to pen some of my musings
on the other side of this question. In conclu-
sion I will say, we often wonder why it is that
we see so much sorrow and suffering in life;
it is indeed a mystery, and one that no philoso-
phy can solve; but God is wise and just, and
has said that our trials work out for us a more
excellent and eternal weight of glory; then we
must look to Him for comfort and support in the
sorrows through which we are called to pass,
knowing that He doeth all things well.
	Then,
	"God help us all, and lead us day by day;
		God help us all!
	For who can walk alone the perfect way?
	Evil allures and tempts us, and we fall
	Alas, dear friends, our human strength is small,
	And which of us may boast? Ah, not a day
	Sifts thro' our lives but each has need to say—
		God help us all!"

Clover Dale Farm.						B. A. B.


AWAKEN THE PATRIOTS.

	The subject we wish to introduce or refer to
is rather painful as well as unpleasant. Shall
we soil the pure pages of our valuable paper by
inserting in its columns some items of the out-
rage committed upon a daughter of the Repub-
lic, viz: the imprisonment of Belle Harris. It is
without a precedent in the history of the Amer-
ican nation. We fail to find words in the Eng-
lish language to express the indignation we feel
while those who commit the crimes of prostitu-
tion and infanticide walk the streets at mid-day
unmolested. The same administrators of the
law that passed sentence upon Belle Harris for
presuming to follow the example of our Savior
when He was arraigned before the cheif judges
and rulers. It is recorded that he opened not
his mouth. Notwithstanding injury upon in-
jury added to insult to which the Mormon peo-
ple have been subjected for the last fifty years,
plundered, mobbed and driven; their leaders
martyred; their women outraged; in all this
the government looked on with silent contempt,
when most of those very persons, the victims
of these cruelties, were sons and daughters of
the patriot fathers. They loved the dear old
flag; they were born heirs to that heaven-born
freedom bequeathed to them by their veteran
ancestry. Maltreated and unprotected as they
have been under the government of the United
States, they have in no instance violated the
Constitution, or failed to honor the flag of our
country, and yet in the eyes of all nations, our
noble delegate, George Q. Cannon, who was an
honor to the Congressional Halls of our nation,
was deprived of his seat by a violation of the
Constitution. This we consider an insult, not
only to his constituents but to every American
citizen, and a stain on the escutcheon of our
country. Do the patriots sleep? O, God, awaken
them! Now, shall we who hold the birthright
of liberty sit silently by and see one of fair
freedom's daughters imprisoned for refusing to
answer impertinent questions? No! Belle
Harris has done honor to her sex, and placed a
star within her crown that will never fade, and
minist[-]ring angels bear record of her innocence,
and messengers bear the news to the land of
the patriots, who spilt their blood to bequeathe
that legacy that Belle Harris does not enjoy to-
day—Liberty! And should her case not receive
a righteous decision in the courts of earth, it
can be appealed to the councils of the Gods, and
then retribution will come; she can afford to


wait. The Saints were imprisoned anciently.
The Apostle Paul's imprisonment and defense
is a beautiful illustration of injustice and un-
righteous imprisonment, and the bles-ing of
God sending an angel to open the prison doors
when Paul and Silas were heard praying and
singing at midnight, when the prison doors flew
open and the keeper would have killed himself
but the mighty apostle said, "Do thyself no
harm; we are here," and the jailor washed his
stripes and was baptized the same hour. This
chief apostle testified that he had seen a vision,
and that Jesus had risen from the dead; for
this reason he was stoned and imprisoned; and
even in our day, under the sacred Constitution
that was given by inspiration, and the folds of
that dear old flag that still waves so proudly,
beckoning all nations to come to the land of the
free. Shall I write it? Yes, publish it; let the
world know and angels bear record on earth and
in heaven that mother and infant are incarcer-
ated in prison for the mother presuming to an-
swer the end of her creation, "multiplying and
replenishing the earth." We heard a talented
man say in a public lecture, that but few men
ever produced sons equal or superior to them-
selves from the fact of the mother being infe-
rior; if this be true, why not elevate women
and regenerate statesmen and patriots? Is not
the human family of more importance than the
animal creation?			WILLMIRTH EAST.


46	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE BOOK OF MORMON.

	The Book of Mormon is an account of the an-
cient inhabitants of America, where they came
from, how they came to this land, a short his-
tory of what took place with them, the teach-
ings of the prophets which God raised up to
them, and the appearance of Jesus to them, as
"the sheep of that other fold."
	It tells of his teachings to them, of his calling
twelve apostles as witnesses that he had risen
from the dead. That testimony and his teach-
ings were engraven on plates in what they
called the reformed Egyptian. This was a kind
of Phonetic, or short hand way of engraving
the history of the events they wished to record,
by certain marks and characters in use among
them for that purpose.
	The engraving was done on plates of gold, or
bras[-], and these were bound together by rings,
so as to form a book. These pla[-]es were handed
down from father to son, each one who kept
them engraving on them the events which hap-
pened in their day; till at last because of wick-
edness they were about to be destroyed, when
Moroni, one of the last of the prophets, by com-
mand of the Lord, hid them up in a hill called,
by them, Cumorah.
	When the appointed time arrived he gave
them to Joseph Smith, who translated them by
the gift and power of God.
	These plates and those they brought from
Jerusalem were to them what the Bible was to
the rest of the world.				KATRINA.


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The tenth Semi Annual Conference of the
Relief Society of Bear Lake Stake was held at
St. Charles on the 21st and 22nd inst., Mrs
Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Singing. President
Lindsay said, * * we have met under very
favorable circumstances this morning, said she
and hoped the Spirit of the Lord would
rest abundantly upon us, that we might feel
blest and strengthened in our most holy faith.

[Column 2]
Roll was then called by the secretary and the
minutes of the previous conference were read
and approved. The societies were represented
as follows:
	St. Charles, Counselor Christina Willhelm-
sen; Bloomington, Sister Nelson; Paris, 1st
Ward, Sister Elizabeth Collings; Paris, 2nd
Ward, President M. A. Shepherd; Ovid, Martha
Carleson; Montpelier, P. Hogensen; Liberty,
Cotton Wood, Preston, Bennington, George-
Town and Soda Springs were not represented.
Fish Haven, President Frances Howell; Gar-
den City, Meadowville, Lake Town and Ran-
dolph not reported. Woodruff, President
Harriet Lee; Saleratus Creek not reported.
The statistical and financial reports were then
read and accepted.
	President Lindsay was pleased with the re-
ports as far as they went, but sorry that more
of the societies were not represented. Gave a
brief sketch of her trip through the southern
settlements; desired to visit the northern settle-
ments before conference, but had been deprived
that pleasure on account of the contagious
disease at Montpelier. Could see by the verb-
al reports that some of the sisters were slack in
attending their meetings, but willing to donate
and help in other ways. This is not all that is
needed. It is a mother's duty to attend, that
they may be prepared to teach their little ones.
We must be Saints in very deed, and be will-
ing to spend a portion of our time in the work
of God.
	Counselor Elizabeth Collings felt like doing
what was required of her. Had been greatly
blest in days gone by, and knew that the
Lord would assist her now, if she would rely
upon Him. What kind of people ought we to
be? We have many duties devolving upon us,
and one of the most importance is that of rais-
ing our children in the fear of the Lord. Their
minds are young and tender and we must set
them a good example. Teach them to be truth-
ful, honest and upright, and to live strictly in
accordance with the requirements of our
Heavenly Father.
	Sister Sarah Holmes felt that we were en-
gaged in a great and noble work. "We live in an
age when great things are transpiring among the
nations of the earth, as well as here at home;"
said that she could see that the prophecies were
being fulfilled. We came here to Zion to
learn the will of the Lord, and she felt that it
was our duty to do it; had been busily engaged
for some time in getting the genealogy of her
relatives, so that she would be able to do a
work for them when the Temples were finished.
What reward will we get if we never do any-
thing for them? How will we feel when we
meet them in the other world if we neglect
this all important duty? Felt that there was
a word of praise due to the people of St.
Charles for the way in which they had cleaned
and decorated the meeting house, as the Spirit
of God would rest more abundantly upon a
meeting in such a place.
	Singing. Dismissed by Elder Arthur B.
Clark.
	The P.M. was accupied by the Y. L. M. I. A.
	Second day, 10 a.m., July 22nd, 1883, Presi-
dent Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Singing.
Prayer by President Wm. Budge. Singing.
	President Ann Cook reported the Garden
City Ward.
	Sister Elizabeth Pugmire read the reports
sent in by the different Relief Societies.
	President Julia P. Lindsay said she did not
know how to express the gratitude she felt for
the privilege of meeting together under such
favorable circumstances, to give and receive
instructions. The condition of the societies
depended greatly on the teachers. "We may
think that the office of a teacher is not a very im-
portant one, but it is very necessary they should
have the Spirit of the Lord to dwell with them,
that they may be enabled to do their duties.

[Column 3]
Said. it is our duty, when our husbands are
not at home, to attend to family prayers night
and morning. We should call our children to
pray, beginning when they are young; have
them ask the blessing, and the Spirit of the
Lord will grow with them. A great responsi-
bility rests upon the mothers in Israel. It is
well understood that we have been for some
time anticipating having some sisters sent to
receive thorough medical instructions. We
have two sisters now in Salt Lake, and they
are progressing very well, but we do not wish
to stop at this. We wish to have one go from
every settlement, or, when the settlements are
small, one for two settlements, for it is very
necessary that we should have such in our midst
as are well skilled, and, by the help of God,
able to assist in sickness. Hoped the societies,
with such aid as the Bishops could give, would
take an interest in this important matter. We
are called upon in this stake, in common with
others, to donate to the Deseret Hospital, would
like to send all we can this fall. The Lord
has blessed us with means, let us use a portion
of it for the building up of His kingdom, and
in favor of such things as are necessary for the
prosperity of the people. Prayed God to bless
all, and enable us to serve the Lord our God,
in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Counselor Elizabeth Collings said, we are in
a school to learn and improve; we should be
thankful that our spirits have been kept back
to come forth in the last dispensation, the wind-
ing up scene. It is much better to even be a
member of the kingdom of God than to dwell
in the palaces of the rich. Hoped that we
might be guided by the Holy Spirit, that when
we have finished our work here we might be
worthy of an inheritance in the kingdom of
God.
	Sister Emeline Rich	*	*	felt
truly thankful to behold the faces of her
brothers and sisters, and to see them in the en-
joyment of health; said, I see no pallid faces
before me; said she was particularly interested
in the remarks of President Lindsay, for she
had been engaged in the labor of nurse and
physician, and could say that the Lord had
opened the way before her in her studies most
wonderfully.	*	*	*	*
	President Wm. Budge said he had been
much interested in listening to the instructions
of the sisters; was much pleased with the re-
marks of President Lindsay, in regard to send-
ing sisters to the city to obtain a knowledge of
obstetrics. Good, faithful sisters full of integ-
rity and possessed of good judgment should be
sent, and those at home should provide the means
for them if they cannot furnish it for themselves;
he endorsed the propriety of the instructions
given in relation to household affairs. We
well know if there is a lack of understanding
and management at home, there cannot be
happiness there. Would like to have as much
time as possible devoted to the instruction of
the sisters, in regard to their religious duties.
A person who neglects his prayers, who does
not exercise the feeling of charity and kind-
ness towards his brothers and sisters, who with-
draws himself from the Saints, is not a Latterday
Saint. Would like all to be directed according
to the principles of truth. The people of the
world are guided continually by their own feel-
ings and with their interests, but we must be
guided by the principles of truth. We have
come from the midst of confusion, where we
should dwell in peace and union. May God
bless the Relief Societies, Young Ladies, Prim-
ary and all organizations, and let all labor for
the good of each other, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus. Amen.
	President Lindsay said the Relief Society
Conference would be adjourned for six months.
Primary would be represented at two p.m.
Would hold a two days meeting in Lake Town
the 12th and 13th of September, and also in


Randolph 15th and 16th of September; all are
cordially invited to attend.
	Choir sang an anthem, "Awake, awake, put
on thy strength O Zion!" Benediction by
Bishop John A Hunt.
		ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Secretary,
		JULIA BUDGE, Asst. Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 47


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	After an absence of ten years I find myself
again in the promising City of Logan. Promi-
nent among the edifices erected since my last
visit are the magnificent Temple and the ele-
gant and commodious Tabernacle, in which
Sabbath meetings are held. On Monday last
we had the privilege of going through the Tem-
ple, and as it was my first opportunity of visit-
ing a building of this character you may judge
of my feelings in viewing the elegant propor-
tions of this house of God. The workman-
ship, as well as the material, is of the most ex-
cellent kind. Great care is taken to have
everything properly done.
	It would not be right should I particularize
in favor of any class of workmen, as all the
departments show skill and faithfulness of exe-
cution. The Plaster-of -Paris work though
deserves a special mention, as it tends so much
to beautify the structure. The center pieces
of this material are being done by a Utah boy,
and display much taste and skill in design and
execution. The Utah material for this pur-
pose is much whiter and finer than that which
is imported from the east, hence is used in their
construction, as also in the other work. Those
who have assisted by their means in rearing
this beautiful structure will be blessed in a
day to come, and many will rejoice that they
have subscribed their names in so great a cause.
	A nickle fund, established by President
Moses Thatcher some years ago, has accumu-
lated over two thousand dollars towards the
building. Thus the young are privileged to
cast in their "mites," to aid in this noble work.
One little fellow a short time since asked the
privilege of going up to see the building, but
was told he could not, as it was against the
rules, and he might fall and hurt himself, but
he replied. "I've paid my nickle every Sunday
and I've got an interest in this Temple, and I
think I ought to be allowed to go up." So they
let him go. It is hard to restrain those who
help to build the temples, when they desire
privileges therein. And it is with different
feelings that those draw near who fail to do
their share in the great work. It will require
about $25,000 yet to complete the Temple,
which has already cost over half a million;
but this will soon be raised where everybody
feels interested. In passing through the rooms
the account given me of the Nauvoo Temple
by my father came vividly to my mind, al-
though I was quite a child when I heard the
description from my father's lips, but very pleas-
ing recollections concerning the Temple, from
which our fathers were driven, were inspired
as I gazed upon the inner beauty of this more
modern structure, and the peaceful influence
which pervaded the building, fills the heart
with unbounded joy and gratitude to God for
the Gospel privileges granted to us. Other
matters, on which I desire to write, must be
deferred till another time.
						E. M. STAYNER.
	Logan, July 27th, 1883.

	MOAN COPPY WARD, Yavapai Co., Arizona
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Perhaps a few lines from this isolated place
may be of interest to the readers of your
valuable paper. As a Relief Society we are
doing the best we can under the circumstances;

[Column 2]
our numbers have again been reduced nearly
half by those who have moved away in search
of better locations. Our President has been
absent most of the winter and spring, and we
will soon have to give her up entirely for she
also will move away in a few months. It is
rather discouraging to us as a society to be
broken up so often. We hold our meetings
once a month as regularly as circumstances
will permit, at which we read the EXPO-
NENT and other church works, striving to ren-
der them a source of benefit and mutual im-
provement.
	At a meeting of the society held November
21st, 1882, Elizabeth D, Gardner, on account
of failing health, resigned her position as first
Counselor to the President. She was honora-
bly released by vote and Mary A. Farns-
worth chosen in the same manner to fill the
vacancy thus created. Annie D. Farnsworth
was appointed to act as secretary with the for-
mer one as her assistant for the present.
	A pleasant little affair took place here a few
days ago in the shape of a surprise party given
in honor of the above named Elizabeth D.
Gardner, who has returned to southern Utah
to visit her friends and benefit her health.
	Members of the Relief Society accompanied
by the Bishop and other brethren repaired to
her house the evening previous to her de-
parture.
	A dress pattern with a number of other
small gifts were presented with appropriate
remarks, which were affectionately responded
to by the recipient. Owing to her delicate
state of health no other exercises were in-
dulged in except music, vocal and instrumen-
tal. After wishing the aged and respected
lady a pleasant journey and a safe return all
withdrew, feeling that in blessing they had
been blessed.
	There has been a great deal of sickness
among the Indians in this vicinity during the
winter, and many have died. We have also
had considerable sickness among our children,
but through the blessings of our Heavenly
Father and the power of the Holy Priesthood
their lives have all been spared thus far,
though some of them were brought very near
death's door.
	There were two cases of sickness among the
Piute Indians of which I will make particular
mention. The one, a young man, came to our
house very sick; he had previously been bap-
tized and desired to be administered to for his
health. The brethren when they laid their
hands upon his head were impressed by the
Spirit that he would pass away. They or-
dained him an Elder. One of them offered to
take him home and care for him, bnt he
seemed to prefer his own mode of living and
soon returned to his wigwam among the sand-
hills. A few days subsequently Brother C. L.
Christensen, who is an Indian interpreter,
started to attend the Stake Quarterly Confer-
ence at Sunset. He called at the Indian camp
and found the sick man to all appearances
much better, he expressed himself as being
free from pain, and seemed very cheerful and
happy. Brother Christensen was absent about
ten days, and on his return called again, but
found the camp ground deserted, and that
they had had a very large fire just previous to
leaving, near which lay a portion of the re-
mains of a horse; by raking among the ashes
he discovered what appeared to be the bones
of a human being; the truth flashed upon his
mind in a moment. The Indian had died; they
had burned his body and killed his horse and
a number of other animals to accompany him
to the spirit world, according to their tradi-
tion, an expense which they could ill afford for
they are very poor.
	The brethren are laboring diligently to
teach them the fallacy of all such traditions.
Case No. two was that of their chief, an old

[Column 3]
man, who was taken very sick, after suffering
terribly for a number of days he sent for the
elders to come and administer to him, which
they did; he arose immediately from his bed
and requested baptism at their hands. Nine-
teen of his tribe followed him into the waters
at this time and a number have been baptized
since. Bishop Farnsworth brought the old
chief home with him that he might have
proper care and nourishment; he remained two
weeks, at the end of which time he was able
to return to his home on the reservation. As
soon as he was gone four of our little children
were smitten down with what appeared to be
the same dreadful disease with which he suf-
fered. One of the number, a little boy of ex-
ceeding great faith, was healed almost instant-
ly after one week's illness by the laying on of
hands. The other three were brought very
low, the fever remaining with them six weeks.
But they are all well now and the general
health of the people is good.
	Praying God to bless you and all who strive
to advance the cause of Zion, we remain,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
		ANNIE D. FARNSWORTH, Sec.,
		MARY A. FARNSWORTH, Asst. Sec.
	P. S. We greatly appreciate the EXPO-
NENT, and desire to nenew our subscription to
the same.						M. A. F.


LETTER FROM OHIO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear friend, it seems like a very long while
since I have enjoyed the privilege of writing
to you; a severe attack of asthma and house-
hold duties has prevented me. Now I should
like to tell “Sister Eliza”, as you all lovingly
call Mrs. E. R. Snow, that her favor was a
great pleasure to me. I also was made happier
by the lines of love from Mrs. Crocheron.
And to the two Sisters who addressed me
through the EXPONENT of April 1st, I wish
to say, most assuredly I believe there is a God.
The heavens declare the glory of God; the
firmament sheweth His handiwork. "It is Mrs.
Welby, I think, who says,

"O, who can lift above a careless look,
	While such bright scenes as these his heart engage.
And doubt, while reading from so fair a book,
	That God’s own finger traced the glowing page,
Or deem the radiance of yon blue expanse
	With all its shining hosts, the careless work of
								chance."

	Yes, dear sisters, I believe in God. You say
then that I must, if I believe in Him, keep his
commandments; and you quote from Scripture:
“Repent and be baptized etc.” I can almost
say, in regard to the commandments of the
New Testament, “All these things have I ob-
served from my youth.”
The Rev. A. Alexander in his “Evidences of
Christianity” says that, “Man is so constituted
that he mnst have some sort of religion.”
That he has a “natural propensity to pay relig-
ious homage to some object visible or invisible."
I believe he is right in the assertion, and feel
that as I drift into the sea of unbelief I am un-
happy. I do not dare, nor wish to be so pre-
sumptuous as to try to stand alone religiously,
yet cannot find any church or persons who be-
lieve just as I do. The Catholics are zealous,
and, from what I have heard, their priests
preach good Scriptural doctrine, but their re-
igion does not seem to effect their every day
dealings. They can get drunk, sell liquor,
swear and do any and everything—yet be zeal-
ous, good Catholics; they openly violate the
plainest laws of the state or corporation. A
zealous member of any protestant church is,
by reason of his religion, a good citizen, a
good neighbor and upright in his or her busi-
ness transactions; but, to be a Methodist, a
Baptist, Presbyterian or Mormon, I must be-


lieve that "our church" has the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth, and all the
others are wrong, and God will, some day,
"come out of his hiding place and vex them
with a sore vexation." I love everybody, sym-
pathise with the sorrowful and afflicted, pity
the wicked and do not wish to see anyone un-
happy. Were I a preacher my text would be
"Come, ye disconsolate, come unto me all who
weary and are heavy laden, I will give you
rest." "Little children, love one another."
"Peace on earth, good will to men," "The Lord
is my shepherd, I shall not want." The form-
alities of baptism etc., I believe in, and would
not oppose the Catholic's idea of abstaining
from eating meat on Friday, in commemora-
tion of the suffering in flesh of our Savior, nor
their confession, if the practice was not abused.
If a "tree being known by its fruit" proves
anything in this question the Swdenborgians
are right, for every one of that church, with
whom I have been associated, is, in spirit and
in truth, a Christian. But I cannot believe in
Emmanuel Swedenborg. So, you see, dear
friends, why I fear stepping into religious mud;
there is always one thing or another in the way
to prevent my faith from taking root. And
yet I wish to be religious, and while I am wait-
ing, like Micawber, I will live up to my favor-
ite texts, by speaking well of the Mormons
every time an opportunity is given; will, with-
in my little circle of friends, break down the
prejudice against the Mormon Church as far as
I can, and will ask you to remember the fact
that your opponents here, hear only the evil re-
ports, that your light has not yet shone here,
that men see your good works and glorify God
thereby. Forget, so far as you can the wrongs
of the past—the past is dead; let the dead past
bury its dead. All lovers of God should lay aside
bitterness and evil speaking one against another,
and join in one grand army against the evils of
the world.		With love,
	June 3rd, 1883.			EMILY SCOTT.


48	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Jenny Welsh Carlyle is the person
referred to in Leigh Hunt’s “Jenny kissed me
when we met."

	The Fourteenth Annual meeting of the
Amencan Woman Suffrage Association will be
held in Brooklyn, N. Y., Tuesday and Wednes-
day, Oct. 9th and 10th, proximo, in the Acade-
my of Music.

	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball writes us from New-
ark, New York: “I designed writing a descrip-
tive letter from here, but on account of limited
time I will not be able. F. D. will tell you of
my meeting your daughters; I felt very lonely
in parting with them.
	I have had much satisfaction in visiting the
place of my birth and the scenes of my child-
hood. Cumorah Hill is nine miles from here;
I will pass it to-morrow. The house in which
spirit rappings commenced is in sight of here,
owned by my friend. Many visit it and take
away relics. There are many scenes and remines-
ences in the surroundings here of deep interest
to me. I feel that I have thus far been blest
and prospered in my travels and associations.
When I left my native town, Phelps, yester-
day, I felt that my course was towards home,
though I visit many friends by the way.

	The State of New Jersey at its convention
in August presented a very laudable platform,
which was read and finally adopted with the
exception of the temperance plank. The doc-
ument favored among other things equal taxa-
tion and universal suffrage. Telegrams say a
warm discussion followed over the clause allow-
ing woman suffrage. It appears too, that there
were women delegates present, for the papers
say, Mrs. Mattie Hawland, delegate, arose to


speak, but began crying and sat down. We
shall be very glad if New Jersey carries off
the palm in voting on woman suffrage.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Miss
Susan B. Anthony are receiving honors from
ladies of high social standing in London. The
August number of the Englishwoman's Review
will contain the addresses of Mrs. Stanton and
Miss Anthony at a meeting of the Central
Committee of the Natioual Society for woman
suffrage of England, Scotland and Ireland.
The Rev. Moncure Conway paid Mrs.
Stanton a very high compliment, by stating
that she was both a born preacher and prophet,
and invited her to occupy his pulpit, which
invitation she accepted for July 22nd, ult.


[Column 1]
NOTICE.

	To Secretaries of Rel[--]f Soc'eties. Please
send in your semi-annual reports by 15th of
September. Those received after 20th of Sep-
tember will have to be om[---]ted, as our rep[-]rt
her[-] will then have been made out Please
[-]end to Deseret News Office for blanks, twenty-
five cents per d zen Also it will be quite a
favor for each secretary to see that her report
balances it will save that work being done here.
Let real estate and property be under one head,
and very much oblige,
				S. M. KIMBALL, Secretary,
						Per R. B. Prat.

For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 		-	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c. 	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,	-	1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence. 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of the Deseret National Bank, and a half
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHIDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, 	Brown Yarns, 	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	 White Yarns,	Wool Batting,
Shawls,	 	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,	 	Cassimers,	 	Washboards, 
Jeans,	 	Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc,. Etc.

SCHOOL IN MIDWIFERY.

DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT

COMMENCES a new class in her office over Godbe &
Pitts' Drug Store October 8th, at 1 o'clock p. m.
This school was established in 1878. The Term of five
months, three lectures per week, is a practical course
for those who desire to enter at once into this work. It
is advised that those whose circumstances will admit,
attend a second course, for the subject is so comprehen-
sive that a repetition of the lectures is very advan-
tageous, especially to those of limited edncation.
	Other branches of medicine are taught only as they
bear especially upon this subject. More than that in so
limited a course would be too superficial. Manikin,
charts and instruments are used in teaching.
Tuition.............................................$30.00
Books...............................................$13.00
N. B.—Orders for books must be sent in early so as to
get them from the east in time.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLES,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREOUNS
AND WINDOW CORNICNES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
