VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15. 1884	No. 20.


ON A SEA SHELL FOUND IN RUINS
IN ARIZONA.

INSCRIBED TO B. A.

A broken sea shell—a simple thing—
To awaken the thoughts that so quickly spring
To my mind, as I hold up to the light
This broken shell of pink and white.

Bright as when free on the ocean wave
It rode ere entombed in the silent grave,
Where for ages past it has darkly lain—
And now 'tis brought forth to the light again.

Oh, would it could speak and the story tell
Of the People whose monuments stand so well,
Or even its own and its owner's fate—
Were they lowly born or of high estate!

Who gathered it first from the deep sea shore?
Lovers, may be, in the days of yore,
As they dreamed life's dream in that fair land,
Searching for shells in the shining sand.

Life, oh, life! what a strange, wierd dream!
How mysterious and hidden thy pathways seem,
As I stand by this tomb of the buried past,
And this link from its children musing clasp.

This mouldering ruin, what has it been,
A temple of God, or a dwelling of sin?
Were its inmates true to the Gospel light,
Or sunken in crime as dark as night?

Oh, the precious record—the book that tells
The story that still in oblivion dwells
To a worldly wise world, whose wisdom is vain,
When they seek of themselves God's works to make plain.

I have longed for a prophet of God to stand
Amid the ruins of this far land,
And I've prayed that mine own eyes might behold
The past, and I'll wait for the years to unfold

The Future, whose marvelous work has begun,
To cease no more 'til time's course is run;
'Til the sleeping past and the present meet,
And they together their Maker greet.	HOPE.


BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU SAY.

	This evening I have been reflecting over a
few things that have transpired during the
week, and I cannot help feeling a little sad.
	Thinking of the evils with which we are sur-
rounded, and the snares and temptations that
beset the path of the young and unwary, of
both young men and young women, who are
ignorant and inexperienced in the ways of the
world and its seducing influences.
	These are things which make my heart sad
and sorrowful; and again, I hear remarks made
like this: "O, well, you cannot expect anything
better from her, or from him, as the case may
be." Such remarks are uncalled for, and by
giving matters a little consideration these re-
ferences would never be made.
	We who know better, or ought to know bet-
ter, should show by our example and our walk
in every-day life "the better way," that we may
become the humble instruments in the hands
of our Heavenly Father to help reclaim these
poor, unfortunate creatures. If any of you,
my young friends, have uttered a harsh word
unthinkingly, do so no more; if you have it in
your power to lend a helping hand to fallen
humanity do so, and strive to lift them up if
possible to your own level. Do not forget that
there is more joy in heaven over one sinner
that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine
that need no repentance. And again, remem-
ber the injunctions of our Savior: "Do unto


others as you would that others should do unto
you." We none of us have anything to boast
of; it is only through the kind, protecting care
of our Father in heaven, and the powerful in-
fluences of His Holy Spirit. that we are pre-
served from the foul fangs of the destroyer.
	So be humble and prayerful, never forget-
ting to ask the Lord to continue His choicest
blessings unto you, that through your instru-
mentality, perhaps, some of the fallen ones may
be brought to repentance, and in a future day
become bright and shining lights in the King-
dom of our God and His Christ.
	M. F. C. M.


[Column 1]

SOME INTERESTING FACTS.

BY DR. E. S. BARNEY.

	Bathing may be considered from a two fold
point of view; as hygiene, or as a means of
preserving health, by keeping the skin in a
state fit for performing its functions, and as a
therapeutic agent of great power, or for the
cure of diseases.
	In a general sense it means the immersion of
the body in a fluid different in kind or temper-
ature from the common air. Water is the or-
dinary medium employed for baths, but vapor
and heated air are likewise in use for the pur-
pose.
	The great use of bathing must be obvious
when we consider that the skin is not to be re-
garded as a mere covering of the body, but as
an organ, the healthy condition of which is of
vast importance to the well being of the whole
frame, but especially of the stomach and liv-
ing membrane of the lungs, with which as mu-
cous membrane, it has the closest sympathy;
in which, if chronic inflamation exists, a cold
bath should not be used. When we consider
the anatomy of the skin, that in each papilla
of the skin is located the terminal extremity of
a nerve, then we can realize why a restless
child can so quietly sleep after the soothing ef-
fect of a short warm morning both; and a
tired, fevered man after a hard days work can
arise in the morning so refreshed and invigora-
ted, having had a cool or warm bath the night
before; it lowered the temperature, removed
the soreness of the flesh, the irritableness of
the nerves.
	The temperature of the human frame, in a
state of health, continues nearly the same in
whatever circnmstance it is placed. The tem-
perature of an adult is generally from 97° to
98 1\2°; the latter is called normal. In some
cases of disease it is above this standard, in
other conditions it sinks far below. The func-
tion by which the body is enabled to preserve
this uniformity of temperature are intimately
connected with the nervous system, and the
respiratory organs by which heat is developed.
The skin performs the function of regulating
it, especially in reducing it when too high.
When the body is placed in a medium, or low-
er temperature than itself, the heat is abstract-
ed more or less rapidly from the surface, which
would have the effect of chilling it were not
this counteracted by the internal development.
(Should never use cold baths at night after the
fatigue of the day, but warm water instead, as
the frame then requires soothing.) When sur-
rounded by an aëriform medium much higher
than itself, the exhalation from the surface,
both of the skin and lungs are greatly aug-

[Column 2]

mented; that from the skin being thrown off in
sensible and insensible prespiration, that from
the lungs in the form of vapor, the evapora-
tion attending these processes occasion a reduc-
tion of temperature. The quantity of water
thus disposed of in twenty-four hours is esti-
mated at 1 1\2 pints. The skin is capable of re-
moving, when acting in harmony with the laws
of life, in the same length of time, by the esti-
mate of Lavoisier, 20 oz. of waste; the reten-
tion of this from unchanged clothing and other
causes results in injury to the system; if this
channel is neglected it becomes dry and harsh
and unfit for its functions; some other organs
must then supply its place; as the kidneys, but
this organ may have too much to do, thus
working for both, and may become diseased;
in fact neglect of cleanliness is the most fertile
source of disease, both of the skin itself and
other parts. Cleanliness in our habitation is
as necessary to health as personal cleanliness.
Some people are too indolent to bathe at all,
and some at different times of the day before
and after breakfast, another will persist in tak-
ing a cold shower bath before breakfast; it may
thus invigorate or debilitate. There is a pro-
cess in the system which is called the excreting
process; now if this is deficient in its action and
a retention in the system from closed pores,
and a glued substance over those pores, then
the health becomes impaired. Remove the
scales of the dead epidermis and the effete ma-
terial and prevent its absorption, and keep the
pores open, especially in fever; then apply oil
to soften the skin and allay irritation of the
nerves and aid nutrition by absorption.
	The sea ebbs and flows twice a day, but the
great river of life ebbs and flows once in twen-
ty-four hours, attaining its maximum height at
12 m., and its minumum at midnight, hence,
at 11 a.m. is a good time to take a bath before
dinner. 
	How often should a healthy person bathe?
Twice a week in winter months, and every
other day in summer months. Young child-
ren breathe but imperfectly through the lungs,
hence, depend on the skin for a portion of the
arëation of the blood, and they should be
bathed every day in warm water, in a warm
room, and not exposed to cold, always using the
thermometer, for if too hot water is used it wiil
be very depressing. Delicate, feeble persons
of all ages require a higher temperature of a
bath, and a shorter stay in it than others, as
85° or 90°. Baths, when properly conducted,
are a luxury, and a child will crave it and
leap from its mother's lap with joy on its ap-
proach; it only injures them by improper appli-
cation; hence, children should be accompanied
in their baths with an adult, in order to regu.
late the manner of their bath. From the child
that has his face and neck washed every morn-
ing in cold water you seldom hear a complaint;
But a person wearing the "boa," and is doubly
wrapped is constantly exposed. View the sai-
lor, who accustoms himself to an open collar,
his skin is prepared to resist exposure of the
open sea. Nothing is better to harden and
toughen the tender skin than water and air;
this fact being recently considered, the surgeon
does not hasten to wrap, but exposes the ex-
tremity of an amputated limb. The cold bath,
when used by a person in health, increases the
tone of the habit, strengthens the digestive or-
gans, and by diminishing the sensibility of the
whole system, especially of the skin, ren-
ders it less susceptible to atmospheric impres-


[Column 1]

sions from cold, wet and sudden changes of
temperature—thus contributing to what is
termed a robust, or athletic constitution;
hence, the beneficial effects of using a cold bath
daily, and that in the early morning when just
out of bed by surgeons, and those exposed to
frequent changes of climate. The coldness
and length of the bath should be used accord-
ing to the vigor, and debility, and age of the
person. When the shock, as a stimulus to the
nervous system in case of debility, is the prin-
ciple desired, the water should be very cold,
and the time of remaining in the bath only mo-
mentary; the water may be even dashed on,
and immediately and thoroughly dried to bring
on the reaction; by reaction I mean a sensation
of warmth, after the cold of the first immer-
sion. The fluids are repelled from the surface
to the internal organs, which are thus stimula-
ted and roused to action, in consequence of
which the blood is propelled through the whole
capillary system, more particularly of the sur-
face, carrying with it life and renovated ener-
gy. At first the skin shrinks, becomes cooler
and paler, and the respirations are more hur-
ried than before; but this is almost immediately
succeeded by an equally universal sensation of
warmth, or a reaction; if the water is left be-
fore a second attack of cold or chill the pulse
becomes fuller and stronger than before immer-
sion. The skin recovers the plumpness it has
lost, and is succeeded by a feeling of buoyancy,
and an increased animal power. No second
glow ever succeeds the second chill, above men-
tioned, but the debility increases with the
length of immersion.
	A cold duck is sometimes used to sluggish
ulcers.
	If to obviate the shock instantly applied to
the body, and the object is to obtain a refresh-
ing action as in febrile diseases, and inflammation,
water should be applied at first, not suddenly,
only cool and with a sponge, repeating the ap-
plication till the desired effect is produced.
	The amount of reaction depends on the cold-
ness and length of time. One says that a cold
bath is stimulating; another a sedative, or even
debilitating; so it may be, but the truth is, it is
the mode of using it; whether salt or fresh, hot
or cold, and the condition of the patient, the
time of a bath should not be more than ten or
twenty minutes. After a cold bath there
should be a reaction, if not it is injurious; if
the strength of the patient is exhausted then
it would be debilitating; while to another, in
full vigor, it would be a tonic in the highest de-
gree, and this is in proportion to the vigor of
the circulation on the surface. With feeble
circulation and cold extremities, should not
use the cold bath, unless improving the circula-
tion and warmth, before entering by an inter-
nal remedy or exercise. The whole effect of a
bath may be distinguished into, 1st, the shock,
the effect of which is stimulating; 2nd, the cool-
ing effect; 3rd, the counteracting or astringent
effect; 4th, the reaction.
	Cold bathing may be applied so as to insure
one or the other of these actions over any of
the rest, according to circumstances, when all
are not desired. The most important circum-
stance respecting a bath of any kind is its tem-
perature.
	Cold, sea bathing is a sedative, an indirect
tonic. The warm bath is a relaxant. The hot
bath a stimulant.
	Cold bath is from 33° to 60°; cool, from 60°
to 70°; temperate, 75° to 85°; tepid, 85° to 92°;
warm, 92° to 98°; hot, 98° to 112°; vapor, 100°
to 130°, and upwards. Tepid bath, used for
invalids and children, and for cleanliness, 20
or 30 minutes. Warm baths are slightly stim-
ulating, then soothing, and allay irritation of
the nerves, mends the pulse and appetite. Hot
baths are a powerful stimulant and one should
never remain in till exhausted; 5 or 10 minutes
arouses the nerves and general vital action.

[Column 2]

	Time of a bath for young children, 3 min-
utes. A child at 20 weeks, the temperature
should be above blood heat, 98 1/2°, or not less
than 92°. At 10 months, 90°. At 8 or 10
years, not below 78°, which is considered sum-
mer heat. In a high fever a person can be lift-
ed in a sheet and laid in a cold bath at 90°,
and cooled down to 68°, or about 20° less than
when placed in; it then produces the cooling ef-
fect instead of the shock, which might produce
too great a reaction for a debilitated person if
at once placed into the cold. Water can be
sprinkled on them from a watering pot, while
they are lying on an oil cloth, and hot bottles
can be placed at the feet at the same time. If
heat is abstracted from the body too rapidly it
may cause an exhausting effect on the part of
the system to keep up the temperature.
	One German professor said, when the pa-
tient's temperature was 104° to put them into a
bath of 94° and reduce it to 68°. Another
said, put them in 10 minutes, at 68°, and re-
peat it so as to keep down the temperature.
	In Vienna hospitals they put a patient into a
bath of 65° for 20 or 30 minutes, and repeat it
seven or eight times in twenty-four hours, and
it was reported that it was a very successful
treatment. If there is slight chilliness felt the
patient must be moved immediately to a warm
bed. Some of the hospitals in Germany put
their patients into a bath and let them stay so
long that the skin is fairly parboiled in appear-
ance. Rain water is nice for a bath, or a little
soda added to our common running water for
a soft bath. Bathing to prevent disease as a
medicine, it can be used as a tonic, a cool spray
regularly applied so as to produce the tonic ef-
fect. Heat, suddenly applied, will cause mus-
cular contraction. A nerve in a muscle dip-
ped in water 110° will contract violently.
Baths, as means of administering medicine, by
placing in the bath such substances as will
stimulate the skin. As an antipyretic cold
bath, vinegar has a good effect. Friction baths
can be used wet or dry—dilute alcohol, ammo-
nia, a little red pepper, either will be accept-
able. Keep a bottle filled with alcohol, sprin-
kle a little on crash, made in the form of
gloves, and with them rub the body, one's self
or by assistant. Some patients are chronic, or
aenemic, and too weak to produce a glow by
friction, then it must be done for them; for if
the glow is not produced after a bath it does
harm. Massage has proven to be of great val-
ue, sometimes, in cases of dyspepsia; the pa-
tient needs active action. Formerly cold baths
in lung diseases and typhoid fever, were contra
indicated, but not now considered so; yet in
case of ulceration of the bowels in typhoid fe-
ver, the moving of a patient in bathing might
cause perforation and serious results, and a pa-
tient being low, then the shock might paralyze
the heart, and death, or the lungs might be-
come engarged by a cold bath, and death take
place. Immersion in cold water to a delicate
person is not without possible injurious effects,
and may be followed by depression. A deli-
cate person should take a good breakfast an
hour or two before bathing. Care should be
taken in this as in all other therapeutic agents.
Wine in some cases can be given, as it relaxes
the capillaries of the surfaces, and while the cold
bathe drives the blood internally and contracts
the capillaries, the wine may benefit in this
case by dilating the capillaries, and thus invit-
ing the blood to the surface.
	In pneumonia and pleurisy the Germans use
cold compresses. An acid bath is used in some
Heptaic (liver) disease, 3 pints of muriatic acid
and 2 pints of nitric acid; use 1/2 teacupful to 2
gallons of water. Mercurial baths are good in
some cutaneous diseases. Electric baths are
good in paralysis; they excite or stimulate all
the functions, especially the circulation and
secretion. Iodine baths to produce a aubefaci-
ent, sometimes even to the pealing off of the

[Column 3]

skin, 3 quarts of Iodine, and twice as much
of Iodite of Potash, to 1 gallon of water. 
Vapor or Russian baths, water is placed over
a hot stone, and a patient will pass from them
to a cool or cold bath with pleasure. Used in
rheumatism and cutaneous affections, or a hot
duck bath of 110°, in rheumatism is used.
Water baths are used as an eliminative in dis-
eases of the kidneys; nothing removes the
watery secretions more effectual than the Tur-
kish bath, used with care, nothing is better, un-
less it is a Gabaranda sweat. A Turkish bath
is where there is a gradual increase of temper-
ature, after which the patient undergoes sham-
pooning.
	The skin is to the man what the foliage is to
the tree; a vast, external lung, with millions of
pores, of glandules and of papillae, and an im-
mense net-work of arteries and nerves. It is
the complement and supplement of the internal
lungs. With the aid of the Turkish bath the
skin breathes and transpires in place of the
lungs. There is an analogy between the skin
and mucous membrane, as the internal skin is
a continuation of the external, at the continu-
ity of which the epidermis is changed to epith-
elium. The external skin, modified by the
Turkish bath, becomes the modifier of the in-
ternal skin; hence a bath modifies and im-
proves digestion.
	Sweaty hands and feet are improved by
bathing them in cold water and then rubbing
them with a small quantity of the Tincture of
Belladonna. Cold feet are inproved by bath-
ing them in cold water, then apply rapid fric-
tion.
	Cold Sit Baths are in some complaints brac-
ing or tonic, twenty minutes at a time. If on
taking cold there may be Uremie convulsions,
sometimes just before death, where crystals
form on the body. A man had these crystals
form on his mustache as fast as wiped away, he
had convulsions and died in a few hours.
Baths, then, should be used to remove from
the blood urea and uric acid, as they are pois-
onous. In Eczema a person will have oxylu-
ria; whether one is the cause of the other is
not proven, but there is a condition of the skin
that hinders oxydation.
	What of sea bathing? The amount of good
derived from these watering places is principal-
ly from the change of air and scenery, diet,
etc, more than the bath. The exposure to cold
and the unsuited temperature of the water, and
the long remaining in the water, and that, too, 
sometimes when the body is over heated, is
positively injurious. Sometimes it has result-
ed in congestion of the internal organs, cramps
and spasms of some of the muscular organs, or
the muscles themselves, and in some cases pa-
ralysis of a greater or less portion of the body,
and the rays of the hot sun on the head while
in the water is also deleterious, sometimes pro-
ducing what is called sun stroke, and this may
result in paralysis. On the whole more harm
results from sea bathing than good, and young
people come in contact in these places with
a degree of immorality and vice. Sea bathing
is more beneficial where the water is shallow,
and has become warmed by the rays of the sun.
	A person bathing all over is less liable to
take cold than when only a portion of the body
is bathed. A sponge bath and a shower bath
are similar in effect. In no disease is a cold
bath more beneficial than in the intervals of
asthma. The chest may be sponged daily with
water, or vinegar and water; with friction it is
also good for common cough—but not suited
to those who have a tendency to consumption.
Its principal action is a preventative of catarrh
and cold. The best time for a spray is on get-
ting out of bed, when there is no perspiration;
it increases the appetite and digestion. Spong-
ing is more proper for delicate persons than a
shower bath, its effect is nearly similar. Ex-
clude the cold air.


154	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE "SEE-SAW."

	This little poem was read by the author at an even-
ing's entertainment in the City of Washington in Feb-
ruary, 1877, at the residence of a minister of that place
The lady presented it to O. F. Whitney as a souvenier
of the evening. He was then on a visit to that city and
attended the soiree with and by the invitation of a lady
residing in that city, the aunt of James McKnight, who
showed him every possible attention, and treated him
with the greatest politeness. The poem is a sort of
reminisence to him of the pleasant days he passed in
Washington society.

	See-saw! see-saw!
You go up and I go down;
	This was the law of the old see-saw;
And the merry feet, with impulsive bound,
Sprang up as oft as they touched the ground;
	And you or I were in the sky
		In the days when we played see-saw.

	No need was there of the cunning, rare,
		That fashioned the modern toys,
A plank that was broad, and pliant, and long,
A friendly log, or a fence that was strong,
		And a bevy of girls and boys;
	And they rose and fell with their laughter's swell,
		Or balanced on equal poise.

	Those favored few, whose childhood knew
		The freedom of country law,
Can never forget the gleeful thrill
As they bounded aloft at their own sweet will
		Like a thistle-down, or a straw,
	Then sank like a kite from its airy flight,
		In their seat on the old see-saw.

	That happy day has passed away
		In the order of nature's laws,
And the log that bore our balanced weight,
And the plank that bent 'neath its merry freight,
		Have bowed to the same great cause;
	Yet you and I, now low, now high,
		Still tilt on the world's see-saws.

	In the pulsing heart of the busy mart,
		Where power is bought with gold,
There's a sink and a swell in the surging crowd;
There are curses deep, and plaudits loud;
		For the game is brief and bold,
	And while some ride on the crest of pride,
		Lo! others lie stark and cold.

	There rises and falls in yon gay halls
		The plank of our social life;
And who shall grace the patrician end,
And who the plebeian half shall bend,
		Is the problem of endless strife,
	In which nature's tie, though deep it lie,
		Is severed with pitiless knife.

	There comes, too, an honr, when the balance of power
		Is lost in the Senate Hall;
And reverend Senators, wise and grave,
Whose boast is their country's honor to save,
		With the see-saw rise and fall;
	And happy their lot, if perchance it be not
		To lie under oblivion's pall.

	How blest 'twould be, could we only see
		The world at balance ride!
So justly poised in genuine worth
That brains should always equal birth,
		When tested side by side;
	Then social see-saws well might be
		Exponents of equality.

	MRS. M. F. RICHARDS.


[Column 1]

WILLINGNESS TO BE TAUGHT.

	If there is a royal road to learning it must
certainly be found where there is a willingness
to be taught. Once find a willing pupil and
the principal stumbling-blocks in the pathway
of the teacher are removed.
	The greatest barrier in the high road of pro-
gress is unwillingness to learn. Hence the dif-
ficulty in educating mankind. There are
plenty of books; there is an abundance of
preaching; there is much good counsel, but
there are few willing learners. Teachers are
puzzled for methods to attract the attention of

[Column 2]

the young. The speaker who can magnetize
his audience so that they will listen to his pre.
cepts, although his knowledge may not be so
profound, will accomplish more universal good
to-day than the deepest thinker, or the wisest
philosopher who cannot infuse into his subject
the element of attraction.
	Thus, the recitation of a poem, the quotation
of a proverb, or the relation of an anecdote,
may convey a more useful lesson than a well
studied discourse, and the points and morals
will be much longer remembered. Who will
deny that the fables of Esop are deeper in the
universal mind than the sermons of Wesley or
the logic of Webster? And the quaint sayings
of the American humorist are household words;
while the philosophies of Socrates and Bacon
are dusty upon the shelves. The reason for
this is apparent. People would rather be a-
mused than instructed, and if we desire to
teach to-day we must first attract attention,
and then interest the listener. So wide spread
is the feeling of apathy on the subject of use-
ful information that the great principles of
science have to be woven into a romantic nar-
rative. Astronomy and atmospheric influences
must be conveyed to the mind through a jour-
ney to the moon, illustrated with gorgeous
wood-cuts, and mingled with the grossest im-
possibilities; and it is by this means that some
of the most renowned authors have found ready
sale for their researchers in science. Even the
Bible must be rewritten by a modern hand,
and the beautiful incidents of Scripture re-
lated in sensational paragraphs. History must
be condensed, and many of the important de-
tails omitted before our youth will undertake
its perusal. Thus the tendency of the age is
to be satisfied with a smattering of knowledge,
a few stray leaves from the tree of learning,
while they chase with eagerness the butterfuly
of pleasure. People must be caught with the
gilded hook of attractive romance before they
will partake of any substantial truth, or yield
to any solid reasoning.
	The love of learning is something which each 
must cultivate for him or herself, before they
can ever become versed in things that are. It
is true we learn much by experience and obser-
vation, but persons who have not a desire to
become instructed frequently allow the most
valuable lessons to pass unheeded. The suffer-
ings of others are not lessons to them, and even
their own sorrows frequently pass away and
are forgotten, without leaving the beneficial in-
fluence designed by the providence of God.
	With this condition of things in the world
around us how easy it would be for the child-
ren of Zion, who should have more foresight
and greater self control, to become the most
learned, and through the blessings of God, the
most wise and powerful of all people. Let us
heed the inspired counsels of God's servants,
let us walk in the ways of heavenly wisdom,
and be ever willing to receive instruction
through even the humblest instrument chosen
to convey it, and like the bee, that gathers hon-
ey from every flower, and stores it in the hive
for future use, so let us accumulate knowledge
from every appropriate source of information,
that our minds may be supplied in the hour of
need, that by a touch of inspiration the intel-
ligence of Zion may shine forth in a day to
come as a light to brighten the Gentiles, and
to be the glory of God's people—Israel.
	E. M. S.


[Column 1]
IMPROVEMENT IS OUR AIM.

MY DEAR YOUNG SISTDRS:
	I feel my inability for the task before me,
but at the same time I feel it a duty incumbent
upon me to try what I can do towards improve-
ment.
	We are members of this our Mutual Im

[Column 2]
provement Association, and as such it is our
duty to try by every means in our power to
improve onrselves, and by improving ourselves
we will, by the help of the Spirit of the Lord,
be better qualified to teach and instruct
others.
	This Association was organized especially
for the benefit and improvement of the young
folks, and there is now a duty binding upon us
to strive with all our might to cultivate our
minds and improve the talents our Father in
Heaven hath bestowed upon us, and if we
prayerfully ask for His guidance and direc-
tion in every matter He will help us. Our
faith will become stronger and our understand-
ings will be enlarged, and we will become more
able to comprehend the wise teachings of the
servants of the Lord from time to time as they
are laid before us.
	We have each of us obeyed the first princi-
ples of the Gospel and had hands laid upon
us for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and as
our minds expand we will be able to receive
greater blessings, and our understandings will
become enlarged, and by the aid of the Spirit
of the Lord we will receive line upon line, pre-
cept upon precept, here a little and there a lit-
tle.
	Let us try to faithfully discharge our duties,
neglecting none. "Remember our secret
prayers, for they will be a protection for us
over the powers of the evil one, and will help
us to overcome our imperfections and the weak-
nesses that doth so easily beset us." Do let us
observe the words of wisdom, as instructed by
the servants of the Lord. Their teachings
ought to be the word of the Lord to us, and it
is our duty to give heed to the same. Now is
the time for us to observe these things, while
we have youth on our side and no obstacles in
our path. Let us shun every appearance of
evil, or anything that would be likely to draw
us away from the truth. Cleaving unto right-
eousness with all our might and mind, showing
kindness to one another, and overlooking each
others' fanlts, and striving to uproot our own.
If we do this in the spirit of meekness and hu-
mility the Lord will help us, and our reward
will be great. Amen.				TINA.
	Manuscript Paper, The Gem, Mt. Pleasant.

MISCELLANEOUS.

	Anna E. Dickinson is to lecture on Wendall
Phillips in Philadelphia, in March.
	Memorial Meeting for Wendall Philips, un-
der the auspices of the Massachusetts Woman
Suffrage Association, was held in the Meoin-
aon, Thursday evening, Feb. 28. Ex.
	Ada H. Kepley, of Effingham, Ill., has ad-
dressed a circular letter to each member of the
Congressional Committee on Woman Suffrage,
appealing to him, as far as in him lies, to give
women the ballot.
	At London, March 1st, the bust of Longfel-
low was unveiled in Westminsler Abbey. The
ceremony was performed by Rev. George Broth-
ers, M. A., sub-dean of Westminster. Ex.
	The lullaby will lose none of its sweetness
when the voice accustomed to it shall carry the
claims of childhood into the councils of the
nation.—Julia Ward Howe.
	The portrait of Wendall Phillips, by E. T.
Billings, is now on exhibition in his studio,
Room 55 Studio Building, Boston. Mr. Sam-
uel E. Sewall and other old friends of Mr.
Phillips who have seen it pronounce it the fin-
est one in existence. It was taken about fif-
teen years ago, and represents him in the act of
addressing an audience. It ought to be bought
by the city, and a copy placed in Faneuil Hall,
as a life likeness of the great orator of the
woman suffrage and anti-slavery movements.
Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: [-]ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MARCH 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
WASHINGTON CONVENTION

N W. S. A.

	The National Republican of Washington City
has published full particulars of the Woman's
Convention held in Lincoln Hall, March 4, 5
and 6 Miss Susan B. Anthony presided in the
absence of Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
Speeches were made and papers read by the
most noted and active suffragists from the differ-
ent states. Letters were also read from various
parts of this country and Europe, and a general
discussion of the question of political equality
was the sentiment of the entire convention.
	A grand reception was given to Miss Anthony
and her co-laborers at the Riggs House, Mrs.
Spofford, the popular and genial hostess, having
charge of the affair, which was a realovation to
the suffrage ladies, judging from the papers.
Several hundred people paid their respects to
these earnest, indefatigable workers for woman's
enfranchisement, among whom were Senators,
Representatives, litteratuers and those noted
in Washington society. An elegant lunch was
spread in an adjoining apartment, and the
whole affair was arranged to admirably as to
make all feel at their ease, and indeed was a
complete social success. Mrs. Spofford has the
quiet dignity and marvelous tact to carry out a
programme of this kind in the most approved
manner to please all and offend none.
	A large delegation of ladies from the conven-
tion called on Prest. Arthur, and paid their res-
pects to the Chief Executive of the Republic.
Judging from the telegrams, he treated them
with the greatest deference and courtesy, but
was severely non-committal in reply to their
suggestions about the question of woman suf-
frage.
	We are very sorry we have not space to pub-
lish more concerning this interesting conven-
tion, but will possibly give in our next issue the
preamble and declaration of principles. As Mrs.
Belva A. Lockwood seems to be the only one
who touched upon the subject of suffrage in
Utah, we will give an extract from her speech:
	Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, whose appearance
and manner need no description in this city,
next spoke upon "The Proposed Disfranchise-
ment of Utah Women." The speech was large
ly a legal argument to show that the Edmunds
bill and the proposed bill to disfranchise women
were not only unjust and unfair, but in direct
violation of the Constitution of the United
States. The bills, she said, were all the result
of a morbid public sentiment intended to op-
press a gentle, harmless people, and furthered
by public men for purposes of their own. The
danger which threatened the women in Utah,
she said, also threatened the women of Wyo-
ming. The law proposed to punish the innocent

[Column 2]
with the guilty, the women for the crimes of the
men. The government of the United States,
she charged, had no more right to attack the
Mormon religion than it had to attack the Meth
odist or Catholic religions. The Mormons were
a law-abiding people until laws became so op-
pressive that they could not be borne. Running
along with Mrs. Lockwood's argument was a
sketch of the Mormon Church and a defense of
it. When Mrs. Lockwood declared that the
New York society, which believed in charging
husbands and wives at pleasure, had never been
disturbed or molested, Miss Anthony interrupt-
ed her and assured her that the Oneida commu-
nity had been broken up and Noyes had gone
away. Mrs. Lockwood then proceeded to show
how in many cases religious persecutions had re-
sulted in the glory of the persecuted, and she
likened the persecution of the Mormons by the
United States to the tyranny which Great Brit-
ian exercised over the American colonies before
the revolution. "It is profoundly to be hoped,"
she said, "that Congress will attend to its proper
business, and let Utah alone."
	Before introducing the next speaker Miss An-
thony said that the association had nothing to
do with the action of Congress in respect to
Utah, except where it was invidious to women.
Only when it is proposed to disfranchise women,
without touching the men, did the association
enter its protest. The general laws which Con-
gress proposes for Utah and the Mormons "is
none of our business," said Miss Anthony, and
the statement was received with loud applause.
Miss Anthony said she thought that Mrs. Lock-
wood had gone into a religious and industrial
subject which the association had nothing to do
with.
	Mrs. Lockwood replied, with some irony in
her tones, that she was sorry not to have suffic-
ient discrimination to see the difference between
injustice to men and injustice to women.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A LETTER received from one of the largest
Printing and Book firms in New York City to
Mrs. Augusta Joyce Crocheron, speaks very
highly of her late enterprise, The picture and
book, "Representative Women of Deseret." We
give an extract from the letter:
	"I acknowledge with many thanks the receipt
of the picture and book.	*	I have read
the book carefully and with a great deal of inter-
est. Its contents are new to myself and most
other Eastern people. I have no doubt whatev-
er but that if the book was circulated and read
generally in the eastern part of the Union, a
very different opinion would prevail upon the
subject of Mormonism, as one cannot do else
than admire the zeal with which the good wo-
men mentioned have worked for the cause in
which they are interested.
	"That, however, has been woman's course ev-
er since the Christian era, and will no doubt be
to the end of time, quicker in grasping an idea
and working more zealously for it than man usu-
ally does.
	"When I say a different opinion on the subject
of Mormonism would prevail, I must except the
female portion of your community, as very lit-
tle but kindness is now felt for them, but if it
was known that so many excellent women were
contented with their institution and worked so
well for it, people might consider there was
some good in the system."
	SEE Mrs. Shipp's new advertisement in this
issue, and notice of removal to Main St. Mrs.
Shipp is a competent physician and a skillful
practitioner. She is admirrbly fitted by nature
and a thorough educational training to officiate


in her profession. She is a graduate of the
Women's Medical College in Philadelphia, and
although still a young woman has had several
years experience in the practice of medicine and
surgery.


TOPICS OF THE TIMES.

From the Juvenile Instructor—by the Editor.

ANNIVERSARY OF SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW
SMITH'S BIRTHDAY.

	Monday, January 21st, 1884, was the 80th an-
niversary of the birthday of Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith, and a number of her lady friends
arranged for a birthday party to be held in the
Social Hall. There were upwards of 200 persons
present on the occasion, all prompted to be pres-
ent by a desire to do honor to the vanerable la-
dy. The occasion was most interesting, and
the time was spent in making brief addresses,
giving recitations, songs, etc., supper was also
served to the guest.
	Old age is beautiful when combined with
physical and mental preservation. This is the
case with this venerable lady. She is capable
of undergoing an amount of fatigue that would
tire many woman half her age, and her mental
faculties seem to be in full vigor. Under such
circumstances life is a pleasure.
	Her life has exhibited, as fully as any wom-
an's in the Church, what can be done by deter-
mined purpose, guided by wisdom. Sister Eliza
R. Snow Smith has made her mark in her gen-
eration. Always a busy woman, her late years
have been crowded with labor, the fruits of
which, I believe, will be felt for generations to
come. It has been a time of organization, and
she and her co-workers have had a splendid
field in which to labor. The Relief Societies,
the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations, and the Primary schools have all been
benefitted by her counsels.
	The meeting on Monday evening was a most
suggestive one in many respects. It is not too
much to say that we are engaged in laying the
foundation of a new civilization, and the ladies
of our people, of whom Sister Snow Smith is
the leader, are performing a noble and wonder-
fully influential part of the work. The impres-
sion throughout Christendom is that woman's
education and elevation are incompatible with
the system of plural marriage; that where that
system prevails woman's degradation is sure to
follow; that she must of necessity occupy an in-
ferior place to that which her sex fills under the
system of monogamy. These ideas are derived
from the position occupied by women of Orient-
al lands, and one of ihe chief arguments used
with women to excite their prejudices against
the system of plural marriage has been of this
character. Reflecting men and women have
denied that such results were the inevitable ac-
companiment of plural marriage. It has been
repeatedly asserted that there was no good rea-
son why woman should not progress and main-
tain her position side by side with man under
the system of plural marriage, and be developed
to fully as great an extent as under the mono-
gamic system. In fact philosophic thinkers a-
mong us have perceived that under the system
of plural marriage it was possible for woman to
achieve a higher position intellectually and as
the help-meet of man and the mother of his
children than she possibly could in monogamy.
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith and her co-workers
are proving the truth of this. Already the pro-
gress of the sex in every proper direction in this
Territory is a cause of happiness and congratu-
lation to all who witness it. Plural marriage
has not degraded women in this Territory. It
is true that a dissatisfied, discontented, unhappy
women, whether in plural marriage or in mon-


[Column 1]

ogamy, makes no progress. She droops and
sinks under imaginary, but what to her are real
tonbles, and she ceases to be a factor of any im-
portance in the body politic. A woman so con-
stituted, whether the only wife of one man, or
the plural wife of a man, is alike unhappy. But
where women exercise their powers and culti-
vate self-reliance, leaning upon God for the
strength which He is ready to give, the oppor-
tunities for development under plural marriage
are greater than usually afforded under the sys-
tem of monogamy. She becomes, in some res-
pects, the head of her family, and from the na-
ture of the case is compelled to assume responsi-
bilities that under other circumstances she
would not feel. With a properly constituted
woman this calls forth her full powers. There
is a necessity for their exercise, and she rises to
the exigency of the position and exhibits a
strength and power which surprises herself as
well as those who are around her. She ceases
to lean upon man to the extent that she would
do were she not compelled to assume the duties
and responsibilities connected with the charge
of her children and her household. Experience
is gained; strength is developed; the power of
governing is called into exercise; selfishness and
self-ease are sacrificed, and the perfect type of
womanhood is brought forth.
	I believe that to-day there are to be found in
this Territory more of these perfect women for
the number of our population than can be found
anywhere else in the world. Grand, noble, un-
selfish women have brought their weaknesses
and their inclinations into subjection to the
higher law of God and have obtained a strength,
dignity of character, and superiority of manner,
that lifts them up above the ordinary level of
her sex. They stand on a higher plane, and
are fitted, by the conflicts which they have en-
dured and in which they have triumphed, to
become the fitting partners of intelligent, intel-
lectual and pure men.
	These are the results which are being wrought
out in this Territory; not so rapidly as to call
forth surprise, but still to the observant so rap-
idly as to give promise of a glorious future.
Women in this Territory have a grand sphere of
usefulness opened for them. They labor in a
field to which there is no bound. Their oppor-
tunities for usefulness are unequalled, and in
every legitimate labor which they undertake
they have the aid and the encouragment of the
other sex. The incentive to become intelligent,
to comprehend principle, to be strong, is great-
er here than in any other community that we
know anythiug o[-], and 1 am gratified to see that
our sisters are availing themselves of the grand
opportunities which are furnished them for use-
fulness and progress. The effect of their exam-
ples upon the rising generation will ba of im-
mense value, and as the generations roll by no-
bler types of womanhood will be developed, un-
til the penalty laid upon woman in the begin-
ning, that "thy desire shall be to thy husband
and he shall rule over thee," will be repealed,
and she will stand side by side with man, full of
that queenly dignity and self-control which will
make her his suitable companion rather than
his inferior.
	Much of the intellectual movement among our
sisters is due to the example and influence of
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith. She and her co-
workers have labored diligently to elevate their
sex and inspire them with an ennobling aud ho-
ly ambition. That which they are doing to-day
is not valued as it will be in days to come. It
will require the historian of another generation
to award them the credit that is due to their
self-sacrificing and loving labors. But the cred-
it due to them, however long it may be post-
poned, will yet be given them, and their names

[Column 2]

will stand out bright in the annals of this peo-
ple in the day of power yet to come.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

RELIEF SOCIETIES ABROAD.

		BERNE, Switzerland.
	Thinking it might interest the readers of the
EXPONENT to know something about the doings
of their sisters in this foreign land, I have pre-
pared a brief report of the organizations at pres-
ent existing among the sisters of the Swiss and
German Mission.
	Though the advantages here for the working
of a Society are few and simple compared with
those possessed by the women of Zion, yet our
busy, industrious Swiss sisters lose no opportu-
nity of doing everything possible in the designa-
ted capacity, and are rapidly preparing them-
selves for the greater privileges which they hope
to enjoy when once gathered to the land, to
which their longing eyes are so often and so
earnestly turned. It will b[---] that such in-
stitutions are comparatively new in this com-
munity, and are consequently more or less of a
novelty, particularly as they give so decided a
contradiction to the idea that the Latter-day
Saint women are held in the most galling bond-
age, and have no rights and privileges whatev-
er. The Elders from Utah take great interest
in the prosperity and well-being of the Societies,
and encourage the sisters by attending the
meetings and imparting instruction and counsel
as it may be required, while the sisters on their
part feel very happy in their assembling togeth-
er, and seek continually to make progress in
the strict obedience of the commandments of
the Lord. I know less about the other Societies
than about this one in Berne; but I am assured
that not a few of the present members of the
Church here, heard the first testimony respect
ing the restoration of the Gospel, and received
the first prompting to give ear to, and embrace
the same, in the SISTER'S MEETINGS.
	As yet there are no Societies organized in Ger-
many, but they will, I am told, be speedily in-
troduced into the branches there as well as in
many parts of Germany where it has heretofore
been neglected.
	I submit herewith translated reports of the
Societies as published in the "Stern" of Febru-
ary 1st:
	The first Relief Society organized in this mis-
sion was that of Berne. It was organized by El-
der P. F. Goss, on the 30th of June, 1882. Not-
withstanding that it has lost many members
through the emigration, the Society still shows
a total membership of 39. Regular meetings
are held every fortnight; in one meeting the
sisters speak and bear testimony, and in the
other the sisters report the districts to which
they have been assigned. They impart instruc-
tions about caring in a better manner for the
household, and taking more pains in rearing
their families. In addition to these meetings,
work meetings are occasionally held. The last
report, dated the 14th of January, stated that
the cash on hand amounted to Frs. 26.32, and
they had had an outlay during the preceding
six months of Frs. 33.60. The officers are: Ro-
sina Stiener, President; Magdalena Meyer and
Maria Schneider, Counselors; and Sophia Kind-
lisbacher, Secretary.
	The Relief Society of Schaffhausen was or-
ganized by Elder Alvis Bauer, on the 5th of
February, 1883. Though a very small Society,
it has shown itself a very industrious and ac-
tive one. Since the organization thirty six
meetings have been held, most of which were
work meetings. The number of members is at
present but seven, yet through the untiring en-
deavors of the energetic president, Sister Burga
Haage, and those few sisters, much good has

[Column 2]

been done by this little society. They stare
with a working capital of Frs. 4.60, which they
have been able to increase nine fold. They have
extended assistance to some of their emigrating
members, and have purchased many useful
Christmas gifts for the needy children of the
branch.
	The Relief Society of Scherli was organized
on the 24th of September, 1883, by Elder John
Stucki. During their short existence as a socie-
ty they have held seven meetings, which have
tended to encourage and strengthen them, and
they express themselves as having much im-
proved by these meetings, and hope soon to hold
the work meetings and be better able to help
each other in different ways, as the other socie-
ties have done. There are now eleven mem-
bers, Elizabeth Michel is president; Eliza Kohl-
er and Katharina Michel, Counselors; and Anna
Eliza Michel, Secretary
	The Relief Society of Sinach was organized
on the 3rd of February, 1884, by Alvis Bauer;
there are ten members. The officers are: Bar-
bara Naef, President; Maria Freiz and Bacetta
Fischer, Counselors; and Rosina B. Bashardt,
Secretary.
	The Annual Conference of the Swiss and Ger-
man Mission was held in Berne on the 23rd and
24th of December, 1883, which were happy days
for the people of the Central, Southern and
Western Swiss branches. From all these differ-
ent parts the Saints had gathered in force and
had a glorious time together, singing the songs
of Zion, bearing testimonies and listening to the
valuable instructions imparted by the Elders.
The last evening of the Conference Dec. 24th.,
the sisters held their meeting. Eleven Elders
and one sister from Utah were present, and
there was a large attendance of Saints, besides
many strangers. Sister Steiner of the Berne
Society presided, and did so with coolness and
ease. Good and interesting testimonies were
borne, and words of encouragement offered by
the sisters in three different languages—the
English, French and German, to say nothing of
the different dialects of the latter, which might
almost be called so many more languages—all
of which made the meeting still more interest-
ing. They seemed no less delighted than aston-
ished to hear that in Zion a Hospital had been
founded under the auspices, and was conducted
by the sisters, and that efforts were being made
to teach the Lamanite Sisters cooking, sewing,
knitting, etc. Excellent remarks were also made
by the Elders, and it was, in short, a most en-
joyable evening, such a happy and delightful
spirit prevailing that the hearts of all seemed
filled with joy and praise. Before the close I
joined the Elders from Utah in singing an Eng-
lish hymn, which we had done several times
during that and the preceding day, and which
seemed to be much appreciated by our Swiss
friends.
	The great benefit flowing from these Societies
is consequently beginning to make itself felt
here. The Sisters are more united and feel
cheerful and encouraged as they see that wom-
an has also a part to play in this great latter-day
work. They have discovered that in times of
sickness and need they are much help to each
other, and the brethren, also, are forced to ac-
knowledge that such an institution, where
rightly conducted and in the fulfillment of du-
ty, is a great support to the branch to which it
belongs.
	In the Sunday Schools also the Sisters join
with the teachers in getting up amusements,
and have manifested much liberality in giving
of their time and means for the preparation of
feasts and presents for the children at Christ-
mas.	
	May the blessings of the Lord attend the Re-
lief Societies now in existence, as well as those


which may hereafter be organized, and that
great good may thereby be accomplished, is the
sincere wish and the prayer of one who shall ev-
er feel the greatest interest in the welfare of the
Relief Societies of the Saints.
	ANNIE W. CANNON.
Feb. 15th., 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE NICKEL FUND

Editor Woman's Exponent:

	We wrote you some time ago in regard to the
"Widows Mite,"now comes neither the isn't 
nor the least, the "Nickel Fund."
	The subject of these few lines may seem rath-
er insignificant, but as
	Little drops of water, and little grains of sand,	
	Make the mighty ocean and the bounteous land,

so in this case, the fund in question has grown
to the magnitude of upwards of $2,300 00; the
origin and history of the fund being as follows;
Shortly after the organization of the Cache Val-
ley Stake of Zion in 1877, under the presidency
of Elder Moses Thatcher, he was moved upon
to inaugurate a temple fund among the Sunday
Schools of this Stake, which has proved a success
in every sense of the term. It has taught the
young the great principle of pemple building,
and united their interest with their parents, by 
putting their nickels to a better use than the
purchasing of toys and confectionary. The
names of several thousand children will be re-
corded in the archives of this temple, which
will gain them a common interest with their
parents and guardians. During the period of
time the temple has been in course of erection
it has become a household phrase when a child
became the possessor of a nickel or dime to hear
it say, "Pa, or ma," as the case might be, "I
shall give it to the Temple."
	What a beautiful sight indeed to have seen
so many Sunday School children in each Sun-
day School of this Stake of Z[-]on upon a Sabbath
morning, with the gleam of satisfaction upon
their faces, gracefully pay over their contribu-
tions to the treasurer of the Sunday School for
the purpose of aiding the temple.
	The above well illustrated and valuable prin-
ciples of unity has been achieved by the untir-
ing efforts of the officers and members of the
several Sabbath Schools.
	We contemplate when the temple is comple-
ted of publishing a lst of contributions of the
several schools of this stake, which we antici-
pate will be a good showing in their behalf, giv-
ing the youth of Israel quite an interest in the
temple, an appreciation of which is well illus-
trated in the following incident: When the
walls of the temple had reached the square, a
little boy—a Sunday School scholar—visited the
block and desired to go upon the scaffolds to look
at the building, the guard, however, had been
instructed to keep small children off the scaffold,
and so informed the boy, who replied that he
had paid his nickels to the temple, and thought
he had a right to go and see it. The argument
was irresistible, and the guard allowed him to
pass and feast his eyes upon the walls and scaf-
folding of the building, which he did with great
complacency.
	Yours Respectfully,
		C. O. CARD.
Logan Temple Office, Feb. 29th., 1884.


"Mrs. Ole Bull, with her little daughter
Olea, will visit Norway again this summer.
The young daughter of the great musician, a
girl of twelve years, inherits much of his geni-
us, and is already an accomplished performer
on the violin."


[Column 1]

A DIALOGUE.

	Characters—Mrs. Devenish, her two daughters, Lucy
and Marian, and Mr. Tom, a nephew of Mrs. Devenish,
a Mormon Elder and Parson Brown.

SCENE I. PARLOR

	(Lucy, Marian and Mr. Tom. Lucy sewing, Marian
reading, and Tom making funny shadows on the wall.)
	Mrs. Devenish. (Enters.) I see, my child-
ren, that you are pretty well engaged. I will
join you, and as we are likely to be alone this
evening, I think it will be profitable to review
the day that has passed into eternity.
	Lucy. Yes, ma, that will be very interest-
ing.
	Marian. (aside.) O dear! I thought I was
going to have such a good time reading this
new novel.
	Tom. (aside, with a comical glance at Mari-
an.) Now for a lecture from Aunt Susan.
	Mrs. D. Well, my dear Lucy, what good
have you done to-day?
	Lucy. Not much, ma; I often think of what
I read in the Bible: When I try to do good
evil is ever present with me.
	Tom. O, you naughty puss! did you not
take some nice beef tea to sick Mary Gray, and
help poor Granny Morris across the street?
	Marian. You know, Cousin Tom, Lucy is
always pretending that she does no good. This
appears to me like affectation.
	Lucy. It was so little, I had forgotten all
about it.
	Mrs. D. What are you doing now, Lucy?
	Tom. She is making a dress for little Lucy
Gray over the way; while Marian and I are
perfect idlers. Eh, Marian?
	Marian, (pouting.) I cannot imagine how
you can tell what I am doing, when you are
watching Lucy all the time.
	Mrs. D. Do not mind him, dear; we all
know cousin Tom. Tell me, Marian, how you
have spent the day.
	Marian. I finished a novel the first thing
this morning; then I looked over my dresses to
see what would be suitable to wear at Mrs.
Bond's party next week; and, ma, I have not
one fit to be seen.
	Tom. How now, coz, I thought the dress-
maker brought you home a gray silk last
week.
	Marian. Gray silk, indeed, I look a perfect
fright in it; and that reminds me that I saw to-
day a lovely blue at the dressmaker's. It will
just suit my complexion	Do, please, buy it
for me, ma.
	Mrs. D. If you need a new dress you may
have it.
	Tom. Then I am sure she will not get it,
for she has about a dozen now; many more
than Lucy.
	Mrs. D. What do you know about ladies,
dresses, Tom? Lucy can have one if she
wishes.
	Lucy. I do not need a dress, ma, but if you
will give me the money I will buy a shawl for
poor old Granny Morris; the weather is so cold
that she needs one very much.
	Marian. Pshaw! A shawl for Granny
Morris. I would be ashamed to dress as shab-
by as you do, to make people believe that I
was so much better than others.
	Mrs. D. For shame, Marian, your sister
does not dress shabby. She is economical, and
that enables her to help the poor. Lucy is al-
ways willing to sacrifice her own comfort to
benefit others. I am sure her motives are pure.
I wish you were more like her. But let us
change the subject. Cousin Tom, what mis-
chief have you done to-day?
	Tom. Let me see; I ran the chickens up the
hill to make them lay, rode the calf, and—
and—
	Marian. Ha, ha! I would like to see the

[Column 2]

chickens and calf. You must have taken a
ride on the ears this morning, cousin Tom.
	Tom. Aunt Susan, what do you think? As
I was coming home to-day I heard that a Mor-
mon Elder was going to preach in the Assem-
bly Rooms in St. George St. to-morrow night.
Do let us go and see what kind of people they
are.
	Marian. The newspapers say they are such
dreadful creature. I wonder what they look
like! Only think! they have more than one
wife! How shocking!
	Mrs. D. We must not believe all that the
newspapers say. I think we will go and hear
for ourselves. I am not satisfied with our re-
ligion. It is not like that which our Savior
and His Apostles taught.
	Lucy. But, ma, you would not leave our
church and the good old minister we have
known so long, for these despised Mormons?
	Mrs. D. I did not say I would; yet, my
child, I would receive the truth if I could find
it, even if it came from these depsised Mor-
mons.
	Marian. O ma! the papers say this people
are low and corrupt.
	Mrs. O; My, dear, our Savior, who was the
purest being that ever lived on the earth, was
despised and rejected, and was called a wine
bibber and a triend of publicans and sinners,
by religious people in His day.
	Marian. I know I love the the things of this
world and am not like you or Lucy; yet, ma, I
do not wish to see you led away by this people.
	Mrs. D. If the ministers preached the gos-
pel of Jesus Christ I would be satisfied; but
they do not.
	Tom. Aunt Susan, I am astonished to hear
you say so; I think they preach just splendid;
so much so, that I do not half understand what
they mean.
	Mrs. D. You are quite right, my boy. They
preach flowery sermons that they may please
the ears of the monied ones, and fail to give
comfort to the poor and those who are search-
ing after truth. Many of our ministers answer
well the description given of them by the pro-
phets, they preach for hire and divine for mon-
ey.
	Marian. What is the gospel?
	Lucy. The gospel is good news or glad ti-
dings.
	Tom. What is the good news, Lucy? I
suppose you can tell me, for I often see you
reading the Bible.
	Lucy. The Bible says that God so loved the
world, that He gave His only Begotten Son to
die for the sins of the world, that through the
shedding of His blood we may be saved.
	Tom. Have we not something to do our-
selves?
	Lucy. Yes; we must believe on the Lord
Jesus Christ.
	Marian. I have a faint recollection of read-
ing somewhere that we must repent and be
baptized. I am sure I do not know how to re-
pent. Do you, Tom?
	Tom. I repented very sincerely last week
that I had not studied more when I found that
James Brown instead of myself received the
long coveted prize.
	Marian. Please tell us, ma, how we are to
repent.
	Mrs. D. We must be sorry that we have
committed sin and be determined, with the
help of the Lord, that we will do so no more.
	Tom. I do not see why we need be baptized
when we were sprinkled in our infancy.
	Mrs. D. I have never read in the Bible
about baptism by sprinkling, but it distinctly
states, in many places, that those that were
baptized went down into the water.
	Tom. (yawning.) I'm so sleepy. Let us go
to bed.
	Mrs. D. Yes, it is time for us to retire, I
think we have spent a very profitable evening.


(Column one)
﻿Lucy. Will you go to-morrow night to hear
this Mormon preach?
	Mrs. D. Yes, my children, we will go. Let
us ask the Lord to give us wise and under-
standing hearts, that if this man has the truth
we may receive it.

SCENE II.

	The whole family discovered sitting round a table;
the ladies sewing, Tom looking on.
	Mrs. D. Well, my children, what do you
think of the Mormon Elder?
	Marian. Why, ma, he looks just like other
men.
	Lucy. I like his looks better than that of
some men. He seems so modest in his bear-
ing; so earnest and truthful, that I believe he
means just what he says.
	Tom. I certainly did not see anyhorns or
cloven feet.
	Mrs. D. This evening, my children, was the
first time I ever heard a true gospel sermon—
the same principles that our Savior and His
Apostles taught.
	Tom. But, Aunt Susan, these Mormons be-
lieve in prophets, apostles, and in revelation.
I thought these things were done away.
	Mrs. D. So we have been taught to believe.
I have read the Bible from my childhood, and
it does not inform me that these things were
done away.
	Lucy. Their belief in revelation pleased
me. It is very pleasant to think that the Lord
has not entirely forgotten His children. I
think the Elder showed very plainly that the
Christian ministers have no authority from
God to preach the gospel. There is evidently
something wrong in the teachings we have re-
ceived.
	Tom. What do the clergy care, if they can
please the rich. No matter how corrupt their
congregations are, these ministers, in many
cases, will wink at their vices, if they are well
paid. Well said, my boy. I think, Tom, you
must have studied these things more than I
gave you credit for.
	Lucy. The young man told us that an angel
appeared to their Prophet, Joseph Smith, and
gave unto him the power to preach the gospel,
and that he also gave him some gold plates,
from which he translated the Book of Mor-
mon.
	Marian. He said this book contained the
history of the American Indians, a people who
were once called Nephites and Lamanites. He
also spoke of an angel whose name was Moro-
ni (hesitating). He was a nice looking young
man. Was he not, Tom?
	Tom. Who, Marian? The angel or the
Mormon Elder?
	Lucy. Do be serious, Tom. There's a good
boy. People say the Mormons do not believe
in the Bible. I am sure they do, for he had
one in his hand to-night, and read from it.
	Tom. Yes, and he proved pretty plainly
from it the truth of what he said.
	Mrs. D. I believe he told the simple, hon-
est truth, and I bless him for it.
Mariau. I have been told that the principal
thing these Mormons teach is a plurality of
wives; I am sure I did not hear him say any-
thing about wives to-night.
	Lucy. Indeed he did not! He said he was
an Elder, sent to preach the gospel of Jesus
Christ.
	Marian. And that he preached without
purse and scrip, as did the disciples of old. The
only pay he expected was the blessing of his
Heavenly Father and the approbation of the
Priesthood.
	Tom. Poor fellow! I wonder where he
will stop to-night, (putting on his hat.) Aunt
Susan, I will go and find him.
	Mrs D. Stay, Tom! You would not find
him to-night. You may do so to-morrow.
When you do find him, if he has no home, we

[Column 2]
will make him welcome while he stays in these
parts.
	Marian. Oh, ma! What will the neigh-
bors say if you take in a Mormon? I would
be ashamed to meet Parson Brown.
	Tom. O, bother the neighbors and Parson
Brown! Who cares what they say? (appears
to be thinking.) May be the poor fellow has
had no supper.
	Mrs. D. We wish to serve the Lord and not
our neighbors. As for this young man, we will
leave him in the hands of the Lord to-night.
	Lucy. I wonder if he has a mother and sis-
ters, and if they pray for him now he is away
from them. It must be dreadful to travel and
preach without any money.
	Mrs. D. Our Savior told His disciples to
do so; they were not to take even two coats, for
He said the laborer was worthy of his hire.
	Tom. Now, Aunt Susan, tell me how a fel-
low can live without money. When I see him
I will give him some.
	Mrs. D. I believe this young man to be a
servant of the Lord. He will inspire some
honest soul to see to his wants to-night, just as
He has given you the will to do, Tom.
	Tom. I will go and try to find him the first
thing in the morning. He is just about my
age; what a good time we will have.
	Lucy. Yes; there’s a good cousin Tom; be
sure and try hard to find him.
	Marian. I do not need the blue silk dress,
ma, the gray one will do; you can give the
money to this young man.
	Tom. Bravo, Marian! I see your heart is
in the right place. What a pleasant time we
will have; will we not, girls? Now for bed.
(Exit.)
				Scene III.
Mrs Devenish and danghters seated and conversing.
(Enter Tom with Mormon Elder.)
	Tom. Aunt Susan, I have found the Mor-
mon Elder. Mr. Day, allow me to introduce
you to Mrs. Devenish and the Misses Devenish,
my aunt and cousins.
	Mrs. D. We are pleased to make your ac-
quaintance. Mr. Day, pray take a seat.
	(M. Elder bows and takes a seat.)
	Mrs. D. We heard you preach last night,
and my nephew, Mr. Tom, was anxious to
make your acquaintance and have you visit us.
In fact, we were all interested and wished to
hear more.
	M. E. I shall be most happy, madam, to
impart to you any information that is in my
power to give. Have you not heard much
concerning us as a people?
	Tom. Indeed we have. If we were to take
the papers for a guide, we would think you
a very wicked people.
	M. E. You would, indeed, sir. But the
newspapers say a great many things that are
false. The facts are, those who write these ar-
ticles in the papers know but little about us as
a people, and do not care to inform themselves,
I think sometimes, for fear of knowing the
truth. It has become the fashion to talk and
write against the Latter-day Saints, and our
enemies would die of ennui were these sensa-
tions to cease.
	Tom. Ha-ha. Mr. Day, you have them
there. I think that many in the fashionable
world are becoming very shallow minded.
	Mrs. D. You will pardon me, sir, if I ask,
have you a home? My nephew wishes to ex-
tend to you the privileges of our home and al-
so of his friendship.
	M. E. I am very grateful to you and Mr.
Tom. For the present I have a home among
our people; but I would be very pleased with
the friendship of your nephew, and also of
yourself and daughters, if you will so honor
me.
	Mrs. D. My young friend, you will always
find a welcome at my house.

[Column 3]
Lucy. Pray, sir, have you a mother and sis-
ters?
	M. E. Yes, miss; and the welcome you have
given me reminds me very much of them.
	Lacy, They must be very anxious on your
account, when you are so far away among
strangers.
	M. E. If they consulted their own feelings
they would prefer to have me at home. But
we believe in preaching the gospel to the
world, and the young are better able to go
than the old. Besides, I am in the hands of
the Lord, and my friends have faith that I will
return in safety.
	Mrs. D. It is a great blessing, Mr. Day, to
have the prayers of a kind mother and sisters.
	M. E. Indeed, madam, I realize that every
day. I believe that through their prayers I
find many friends I would not without them.
	Marian. (excited.) O ma, here is Parson
Brown! O dear! O dear! what will we do?
	Tom. Well, what of it, cousin? I expect
we can live through the storm.
	M. E. Madam, perhaps I intrude; allow me
to retire.
	Mrs. D. No, no! I am the mistress of this
house; keep your seat, Mr. Day.
	(Enter Parson Brown.)
	Parson Brown. Good morning, my dear
madam, I hope you are well; also the young la-
dies and Mr. Tom.
	Mrs. D. Quite well, thank you, sir; please
take a seat. (hands him a chair,)
	P. B. My dear lady, I have been very anx-
ious about you, I heard that you went to hear
those dreadful Mormons preach last night. I
have been wrestling with the Lord ever since
daylight, that He might save you from those
wicked people. I have come to warn you a-
gainst them. They are so cunning, they will
throw a spell around you, madam, and be-
witch you. For the sake of your lovely
daughters, my dear lady, he warned in time.
(still standing and wringing his hands.) They
will marry you and your daughters to one
man. Oh, horrible!
	Mrs D. My dear sir, pray be seated and
do not excite yourself. Nothing serious has
happened, I can assure you.
	P. B. (with a groan.) Nothing serious; did
you not go and hear those wicked Mormons?
	Mrs. D. Certainly we went and heard those
dreadful Mormons, as you call them. But I
did not see or hear anything very dreadful. I
saw a good looking young man, and heard him
say many good things.
	P. B. Think, my dear lady, of the poor
dear departed, your worthy husband. With
what sorrowful eyes he must be looking down
at you at the present time. Besides, these
Mormons have a new Bible. They do not be-
lieve in the blessed Jesus. They are a black
spot on creation. 'They are the—the twin rel-
ic.		
	Tom. You make a grand mistake, Mr.
Brown, their Bible is the same as ours. They
not only believe in bur Savior, but they preach
the. same doctrine as He did. (aside.) That
is more than I can say of you, Mr. Long face.
As for the twin relic, I believe they are the
twin relic of the ancient Apostles.
	Lucy. Indeed, they are, Mr. Brown. For
they have prophets and apostles, and believe in
revelation.
	Marian. Yes, sir, they believe in the Bible
and preach from it. Is that very wicked, sir?
	P. B. I see, my child, you are all be-
witched. (turning round he sees the M. E.;
eyes him suspiciously and starts forward.) Ah!
Who have we here?
Tom. (bowing low.) Mr. Brown, allow me
the extreme pleasure of introducing to you Mr.
Day, a Mormon Elder from Salt Lake City.
Mr. Day, our respected minister, Mr. Brown.
	P. B. (in a great rage.) What! a viper in
this very house! Madam, how dare you—


[Column 1]
	Mrs. D. (with dignity.) Sir, you forget
youself. I dare anything in my own house.
	P. B. (cringing.) My dear lady, forgive
me. In my great love for you, I did forget
myself. But it is dreadful to think that my
sheep must be eaten up by these ravenous
wolves.
	Tom. (aside, pointing to M. E.) He is
afraid that this wolf will eat up all his good
dinners.
	Mrs. D. I am quite capable, Sir, of taking
care of my own affairs. As for the wolves, I
think it is vice versa in your case.
	(M. E. seems to be enjoying the scene huge-
ly.)
	P. B. Mrs. Devenish, consider the awful
position you are in. Think of the many years
you have sat under the voice of a servant of
God, (weeping.) your old minister. (holding
out his hands beseechingly to Mrs. D.) Turn
this man from your house; let him not contam-
inate your pure daughters, nor endanger the
morals of Mr. Tom. O, I tremble for your
safety.
	Lucy. Sir, we are not afraid of this young
man. He does not look so very monstrous.
	Marrian. (aside.) I do not think he does.
	P, B. My dear, you do not know them as
well as I do.
	Tom. Do you know them Mr. Brown?
Have you been much in their company?
	P. B. (holding up his hands in horror.) I
know them! much in their company! (with a
groan.) The Lord forbid. This is the first time
I ever saw one. I pray it may be the last.
	Marian. Why, Mr. Brown, I thought you
said you knew them.
	P. B. (confused.) H-m—My child, I have
heard and read so much about them,
	Tom. Pshaw, is that all?
	Mrs. D. Being a minister of the gospel and
a follower of our Savior, you should have
charity, Mr. Brown, and not believe everything
yon read and hear. If you continue your vis-
its here you will surely meet this young man,
for I have given him a cordial welcome to our
house.
	P. B. (in a rage.) I will not be so insult-
ed. I, a minister of the Church of England,
mix with those vile people. Never, never!
(rushes to the door, looks back.) Anathema!
anathema! Exit.
	Tom. Ha-ha, Old boy, you have got your
walking ticket.
	Marian. O dear! I am all of a tremble.
I did not think our good old minister, could
talk like that.
	Tom. So, so, my brave coz., afraid of the
old minister, were you not?
	Mrs. D. Mr. Day, excuse this scene; you
must have been very much amused with our
good minister. I certainly was very much sur-
prised at the part he acted.
	M. E. Yes, madam I was amused, but not
at all surprised. I have met such gentlemen
before.
	Mrs. D. Let us resume our conservation.
	Lucy. If you live in Salt Lake City, Mr.
Day, you are acquainted with Mr. Young,
your leader. Is he anything like our minis-
ter?
	M. E. No, miss, they are as opposite as
light and darkness. I know President Young
well, and some of the Apostles. They are men
of God. I know them to be honest, upright
and virtuous.
	Mrs. D. You are too young to have known
Mr. Smith, your Prophet.
	M. E. Yes, ma'am; but my father knew
him well. I have often heard him speak of
the Prophet Joseph Smith; of his great heart
and noble soul; of his wisdom and intelligence,
and of him being a servant of God, and friend
to all mankind.
	Marian. Do you believe this to be true, Mr.
Day?

[Column 2]
	M. E. I more than believe. I know it to
be true through the many evidences I have
of its truth, and by the revelations of the Ho-
ly Spirit.
	Tom. You are very different from us; we
only believe, hope and pray it is so.
	M. E. That is because you have not been
taught correct principlns by one having au-
thority from God. The Gospel of Jesus Christ
is so plain, that our Lord says, a wayfaring
man, though a fool, may not err.
	Marian. Mr. Day, you do not talk like our
minister. I rather like what you say.
	M. E. I try to deliver the message my
Master gave me in its purity. I am nothing of
myself, and without the Spirit of the Lord I
should be worse than nothing in my present
position. I must now bid you good-day. I
have duties to perform that must not be neg-
lected. Please accept my thanks for the
kind reception you have given me. I shall
deem it a pleasure to call again.
	Mrs. D. My young friend, we shall be most
happy to see you whenever circumstances will
permit you to visit us.
	Tom. Mr. Day, I will accompany you part
of the way.
	M. E. Thanks, Mr. Tom. I should be
pleased with your company, (Both bow to the
ladies and retire.)
				M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPENCER HOUSE.
	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds
in the city, which, with the extensive lawns
and abundant shade trees, make it pre-emin-
ently a most inviting resort for tourists—prices
are reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos.
251 and 252.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEASKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	24c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Htmn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
ris building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yams,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IS GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]

HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, L[-]CE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUNS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Fall and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Woman of all Nations.

