Vol. 12. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15 1883.		No. 10.


"OUR MOTHER."
AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO SISTER MAY.
   Sister dear, we know our mother,
With her crown of golden hair,
Soon will leave, us for another
world more fair.

   A world that is not full of sorrow
And every haunting care,
Even in that blest tomorrow,
In that world more fair. 

In that fair world she'll meet our father.
WHo has left and gone before,
He has crossed the stygian river.
And safely reached the shining shore.

The let us strive to wear with honor,
in "due time"our crown of grey,
Also let us strive to join her
In that fairer world, dear May
			B.A. Bush.
Cloverdale Farm, Tooele Co., Oct. 2nd, 1883


THE WATCHER'S NIGHT THOUGHTS

Little crickets, so blithe and merry,
	Singing your night songs, gay and cheery,
Do you know you comfor the sad and sick,
With your "zr-r, zr-r, clip-cl-click"?

O, owl, in the tree, your "hoot-hoo-h-o-o-ty."
SOunds like a sentinel's "cry on duty!"
Telling the watcher she is not alone
In her vigils sad, by the dying one.

O, shining moon, as you go away,
You seem to tell us, 'tis almost day,"
That though your going may darken the skies,
The sun in his brightness, will soon arise.

Glittering stats, you stay all night,
Shining in brightly till morning light
Like bright rays of hope, high overhead,
Though all things earthly seem silent -dead.

The cricket, the owl, the moon and stars,
Begulling the silent, midnight hours,
Tell of a Creator everywhere,
And prove His power and loving care.
					EMILY SCOTT.


LINES OF LOVE.

TO MA SMOOT.

In a dream I saw Eternity,
	My eyes were opened wide,
AndAnd oh, the many beautiful things
	I saw on ev'ry side.
But one scene of all can I recall,
	A scene so purely bright—
I fear I cannot portray to you
	The glories that met my sight.

A mansion, with white shining pillars,
	Of lofty, marvelous grace;
The walls were jeweled, and windows wide
	Were draped with misty lace;
The garden was brilliant with flowers—
	The trees sung soft refrains
To the rippling trill of the waters,
	Sounding like falling rains.

Lovely clad angels with happy eyes,
	Flitted from side to side.
With questions I sought these beings bright,
	To which, one softly replied—
"This home was fashioned for one on earth,
	Whom you both know and love.
Would you like to look at the treasures
	Which she has stored above?


"These walls are festooned with jewels rare,
	Of thrift and Godly fears:
The floors are covered with trials borne,
	That shine like angel's tears:
Those flowers were strewn by children's hands,
	The fruits, a mother's woes,
Planted by generous sacrifice--
	The saddest tree that grows."

"Now see," she said, "the loveliest gift
	That woman could receive-
A diadem of more priceless worth
	Than mortals could conceive.
Glowing, glistening, and dazzling gems,
	Adorned this lovely crown:
While resting in waiting brilliancy,
	Cushioned with softest down."

"This crown is her husband's love and trust;
	Its gems, a woman's cares;
Set in with the gold of woo and pain,
	Embossed with many prayers.
Go! tell her we pray for our meeting here,
	But all must bide the law!
And when you see her kiss her for us,
	On earth they call her Ma."
									HONESPUN.


[Column 1]

		A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN.
	Yes! to-day I have seen that wonderful be-
ing of God's creation, a beautiful woman! She
fairly magnetized my eyes and one or two of
my senses-and all of my heart, that I gave her
free as air, I could not help it; I have been
looking back and cannot recollect that I ever
saw to my mind, a woman so perfect. I dis-
like sweeping assertions and they generally
are not true, but there are exceptions to all
things, and this is one, I am so glad I have
seen her! she has left an influence that I will
try to make beneficial-she was surely formed
as a model in more ways than one. She has
passed down another current, never more to
blend with me personally on earth, but spirit-
ually we shall communicate; for there was a 
powerful affinity between us; I will try to
draw an adumbrated portrait of her but feel I
cannot do her justice.
	Grandly tall! and proportion, which in it-
self is beauty, visibly stamped upon her from
the crown of her noble head to the sole of her
foot! No fat! but flesh and muscle to balance
her hight, her beautiful, womanly head finely
set on a graceful neck, and shoulders worthy to
bear the same; her profusion of hair amounting
to a marvel-but so gracefully arranged as not
to be cumbrous-her voice musical and the
deliverly of her words perfect! Her dress-
why it was entirely a model for any fashiona-
ble modist, and yet original! -rich in material,
but plain in make up-no vulgar jewelry about
her neck, but a simple ribbon bearing proba-
bly a souvenir of chaste-simple but recherche
--the ribbon tied as none but she could fix it-
her hat!-I ought to take a whole paragraph
to describe its elegance, but "I pass"-were I
a painter I should be apt to take the tout en-
semble of this unique woman as my model for
St. Cecelia, because with all this beauty and
chaste adornment, there was a sweet, womanly
simplicity, a suavity of manner, and a simple
dignity of deportment that gave the electric
charm to all she said or did-her earnest yet
gentle words, her manner so simple yet pol-
ished, bearing the impress of a patrician, yet
humble and entirely approachable.
	What a model! Had we such an one al-

[Column 2]
ways before our eyes we surely should improve
in our manners and address to each other-
which is often so chilling, so immobile, so ob-
tuse, so unlovable.
	I rejoice I was so fortunate as to have come
in contact with the faint outline I have des-
cribed-it has warmed me up, struck chords
that have long lain mute for the want of a
hand to strike them. Association of superior
natures, or rather perhaps I should say, man
ners is necessary to every one as a finish to ed-
ucation of whatever school. We are cultiva-
ted by such an association more in a few hours
than we could be in days or weeks of scholastic
friction. "One touch of nature makes the
whole world kin," -and this we realize in asso-
ciating with our fellow beings-especially our
superiors-this superiority needs to be defined
-in a few words, it does not consist in wealth
or position-it arises from the cultivation of
the heart and brain, and the association that
polishes and refines both these organs and
gives them tact and talent to diffuse amiability
and happiness among any society into which,
the circumstances of life often throw people
unexpectedly; a really well educated person is
at home in all society where goodness and res-
pectability prevail; and when brought in con-
tact with opposing elements it is often seen
that the "oil and wine" of love and kindness
emerging from such a spirit has the power to
still the turbulent element of ignorance, and
awaken an under current of love and admira-
tion, that was flowing silently in the bed rock
of a strange, hard nature, which the voice of
love and education had never cultivated.
	My beautiful friend, adieu! In spirit I kiss
my hand to thee, and aspirate a blessing on
thee and on they earthly pilgrimage! Thou
hast shed a stray ray or two of sunlight ou
my lonely but peaceful life; thy image is pho-
tographed vividly on my heart and brain.
Our spirits spoke to each other in a language
peculiar to themselves, and revealed things
that our present language could never proper-
ly make known. May the angels of God at-
tend thy steps, and peace and health be around
thy dwelling.
	Image of Beauty, Farewell!
							H. T. King.


HOMESPUN TALK.

	Yes, ma'am, I am Mormon! Mormon to the
backbone. I am no saint, and you won't need to
consult more than two of my numerous house-
hold to find out the truth of this statement.
You want me to tell you what Mormonism
means to me. Well, it means that I have a 
right to wear plain clothes, or rich clothes,
shabby clothes or old-fashioned ones;that I have
a right to put consecrated oil in or on my
children when they are sick, while my neigh-
bors have a right to call in quack doctors; it
means that I have a right to patronize home in-
dustries and co-ops, instead of building up
the men who would see me go to jail like An-
nie Gallifant and only rejoice thereat; I have
the privilege of giving my husband all the
wives he chooses to take, and take comfort
with them, too; that I have a right to teach
my children to respect the dear religion their
fathers suffered for and sometimes died for its
sake; it means freedom, peace, faith, and life, 
full and complete, both here and hereafter; and
it means—God in EVERYTHING!


74	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	I had nearly forgotten our artist, Brother
Major, from England, who commenced in the
summer of 1845 to paint our family group.
It was upon a large canvas, tastefully ar-
ranged,—my father and mother sitting with
baby in the centre,—myself at her side and
my brother William with his wife and little
daughter on the left, and four younger
brothers made up the family group. I sat for
mine more than any of the rest, and the face
was nearly completed before it was taken off
the frame to be packed away, which was done
only a short time previous to our leaving Nau-
voo. One of the same size, with President B.
Young and family was begun at the same time
—the latter I saw but a short time previous to
Sister Young's death—also another with the
First Presidency, B. Young, H. C. Kimball
and W. Richards, and the Twelve Apostles
sitting in council, whsch was hanging there in
the same unfinished state, Brother Major hav-
ing died many years ago.
	The following incidents close this volume of
my father's journal; and though he may have
continued it through the rest of the month, we
have not been able to find any clue to it. But
being a frequent visitor at the Temple I can
testify to the faithfulness of my father and
mother, and many more of my brethren and
sisters, who continued laboring there without
ceasing until the evening of February 3rd,
at which time my marriage took place. The
great work which the Lord had predicted
through the Prophet Joseph should be done in
that house was fulfilled in spite of all the
threats and the snares set by His foes to pre-
vent it.
	"January 7th. This morning there was an
immense crowd at the reception room waiting
for admission into the washing and anointing
rooms. The brethren came along bearing ves-
sels filled with all kinds of provisions for the
use of those attending to the ordinances of the
Lord's House. The supply is much greater
than the consumption. 	*		*		*
The supply of provisions brought in to-day has
been very abundant, and much of it has been
sent away to those families that are desti-
tute.	*		*		*		*		*
	"A letter was received this morning from
Mr. Tucker, the Catholic priest, informing us
that the Bishop could not raise money enough
to purchase our property, but would either pur-
chase or rent one of our public buildings, but
would not insure it against fire or mobs. A
council was held in Pres. Young's room, and
the letter was taken into consideration." The
result of their deliberation, it seems, was that
they would not answer the letter, that the
Catholics might go their own way, for they
would have no more to do with them. At six
o'clock that evening, he says, "The High
Priests held their different meetings in rooms
Nos. 8 and 10." After putting down each
name he continues, "The three meetings were
conducted by persons chosen in each one to
preside, and all the individuals in them were
clothed in priestly apparel, and the greatest
unanimity of feeling prevailed. The most
prominent things prayed for were, the preser-
vation of President B. Young and all the
Twelve, and that the ordinances of the endow-
ment might continue until all the Elders had
received their washings and anointings, and
that the Saints might all be able to procure
means by which they could remove from Nau-
voo to the west in a comfortable manner, and
for the sick, that they may be healed—and that
God would disappoint our enemies in all their
plans."
	He speaks of Sister Ann M. Foster going

[Column 2]
home about that time with her little boy,
Lucian R. Foster, Jr., "having been in the
Temple all the time since yesterday noon. Her
little boy was quite sick when she came, but
went away quite well." On the Sunday pre-
vious she brought him to the Temple, and at
the request of Brother Foster my father, Pres.
Young and P. P. Pratt laid their hands upon
him and pronounced upon him many blessings,
and among them that of life and health.
	"About 9 o'clock this evening Elder H. C.
Kimball and his wife, Bishop Whitney and
his wife left the Temple and went to Joseph
Kingsbury's to remain until William Kimball
should carry a load of persons, viz: L. R. Fos-
ter, Horace Whitney and Mary Ellen Harris
to their respective homes. After which he re-
turned and carried home his father and mother
in the carriage with the grey horses. Bishop
Whitney and his wife went home also in the
same carriage. President Brigham Young left
the Temple about 10 o'clock and went home
for the night."
	"This afternoon and evening the new altar
was used for the first time,—four individuals
and their wives were sealed. The altar is
about 2 ½ feet high and 2 ½ feet long and about
8 or 9 inches wide,	*		*		*		are
covered with cushions of scarlet damask
cloth. The Twelve and the Bishops with their
wives were present at the dedication this after-
noon." This closes his journal.
	Sister Mary Ellen Harris, mentioned above,
is living here in Salt Lake City, and is one of
my father's widows, and is known and respect-
ed by hundreds, not only for her faithfulness
to the Gospel, but for her many qualities of
head and heart. She has testified to me that
she was sealed in that Temple to my father,
and that she chose him because he was a man
of God, though her heart was grieved that she
should cause Sister Vilate Kimball one pang,
but felt that if she did not take this step her
own glory would be clipt. My mother, hear-
ing how Mary Ellen felt, caused her for ever
after to feel kindly towards her. There were
over twenty women sealed to my father in that
Temple for the same conscientious reasons ex-
pressed by Sister Mary Ellen; and five of them
were taken as the wives of the Prophet Joseph.
Those women were actuated by the one princi-
ple, salvation and exaltation in our Father's
Kingdom; though three or four became disaf-
fected in consequence of their light becoming
darkness, and they had not sufficient grace,
therefore, apostacy was the result. One who
left him in a rash moment never denied the
faith, and she speedily repented the step. It
was but a few years after, when afflicted with
an incurable disease, that she came to one of
his wives, Harriet S. Kimball, desiring the
privilege of remaining under his roof, where
she was received and nursed tenderly by Har-
riet, till death came to her release. I believe
that his wives were all honest when they took
this step. All had refused offers from single
men, and no earthly inducements were held
out to them to enter the plural order. They
were given to understand that this was to be a
life of trial and sacrifice, and no one was forced
to enter into this order only by the power of
the Holy Ghost, which bringing, as it did, con-
viction to their hearts, I may say did compel
them to accept and obey it. Pure and exalted
was their aim—they saw a glory which they
could not attain to accept they obeyed this ce-
lestial law, of which they would know nothing,
nor can they ever understand it only by that
same spirit, which will reveal all things to the
humble and contrite. To enter this much
talked of order (which those who openly sus-
tain and foster all manner of licentiousness
and crimes, professing to look upon it with such
holy horror, and enact laws to destroy us and
our family relations) is the first and grandest
step towards advancement in that great and

[Column 3]
purifying plan laid down by the Almighty, and
I know that it is a divine institution, and that
it places women as well as men upon a higher
plane, and will more quickly free her from that
bondage and curse which fell upon her through
transgression, than any other, and that the ones
who practice and advocate it will be the first
to stand again as man's equal, as did our first
mother, Eve, in the garden of Eden. Though
many blunders have been made by the inex-
perienced and wrongs committed by individu-
als, which they will be called to answer for
sooner or later, I can testify to the purity of
the principle, and that it is God-like in its
fruits, and has a tendency to expand the soul,
and to raise our thoughts and desires above the
groveling things of earth, which, through the
many generations that have passed away, has
become corrupt, narrow and contracted. The
ones who practice it as a God-given principle
become more pure and lofty in every thought
and desire; their aspirations reach to some-
thing higher than the gratification of earthly
lusts and those who remain true and virtuous
will continue to progress in the higher walks
throughout time and all eternities; while those
who reject it, and set themselves up to judge
and condemn and revile against the ones who
passing through the fiery ordeals, that are
necessary to purify and prepare us to enter
those higher grades, of which they know
nothing, having never crossed even the thres-
hold, will have dwindled and passed away, and
been forgotten, even "like chaff upon the sum-
mer threshing floor." They refuse to believe
facts though we publish and send them out in-
to the world, desiring them to know things just
as they are. We do not proclaim these things in
a boasting spirit, nor in and of ourselves, but
in the strength of Him to whose promises and
truths we have clung for more than fifty years,
and the latter are our most powerful weapons
against all the vile slander that can be raised
against us; and our faith is that we shall still
go on conquering and to conquer. We can
anticipate the feelings of our persecuters when
the truth breaks in upon them, and they awake
to their own condition; and the Lord knows
that they already have my sympathies.

To be Continued.


GOSHEN PRIMARY.
				GOSHEN, Sept. 22nd, 1883.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our fair on the above date, which
was a great credit to the children. They took
an interest in making many beautiful things
to adorn their persons and houses, and I think
it wonld be well to mention some of the arti-
cles made by our little ones, and also give you
an idea of the proceedings. Basket made by
Margaret Poulson, aged 10 years, rake, John
Poulson, 8 years; quilt, Elizabeth Burson, 11
years; bracket, Elizabeth Higginson; mat,
Annie Jaspersen, 8 years; bracket, Lydia Jas-
persen, 10 years; cushion, Eliza Dedds, 10
years; comb-case, Janet Jenkins, 10 years; veg-
etables, Hardy Jenkins, 8 years; hair switch,
Mary Laird; straw braiding, Josey Laird, 9
years; brackets, Elizabeth Standfiely, 10 years;
map drawing, Maggie Morgan; two cakes
made by two little girls about 8 years, also
needle work, flowers. knit and crochet lace, ti-
dies, a beautful nubia, nice mats of various
styles, and many beautiful things too numer-
ous to mention.
	There were also songs and recitations given
by the children, and we had a very pleasant
and interesting time together.
		SARAH ROBERTS, President.
		JULIA M. JASPERSEN, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY ADDRESS.
TO A YOUNG BROTHER ATTAINING THE AGE OF
			TWENTY-ONE.
	Another year has passed away.
And brought again your natal day;
And ended all minority
By ushering in majority.

The rolling years of life have run
And brought you up to twenty-one!
So now you enter life’s great mart
Summon'd to play your allotted part;
	And not in domino to play it,
But in your proper self essay it!
And truly you have well begun
The race or life, yes, well you’ve run.
You have been blest with parents kind,
Who've wisely trained your heart and mind,
And taught you how you might attain
That wisdom, which ’tis wealth to gain;
And God has had His eye on you,
And daliy watches all you do;— 
Lie ever passive in His hands,
Obeying all His wise commands;
Present your heart and brain to Him
To have, to hold them free from sin;
To strengthen, fertilize, and make
Them quick to bend, but never break.

You’ve entered by the Gospel door,
As Christ, your Savior, did before,
And now you may expect to meet
Not always roses at your feet!
For e’en the beauteous, gorgeous rose
Finds on its stem there ever grows
Thorns clustered round it thick and sharp,
A symbol of the light and dark:
To good and bad comes joy and woe,
A chequered life to all below:
But to a Saint of Latter-days
The sunshine comes in many Ways;
E’en in the storm there shines a beam,
A rainbow, with its prism gleam!
That comes so straight from God’s bright throne
It makes its brightness all our own.

The" Rod of Iron,” grasp it tight,
’Twlll put temptations all to flight;
Shut ears and eyes when such shall find you
And bid the Tempter get behind you!
Whatever shape he may appear in,
He does not always make us fear him
But as an angel fair and bright
He puts onr vigilance to flight.

Walk sotly in a prosp'rous day,
In Sol’s meridian burning ray
The shadow of a “Rock” we need,
And ’twill be there in very deed
If we will keep our, heart and eye
Upon the “Polestar” of the sky, 
That star so fixed will ne’er decline,
But in the darkest night will shine
Upon each Saint of Latter-days
Through all-the devious means and ways,
That often as a net is thrown
Around the feet of Heaven’s own!
And every Saint must surely meet
These serpent colls around their feet;
But silence keep—the fervent prayer
Will disentangle every snare:
And when’tis past—in looking back 
Along the woeful, dreary track,
In heart and soul you’ll kiss the rod
And say, “I see the hand of God!
And He it was who bore me up,
While drinking from that bitter cup!
Yes, God was with me, now I know,
Or I had sunk beneath that woe!
I rise from all a stronger man,
And heaven’s programme I can scan;
I’m wiser than I was before,
My mind is stronger than of yore;
I feel, and see, and know I am
A wiser and a better man I—”

I have not pictured blissful days,
You’ll meet them, sure, in many ways;
There’s much of good in store for you
If you are wise in al you do;
Pray, pray form wisdom!-- may it be
The ones great gift bestowed on thee!

For many a mind, both great and bright,
Has sunk involved in endless night
For lack of wisdom’s lamp to night
Her mighty halo round their head!
Wisdom in thought, in speech, in act,
To make success in life a fact!
All this you’ll need, my youthful friend,
Until life’s warfare has an end!

May heaven hold you by the hand,
That firm and faithful you may stand,
His son, His soldier, servant, priest;
Then in each one you will be blest;
And may this day return each year
Laden with joys your heart to cheer,
And friends and dear ones round you be,
Such are the prayers I pray for thee.
Accept the tribute I now send,
From one who is your faithful friend.
						HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]

A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]

	The board of health was indeed just what
the name indicated and even to this day the
good results of the methods Dr. Richards
taught are evident. They have never been
forgotten by those who had the opportunity
of receiving direct from him some ideas of the
knoweldge and experience he had gained by
means of a long and successful practice, and
also through giving heed to the suggestive
whisperings of the spirit and the exercise of
faith in God. He was an Apostle, holding the
holy priesthood, with power to administer in
all the ordinances of the same, and he was not
only willing but anxious to help forward all
who desired to become acquainted with the
principles he so well understood. He realized
that the gift of healing was a power, especial-
ly when combined with works adapted to the
circumstances of the case, and he felt that it
was quite necessary that those who officiated
among the sick, especially midwives, ought to
have all the blessings that could be conferred
upon them by those holding the keys of the
priesthood of God upon the earth.
	Accordingly he laid his hands upon the
heads of a number of the sisters who had pre-
pared themselves to act as midwives and also
administering to the sick and afflicted and set
them apart for this very office and calling, and
blest them with power to officiate in that ca-
pacity as handmaids of the Lord. Among
the number set apart at that time Sister Pres-
endia was one who received the blessing, and
from that day to this she has realized the
power and influence it conferred in her daily
administerings, not only when she has been
called upon to act as a midwife, but when
washing and anointing and blessing the sisters.
	There were other sisters set apart and blest
at the same time, among whom were Sisters
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Laura Pitkin Kim-
ball, who were set apart to administer to the
sick. They appreciated this blessing for they
had implicit faith in the power of the priest-
hood.
	Sister Presendia says, "Sometime in the fall
of 1851 I was in delicate health and was
obliged to retire from the duties of the
Endowment House which had been so
beneficial to me, though I still felt the
blessings I had received therein accompanied
me to my home and in the daily routine of dai-
ly life. I was so happy I scarcely knew how to
be thankful enough for the blessings God had
bestowed upon me, and I rejoiced by day and
by night and looked forward like Elizabeth of
old to the time of my deliverance."
	"On December 22, 1851, my son Joseph Smith
Kimball was born. He was like an Isaac of
old to me.' I had been favored of the Lord to

[Column 2]
have a son born in the new and everlasting
covenant, and I looked upon it as a great
blessing to be thus honored.
	I was living in the adobie row just on the
north side of City Creek, where the first home
Heber C. Kimball built in the valley was sit-
uated. It was very comfortable compared
with what we had been acustomed to since
leaving our homes. It was there my son
Joseph was born, and I was so anxious that
he should grow up in the nurture and admon-
ition of the Lord that I prayed continually
that I might have wisdom to teach him those
things that would be for his highest good, that
he might grow up to be an honor and a bless-
ing in the Kingdom of God. I know now
that my prayers were heard, and I feel that
the Lord has been very merciful to me, and
that though many of my sons were taken away
when young, yet this one has been spared to
me, and in my old age he is my stay and com-
fort, and I expect he will assist me in my work
for the dead in the Temples of the Lord. He
grew to manhood under Gospel influence, for
I never lost sight of the promise I had made
to the Lord to train him up to do His bidding.
I have had more joy, more comfort and more
satisfaction in this one son, who was born in
this celestial order of marriage in the new and
everlasting covenant, than in all the other
children I have borne. He is to me an Isaac
indeed, and I feel to thank God that He gave
me so good and so noble a gift, and I acknowl-
edge His hand in all my trials and afflictions,
and realize that He has guided me safely
through, and that in my declining years I am
reaping the reward promised to the obedieut
and those who keep the commandments of God
without murmuring, and who endure persecu-
tion through evil report as well as good."


GLENWOOD PRIMARY.

	We held our first Primary Stake Fair for
Sevier Stake at Richfield, September 13, and
as far as the articles shown by the children
were concerned, they were excellent, but the
hall was scarcely large enough for such a dis-
play. To enumerate all would take up too
much space. It consisted of fancy work, co-
coons, knitting, home spun yarn, done by some
very small girls, patchwork, sewing, hair work,
mottoes, photography, crochet, wagons, rakes,
tables, cupboards, cradles, shovels, forks, cor-
rals, with cows, pigs, etc., spades, marbles,
dishes, vegetables of all descriptions, bread,
pies, cakes, pickles, preserves, cheese, butter,
canned fruit, catsup, etc., etc. All was excel-
lent, and deserving of great praise, but we
could not help admiring very much a minia-
ture threshing machine, made by Lewis Baker,
aged 13 or 14, who threshed some wheat, show-
ing that it really worked, also Brother Bean's
residence, made by his daughter Chloe, of
cardboard and paper, and a bridle made by a
young boy, also a fall-leaf table by Joseph
Harne, and many other note-worthy articles.
	We visited the Primaries lately and find
them much improved to what they were two
years ago. Ever praying for the welfare of
Zion,		We remain,
		LOUISIANA HEPPLER, President,
		PHOEBE PIERCE, Secretary.


Dr. Lucy Hall, of Massachusetts Woman’s
Prison, said, at the conclusion of a carefully
prepared paper, at the Social Science Associa-
tion, the other day: “Nowhere is there an ac-
tive work of reform more needed than among
the mill population of our State. Those who
know only what were the social conditions
there twenty or thirty years ago can form but
an imperfect idea of the depravity and dis-
order which now prevail in these localities."


76	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMEN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 15, 1883.


OCTOBER CONFERENCE, 1883.

	The Fifty-third semi annual Conference,
which was held in this city Oct. 5, 6 and 7, was
certainly one of the largest and most interesting
that has ever been convened. It signifies the
growth and importance of the Kingdom of God
upon the earth. The large Tabernacle was
crowded to its utmost capacity, and hundreds
were unable to gain admittance. Indeed, the
streets were so thronged during the hours of ser-
vice that one might [---] have imagined meet-
ing was over. All this is prophetic. It forshad-
ows the glorious future to which the Saints have
looked forward with such fond anticipation. The
teaching and preaching during the three days of
Conference were [-]mi[-]enty calculated to edify
and elevate as well as comfort, and the Holy
Spirit seemed to carry testimony to the hearts
of all who heard. It was a season of refreshing
as well as rejoicing, and will assuredly tend to
strengthen the faith of the Saints.
	The progress of the work the Latter-day
Saints are engaged in, according to the statisti-
cal reports, is certainly most encouraging and
shows how completely the enemies of the work
have been defeated in their efforts to hinder its
spread. The fact that the immense congrega-
tions were edified and satisfied with the instruc-
tions given, and the spirit of the Conference is
sufficient proof in itself, to those acquainted
with the Gospel and its effects, that there was a
power and influence with those who addressed
the great concourse of people that satisfied the
soul of the lover of truth and intelligence; for
the "Mormons," as they are called, fully un-
derstand the genuine ring of the true metal and
cannot be palmed off with counterfeits, or a
semblance of Gospel truth.
	It was a very peaceful gathering, nothing
seemingly to annoy or disturb the even flow of
the Spirit of God.
	The music of the Tabernacle choir being as a
whole the composition of home composers, Lat-
ter-day Saints, was something out of the com-
mon, and marks in a noticeable degree the ad-
vancement in the higher attainments of this
people. Some of the pieces were sublime, many
were excellent, and all were good, and the su-
perior rendering of the music helped those who
listened to appreciate home talent in music. In
vocal and instrumental music the Latter-day
Saints excel, and this is an elevating and inspir-
ing element in the Church, in the home, and in
the community. A great deal has been accom-
plished in this direction, but when the Temples
are completed there will of necessity be an im-
mense number of the sweet singers of Israel
needed, as well as players upon the timbrel, the
harp and other instruments used for sacred wor-
ship, so that after all this is only the beginning.


In Zion it is expected will be found not only
the most skilled workman, but that the cultiva-
tion of all the higher attributes and qualities of
one's nature will bring the highest standard of
perfection possible upon this earth.
	In this connection so much might be said that
one can get but a faint idea, a glimpse only of
the beauty, the glory and the excellence of that
which is to come. But while one contemplates
all these magnificent results to be achieved he
must not lose sight of the identical present upon
which so much of the great future depends.


CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.
			AND WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE.
	As per adjournment the Utah Constitutional
Convention met in the City Hall, Tuesday, Oct.
9, at 10 a.m, Hon. Joseph F. Smith President
in the chair. A majority of the delegates were
present. The roll was called and the chaplain,
W. W. Cluff, offered prayer. The President an-
nounced the death of Hon. L E. Harrington, 
First Vice-President of the Conventiton, which
occured since the last session, on June 21, 1883.
The President apointed as a committee to draft
a suitable expressino of the sentiments of the
Convention occasioned by his death, Hon. John
E. Booth, Provo, Arthur Stayner, Farmington,
and Joseph E. Stanford, Ogden. Committee
reported teh following resolutions:

	Whereas, Providence in its wisdom has, since
our last meeting, removed from us our highly 
respected Brother, the Hon. L. E. Harrington,
senior vice president of this Convention.
	Therefore be if Reselved, by this body, in con-
vention assembled, that while we sincerely de-
plore the absence of our beloved brother, we
acknowledge with pleasure the nobility of soul
and manliness of purpose which ever actuated
him in his walk in public life. He was a man
known intimately to the public for upwards of
35 years, during which time he, to an eminent
degree, enjoyed the entire and richly laden con-
fidence of the public. In a political capacity in 
which this body has more particularly known
him, we realize that he was strictly honest, un-
selfish, broad in his views, sanguine for the good
of the people, undeviating in what he recog-
nized as the right course. He served the Terri-
tory as a Legislator consecutively for 80 years
having been elected to the first Assembly.
	Resolved, That in the demise of our colleague
this Territory has lost a staunch advocate for
the rights of the people, a conscientious citizen
and a Christian gentleman.
	Resolved--That we extend our sympathies to
the family and relatives of our deceased friend,
and that a copy of these resolutions be furnished
to his family and be published in the Utah pa-
pers.
	Hon. John T. Caine moved that the report of 
the committee be accepted and resolutions adop-
ted as the sentiments of the Convention.
	Attention was called to the vacancy in the of-
fice caused by the death of Mr. Harrington, and
Mr. Caine nominated Hon. A. O. Smoot as
First Vice-President of the Convention. Sec-
onded and unanimously carried, and Mr. Smoot
took the Vice-President's chair. 
	The committee on nominations, appointed
June 6, presented the following report:
	Mr. President and Members of the Conven-
tion:
	Gentlemen-- Your committee on nominations
to whom was referred the duty of nominating a
successor to Hon. Wm. H. Hooper, deceased, as
member of the Constitutional Delegation to
Washington, beg leave to report and recom-
mend that Hon. Moses Thatcher be elected by
the Convention as delegate to fill said vacancy.
				D. H. WELLS,
				A. O. SMOOT,
				L. JOHA NUTTALL,
				EMMELINE B. WELLS,
			 Committee on Nominations. 
	Which was read and, on motion of Mr. Tan-
ner, accepted and the recommendation thereof
unanimously adopted, and Honorable Moses
Thatcher appointed.
	Hon. C. W. Penrose presented the following:
	Mr. President--I move that in case of a va-
cancy occurring in the Delegation to Washing-
ton from any cause, or if any member thereof
is unable to attend to the duties of Delegate,
during the adjournment of this Convention the
President be authorized to fill the vacancy by
appointment, Carried.
	Committee on printing presented their report
as follows:
	Mr. President-- Your committee on printing 
respectfully report that the reports of the Dele-
gates to Washington and of the committee on
statistics have been printed as ordered by the
Convention.		C. W. Nibley, Chairman.
	Mr. Nuttall presented the following mo-
tion:
	I move that when this Convention adjourns-- 
it be to meet at the place on Monday, April 7th,
1881, at 7 o'clock p.m. unless sooner called to-
gether by the President. 	Carried.
	After the reading and approving of the jour-
nal, on motion of Mr. Caine, the Convention ad-
journed.
	The committee appointed to present the Con-
stitution to Congress will probably be able to do
some real practical work in Washington this
coming winter, There can be no good reason
why Utah should not be admitted as a State.
Every condition that the Declaration of Inde-
pendence requires has been complied with and
yet the people are compelled to submit to have a 
Governor and other officials appointed without
their approval or consent, who come here full
of bitter feeling and prejudice to take charge of
the affairs of the Territory.
	However, it is only a question of time, for the
thrift and prosperity of the people, and the con-
stantly increasing products and resources of
Utah are bound to be recognized yet in such a 
way that it will be impossible to debar her peo-
ple from such self-government as statehood
will allow them. When Utah is admitted into
the Union as a State with a Woman's Suffrage
plank in its platform, the women of Utah will
perhaps be acknowledged as having a place
among the women of the nation, which is now
ignored. The newspapers tell us a great deal
about Women Suffrage in Wyoming, and that
women vote on school questions in seven differ-
ent States, and so forth and so on, but Utah,
where women have voted for more than twelve
years, is scarce considered; forsooth, because
"Mormon" women vote. Are not  "Mormon" 
women's votes as good as those of "Mormon"
men? And neither men nor women are allowed
to cast a vote, or hold an office of any kind if they
are now, or ever have been living in the practice
of plural marriage. Are there not people in the
world who hold what might be termed hetero-
doxical views of marriage? Indeed there are,
but they are not religious views! Now that all
this class of  "Mormons" are disfranchised, (un-
standponit) what can there be so distasteful
about woman suffrage here that it  cannot be
spoken of with other States and Territories in
that connection? Certainly the women of Utah
are as honest, as upright, as conscientious, as in-
dustrious, as temperate, as amiable as the
women of other parts of the Commonwealth.


It can only be the same sort of prejudice tha
existed in the days of our Savior, when it was
said, "Can any good thing come out of N[-]z[-]-
reth?" But notwithstanding all this hatred and
bitterness, woman's star is in the ascendency,
and the women of Zion will yet be among the
foremost in lifting a banner to the nations that
will be worthy of recognition. And men will
be purer and better socially and politically in
consequence of the advance made by the women
who are engaged in the struggle for equal po-
litical rights. We hope that during the coming
winter some rapid strides may be made towards
the consummation so ardently desired by all
woman suffragists, the passage of the sixteenth
amendment. It takes time to convert the peo-
ple to these new ideas on the subject of voting;
for only a few yet comprehend the advantages
to be derived from woman's influence in poli-
tics.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


(Column 1)

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE performances of the Home Dramatic As-
sociation during Conference were as good a rep-
resentation of the talent of the company as
could possibly be given. The presentation of
the two plays, "P[-]que" and "Green Lines of
England," were in good taste for the occasion,
and the crowded houses and enthusiastic ap-
plause proved how appreciative were the audi-
ences. Nothing could have been more appropri-
ate than these selections. The stage appoint-
ments, scenery, etc., and the way in which the
plays were put upon the boards, as well as the
exquisi e costumes of the performers were all in
admirable harmony.
	ON Tuesday the 16th inst. the missionaries
to E[-]rope take their departure from Salt Lake
to their fields of labor.—On Tuesday the 23rd,
it is expected they will sail from New York in
the steamer Abyesinia of the Gaion L'ne. With
these missionaries there will be several ladies,
some bound for the States, and of hers will cross
the sea. Mrs. John Reeves, of Ogden, goes to
England to visit her relatives. Mrs. Josephine
Smith to join her husband, Apostle John H.
Smith, now President of the European Mission,
and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, who will go to
Germany and Switzerland, where her husband,
Elder John Q Cannon, has been laboring for
over two years, most of that time in Germany,
and has recently been appointed to preside over
the Swiss and German mission. We congratu-
late these sisters on the opportunity they will
enjoy, not only in visiting other countries, but
in aiding the Elders who are laboring in there
important missions to spread a knowledge of
the true gospel among the nations. From our
daughter Annie we shall expect to receive regu-
lar contributions to the EXPONENT, which will
no doubt add greatly to the attractions of our 
little paper.
	WE have received the first copy of THE
Woman's Tribune, published by The Nebraska
Woman's Suffrage Association, Motto: "Equali-
ty before the Law," price one dollar a year. It
is quite an undertaking, but Nebraska women
can surely sustain a paper of this kind in their
own interests, and it will be an important factor
in educating the people up to the standard nec-
essary to carry the state for woman's suffrage.
The editor, Mrs. Cara B. Colby, of Beatrice,
Neb., is a very able person, has excellent execu-
tive ability and literary attainment as well.
She can both plan and execute as well as speak
and write. We had the pleasure of meeting her
at Omaha at the N. W. S. A. Convention in
the fall of 1882, and know whereof we speak.
She has all the elements of character so essen-
tial for a thorough worker in the woman suffrage
field of labor, as well as those calculated to

(Column 2)

make her [-]n efficient journalist. We wish the 
paper every success, alo[-]it the first copy con-
tains the Circul[-]r of the Anti Polygamy Stand-
ard, which sets forth in the most odious manner
the condition of Mormon women, and calls for 
help to "commend this good work." This very
advertising of theirs will cause many to examine
the "Mormon" question, which these advocates
of rig[-]d measures from Congress who urge en-
fo[-]c[-]m[-]nt of unjust laws would gladly hinder.
Investigation of our question by intelligent men
and women is exactly what we "Mormons"
want.
	Dr. E S Barney, accordingto appointment,
gave her first free lecture on the subject of Laws
of Life to the Young Ladies Association in the
13th Ward, Oct. 9th, and we learn from those
who were present that full satisfaction was
given and that it was highly  creditable to her-
self. She was in the 8th Ward lecturing to the
Young Ladies on the 1[-]th of this month and
they listened with profound attention, and by
invitation she will continue the same subject on
the 26th of Oct. at ths same place at 8 p.m. Her
medical class has commenced ast her resilence,
and those that have come express themselvss
that the facilities which she offers to the stu-
dents surpasses their expectations. We learn
they still are coming, and it is to be hoped that
those interested will spare no pains in avail-
ing themselves of the offer before it is too late.


THE BOOK OF ETHER.

	The Book of Ether is one of the most inter-
esting books in the Book of Mormon. It is a
short synopsis or abridgement of the record of
Jaredites, which was written upon twenty-four
plates of gold. These plates were found by
the subjects of King Limhi, who were sent by
that monarch to discover the land of Zarahem-
la in the second century before Christ. They
did not find the land they desired, but wan-
dered into the northern continent, where they
found many remains of the Jaredites, and
amongst other things these plates. It was Mo-
roni who made the abridgement which is found
in the Book of Mormon, and he says he has
not written a hundredth part of what was re-
corded on the plates, but he has interspersed
the original narrative with many explanatory
notes, interpolations, prophecies, etc., of his
own. It seems from his remarks that the lan-
guage is almost entirely his own, and that he
has seldom followed the text of the original
records, as a man might in these days write a
life of Moses, founded on what are known as
the Five Books of Moses in the Bible, and yet
scarcely ever quote the original exactly.
	The Jaredites appear in their time to have
been the mightiest nation of antiquity. They
rose into power quicker than either Egypt or
Chaldea, and having the whole western world
as their domain, with no other race or nation
to oppose them. Their increase in numbers
was remarkably rapid, while at the same time
they developed a civilization peculiar to them-
selves, in which promises were realized accord-
ing to their faithfulness to heaven. They were
also threatened by their prophets with dire ca-
lamities if they forsook the Lord and practised
iniquity; unfortunately for them they frequent-
ly gave way to sin from too great prosperity,
and ultimately grew so wicked that they were
exterminated from the face of the land. The
wicked killing the wicked until there were
none left. And so they were destroyed. So it
is declared shall all nations be who dwell on
this most blessed land, when they utterly and
entirely forsake the ways of righteousness and
give themselves over to iniquity.
	The only account of this mighty people who
at one time filled both North and South Amer-


ica is contained in Mormon's abridgement.
Doubtless the time will come when much more
that is contained on the twenty-four golden
plates will be revealed. And then not only
shall we know more about the Jaredites, but
also of the earlier inhabitants of the world, for
these plates not only contain an account of
Jared and his people, but also of the creation
of the world, with a history of its people up
to the time of the building of the great tower
from whence Jared and his colony came.
								G. R.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


[For the EXPONENT.]
A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	While attending our late Conference and
listening to with much interest to the statistical
report of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, which to many people is very dry,
but to me is full of intense interest; it is a
sermon of itself; it speaks volumes, my mind
reverts back to the time when the Church was
first organized, on the 6th of April, 1830, with
six members, with a young man at their head
but 24 years of age; not a graduate from any
of the known established colleges of the day,
nor a salaried minister, nor with any of the
qualifications supposed to be necessary to pre-
pare men for preaching the gospel in this
highly enlightened age.
	What were the qualifications of this young
man, Joseph Smith, the great Prophet of the
nineteenth century? We are told in the Book
of Mormon (Second Book of Nephi, Second
Chapter) that Joseph, who was carried captive
into Egypt, prophesied that in the latter days
the Lord would raise up a Seer, "and", says
Joseph, "his name shall be called after me; and
and it shall be after the name of his father."
Now, this is one proof that he was predestina-
ted to come forth and perform a certain work,
for Joseph further says concerning him, the
Seer, "and he shall be like unto me, for the
thing which the Lord shall bring forth by His
hand, by the power of the Lord, shall bring
my people unto salvation:"
	If there was any disposition to doubt that
Joseph Smith was the one here spoken of we
have only to call to mind the fact that in an-
swer to his prayers the Lord himself and His
Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to him and told
him that the Gospel in its fulness should be re-
vealed to him, not at that time, but when he
should be sufficiently educated. Was there a
college upon the earth at that time, in which
this young man could receive an education that
would fit and prepare him to bring forth the
Gospel and officiate in its ordinances for the
living and the dead? to build temples to the
Most High God and administer in His name?
Not this side of heaven. Jesus Christ himself
gave him his first lesson, then Moroni, an an-
cient Prophet of the Lord, came and unfolded
to him mysteries that had been hid from the
world for many generations; it took about nine
years to complete his education and fit him for
the work that was before him. After he had
been educated sufficiently was he fully pre-
pared to commence the great work for the hu-
man family? No, he had not yet received his
commission. When a person takes a normal
course of studies, with a view to becoming a
teacher, when their course is finished they have
to undergo an examination, and if they are
able to pass with credit to themselves and sat-
i-faction to their instructors they receive a cer-
tificate to that effect, and are then prepared to
enter upon their duties as teachers. Just so
with Joseph Smith, he had received his educa-
tion from Jesus Christ, the son of the living
God, from holy men that had lived on this
earth in ages long gone by, and who had come


from the courts of heaven direct from God the
Eternal Father, to teach and instruct him in
the duties that should be required of him, but
until those who held the keys of the everlasting
Priesthood, the authority by which men admin-
ister in the things of God, come and conferred
that same authority upon him he had no right
to act. But I am digressing; we started out
with the statistical report, which shows a
wonderful increase in our numbers since the
organization of the Church, and I could not
help but think that those who are waiting and
watching for Mormonism to die, would, if they
listened to that report, begin to get somewhat
discouraged, and conclude that for a dying in-
institution it was wonderfully thrifty. I lis-
tened attentively (I could not certainly be
called disinterested) but I have a great desire
to learn the true status of things generally, and
I must say that I failed to preceive any signs
of decay. I cannot think that our healthy
condition is due to any especial care that has
been bestowed upon us by those who are not
of us, as I have never, since I can remember,
seen anything that would induce me to to be-
lieve that we were a pet of even the parent
government that we love so well; they have
never provided food, raiment or shelter for us
when they could help it; they have even turned
us out of doors, and seem pretty determined
in their own minds to keep us out. I cannot
help but conclude that if our welfare had
depended upon their tender care alone
that we should have been, by this time, in
about the situation they would like to see us, to
use some of their own expressions, used up.
But we know in whom to trust; we know who
has sheltered us from the rude blast, who has
turned aside the wrath of the enemy and made
it an instrument for good, who has comforted
us in times of affliction, who has bound up the
broken heart and made it to rejoice in times of
sore trial, and "His arm is not shortened, and
His hand is stretched out still;" we have
nothing to fear but ourselves. Father's prom-
ises are sure, we have only to obey.
	RUTH.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 10, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

PANGUITCH STAKE R. S. CONFERENCE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Panguitch
Stake Relief Society was held Aug. 31st,
1883, President Barbara Myers presiding.
There were present on the occasion Apostle
Erastus Snow, John R. Murdock, Prest. of the
Beaver Stake, Prest. J. W. Crosby and several
of the leading brethren.
	After singing and prayer minutes of the last
conference were read and approved, and verbal
and written reports were given. President
Barbara Myers said it was a very busy time,
but was glad to see so many out; circumstances
had prevented her visiting all the Stake. Ex-
horted the sisters to do all they could to teach
their children the principles of the Gospel.
Spoke of the storing of grain.
	Apostle E. Snow said he was pleased to meet
with the sisters, and also the brethren; spoke
of training the youth, felt to encourage sing-
ing and music to make home cheerful and en-
tertaining; not to give way to evil speaking,
but be ready to hold up the hands of the weak,
and those that are afflicted to give them joy.
	Prest. Murdock said it was with feelings of
gratitude he stood before us; did not know what
was calculated to do more good than these
meetings of the Relief Societies; felt to admire
the prospects we had before us; said it was the
small things that counted in the Kingdom;
that the sisters were the refining part of the
community; if we had intelligence it should be

[Column 2]

used; that the sisters had as much to do in
their sphere as the brethren, and one was not
without the other in the building up of the
Kingdom of God.
	Prest. J. W. Crosby Jr. spoke a few encour-
aging words; urged the secretary to get blanks
and get their reports up in proper shape; to be
careful how we censured others, and be gener-
ous in our feelings.
	Conference was adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction by Joseph L. Heywood.
	SARAH P. CROSBY, Secretary.

	OMER, ARIZONA.
DEAR EDITOR:
	We were first organized as a Relief Society
under the direction of P. J. Christofferson,
Jan. 1st 1879. We were then reorganized with
the assistance of Sister W. East, Stake Presi-
dent of Relief Society, Aug. 26, 1879, with
Sister Cecelia Hamblin, President; Mary
Skouson and Polly Greer, Counselors; Julia
Johnson, Secretary. A change was made in
the officers Aug. 24, 1881, with Sister Emily
Burke, President; Mary Skouson and Margrett
M. Dewit, Counselors; Mary B. Eagar, Secre-
tary; Ada A. Earl, Assistant Secretary; Celia
Jenson, Treasurer; and 29 members enrolled.
	The Society is now in a more prosperous con-
dition than ever before. Our Bishop and the
other brethren have kindly given us a lot, and
we have paid for the lumber to fence it; we
want to plant some mulberry trees, to see what
they will do in this country. We anticipate
building a house during the summer; we have
a very healthy climate and a good people; they
seem to be trying to live their religion and
build up the waste places of Zion. We are on
very friendly terms with our Mexican neigh-
bors; we can see a great difference in their
dress and customs since we came among them,
although none of them have embraced the Gos-
pel, yet there are some believing it.
	The EXPONENT comes to us like a dear old
friend to cheer and bless us; we prize it very
much in this far off land. Ever praying for
our sisters who are spending their time and
energies for the welfare of Zion, we remain
your sisters in the Covenant, E. J. Burk, Presi-
dent; Mary M. Eagar, Secretary; Ada A. Earl,
Assistant Secretary.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of Utah Stake, held August 31st,
1883, Counselor Mary John presiding. Visi-
tors from Salt Lake City, Sisters E. R. Snow
Smith, E. B. Wells, H. M. Whitney and E. S.
Taylor.
	Conference opened with the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, reading of minutes and
reports of the societies throughout the county.
	Counselor Mary John made a few remarks,
in which she expressed her pleasure at meeting
with the sisters in conference again, and re-
gretted that we were deprived, through sick-
ness, of having Ma Smoot or Sister Cluff with
us; she would say that with the help of the
Lord she was determined to hold out faithful
to the end.
	Sister E. B. Wells was pleased with the re-
ports of Utah County, thought they would
compare favorably with any other reports she
had ever heard in any Conference of Relief
Society that she had attended. Said it was
wonderful to think the good these societies
were doing. There is power in the women of
Zion in helping the Priesthood; exhorted the
sisters to be more punctual in attending these
meetings. Spoke in the interest of the Deseret
Hospital and of the good it was doing for the
afflicted, and explained its practical workings,
invited the sisters to renew their membership,
etc.
	Sister E. R. Snow Smith said she was al-

[Column 3]

ways pleased to meet with the sisters in a con-
ference capacity. The Spirit of God brings
enjoyment, and when we unite together we
draw down the blessings of heaven. What a
blessing these organizations are, they bring us
together, like coals of fire, imparting warmth
and life to one another. There is a mutual
love that actuates these sisters towards each
other. We should realize our positions, and
so live that our examples would have an enno-
bling influence; let us put away our follies that
we may be worthy to join with holy beings, we
are not far from them. We must get rid of
all selfishness; let us become God-like that we
may be saviors on Mount Zion. We want to
live to do good, and the heavens rejoice over
us.
	Sister E. S. Taylor followed with some very
good remarks on various subjects. The Relief
Societies, Y. L. M. I. Associations, Primaries,
etc. Advised mothers to watch over their
children, give them good counsel and advice,
and use their influence in having them join
these societies.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer, Sister E. R. Snow Smith presiding.
Said she would like to hear from the presi-
dents of the different societies, just as the
spirit dictated. We should always bear our
testimony when occasions offer, those testimo-
nies never grow old, for we know not that we
will be able to testify the same to-morrow that
we do to-day, for many have fallen away from
the truth.
	A number of the presidents bore a faithful
testimony to the truth of this work.
	Sister H. M. Whitney said, she could bear
her testimony to the truth of this work, "and
without we each have a testimony for our-
selves we can never stand. I love the saints
of God. We must be humble and prayerful
and live near to God and if we have weak-
nesses try to overcome them, and press forward
and draw our loved ones after us. I cannot
doubt this Gospel any more than I can doubt
my existence. Any one that will step for-
ward and sustain celestial marriage will be
blest in so doing; let us be united, for in union
there is power."
	Sister E. S. Taylor gave the sisters good
instructions, especially young mothers, in re-
gard to their children. Spoke of her knowl-
edge of the truth of celestial marriage, and
the result of it in her owu family.
	Sister E. B. Wells said, I think we have
had excellent teachings. Spoke of Doctor
Barney's offer to teach, and thought the sis-
ters should avail themselves of the opportuni-
ties given for instruction, as we were very de-
ficient in good midwives and nurses, more es-
pecially in the outlying settlements, and Dr.
Barney's offer was not often met with; said we
need to study to promote the prolongation of
human life, and how to be more healthy and
strong. We want to raise men and women
physically strong as well as intellectually and
morally so. Made intelligent remarks upon
this subject, as also upon education; advised
the sisters to become acquainted with law and
government, that those who had the privilege
of voting might do so understandingly.
	Sister Snow Smith said, I want to talk about
this medical school. There will never be such
an offer again; we ought to have 1,000 sisters
learning. We want knowledge. Death often
ensues just from the want of knowledge. We
should be up and doing. Woe to those that
are at ease in Zion. If the sisters can call
back to life the sleepy ones it will be a great
work; spoke eloquently upon this subject for
some little time.
	Bishops Johnson and Madsen both bore
their testimonies to the truth of this work and
also eudorsed all that had been said by the


sisters; exhorted all to live near to the Lord
and gain a testimony for themselves.
	Sister Duke could bear her testimony that
this was the work of God, and rejoiced there-
in.
	By request of Sister Snow Smith the sisters
sang the song, "I dreamed a dream." Confer-
ence adjourned for three months.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 79


NEPHI PRIMARY.

	The Nephi Primary Fair, held in the meet-
ing house on Sept. 21 and 22, 1883, was largely
attended by admiring visitors. The Fair ex-
hibited a variety of cooking, needle work, cro-
chet, etc., executed by the girls, vegetables and
a little wood work done by the boys.
	This is the third Fair the children of Nephi
have had, and there is a marked improvement
visible between each; not only in the number
of articles handed in for view, but also in the
execution and variety of them.
	On Sept. 27th the Primary had their Confer-
ence, which was held in the meeting house. It,
also, was largely attended by the Primary
Children, their parents and friends. The time
was occupied by the children's exercises and
addresses from officers and visitors.
			L. ADDIE SCHOFIELD, Secretary.


[Column 1]
A RICH KINGDOM BUT POOR SUB-
JECTS.

	We are learning a little about the city
wherein we have located ourselves for the
present. We find it a matter of congratula-
tion that there is an old open market place of
the most orthodox stamp—booths, and old
women and maidens in short dresses to offer
us their wares in the most guttural German.
	The Elbe runs through the very heart of the
city, and promises many a delightful tramp
over its old bridges. Soldiers and officers of all
ranks are to be met with at every turning.
Americans and English people are fond of the
place for winter, and quite an English air per-
vades one section of the city. We have rather
a far away feeling ourselves in this out-of-the-
way corner of Saxony. The country round
about is no doubt very beautiful, and the situ-
ation of the city particularly charming.
	The kingdom of Saxony is rich, the people
poor, taxes heavy, and living high. The land
is under good cultivation, but the people—es-
pecially the women—work hard. We have
seen here what we have not seen anywhere
else—a woman and a dog harnessed into a cart,
while a man, husband or father, perhaps,
walked comfortably along in the rear, or
loaded up the wagon for his team.
	The army claims the larger part of the able-
bodied men. The people seem industrious.
Beggars are not permitted in the streets, yet
we feel that there is more poverty here than
anywhere we have yet been on the Continent.
The working women have a worn-out look.
The children of the lower classes look poorly
fed. Nearly all of them are bow-legged or de-
formed in some way—the imperfection proba-
bly being due to lack of nutritious food and
overwork.
	We find by this afternoon's drive that the
environs of the place are very attractive, and
the city larger and finer than we thought. Au-
gustus II., called "the strong," was a lover of
show and splendor. To him the people
largely indebted for their start in art and civi-
lization. Augustus III. improved largely on
what he found. The princes and kings of
Saxony from that day down have not been
backward in enriching the kingdom in all di-
rections.
	The old palace is not by any means one of

[Column 2]
the ornaments of the place. It is dark, gloomy
and unsightly on the outside. Thus far it
proves a riddle to us, for it has anything but
an inviting exterior. Why, with means that
enables one to a choice of a habitation, any one
should be willing to remain long in its gloomy
vicinity, it puzzles us to divine, yet we are told
there is great wealth under the royal roof.
	The Grosse Garten, which is outside the
Pirna gate, is laid out as a royal park and is
the favorite drive of the king. It embraces
about three hundred acres. It is a most de-
lightful spot for afternoon riding. The princi-
pal entrance to the garden is adorned by mar-
ble vases of fine workmanship, having bas-re
liefs of the seasons and allegorical figures of
the four quarters of the world. There are
many fine statues through the grounds. A
handsome palace in the Renaissance style has
been recently erected within the park. The
Reitschel Museum and the Museum of Antiqui-
ty are among the attractions of this palace.
Several restaurants are scattered through the
grounds. Good bands of music lend a cheeri-
ness to the place. A beautiful pond is not the
least among its attractions. The swans, who
seem to hold it as their especial property, are
decidedly social in their tendencies, making
friends with us quite readily.
	We return from the Garten by another way,
getting a lovely view of some of the mountains
of Saxon Switzerland, and driving home past
several palaces and fine buildings. We discov-
er that there are very few detached houses for
single families. The Germans have a taste for
living in a horizontal direction. Where in
our way we would put up a block of buildings,
dividing it into separate houses side by side,
with dividing walls, steps and hallways appro-
priated to each house, these people would use
the room in their own fashion. They would
have but one large entrance, and all the rooms
on one floor would be the establishment of a
single family, who would in no way be brought
more in contact with their neighbors than we
are with the persons who live side by side with
us. Of course, as yet we do not see the par-
ticular advantages of this manner of living,
except that it is more democratic than our
own. Respectable persons of small means may
find more desirable homes, perhaps, than they
would otherwise. Prince and peasant fre-
quently live under the same roof, the aristo-
cratic part of the community taking the best
part of the building while the humbler mem-
bers climb up to the garrets or descend to the
basement.		*		*		*		*
—Ex.					RUTH RANDOM.


NOTES AND NEWS.
Princess Beatrice has agreed to furnish, at a
given price, some pencil sketches for an Eng-
glish monthly.
	Miss Sybil Carter spoke on Mormonism at
the Boston Ministers’Meeting in Pilgrim Hall,
last week. The hall was crowded.
	Mrs. Mary B. Clay, of Kentucky, has re-
moved to Ann Arbor, Mich., to secure educa-
tional advantages for her children.
	"The women needed a rebuke,” says a
friendly cotemporary, because some of them
asked for a governor who would not veto a bill
conceding a fraction of their political rights.
--Ex.
	It is thought that if women were eligible
for Parliament, Mrs. Fawcett would be the
first chosen. She was one of the four Misses
Garrett, two of whom distinguished themselves
as decorative furnishers and designers.--Ex.
	A Norwegian Methodist Church has been
organized in Salt Lake City, with a member-
ship of twenty-five members. A Norwegian
pastor has been obtained from Chicago, and a
lady as a teacher. It is supposed that there are
7,000 Scandinavians in Salt Lake City, and
30,000 in Utah.—Ex. This is pretty good testi-
mony that there is religious tolerance in
Utah. Different religious sects: come here 
and build up their churches and seek to
make convents unprevented.
	The autumn leaves are now donning their
gorgeous array. In the canyons, the beautiful
tints are so diversified that one cannot choose
between them; they remind one of a bevy of
beautiful girls, some possessing one charm and
some another, but all wonderully fascinating
and attractive. Not only are the hills and
mountain sides glorious in their foliage at this
season in flaming red and flaunting yellow,
with all the peculiar shades and variations, but
one can appropriate much of this beauty to the
adornment of the home. The grouping and
arranging of autumn leaves is a sort of dec-
orative art, and has a very pretty effect, espe-
cially when they are artistically woven or fash-
ioned in fanciful designs. Nature does much
towards making our homes pleasant, by fur-
nishing us the flowers, the leaves, the vines
the evergreens, the autumn leaves and winter
berries. Life is not devoid of beauty, nor of
pleasure, if one will accept the simple delights
of nature. 
	Woman suffrage in Massachusetts.—Demo-
cratic: “We believe in equal rights, without
limitation of sex.” Prohibitory: “We believe
in equal  political rights regardless of sex.”
Greenback: “Equal political rights for all, both
men and women.” Republican: “We favor a
pure and extended suffrage."
	It is impossible to tell the exact meaning of
this last sentence. It may mean every thing or
nothing, as far as the suffrage for women is
concerned. Taking the platforms as they
stand, it would be fair to say that they indi-
cate a growing public sentiment in favor of
suffrage, and are, taken all together, an ad-
vance on the platforms of previous years.
But before we congratulate ourselves, we shall
wait to see whether those who are elected to
the legislature, upon these platforms, show their
respect for the platforms by acting in conform-
ity with them. We shall be doubly glad and
grateful, if they all unite to relieve women of
the stigma and helplessness which disfranchise-
ment implies and involves, and to relieve
Massachusetts from its greatest shame, viz.,
that of degrading all the women of the Com-
mon-wealth to the political level of its male
criminals and idiots.—Ex


OBITUARY.

	Died, at Brigham City, Box Elder County, Septembe
11th, 1883, of consumption, in the thirty-ninth year of
her age, Elizabeth, beloved wife of John B. McMaster,
and daughter of Thomas and Elizabeth Forrest.
	Deceased was born at Romton, Dumcartonshire,
Scotland, March 6th, 1844; was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when eight
years of age, came to Utah in 1869, and has since been a
resident of Brigham City.
	As a Latter-day Saint her example was ever worthy of
imitation; a true wife and mother, and a faithful mem-
ber of the Relief Society. Deceased has for many years
held the office of a teacher; was also assistant secretary
and performed every duty assigned her with love and de-
votion. To say that we miss our beloved sister does
not express our feelings, but we know that our loss is
her eternal gain. May she rest in peace, as that was her
oft expressed desire before leaving us "to go to rest."
She died as she lived a faithful Saint of God. Her pa-
tience through her sickness was remarkable; not a mur
mur ever escaped her lips; on the contrary, her thoughts
were ever for the good of others until the last.
	To show their appreciation of her virtues the teachers
at the funeral, walked two by two at the head of the
corspe to the Tabernacle, at which President Snow pre-
sided.


[Column 1]

	She leaves a loving husband and three small children
to mourn her departure. I can truly say that for her
death had no sting. Her end was most peaceful—like a 
weary person going to sleep—full of faith in the Lord,
and at peace with all mankind, and with the hope of a
glorious future in the morning of the first resurection.
	She's passed from this cold world of care,
	Into a happier, holier sphere;
	To meet with friends who've gone before,
	Where pain or parting are no more.
		SUSANNA P. BOOTH, President.
		ANNIE N. BOWRING, Secretary.

	Died, at her home in Provo, Thursday morning, Sept.
20, 1883, Mrs Margaret Ann Foster Cluff, beloved wife of
of Harvey H. Cluff of that city. Deceased was born in
Cincinnati, Ohio, January 23, 1840, and came to Utah
when a child in 1851. On her sevententh birthday she
was married in Provo to Elder H. H. Cluff,
Sister Cluff was the mother of four children, three boys
and one girl, who all died when quite young. The lit-
tle girl died while Br. Cluff was absent from his home 
on a mission to Europe. This was a sad blow to the 
young mother, and she never seemed to be quite so well
in health or spirits afterwards, although carefully ful-
filling every duty in her home and in the Church as a 
faithful Latter-day Saint.
	She believed in and accepted as from divine authority
the principle of celestial marriage, and was willing that 
her husband should take other wives. She was a woman
of refined and sensitive feelings and sentiment, benevo-
lent, kind and sympathetic, anxious to do good, and
possessed good executive ability, which manifested itself
in the positions she was called upon to fill in the wo-
man's organizations.
	Sister Cluff accompanied her husband to the Sandwich
Islands, when he went there on a mission in 1869. She
labored there for five years, doing all in her power to as-
sist in elevating and ministering to the natives. Mrs.
Cluff was for several years President of the Young
Ladie's Associations of Utah Stake both before her
mission to the Islands and after her return home.
She was eminently qualified to fill this important
office.
	She also occupied the positian of President of the
Fourth Ward Relief Society of Provo, and was perfectly 
capable of filling that arduous position as well as the
others. She held these honorable positions to the
time of her death. After her return she was chosen as
Second Counselor to Sister Margaret T. Smoot, the
President of all the branches of Relief Society in Utah
Stake, which position she honored and was highly res-
pected in, proving herself very useful to Sister Smoot,
and in the labor to which she was called.
	In 1879 Br. Cluff was again called to go to the Sand-
wich Islands and take charge of the mission, and Sister
Cluff again accompanied him to his field of labor. She
was acquainted with the language and able to do much
good in teaching and instructing the native women; on
account of her capability for that office was appointed
President of the Relief Society on all the Islands. She
traveled continually and assisted the Elders in organiz-
ing several branches of the Relief Society on those 
islands.
	She returned home in 1882, and her health has been 
quite delicate most of the time, but she enjoyed herself
among her former friends and associates, and has now
gone to rest where there is no more pain or sorrow or
suffering forever. Sister Cluff was truely an estimable
women, a faithful advocate of the Gospel, and one who
had great opportunities of doing good. She has gone
to join her little flock behind the veil, and no doubt the
meeting of mother and children was one of rapturous
delight. Her memory will be fondly cherished by those
who had the pleasure of her acquaintance, and her ex-
ample is most worthy of imitation by the daughters of
Zion.
	The funeral services over the remains of this excel-
lent woman were held in the Provo Meeting House
Saturday, September 22. A large assembly of relatives
and friends were preseat. The speakers were Pres. A.
O. Smoot, Coun. David John and Bishop J. E. Booth.
	E. B. W.

	Died, in Newton, Cache Co., Utah, September 15, 1883,
infant son of William F. and Sarah A. Rigby, aged one
year, four months and seventeen days. He died of
cholera infantum and teething. The little one was the
first and only child of its parents, and its mother
grieves very much over his death, as the father is away 
upon a mission the the Southern States, he was called

[Column 2]

last February to go upon this mission. It will be sad
news to him, but the Lord giveth and taketh away.
May He give to those bereaved ones His Holy Spirit to
cheer and comfort them:

	Died, at Snowflake, Arizona, Oct. 3, 1883, Susie J.
Freeman, wife of James M. Stratton, and daughter of
John W. and Adaline Freeman, born March 24th, 1866,
in Washington, Utah.
	She has left a husband and young babe, besides many
friends by whom she will be missed. She has been a 
faithful member of the Y. L. M. I. A. ever since its or-
ganization in 1880. She was ever on hand to do good,
and attended her meetings, for duty never seemed a
task to her; she was in every sense of the word an ex-
ample to the young ladies, and worthy of imitation.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.—Inacmuch as it has
pleased our Heavenly Father to take from our midst one
one of our dear sisters, the first of our members by
death, we, the young ladies of the M. I. A. resolve to
manifest our appreciation and respect to our departed
sister.
	Resolved, That we will try to follow the example of
our departed sister in our lives.
	Resolved, That we condole with each other in the
great loss we sustain in our bereavement, and tender this
token of respect and sympathy to her husband, parents
and family, in their hour of trial, hoping that we will
ever emulate her worth.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these resolutions
to her bereaved family, and publish a copy of the same
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on our
record. May H. Larson, Emma L. Smith, Della Fish,
Committee.


80	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		 40c.	"
POEMS, by E.R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSIETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

SCHOOL IN MIDWIFERY.

DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT

COMMENCES a new class in her office over Godbe &
Pitts' Drug Store October 8th, at 1 o'clock p.m.
This school was established in 1878. The Term of five
months, three lectures per week, is a practical course
for those who desire to enter at once into this work. It
is advised that those whose circumstances will admit,
attend a second course, for the subject is so comprehen-
sive that a repetition of the lectures is very advan-
tageous, especially to those of limited education.
	Other branches of medicine are taught only as they
bear especially upon this subject. More than that in so
limited a course would be too superficial. Manikin,
charts and instruments are used in teaching
		Tuition..................................................$30.00
		Books....................................................$13.00
	N. B.—Orders for books must be sent in early so as to
get them from the east in time.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

a Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUNS
AND WINDOW CORNICES
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
