VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1884.	No. 24.


SOLILOQUY.

TO MY ROCKING CHAIR.

	Thou dear, dumb friend! thou dost deserve
Some words in gratitude to thee
For all that thou hast been to me:
	A kindly servant—made to serve.

	When weary with the toils of day
Thine open arms I ever see,
That seem to whisper, "Come to me!"
	And I the loving call obey.

	Reclining in those faithful arms.
Thou seemest to have wonderous power,
To bear me up for one brief hour
	To realms of thought's obsorbing charm

	I fold my arms, I close mine eyes;
The world recedes—I'm into space!
Away in some remembered place,
	Where aught of sorrow it defies.

	I mingle with the loved ones gone,
I visit haunts of early home;
At times in crowds, but most alone
	Ignoring all of sigh or groan.

	I note the sunny spots alone,
The plats where early flowers spring,
The primrose and the violet ring,
	The king cup and the cowslip's home.

	That "Dial yard!" Oh! how my thought
Goes out o'er every inch of ground;
Where peacocks walked so grand around
	The home with birds and bantams fraught.

	And "Wormwood hill!"—how oft we climbed
Its wooded sides—its beauteous crown—
While some the beech nuts showered down,
	And others on the sward reclined.

	Old chair! the transit of the plains;
Yes, we that journey made together,
In sunshine and in gloomy weather,
	In summer draughts and drenching rains.

	But years have rolled, and brought us up
To eighteen hundred eighty-four;
We've plodded on, if slow, yet sure—
	Together we must drain the cup—

	The mingled cup of earthly time,
But to each other let's be true;
No grander chair I choose than you,
	And still within thine arms recline.

	It may be I may pass away
"Beyond the gates" from out thine arms,
This thought, for me, has sweetest charms,
	If near or distant be the day.
								HANNAH T. KING.
May 4th, 1884.


[Column 1]
A HOMESPUN TALK.

LITERARY WOMEN.

	Yes, my dear madame, literary women are
possessed of as much sensibility as yourself.
Their feelings are quite as easily ruffled as your
own. Strange, isn't it?
	I smile sometimes when I compare those
poor, offending creatures called literary women
in our smaller towns and settlements to the
deeply dyed blues of the Eastern and Middle
States. Perhaps the literary women of our
towns never soared higher than Dickens or
Robbie Burns; but if she feels there is some-
thing higher and better than "Dora Share,"
and "Sunshine and Shadow," along with Frank
Leslie's and Godey's Magazine, and writes a
few words occasionally for our bright little
EXPONENT behold her tainted with a pitiful

[Column 2]
stain; her sisters think of her with a mixture
of contempt and envy, and as they raise their
hands and eyes, exclaim energetically, "Thank
heaven we are not literary."
	A number of persons were speaking one
evening about a young girl who was shortly to
be married. Some one asked a question about
her, to which an ignorant woman replied, "Oh,
she is ever so industrious and smart, sews and
cooks, isn't a bit literary, is a good housekeep-
er and in fact, you know, she's just the kind of
a woman for a good wife." Humph! I was
not to blame if my lip went up and my eyelids
down.
	You must know the truth is these Pariah's
of society (like myself) have always known
that while their associates looked down upon
them and spoke sneeringly of them, they were
their superiors mentally. But I think, too, like
Carlyle's Sandy Mc.Phearson, the associates
can never be made to understand this solemn
fact; and—that's where the shoe pinches (oh,
excuse the slang.
	But I'd just like to tell these people what
the term, "literary woman," means, in Utah, at
least. It means a woman who has read a lit-
-tle and don't give herself up to such supersti-
tions folly as giving fried mice to children with
the whooping cough, and who struggles brave-
ly against broken looking glasses and over
turned salt. It means women who are home-
makers and not merely house-keepers. It
means women who have worked early and late
for the little information they have gathered,
and whose days are full and pressed over with
the large measure of usefulness and labor. It
means women who strive to copy the grand ex-
ample of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, the wo-
man who for over fifty long years, ever since
she joined this Church has washed her apparel,
made and mended her clothes, for many years
has done all her own house work unaided, and
does so now; has walked silently and nobly a-
broad among the people night and day, carry-
ing aloft the bright candle of intelligence which
shone in vision at her girlish bedside, has read,
studied, written, edited and sang some of the
greatest and most enduring things in the king-
dom; who is in every sense of the word, a "lit-
erary woman," and is, too, a marvelous house-
keeper, exquisitely neat in every thing, and a
mother to thousands of Israel's daughters and
children.
	The term includes women who mind their
own business, and never have time to pick up
their bonnet and run over to the neighbor's
house to tell and be told everybody's business,
and to say anything but their prayers. It
means women who are first in the great march
of improvement and reform. Women who are
their husband's mates and helpers, not servants
and dependents. Women who love Mormon-
ism for its grandeur and purity, because they
know its sublime worth. It means women un-
married, that know too well the value of time
to waste it on paltry novels and paint and
bangs, but that elevate their own beings, lifting
up their associates insensibly to the highest
and noblest of aims. It means women who
look with contempt on the readers of Ledgers,
Saturday Nights and Firseside Companions,
but who earnestly strive to induce a taste for
that which is pure and ennobling.
	And, oh, it means women with oceans of
faults, but with a steadfast determination to
overcome as fast as may be, humbly silently
and prayerfully, the stumblingblocks in them-
selves; it means women who often have no time
to crochet tidies or scour out the chinks with a
tooth brush, but who always have time to cheer
fully assist husband or child; it means women
with hearts, brains and wills; but, oh gracious,
it can never mean—lazy women.


MEDITATIONS.

	It appears by the signs of the times that the
Lord's words are to be verified, for He has
said His people would be a tried people; they
should be hated by all nations, driven and per-
secuted. Still He has said, "Blessed are you
when men shall revile you, and persecute you
for my sake." The Lord in these last days has
seen fit to restore His Priesthood to the earth
through His servant, Joseph Smith, and we
are happy recipients of the same. Now it
stands us in hand to be alive to the duties de-
volving upon us, and not swerve to the right
nor to the left, but struggle nobly on to the
great end it is our aim to reach. What does
it matter to us if we are up to the line of our
duties if our enemies do howl? We fear them
not; our minds can be at rest, we know (not be-
lieve) the Lord will protect us; the devil and
his imps have a mission to perform, and they
have but a short time to do it in, it therefore
behooves him to get as many to assist him as
possible, and it looks as though he was having
but little trouble to get plenty to work for him
for little wages and board themselves; they
know not the trouble they are bringing upon
their own heads! How plainly the Lord
shows He is no respector of persons, for He
commands His servants to go preach the Gos-
pel to every nation, kindred, tongue and peo-
ple. Is it then any fault of His if at the last
day they will be as stubble, and be burned?
They will find when it is too late they have in-
jured themselves and no one else. They are
only preparing themselves for speedy destruc-
tion; for "vengeance is mine, and I will repay,"
saith the Lord, and He gives us very comfort-
ing words in Hebrews xiii, 5; there He says,
"I will never forsake thee." Then wake, O ye
slumbering nations, awake from the slumber of
death ere it be too late; arouse yourselves from
the great lethargy you have fallen into, ere
the vengeance of God come upon you. Oh, ye
ministers of modern Christendom, ye enemies
of new revelation! how can ye escape damna-
tion? How many good, honest-hearted people
you have deceived by your cunning craftiness
and lying hypocrisies. How many millions
would have called on God in faith for revela-
tions, prophecies, visions, and the ministry of
angels, and received those precious blessings,
had it not been for the wicked and soul-des-
troying errors which you have instilled in their
ears by telling them that these things were re-
pealed and done away. Repent, therefore, of
this great wickedness and be baptised for the
remission of your sins and you shall receive
the gift of the Holy Ghost, which shall give
you visions and revelations, and shall show you
things to come; and except you do this the
wrath and indignation of that being against
whom you have labored shall speedily over-
take you, and you shall perish from off the
earth. "Repent, therefore, quickly that you may
find mercy."						J. E. C.


There is not a moment without some duty.—
Cicero.


186	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	"Tuesday, 23rd," Peter continues, "cold,
windy and rainy to-day—Brother Joseph Toron-
to, the only Italian in the Church, made
mother (Vilate Kimball) a present of some
oranges, lemons and wine; he had come from
the city of Joseph, Nauvoo, in nine days.
Helen has been quite sick, but is getting well.
It being still cold and rainy on the 24th we
were glad to make use of a stove in the tent.
Bro K. is writing a letter to Nauvoo—called
this place Heber's rest."
	Thursday, 25th. News was received from
the "Society Islands" of branches being built
up, and that the queen and all the heirs to the
crown had been baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	The 26th. A council was held, and next
day, Saturday, father and President Young
went back three miles. While gone they visit-
ed fourteen camps of the Saints. The same
day men were sent ten miles to build a bridge,
that those returning from trading in the Platt
Co. could thus save fifteen miles journey; and
on the 29th two men with six yoke of oxen
were sent to meet and assist them.
	"Sunday 28," Peter continues, "meeting held
at our largest tent this morning, a large num-
ber of Bro. Kimball's family being present,
and some others. He preached to them, ex-
horting them to love one another, with a great
deal of other good advise. The sacrament
was then administered and the meeting closed.
Bro. Kimball then went to public meeting,
which was opened by prayer by O. Hyde. B.
Young then spoke at some length; spoke of the
necessity of guarding our sheep from the
wolves."
	Thursday, 30th. The camps commenced
moving back to the old camping ground on
the river; Peter says the reason for this was
that the Twelve had received intelligence that
four officers had come from Fort Leavensworth
to Mt. Pisgah, and were now on the way to re-
quest us to let our able bodied young men en-
list and go to Santa Fee to fight against the
Mexicans, and then go to Calfornia to get a
location for the rest of the "Mormons" in re-
muneration for their services, and says, "After
we had started to-day a messenger came up to
tell us that the said officers had arrived at the
camp on the hill."
	"Wednesday, July 1st. This morning the
Presidency went to the Bluffs to see said offi-
cers, Council was held and the request to raise
500 volunteers from among us, taken into con-
sideration.	*	*	If they could
not raise that number they did not want any.
The Presidency agreed to do it on condition
that the people were willling."
	"In the afternoon father came back," Peter
says, "and started to cross the river, but on
getting to the ferry we could not cross, so went
back ¾ of a mile and encamped on a small ele-
vation of ground under the beautiful shade of
an old elm tree.	*	*	*	Col.
Scott and Dr. Willard Richards are camped
here with us." The mosquitoes being so
troublesome near the river obliged us to move
back, and as we were far from water the ac-
cordingly dug a well close by.
	As it was nearly dusk when they concluded
to move from the river, and being very weary,
I, with one or two others, had accepted an in-
vitation from the chief's daughter to accom-
pany her home; and when returning, finding
the wagons gone and not feeling strong, she
urged me to return and stop the night, which
invitation I accepted, though I spent a some-
what nervous and wakeful night, but when
morning came I felt more at ease. I learned
that her parents had separated, as her mother

[Column 2]
was now living with her and did most of the
work. Though dressed in her native costume
she looked neat, and kept the house tidy, and
could cook equal to the white women. This
was quite a wood country, which abounded
in blackberries and other wild fruit, and as
they were getting ripe we went out in the morn-
ing and picked what we wanted to eat, after
which she showed her taste and skill in braid-
ing my hair in broad plats, after the latest
French style, and put it up a la mode, and af-
ter dinner accompanied me to camp. While
stopping at this place I went, by invitation,
with one or two of my father's young wives, to
take tea with the wife of the interpreter, who
gave us a little of the history, not only of the
chief and his daughter, but of the Indian
tribes the Sioux and Pottawatomies, who were
at war with each other. And it was only the
evening of the 6th that a Pottawatomie Indian
came to our camp on horse back, bringing a
message, which he could only make known by
signs. The import of it was that the Sioux
Indians had killed a Pottawatomie, and he
wanted our people to assist them in fighting
the Sioux, and thus revenge their comrad's
death.
	On the morning of the 3rd father and Presi-
dent B. Young started for Mt. Pisgah on the
recruting business. When the news first came
to us of the war between the United States and
Mexico we little dreamed of the requirement
that the government were about to make at
our hands, and congratulated ourselves that
being expelled from their midst we should
travel undisturbed beyond the Rocky Moun-
tains, where we should hear no more conten-
tions, turmoils and strife, and we had cause to
look upon this demand with suspicion, especial-
ly after the threat which was thrown out in the
letter received from Sam Brannan just previ-
ous to starting on our journey. But our peo-
ple proved their loyalty by kissing the hand
that had driven them into the wilderness,
where it was hoped, by the majority, we should
utterly perish, and it was thought that by tak-
ing from us 500 of our young, able bodied
men in that Indian country that it would
cripple us so much that it would insure our
utter destruction; but there a few honorable
men like Colonel Thomas L. Kane, who, like
true-hearted countrymen, rendered all the as-
sistance that was possible to the Saints in this,
their most trying hour.


RESOLUTIONS OP RESPECT.

	Resolutions of Respect on the resignation of
Sister Caroline Bromley, March 15th, 1884.
	Whereas, Our much beloved President has
seen fit to resign her position as President of
Y. L. M. I. A. of Springville, we therefore ac-
cept her resignation, and,
	Be it resolved, That, recognizing the circum-
stances of events which have led our beloved
President to sever the ties which have so long
bound her and her sisters in their labors to-
gether, we do therefore accept her resignation,
which is to take effect the 15th of March
1884.
	Resolved, That by purity of life and conver-
sation, by kindness of spirit and grace of con-
duct, by patience and fidelity in the discharge
of the many duties of her office, she has in-
spired nobler views of life, and has won the
love and confidence of her sisters, who will fol-
low her with their earnest prayers to her
new home.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these
resolutions to our President, and that a copy
be sent to the Exponent for publication, and
the same be spread upon our records.
				Respectfully,
					R. B. CRANDAL.


﻿ITEMS FROM MANASSA COLORADO

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We Saints in this valley are enjoying good health,
with few exceptions. We have had a very agreeable
winter, and at present it is delightful weather, almost
like summer, and I think it will not be long before we
shall begin planting gardens, crops, etc. We have also
had a good feast upon the things pertaining to our re-
ligion. Apostle B. Young and H. J. Grant have paid
us a visit and held several meetings, which were crowd-
ed to overflowing, our meeting house not being large
enough to hold the anxious crowds who came to hear
them.
	Almost four years ago, the first meeting I attended in
this place, was held under a shed, there being only
about a half a dozen small houses here then. The
scene is changed now. We have plenty of good, com-
fortable houses, although not very nice; a comfortable
log meeting house, though it is already too small, es-
pecially at conference times. We have a most credit-
able school house, which, I believe, cost about $1,400,
nicely furnished with patent desks, blackboards, maps,
and a first-class school teacher.
	New houses are constantly going up on every hand.
It seems, sometimes, as though we have many disad-
vantages to contend with, but yet the work goes on;
emigration still comes in at the proper times.
	Bro. John Morgan is greatly beloved by the people of
this place, he having been the messenger to bring them
the glad tidings of salvation in their native lands.
	When I read the papers and see the the great judg-
ments that are being poured out upon the wicked, I
think that we as a people should be very thankful that
we are blessed with the light of the Gospel, that we are
here in a place of safety, even if we are obliged to pass
through the hardships incident to settling a new coun-
try, and I believe the majority of the Saints here feel
the same. There are but few who smoke or chew tobac-
co, or use hot drinks. There have been but few cases of
sickness during the winter, and diphtheria is not known.
The water here is of the very best quality; it is so soft
and clear it requires no lye, and but little soap to wash
with. One lady who came here on a visit was so de
lighted with the water that she carried a canteen of it
about 700 miles to show it to her husband and child-
ren.
	I suppose you are anxious to hear from our societies.
Our Young Ladies' Association is progressing favorably;
we hold regular weekly meetings, and the girls are all
interested and willing to learn all they can. We have
thirty-two members enrolled, most all of them bright,
rosy-faced girls, full of life, and bid fair to become use-
ful handmaidens in the Kingdom of God. The Relief
Society is also progressing. There are many good,
faithful sisters here, who are willing to do their duties
at all times,
	Ever wishing success to you, and all those who are
laboring for the welfare of Zion,
			I remain, as ever, your sister,
							SAMANTHA T. BOICK


ITEMS FROM OAKLEY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought, perhaps, a few lines from this out of the
way place might find space in your valuable paper, as I
feel interested with my sisters who are laboring in the
cause of Zion.
	We are located on Goose Creek, a tributary of Snake
River, and have a thriving settlement. A great many
good Latter-day Saints live here. The health of the
people is good. We have had some very cold weather
this last winter, but very little snow in the valley.
	We had a Relief Society organized here Sept. 24th, 1882,
by Apostles Lyman and Smith, with the following
named officers: Sarah A. Snedaker, President; Louisa
Haight and Janett Whittle, Counselors: Prescilla Wor-
thington, Secretary; Breta Felt Treasurer.
	We are striving to do the best we can in our isolated
condition. By the proceeds of a picnic party, given by
the Relief Society, and other donations, we have been
able to send twenty-five dollars to the Logan Tem-
ple.
	Last spring the bretheren very kindly donated land,
and also planted it with grain. We have 200 bushels
of wheat on hand, which is but a little, but we all
have to creep before we can walk. We are trying to be
alive to our duties as Latter-day Saints.
	Every praying for the success of the EXPONENT, I re-
main, your sister in the Gospel of peace,
								LOUISA HAIGHT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 187


LINES ON GATHERING SOME
MARCH VIOLETS.

"violets dim,
But sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes,
Or Cytherea's breath."—WINTET'S TALE.

Sweet firstlings of the early spring
Sad thoughts and strange to me you bring;
	Yet you speak of happy hours,
When hopes were bright and times were
And life seemed but a laughing May,
	The world a world of flowers,
When, yet by sorrow undefiled,
I gathered you! a merry child.

But, as I gaze upon you now,
With sinking heart and clouded brow,
	Your charms are all unnoted;
I fondly deemed your witching spell
Would make me love what once so well
	I loved with love devoted;
My hope was, through your magic art,
Sad care would from my soul depart.

Vain hope! And yet the fault is mine.
Flow'rs bloom and stars as brightly shine
	As when I was a boy;
'Tis I myself alone have changed,
'Tis I have from my soul estranged
	The things I could enjoy,
Ere, at the world's vile altar kneeling,
I sacrificed each purer feeling.

Ah, bitter is the price, in truth,
They pay who pass their later youth
	In vain and worldly strife,
Who lose in hope of honor's prize,
The happiness that only lies
	In peaceful, stilly life—
To that prefer the stormy deep
Where 'wild'ring tempests ever sweep.

Sweet flow'rs, whose hue cerulean vies
With the deep hue of seraph-eyes
	That gaze upon the bowers
Where hope and joy eternal bloom
And far around is shed perfume
	From everlasting flowers,
Sad thoughts and strange to me you bring,
Blest firstlings of the dawning spring.
										A. P.
								FAMILY HERALD.


[Column 1]
TO THE GIRLS.

	If I may be permitted to do so I would like
through the medium of our valuable paper, to
say a few words to the daughters, my sisters, in
Zion.
	The Lord has stirctly commanded His people
to follow Him, and He has from time to time
delivered His will and given His commands to
them through His servants, and at no time
have those who have been faithful in keeping
these commandments failed to receive His
promised blessings. He has called upon His
people to come out from Babylon and throw off
her yoke by ridding themselves of her foolish
customs and evil ways. By adhering to these
commands the Saints have become a blessed
people, one that the whole world envy because
of their blessings; they are envied and hated
because of the strength and unity which their
lives of meekness, humbleness and purity have
given them. The expressed will and desire of
our Heavenly Father is, that the daughters of
Zion shall live lives of purity and virtue, and
that they shall have the fear of God continu-
ally in their hearts, that thereby they may cul-
tivate a love for those principles by which they
are to be the honored instruments in helping to
redeem the world from the awful sin that has
emanated from Babylon and is oppressing their
kind, and holding virtue and innocence as in a
chain of iron. The love that God bears the
daughters of Zion, and the dislike He has for
the abominations of Babylon is manifest in
this, that He commands the former to not pat-
tern after the latter in any way; tells them not

[Column 2]
to go after them in their ways at all; thus indi-
cating that He will appoint the way of His
people in everything.
	Now the world would have us believe that
this is servility to be dictated by the voice of
the Lord, and many people, through the
promptings of Satan, cry out to us of danger
to frighten us, so that we may fall from that
rock upon which our kind Father has in His
mercy so firmly placed us, and that we may
not, as silly children, be tempted to leave this
rock of safety, He commands us to cut assun-
der every tie that binds us to the outside world
that we may be entirely free from it.
	Now we know that our Father is displeased
when He sees His daughters, the "fair ones of
Israel," upon whom he has bestowed such ten-
der care and upon whom He delights to bes-
tow His most choice blessings, aping the fash-
ions and following the customs of heathen
Christendom, and one of the many foolish ones
of the latter is the boring or piercing of the
ears for the purpose of suspending an ear-ring
therein, which ancient and heathenish custom
it is to be regretted, has not yet been laid aside
by many of the women of Zion, The Prophet
Isaiah in mentioning the abominations for
which the daughters of Zion should be con-
demned by the Lord numbers among them the
ear-jewel, or ear-ring, and says that He, the
Lord, will take them away with a sore cursing.
Now we know that He cannot look with pleas-
ure on the act of wilfully mutilating our bod-
ies in this manner. Therefore I cannot see how
parents can excuse themselves into willingly
allow their daughters to inflict upon their bod-
ies this injustice. The extreme folly of this
custom was first impressed upon my mind by a
saying of a very wise girl a few years ago:
	When she was thirteen years old her father
bought a beautiful pair of ear-rings as a birth-
day gift for her; when he presented them to
her she took them and said: "Oh, pa! how I
should love to wear these beautiful things be-
cause they are a gift from you; but you see I
cannot unless I might be allowed to wear them
fastened to strings tied round my ears, for
there are no holes in my ears for them you see."
"Why, my child," said her father, "are you not
brave enough to have your ears pierced for
them?" "No," she said, "I should not like to
have holes put in my ears unless I knew they
would grow up again before I die; and I don't
think they would do that." In answer to her
father's question as to why she would not like
to have holes in her ears when she died, she
said, "If, when our bodies are resurrected, they
are just as they were when we laid them down,
I, if I have holes in my ears when I am bur-
ied, will also have them there when I am res-
urrected; and if our Father should ask me
there why I had this mark or brand on my
ears, I should be so ashamed to confess to Him
that I had it put there for the purpose of
wearing an ear-ring; and pa, I think He would
blame me for defacing the body which He gave
me. I think if the Lord wished me to wear
ear-rings He would have put holes in my ears
for that purpose." The father was convinced
and acknowledged the correctness of his little
daughter's judgment. A present of a book
was substituted in place of the ear-rings, and
at this time the little girl, now a woman grown,
is still a firm advocate of those principles
which animated her when a child to stand to
truth and reason.
	I think if the parents of the children of the
Latter-day Saints would think seriously upon
this subject they would endeavor to dissuade
their daughters from following this long time
custom of mutilating their bodies in this man-
ner, for believe me the time will come when
every woman who carries this mark in her ears
will be ashamed to confess that it is the brand
showing to what extent she was subject to the
pride and vanity that was upon the earth while

[Column 3]
she was tabernacled there. A love of the beau-
tiful and ornamental is natural to most women,
and it is right they should make themselves
neat and attractive when it can be done with-
out infringing upon nature, but it is not right
for us to deface or change in any way the work
of our Creator in the human system. We can-
not in any way make better what He has form-
ed.
	It is to be earnestly hoped that the many
plans for reform in dress and customs that
have been given our young may be improved
upon in Zion until there may not be one found
who bears the impress of the style of Babylon.
									M.


THE BUTTER QUESTION.

	As President Cannon was speaking of home
industry, and alluding to imported butter,
thoughts came to my mind how could the evil
be avoided. There is but little good butter to
be obtained, so scarce that when you find it the
price is 40cts. a pound, and the rancid kind
generally 35 cts. Tithing butter can be bought
at 25cts., the standard price all the year round,
and this is all a pound of butter is worth, as
there is a very little of it, and does not go far
in a family to eat, and if necessitated to render
it down for shortening the waste is several
ounces. If we have to take this article into
our stomach on bread or in pastry it engenders
disease and is not fit to feed to pigs. Very lit-
tle home-made lard can be bought, none at all
in summer. And this state of things may be
the case as long as Tom, Dick and Harry make
the butter. If the tithing milk could be gath-
ered by milkmen and churned at a factory and
kept in an ice house until carried to market, we
would have a good article; it could be kept
sweet and made healthy. There should be no-
thing kept in a milkroom but the milk. I was
raised in one of the United States; my father
had but one cow, which gave twelve quarts at
a milking. The milk house was built away
from the dwelling over wet soil, shelves on one
side and green shutters on the shady side to
let in plenty of fresh air, no glass windows, as
they draw the heat (grape or hop vines to run
over it). These shutters could be closed or
opened with a strong cord. Nothing was kept
in this place but the milk. The fresh air would
raise very thick cream and make the sweetest
of butter. The butter which was made from
this cow supplied a large family, besides many
pounds being laid down in the month of May
for the coming winter, and would be as sweet
when brought on the table as when churned.
	Bad butter is a great loss to the community.
Can this be remedied? Good butter is made
here, English salt is used, and every plan has
been tried to keep it sweet, but to no avail,
there is so much mineral in the soil, the air and
salt. Butter exposed to the air, or even a
warm temerature, becomes rancid. Add a lit-
tle salt to the cream when churning, salt the
water a little to wash it in, add a little sugar
salt petre, well pulverized with the salt, mix it
well through, let it stand in a cool place, then
the second time press out all that remains of
the butter milk. This butter packed into an
oak keg or barrel and placed in an ice house
would keep; the larger the quantity pressed to-
the better, as the air is excluded; when you
add a layer sprinkle salt between. The shores
of Bear Lake would be a good location, plenty
of ice, plenty of rock.
	Butter factories would make labor, fat pigs,
and good butter for the market. Farmers
would like to send one or two cows to a good
factory to make their butter on shares. If
milk is kept in a room where bad air is, its na-
ture is to be impregnated with it, and many a
pound of butter is made from foul cream:


188	﻿THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I. East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	MAY 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
LETTER X.

TOUR OF GERMANY.

	One event after another has followed in such
quick succession as to appropriate all my time,
so that I have had no time for letter writing.
	In traveling through Germany most beautiful,
wonderful sights have I beheld, and so much
have I seen that has delighted me that it would
give me much pleasure even briefly to describe
it all, and write a full account of the same, but
this I cannot do, as a full description would fill
whole volumes, for the whole broad Empire of
Germany have I seen, and oh, how quickly and
how happily to me the days have passed, almost
like a long, beautiful dream has it seemed, as the
ruins, the mountains, the forests, the pretty vil-
lages and the grand old cities have each and all
been beheld by my admiring eyes like the
scenes of a gorgeous panorama to gaze at them
for a moment and then pass to something
strange!  I will try to tell you something of the
things which have pleased me most.  We spent
a few hours in Carlsruhe, the capital of the
Grand Duchy of Baden, then went to Heidel-
berg, a visit I shall never forget.  We arrived
there in the evening, and the following morn-
ing we started out early to walk to the Castle.
It was a beautiful spring morning, the air so
fresh and filled with the perfume of the blos-
soming fruit trees, and the songs of birds just
returning from southern homes and rebuilding
their nests in the magnificent trees of Heidel-
berg.  The trees were just adorning themselves
in their green foliage, and all nature was smiling
at its own loveliness.  It made me happier than
ever to have such a bright day for our visit, for
I long had thought and wished for the pleasure 
of visiting these famous old ruins and rambling
among them. 
	The only attraction at Heidelberg is the old
castle, but when one once sees that, he no long-
er wonders that thousands of people travel every
summer to the place only to look at the ruins.
The castle stands on the side of a high moun-
tain which is situated at the edge of the Black
Forest, and from its elevated position presents a
very imposing appearance.  Climbing up the
terraced walks the castle itself is lost to the
sight, but the great garden walls and the tall, 
graceful trees present a charming appearance, 
and partly prepare one for the beautiful scene
awaiting us farther on.  These walls inside of
walls, and the deep most all around show how
strongly the place was fortified, and how safe it
seemed from all intruders; now its boldness and
greatness has departe, and the bare grey walls
are mellowed by the greenest moss, the most
beautiful ivy, the most perfect and delicate
ferns, and the ruins stand as a monument in
memory of past glories, but the most beautiful
monument i have ever seen, so full of tender-
ness, sadness and noble sentiments engraven by
the hand of age in characters more touching
than a chisel ever wrought, in words more sub-
lime than pen ever wrote; the deep lines and
crevices, the broken towers, the mouldering
walls all covered with clinging ivy, which
hangs so gracefully from every side, softening
and brightening the otherwise rude and sombre
walls that there is no went of other ornament
here, for nature has wrought a work more beau-
tiful than man could do.
	The castle overlooks the city and the Neckar
rier; as I gazed at it from the old bridge it im-
pressed me with a feeling of awe and admiration.
Its broken towers and ivy covered ruins tell their
own sad history, such tales of pomp and power, 
of distress and ruin.  They stand like monu-
ments of past glory and the mars and blurs and
cracks and fissures are like engraven histories,
telling the deeds of the kings, princesa nd war-
riors who have dwelt therein.  We strayed from
room to room, from balcony to balcony, from
tower to tower, all was bare, old and broken, yet
an occasional piece of plaster with a faded fres-
coe on, or a broken piece of stone carving told
that once the place had been adorned with ar-
tistic workmanship.  As we strolled through
the first long halls nothing could be seen but
bare walls, low ceilings and an iron grating, 
which enclosed a dark cell; with a shudder at
the thought of the poor unfortunate who had
been imprisoned there, we passed on- through a
large, low archway into the inner court. how 
could we better tell what the past has been--for
on the inner wall still remains some of the beau-
tiful decorations, and this court yard was once 
very grand.
	The plainness of the outside was all for the
sake of having the walls firmer and stronger for
defense, but the inner walls were most magnifi-
cently ornamented, and the flowers and foun-
tains were very tastefully arranged.  On the left
of the palace, and it still possesses many of its
features of elegance.  It is said to have been one
of the finest places of architecture in the world. 
We first entered this part and from throne
room to cooking apartments wandered, and
found now no difference; all had assumed the
same homely aspect.  The walls are all very
thick, in some parts twenty-seven feet, and the
halls and passages are so narrow and crooked
that one might always feel safe though an one
my were without trying to gain entrance; but
with all its strength and plans for defense this
mighty castle was taken by the French and
kept by them from some time.  The tall tower of
this otto Heinrich's bau was twice struck by
lightning, and what an enemy could not do to
destroy it the elements did. When the French
were compelled to leave the castle they tried to
destroy it by exploding powder but so well is the
place built that little harm was done by even
that. The old tower at the back, called the blown
up tower, was parted, and half lies in the moat
below, while half still stands in its old place in 
the wall. 
	This is the prettiest and most picturesque part 
of the castle, the ivy grows more luxuriantly
here, and the ferns hang temptingly over the
shattered walls.  We spent a long morning
wandering from tower to cellar, but all is now
the same, a wreck, a ruin.  From some parts of 
the castle most beautiful views can be had of
the queer old city below, the Neckar river with
its boats and fishermen, and hte mountains
skirting the Black Forest.  A part of the castle
is in good preservation and is used for a muse-
um; here are kept old relics of the astle and
pictures of  different princes who lived there,
swords and armour, manuscripts and jewels, 
quite an interesting collection.
	Here are also pictures of a Heidleberg student
named Sand, who drew the fatal number, and
so had to kill Kotzbue, a writer, who had writ-
ten articles displeasing the students.  Young
Sand took leave of his companions and walked
to annheim, where he fulfilled his design, com-
mitting the dreadful deed for which he was af-
terwards beheaded.  We very reluctantly left
the castle after we had viewd it from every pos-
sible way.
	There seemed to be a certain charmior fascina
tion about the place which made me long to lin-
ger, but we had to leave for Manheim in the
afternoon, and so slowly and thoughtfully wend-
ed our way down the pretty paths towards the
city.
	In Mannheim Brother Lyman met us at the
station and took us to the home of a Brother
Pfost, where we had dinner and met several
of our Church members.  In Mannheim and
Ludwigshafen we have quite a large branch,
and Brother Lyman is working so well with 
them. We stayed three days, visiting all the
time among the Saints, most of them are hard
working people, but they made us so welcome, 
and seemed delighted to see us.  There is no
liberty for holding meetings, and it seemed very
sad to see so many souls thirsting for knowledge
and longing for the privilge of worshipping God
in the proper way.
	The Rhine divides the two cities, Mannheim
and Ludwigshafen, but they are connected by a 
fine iron bridge, over which both the train and
the street cars run; at these places the people
suffered much at the time of the Rhine mun-
dation, and one of our brethren had his home
swept entirely away.  Sister Postel who enter-
tained us very nicelyand has done so much to-
wards entertaining the Elders, died since we
were there.  She was a very sweet woman, and
I guess many of our missionaries will long re-
member her for the kindness she has shown
them.  The walls of her home were decorated
with the pictures of the different missionaries
who had been there, and among them I saw
Rulon's and Abram's, others that I knew and
several whose faces were not familiar, but whose
names were.  The sisters came to the house
where we had stayed when we were leaving to
bid us good-bye, and they gave me a beautiful
bouquet of flowers and seemed so sorry to have
us leave. 
	We went from there to Frankfort on the Main.This city is one of the first in Germany, noted
principally for its extensive commerce.  It con-
tains many large and splendid stores, and the
narrowest and crookedest streets.  Here is the
home of the Baron Rothschild, his office is on 
the Juden Strausse, or street of the Jews, an
old narrow and dirty street said to have once
been very picturesque, and is still one of the
sights of the city.  In this street most of the
Jews lived, and on public days and holidays
they were locked in this street and not allowed
to go into any other part of the city; but they
thrived and flourished, nevertheless, and now
own the first stores and houses in the city; The
Rothschild family were among these persecuted
Jews.
	This city was the birthplace of Goethe, and all
tourists visit his old home; there in an open 
square stands a large monument of Goethe,
which is very fine.  The nicest building in the city
is the Opera House, it is built in the style of the 
Grand opera at Paris.  Here we heard Wagner's 
deed, and I was so glad to have an opportunity
of hearing it.  Between the acts we walked
through the grand promenades and into the res-
taurants; such gorgeous rooms and staircases,


[Column 1]
and the ladies were most beautifully dressed,
but Jewesess always are finely clad, and most of
the audience were of that race. 
	At Berlin we went through the Berlin Muse-
um, the pride of the city. I enjoyed the sights 
in that famous city very much. At Dresden I 
spent a most glorious day among the sublime
paintings of the Dresden gallery. We arrived
there on the evening of the fifth of April, and 
saw a fine historical play in the theatre; in the 
morning we visited the castle, and were shown 
through the Green Vault, where the finest dis-
play of jewels and works of art in the world are 
exhibited. I was much interested, and would 
have been still more so had not our guide inci-
dentally remarked that Raphael's Sistine Ma-
donna was covered and could not at present be
seen. My disappointment was too great for
words, and my eyes kept filling with tears to
think that I had come so far and now right in 
the city with this wonderful work of the great
Raphael and must be denied the pleasure of see-
ing it.	*	*	I waited to pass through al
the beautiful rooms and looked most admiringly
at the great diamonds which August the Strong
used to wear for coat and vest buttons; the larg-
est green diamond in the world; and oh such
cases of emeralds, sapphires, rubies, and three
cases of diamonds alone in the most beautiful 
settings, sword handles, hat plumes, belt buc-
kles, and all sorts of ornaments. When we had 
finished looking at them we hastened to the gal-
lery and passed through the different rooms, in 
search of this treasure which we feared more
and more we could not see, for repairing and 
cleaning was going on all around, and we went 
through many empty rooms. At last the room 
was reached, and I entered almost trembling,
for the walls in front were bare, but turning
round the beautiful face of the Madonna greeted
me.
	I almost wept now with delight, and we stood
silently and earnestly gazing upon this most 
touching and eloquent picture. It seemed most

[Column 2]
could surpass it, if indeed it is equalled. Van-
derwerff's Expulsion of Hagar and Ishmael is 
very lovely and pleased me greatly. There are 
quite a number of Vanderwerff's pictures, an
all are said to have once been worth thei
weight in gold. Of the modern masters, De
freggio's pictures are most pleasing, still there
are many others very fine, among them a life
size picture of Napoleon in his royal robes; this
was presented to the King of Saxony by Napo-
leon himself, and is a work of great beauty. 
	At Leinz'g we saw some interesting histori-
cal places. It was where the great battle of na-
tions was fought, and the French under Napo-
leon were defeated and driven from the city. A
stone on an elevation some few miles out from 
the city marks the place where Napoleon stood
watching the movements of the battle. 
	Last night we took supper in "Auerbach's
Keller," the old place where Ooethe first re-
ceived ideas for his Faust. The city of Leipzig
is not so very beautiful, every thing is so old
and dingy, but it is, nevertheless, most interest-
ing for many reasons, principally for having
been the birthplace of so many of Germany's
greatest men. Wagner was born here, Schiller, 
Goethe, Boch and Mozart all lived here many
years. One of the finest musical conservatories
in Germany is here, and the supreme law courts
of the nation are also at Leipzig. How strange
it seems that I should be visiting the birthplaces
and homes of these great poets and musicians. 
Each place we go to there is some historical as-
sociation connected with it to render interest
and attraction, and, oh, I am so delighted with 
it all. 
	Eisenach is a quiet little city, and its chief
attraction is the castle of Wartburg; it is also
the birthplace of Bach, the musician, and the 
early home of Luther; the home is still shown 
where he lived while attending school here. I 
spent a pleasant afternoon visiting the castle
and looking at the Therringian forest from its 
tower. 
In my next I will give you the description of 

[Column 3]
ter-day Saints, and involves much which is not
understood by the outside world. President
Taylor and  a party of brethren and sisters went
up on Wednesday morning, the 14th, that pre-
liminary preparations might be made. The oc-
casion of the dedication will be one of rejoicing, 
as it opens up another channel whereby the 
living may act in holy ordinances, not only for 
themselves, but those who have already passed
into the spirit world. 
The present number of the paper closes the 
twilfth volume of th EXPONENT. As the years
have rolled by the paper has gradually increased
in popularity and influence, as well as in its sub-
scription list. During the past year and a half
some serious difficulties have opposed the finan-
cial interests of the paper. In January, 1883,
the bursting of the water pipes in the Council
Houee destroyed the Editorial Office and much 
of the furniture, as well as valuable books and
papers to a considerable amount. In June the 
fire that destroyed the Council House destroyed
all except the desk containing books and a few 
other things, we cannot estimate the loss at less
than three hundred and fifty dollars, besides
many of the things being such as could not be
replaced. However, we hope to do something
towards making the EXPONENT more interesting
in its appeara ce, at least, as it enters upon its 
"teens." There has never been a time when so
many sample copies were sent for from all parts 
of the civilized world, as there has been during
the past few months. The question now agitat-
ing the  public mind in regard to Mormon wom
en and their views of marriage have awakened
many who desire to ascertain facts for them-
selves. Let Mormon women speak for them-
selves and give their own views upon all the 
subjects that interest the community at large,
and as far as is practical discuss the popular 
questions of the day. By assisting to awaken
thought, arousing dormant energies, enlighten-
ment often comes, and there is no better medi-
um for the growth and improvement than the 
press. Mormon women are much talked of then


will be by all minds of the same calibre as his
own. It is really refreshing to read something
from an intelligent, well-educated gentleman,
that has in its views liberality, justice and com-
mon sense–all of which are exemplified in his
"new view of Mormonism," its Federal rulers,
their administration, and other phenomana.
	At this point I took up the pamphlet that lay
by me, thinking I; would make a few extracts,
but it is all so good and true I found I must ex-
tract the whole if I began, so I will only pray
that it may have a wide circulation, that the
prejudices of its readers may be removed as were
those of the gentlemanly writer of "An English
view of the case."
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, May 5th, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 189


190	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TWO GREAT POWERS.

	Is it a reality that there are two great pow-
ers in the land, called good and evil? If you
ask the young people this question the reply
very often is, "I do not realize any great power
aside from that we hold within ourselves to do
good or evil just as we choose to do." Yes, we
have this power also, our own agency, but
what inspires our acts and propels our ener-
gies? The answer is, circumstances by which
we are surrounded. Yes, truly, yet how differ-
ently people view these circumstances. You
may say this cause is the difference in our or-
ganization; yet we are all made in the image of
the Deity, and partake of His attributes. For
instance, we have the faculty to love the beau-
ties of nature; we are told we cannot love any-
thing we do not admire. Accordingly, that
which has attained perfection is the object of
love and admiration. How important, then, is
the fact that we should learn those rules of
action which will enable us to arrive at perfec-
tion. Since God is our Father we want to be
like Him; will not He be well pleased to see us
make an effort in this direction?
	We are told that two brothers claim to gov-
ern this world, and to teach us how to become
like God, our Father. The first lesson that we
have any written account of was given in the
Garden of Eden, where Lucifer told our first
parents they would not surely die, but become
as gods, knowing good and evil. How quickly
did our mother Eve grasp the idea of gaining
that eminence of greatness, even at the dis-
pleasure of her Father, and of breaking His
laws. This we will call the spirit of the world;
to-day they laugh at the idea of believing that
which you hear, unless you know in other ways
some portion to be true.
	Deception is practiced to the extent that the
world is ripening in greatness. Greatness in
what? Great in practical lessons which Lucifer
gives. Then to be a man, and show yourself
such, is to be putting on your dignity and
showing your power to bring all things in sub-
jection to your will. This is god-like indeed!
Far from it! You have out-lived the lessons
taught you in childhood, which were love and
obedience. These would bring peace to your
bosom and to the heart humility; but now you
must love to get gain; to amass wealth. The
greater your attainments in this direction the
more important and god-like you feel that you
are. The world bows to these great men; but
suppose some one claims a portion of this
wealth, what then? You must not allow it,
you must stop that; if you are rich and great
you can stop almost anything. Some even go
so far as to have those put to death who are in
their way; yes, stop the breath—what! then the
germ of the Deity is destroyed? You no long
er enjoy your wealth. How then? The wine
cup will soothe and comfort you. You indulge
and lose your balance, until you find your-
self below the brute beast, which you once
ruled over in pride.

[Column 2]
	How different the lessons given by our elder
brother, the Savior of the world. The first
lesson is to love God, our Father, with all our
might, mind and strength. We love this beau-
tiful world with all its varieties of animal veg-
etable and mineral wealth; also the starry
heavens, as the workmanship of His hands.
And as we study the laws which govern them
how we admire the intelligence of the great De-
signer of the stupendous whole. Everything
seems to move in strict obedience to His laws
and shall man, who is made in His own image,
do less? But you ask, what are the laws given
to men?
	We learn that the laws which the Savior
taught were those that will bring us to perfec-
tion; for He says, "Be ye perfect, even as your
Father in heaven is perfect." You ask, how
can we do this? Well, let us consider what
those laws are. The first thing, being an attri-
bute of the Diety, is love, even that which is
pure and undefiled, and therefore genuine, be-
cause it requires us to be just to our fellows,
also true, upright and honorable, faithful to
our trust, loving others as ourselves. When we
have attained to all these virtues we shall de-
light in doing good to all, and accordingly be
beloved by all who are thus striving to live
pure lives; for this we have merited. Such a
class of people will become like the good shep-
herd whose sheep know his voice and follow
him. We do not see sheep led by the voice of
the shepherd in these days as in former
Scriptural times. They are driven by a dog and
a stick.
	We are of the earth earthy, and this love is
not taught by the spirit of the world; but
those who love and adhere to the teachings of
our Savior will find that this spirit will draw
out and develop every faculty of the soul.
Then one is enabled to give everything its
proper value, and also its proper place
This being the case I would ask, which of the
two great powers is the greatest, the one which
cultivates depravity, the other which teaches
us to be upright and honest, and live according
to true principles? Which is most god-like? I
leave this for yourselves to answer. I will add,
however, that it is quite necessary to learn both
lessons. We are in the world; we partake of
its spirit; we must learn these lessons because
these kind of people we must deal with. Ac-
cordingly this is an important lesson. But
this alone is not sufficient. Until we learn the
lessons taught by the Savior of the world, we
will never have the charity which St. Paul
speaks of when he says, "Though I give all my
goods to feed the poor, and my body to be
burned, and have not charity it profiteth me
nothing." What kind of charity is this? It is
the love of Christ; because He knew all the
lessons Lucifer would give, and the ordeal we
are passing through. Accordingly He has
charity for all our weaknesses, when the heart
is right and the motives pure.
	Now since we learn the spirit of the world
so readily, ought not we to learn the spirit of
the Savior equally well? This was the design
of our parents, that we learn both good and
evil. When we have accomplished both, then
we shall be ready for a higher grade of intel-
ligence, or existence, as you may choose to call
it. And since we do not properly appreciate
things, only by contrast, we shall find these two
lessons are very important ones.
						M. E. KIMBALL.
	P.S. Written for my Sabbath School class,
with whom I have not been able to meet the
past winter because of poor health.
								M. E. K.


Praise undeserved is satire in disguise.--
-Broadhurst.


﻿PRIMARY MEETING.
	Fist Semi Annual meeting of the Fifth
Ward Primary Association since its organiza-
tion, held April 30th 1884, in the Fifth Ward
school house, Sister E. Clarke, President, pres-
iding.  There were on the stand, the President
and her Counselors, the Bishop of the ward,
Brother Clarke and Brother          ; also Sisters
E. S. Clawson, P. L. Kimball, E. B. Fergu-
son and E. Howard, visitors.  There were about
100 children present, and many of the parents.
Opened by singing "In our Lovely Deseret,"
prayer by Bishop Brimley, singing, "Beautiful
Day."  Roll called and minutes read by the
Secretary.
	President Clarke made a few remarks, intro-
ducing the following programme: Dialogue by
Allie Buchanan and Beatrice Ricketts; Recita-
tion by Allie Cowan; Song by  E. Pettit; Song by
the children, "Dare to do Right;" Organ solo,
lizzie Marsden; Duet by Maggie and Berthinia
Simpson; Reading by Edwin pettit; Song by
the children, "Only an Armor-bearer;" Recita-
tion by Willie Brimley; Reading from the Bi-
ble by George Luker; Dialogue by Janet Free-
bairn and Clara Gilby; Duet by Lizzie Brown
and Lizzie Marsden; Duet by Lizzie Palmer
and Emily Durrens.  Report for the half year
ending March 22nd, 1884, read by the Secre-
tary.
	Remarks by Sister Clawson; was much
pleased with the conduct and doings of the
children; felt gratified at the excellent pro-
gramme, and thought the parents must feel
pleased at hearing the little ones speak up so
nicely and repeat their pieces so correctly--
thought the little missionaries had done well in
going round the ward to gather donations in
order to purchase books-- the children had
gathered $6.75 for that purpose.  If you do not
need all the money now for books, you will find
it nice to have some in the treasury.  Prayed
God would bless them with health and wis-
dom, and also their President and her Coun-
selors.
	Sister Presendia L. Kimball said she was
much gratified to meet with these dear child-
ren.  Hoped they would remember the Jesus
said "suffer little children to come unto me."
Thought the children looked happy, as if they
enjoyed the Spirit of God. Told the children
to be honest, truthful, kind to the aged, helpful
to their parents, and obedient to their presi-
dent.  Spoke on the word of wisdom--that
she had kept it even when she was not a Mor-
mon.  Hoped the children would keep the
Word of Wisdom and grow in grace and in
wisdom that they might please God and do
much good in the world.
	Sister E. B. Ferguson said she felt pleased
to meet with the children of the Fifth Ward P.
A. again, and thought they had made a great im-
provement since her last visit; hoped they
would continue to improve every week until
they were as perfect as they could be in the
flesh.  Thought the children of this day and
age were greatly blessed in having the fulness
of the everlasting Gospel preached to them.
Asked if they knew who was the first Prophet
in this last dispensation.  Answer, Joseph
Smith. Told them that Sister Kimball who
had just spoken to them was his wife, and had
heard him preach and teach the things of the
kingdom of God while he was living here on
earth.  Asked the children if they remembered
the revelation God gave for children.  Answer,
Honor thy father and thy mother.  Hoped the
children would remember that this command-
ment was given unto them, and endeavor to
keep it that they might recieve the fulfilment
of the promise and recieve a celestial inheri-
tance in the Kingdom of God.
	Sister E. Howard said this was the second
time that she had met with the children of this


Association; saw great improvement in their or-
der and pieces since her last visit. Was glad
to hear the children speak up so loud that ev-
eryone could hear. Wanted the children al-
ways to lift up their hearts to God that He
would bless them in all they endeavored to do.
When they rise in the morning, when they go
to school, when they are at play, say in their 
hearts, "Father, bless me." Hoped the children
would cultivate order and punctuality; when
they are in meeting pay attention to the speak-
er and don't turn their heads around to look at
everybody coming in. Hoped the children
would not be revengeful, but do good for evil.
Was pleased to hear the boys sing as well as the
girls. Prayed that God would bless them all.
	Bishop Brimley said he was pleased with the 
order and also with the programme, though it 
was a little lengthy. Suggested that it would
be very nice for the same programme to be pre-
sented some Sunday evening that the adults of 
the whole ward might become acquainted with
the P.A. Said he received the Gospel from
Brother Heber C. Kimball, and when he
thought of the joy with which he used to hear
the Elders speak he had many sweet reflec-
tions. Felt to bless the children, and all who
took and interest in the youth of Zion.
	President Clarke said that the meeting had
been rather lengthy, but she felt to thank the
sisters for coming. Was proud of the children
and hoped that all who thought that the child-
ren in the P. A. did not learn anything would
come to one meeting then she thought they
would change their minds.
	Programme for next meeting read by secre-
tary. Meeting adjourned for six months, to
October 29th, 1884. Singing, "Hope of Isra-
el." Dismissed by Brother Clark.
	E. B. FURGUSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT.
	The Primary Association of Plain City gave
an entertainment in the school house of that
place on the evening of April 18th, 1884. Af-
ter the usual opening exercises were over the
remainder of'the evening was spent in singing
songs, rendering recitations and dialogues.
Some of the most interesting exercises were
two recitations, entitled, “Don’t run in debt,”
and “Love, drink, and debt.” Also two dia-
logues, one entitled, “Brandy Drops,” and the
other representing a discourse between a Mor-
mon Elder, and. a minister. The evening’s en-
tertainment was brought to a close by the per-
formance of a short drama, entitled “Boots at
the Swan.” Altogether it was a pleasing af-
fair, and credit is due to those who arranged it.
It was gotten up for the purpose of helping a
little child to emigrate from the old country to
Utah
	The admission being small we were not able
to clear more than $10.50. We have very in-
teresting meetings, and have an average atten-
dance of about forty.
		SUSANNAH ROBINSON, President. 
		JOSEPHINE IPSON, Secretary.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
OGDEN Y. L. M. I. A.
	Minutes of a special meeting of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of the Second Ward, opened by sing-
ing, "Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad
morning." Prayer by Bishop R. Mc.Quarrie,
singing “Oh ye mountains high." Minutes of
March 3rd read and approved.
	President Emily S. Richards arose and
stated the object, said they could not proceed
with the business of the meeting until she had
offered her resignation as President of the as-
sociation, which was her purpose on account of
being called to reside in Salt Lake City; did
not feel like saying much, could truly say she
loved all the young sisters of the association,
and very highly respected all with whom she
had been associated in Ogden, thought a
change sometimes did good in all organizations
and as this one would bring some of the young
sisters into more responsible positions, trusted
it would be for the best good of all. Prayed
for the welfare of the association, and that each
officer would be able to perform her part well
	Bishop Mc.Quarrie regretted very much to
have Sister Emily leave us, but we could not
control these things. No one would miss Bro.
and Sister Richards more than he would, they
were strong props in the second ward. When
means were wanted for any purpose he only
had to name it and they responded willingly to
the call. We have a vacancy occasioned by
the resignation of Sister Richards, and he did
not feel capable to select another President of
his own judgment, but always made such
things a matter of prayer. There are many in
the association who could fill the office in a
creditable manner to themselves and to the sat-
isfaction of the members, but only one could
hold it at a time.
	The following officers were then nominated
and unanimously sustained: Sister Mary A.
Riley, President; Letitia Williams and Mary
Mc.Quarrie, Counselors; Emily J. Newman,
Secretary; Annie L. Newman and Elizabeth
Riley Assistant Secretaries; Christiana Bel-
nap, Treasurer; and Sister Laura Gibbs, Assis-
tant.
	President Sarah Henick followed with some
excellent remarks. We live in a time when it
requires all our energies to keep the command-
ments of God. Urged the young sisters to in-
form their minds; as they knew not how soon
they might be called upon to fill responsible
positions.  The Lord knows we are weak and
frail, and is very merciful to us, and will aid us
if we desire to do right and gain wisdom by
studying the Scriptures. Referred to her la-
bors with Sister Richards, and said the more
she was in her company and the more intimate-
ly she became acquainted with Sister Emily so
also did her love and respect increase for her,
and she regretted very much to be obliged to
part with her. Prayed that the blessings of the
Lord would attend her wherever she might be
called to reside.
	Sister Josephine West felt interested in the
work of improvement, and especially so in the
young ladies, of the second ward; knew they
loved their president dearly, and assured them
that in return they had her warmest affec-
tions; and hoped if they had been benefit-
ted by her counsel that they would remember
it and treasure it up. Urged the new officers
to magnify their callings, and prayed for their
future success—it they felt unequal to the task
to remember the Lord takes the weak things
of  the earth to accomplish great purposes.
	After Sister Richards had mentioned several 
items of business connected with her past la-
bors, the meeting was adjourned to meet Mon-
day, April 14th- Closing hymn, “Lord, dis-
miss us with thy blessing.” Benediction by 
Bishop Mc.Quarrie. 
			ELILY P. NEWMAN, 
					Secretary.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Deliberate with caution, but act with decis-
ion, and yield with gracefulness, or oppose
with firmness.

	Whoever strikes hard must prepare for the
rebounder.  If we criticise, we must not wince
when we are criticised.

	Do you want to know the man against whom
you have the most reason to guard yourself?
Your looking-glass will give you a very fair
likeness of his face. -Whately


The way to fill a large sphere is to glorify a
small one.  There is no large sphere; you are
your sphere; the man regenerate, and consecra-
ted is the lordliest thing on earth, because he
makes himself so.—Fdward Braislin.

	Before we can really lift up other hands,
our own must have been lifted up by His good
Spirit; and our own feeble knees must have
been confirmed, by much bowing at His foot-
stool.—F.R. Havergal.

	"H. H.” has just completed the first long
story of which she has acknowledged the au-
thorship.  The story takes it name from the
heroine,“Ramona." The scene is laid in
Southern California, in the Early days of Amer-
ican settlement, and is said to abound in pas-
sages of rare and beautiful description, as well
as in elements of great pathetic and tragic in-
terest.
	Rev. Phebe A. Hanaford, after ten years of
earnest labor and no little self-sacrifice in Jer-
sey city, has resigned her position as pastor of
the Second Universalist Church, and will prob-
ably remove to the beautiful City of Elms,
which she left ten years ago.  She will preach
in New Haven, Conn., on May l1, in the new
and tasteful edifice of the Second Universalist
Church.


ABOUT EATING.

	The following suggestions from a diet list,
such as each patient under treatment in the
Sanatorium receives from his physician, may be
of service to those who are trying to pursue the
right way at home.
	Take no food whatever—fruit included—
except at meal times.  Eat slowly, and masti-
cate all food thoroughly.
	Ten minutes more at meals may save a fit o
indigestion.  Drink sparingly: never a glass of
very cold or very hot liquid.  A swallow or
two of water, just before leaving the table,
permissible; but neither hot nor cold water
should be drunk freely within a half hour be-
fore or an half hour after meals.
	Good digestion depends largely upon mental
conditions and influences.  It is promoted by
light conversation and gentle exercise, but re-
tarded by severe bodily or mental labor; study
therefore to keep free from all mental or emo-
tional excitement, before, during, and after
meals, and avoid all fatiguing exercise imme-
ditely before or within an hour after eating.
	Choose only pleasant topics for conversation
while at table.The discussion there of diseases
is especially harmful and annoying, to say no-
thing of being inconsistent with good breed-
ing.  Equally ill timed and injurious are all
arguments and discussions at table concerning
the relative value of different articles of food.
	Bear in mind that it is possible to study
your diet too closely, and to do great harm
thereby.  Avoid any tendency to count each
mouthful of food, constantly to study the un-
pleasant effects produced by the different arti-
cles you have eaten, or to let your mind con-
tinually dwell on what you ought to eat and
what you ought not to eat.  Men, as a rule,
eat too much; women too little.
				The Laws of Life.


DEATH OF SISTER EARL.

	Lois Caroline Owen was born Jan. 8th, 1818, Town of
Milton, Benningtion Co., Vermont. Moved with her
parents to Illinois 1826. Recieved the Gospel the first
time she heard it preached; was baptized by Sylvester
II, Earle 1838, whom she married Jan 28, 1839. They
gathered with the body of the Church, and shared in the
mobbings and drivings of the Saints, were with them
when expelled from Nauvoo: and shared in the hard-
ship of the journey to Winter Quarters, where she


took care of her three children, while her husband ac-
companied the pioneers to hunt a resting place for the
Saints of God, to which she came in 1848.  Remained in
Salt Lake City until 1861, when they moved to South-
ern Utah, settling in Pine Valley.
   Sister Earl was appointed President of the Relief So-
ciety of that place, which position she faithfully filled
as long as her health would permit.  Her deeds of ben-
evolence, self sacrifice, and integrity to the principles 
of the Gospel will ever furnish a pleasing thought to
those who cherish her memory.  She was the mother of 
ten children, had passed through a great deal of sick-
ness and trouble, having buried her husband and six
of her children.
   During the last few years of her life her health was
gradually declining, until she was prostrated, in which 
condition she lingered thirteen months; at times her
suffering being intense, until the 9th of March, 1884,
when she quietly passed off with a peaceful smile,
characteristic of her former life.  She leaves four child-
ren, several grandchildren, and a host of friends to
mourn her departure.					COM.
   Bunkerville, April 23rd, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OBITUARY. 

	We are again called upon to record the death of an-
other beloved sister and friend.
	Alice Walker, wife of James J. Walker, departed this
life March 5th, 1884, at Kaysville, Davis Co., Utah. De-
ceased was born April 11th, 1844, at Chelltenham,
England. She embraced the Gospel in her youth, and
met with much opposition from her nearest and dearest
friends, which caused her to leave her once happy home
and seek one in the valleys of the mountains, where she
became acquainted with the principle of plural mar-
raige and an understanding for herself that it was true
She entered into that higher order of the Gospel in July
1867. She bore a family of seven sons and one daughter,
saven of whom are living.
	A little over two years ago she gave birth to twin
boys, which brought her very near her death, but
through faith in the ordinances of  priesthood she
was restored to health, which blessing she enjoyed as
long as she nursed her baby twins.
	She did not mingle much in society. To watch over
her family and make herself useful in the home cicle
and attend to her household duties seemed to be her de-
light: she always appeared happy and cheerful in the
place of wife and mother.
	She lived true and faithful to her covenants, and died
in full hope of coming forth in the morning of thefirst
resurrection to greet her husband, and children, and dear
friends who mourn her loss.
	May her children follow in the footsteps of their
mother, is the desire and earnest wish of
							SARAH B. LAYTON.

	DIED at Fish Haven, Bear Lake Co., Idaho, April
25th, 1884, of inflammatory Rheumatism, Huldah Hen-
rietta, beloved wife of J. W. Edwin Stock, in the thirty-
second year of her age. Deceased was born May 1st,
1852, at Provo, Utah, and was the daughter of George
B. and Huldah Teeple of Holden, Utah. She was the
mother of six children, three of whom are living, the
youngest being two weeks old at the time of her death
She leaves a large number of relatives and friends to
mourn her loss.
	Sister Henrietta was President of the Primary,
teacher in  Relief Society, and First Counselor in the
Young Ladies Association of this place, and has al-
ways been a faithful and concientious laborer in the
Church and different societies to which she belonged,
and all who knew her deeply feel her loss. She was a sin-
cere and true friend, a loving and affectionate mother,
and a noble and devoted wife.

       Dearest sister, though your pathway
	    Has been strewn with many thorns
	You have nobly won the victory,
	     To your rest you now have gone.

          Father, children, kindred friends,
	You will miss her lovely form;
	But a bright future lies before us
	At the resurrection morn.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
  Resolved, That we extend our deepest sympathy to 
all  members of the family.
  Resolved, That these Resolutions be put upon the re-
cords of the Relief Society, and a copy thereof be sent

[Column 2]
to the family of the deceased, and a copy to the 
EXPONENT.
	FRANCIS HOWELL,
	FRANCIS STOCK, Committee.
	SARAH C[-]OOK, 			ROSETTA STOCK, Secretary.

	It becomes my painful duty to announce the death of
a beloved sister and fellow laborer in the Relief Society
of Samaria, Oneida Co., Idaho. Her death took place
on the 21st of Feb., 1884.
	Hester Edwards, beloved wife of Dr. Edwards, and
daughter of John E. and Ruth Price, who was born Oct.
30th, 1843, in Aberysgyr Parish, Breconshire, South
Wales, was baptized at eight years old; immigrated to
this place March, 1875, after which her husband was
baptized into the Church. She filled the office of a 
teacher in the Relief Society for three years, was ap-
pointed Assistant Secretary, which office she filled
worthily. Her parents were the first settlers of this
settlement. 
	Her funeral procession was the largest of this place;
there were also many from Malad City. She was very
highly respected and beloved by all who knew her.
	She leaves a husband, a daughter fourteen years of
age, a sweet, baby girl three weeks old, relatives, and
host of friends to mourn her loss.
					  MARY D. DAVIS, President.
P.S. Sister Edwards was a subscriber for the EX-
PONENT. 					'M.D.D.

	DIED, at Mt. Pleasant, Sanpete Co., Feb. 6th, 1884,
Mrs. Ellen Lake, beloved wife of Wm. Lake, after being
sick only a few days. Sister Lake was born April 16th,
1840, in Findon, Sussexshire, England. Immigrated to
Utah with her parents about twenty-seven years ago.
She was a firm, faithful Latter-day Saint, a true and
loving wife and a most affectionate mother.
	She was the mother of ten children, nine of whom are
left to mourn their sad loss.  May she rest in peace.
								M.F. C. MORRISON.


SPENCER HOUSE
	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists- prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


For Sale at this Office
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos 1 and 2, 	25c per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol  1		$100
	"	Vol. 2 containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth $1.25, in morocco, 1.50
	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z.C.M.I.
	SPEACIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETEICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
	OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO BUILDING
OFFICE hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence Twelfth
	Ward 2d South Street bet. 5th and 6th Esst.
	Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
	OBSETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communiation between Office and Residence
	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTUERAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
			MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE Supt.
	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortment
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
HENRY DINEWOODEY
FURNITURE,
	WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
	and window cobices
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	SALT LAKE CITY.
Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of 
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE

