VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1883.	NO. 13.


FIGHTING THE BATTLE.

Pitiful, pitiful 'tis to see
	Our friends 'twixt poverty's "millstones" ground
Ring out an anthem of jubilee,
	When instead of fallen and crushed, they're found
Fighting the battle 'gainst "hard, hard times,"
	Vanquishing fairly so fierce a foe;
Strengthen the toiler who bravely climbs
	Ahead of despondency, want and woe.

Pitiful, pitiful 'tis as true
	The weak by the mighty are trampled down,
But yet there are worthies, a noble few,
	Heedless of profit or fair renown
Fighting the battle 'gainst monstrous wrongs,
	Steadily striving "the point" to gain;
Gladden such workers with cheerful songs,
	Lean to the lowly and blessings obtain.

Pitiful, pitiful 'tis to know
	For right and freedom the best have died;
But the ashes of martyrs revive and glow;
	The apostles of progress are scattered wide,
Fighting the battle 'gainst iron creeds,
	Clearing the vision of souls so blind,
Uphold the preacher who sows the seeds
	Of truth in the hungry immortal mind.

Oh, more than pitiful 'tis how fast
	Troubles and evils do start and grow,
Fearful the shadows they o'er us cast,
	But oh, there are many we're proud to know
Fighting the battle 'gainst grevious woes,
	Pushing their purpose with mind and might;
Honor the hero whose telling blows
	Count in the contest for aught that is right.

	EMILY H WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
FRAGMENTS OF EPISTOLARY
CORRESPONDENCE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Many thanks, dear madame, for your kind
and prompt response to my letter; I will en-
deavor to answer it seriatim.
	I am pleased to take the place you have so
kindly allotted me, as one of the "beads" on
your "rosary;" which you keep "proudly and
lovingly by your side"—I fully realize the
truth of your remarks that women should draw
nearer to each other, and I have long been
convinced that it is cultivated souls that most
easily amalgamate, and the genial soul discov-
ers its congenial affinity, even in the dark.
This assertion I could readily elaborate, but
must not be too prolix, and the fact is patent;
a large heart and a broad brain are necessary
to form and cement that friendship which is
organized with the spirit, and with the under-
standing. The training of woman has been
and still is so defective; their schools need to
be sent to school that they may cease to mar
what God and some earthly parentage have of-
ten made so beautiful! Poor woman! I have
at this moment an "open vision" of the gener-
al teaching of girls from infancy upwards, and
I feel it marvelous that they are as good as
they are. God is at the helm and save the
frail human bark from "breakers" in a thou-
sand instances.
	How you express my own sensations when
you tell me yours. Your pride when you read
a noble article from the pen of a woman. I
read on and what an echo I hear in my heart
to your truthful workds. I can by rejoice
at your remark that my letter "coming before
breakfast gave you a pleasant beginning for

[Column 2]
the new day"—may I ever give you this pleas-
ure when you read my letters.
	Oh, no, dear lady, there is "no antagonism 
between us on account of religion," we will 
not even name that unless en passant, or you 
make an inquiry about it, and then you will 
find mine "the pen of a ready writer," for on 
that subject I am always "at home;" I am like 
you in respect of searching for truth, the 
hand-maid of God; and I want to behold  her 
in her subline nudity as she came from the 
courts of heaven; I want no tinsel of the world 
to garble her chaste and beautiful form, and 
may my eyes ever be pure and clear enough to 
behold and appreciate her. You speak of the 
opinions and the judgements by which you are 
surrounded. Let me say, the day of judgement is 
still in the future, though many presume to 
usurp the seat; as a people we should say with 
David in an hour of trial, "Let me fall into the 
hands of God, and not into the hands of man." 
	Your following remarks upon the different 
religions having a field for action allowed them,
is just; most righteous would it be that the L. 
D. S. have this same field of free action that 
they may develop themselves. Permit me to
say you are in error in speaking of the 
"corruptions," et. cetera. In the principles of 
our church there are no "corruptions," they 
are perfect, becaus God-given and not the 
work of man. Whatever is wrong among its 
members is their own work, and for that they 
must be responsible; it requires a very pure,
unselfish, broad-souled being to make a good 
Latter-day Saint. You say you have a relig-
ion of your own, and who has not? Especially 
one of strong individuality and a deep thinker 
—such bow to the statute laws of their 
church, but need the common law for the creed 
of their own souls and their own organizations,
so various and so complex is this said human 
organism! 
	Now you allude to polygamy and the "vir-
tuous indignation" out there; you are right-
eously sarcastic on their order of things; you 
mean to be just, but dear madam, "compari-
sons are odious" in such a matter, there are 
none, there can be none in time nor in eterni-
ty; your following words are good, and whole 
sheets might be written, for verily it is a pro-
lific theme; but I must remember it is a letter 
and not a homily I am writing. 
EXTRACT 2.
	I have just been reading the clipping you 
sent me from the "Daily Telegraph." I should 
like to sit face to face with the writer for a 
short time; I would set him a chair and then
say, allow me to criticize this writing of yours 
which I hold in my hand. In the first place 
you know nothing of the character of the man 
you so flippantly and unsparingly cut up as 
though you were an omniscient being. You be-
lie your own judgment in almost every part,
would such an equivocating witness be admit-
ted into any court where justice held her bal-
ance even? Judge ye all who read this article 
with their eyes open and no veil on their un-
derstanding; Brigham Young was as far above 
your garbled criticism as was Jesus Christ 
above that of the Jews and the Romans popu-
lace. 
	I would show him  where he knew he lied, 
because he contradicts himself, and I would 
show plainly that he is a "boughten article." I 
would also ask him, do you positively believe 
that a quarter of a million of people are all

[Column 3]
fools? The brainless, heartless beings you por-
tray them? My God! I wish the vision of 
your mind could be opened, that knowledge 
could be given unto you for a time, long enough 
to ever after give you common sense, the 
greatest gift  God, then your eyes wouid be 
open and you would behold your nudity—I 
would have liked to have placed you under 
the influence of that quiet eye that would have 
pinned you to your seat by the volley of truth,
of honesty, of power and of reproof which it 
would have emitted. Yes, I—only a woman 
would have made that man feel small as he had 
never felt before by the simple power of the 
spirit of truth which I posses as the gift of 
God, which surely would have been within me 
at the time I spoke to him. 
	Ah! one moment these scribblers speak of 
Brigham Young as a marvel among men, "One 
of the most successful men the present genera-
tion has known," and in the next sentence 
brand him as an arch impostor, "a man of no 
education and culture." They get a glimpse 
of the grandeur of the man's character, and 
they cannot but own it, or stamp themselves as 
ignorant dolts, but they try to throw it into the 
shade by speaking of his low birth, his non-ed-
ucation, et cetera. 
	What dupes such writers must be to their 
own narrow creed, to believe that a man unaid-
ed bya power not often known or acknowledged 
upon the earth, and without a collegiate edu-
cation, (which the world puts in the place of 
God) could have gathered together a quarter 
of a million of people—offering them no riches 
or aggrandizement of this world—but "sacri-
fice" is the first word of the covenant—aban-
donment of home and loved ones—a journey 
through a long and wearisome travel to a wil-
derness where no friends were waiting to re-
ceive them, no shelter to their worn-out frames 
but in the wagons in which they had made the 
journey, no food but what remained of that
which they had brought. Was rebellion heard 
against the LEADER of this mighty people?
Verily, no! Faith in God and this very lead-
er made "the rough places smooth" and the 
dark places plain. Wait-and see what history 
will tell of the man now, so belied, so mis-
judged, so misunderstood; it is sufficient for him 
and for this people to know, he was led by the 
hand of God-that all authorities in the Church 
of Latter-day Saints are led by the same spir-
it if they are in the path of duty—the most 
simple and feeble L. D. S. feels and knows 
there is a POWER mighter than man that holds 
ans guides the destinies of this "peculiar peo-
ple" The "Daily Telegraph" writer has faded 
from my mind, I seem to need one of Her-
schell's telescopes to again make him palpable-
this is a just and true figure of how the ene-
mies, and the opposers, and the would-be-wise,
and the skeptic, and the infidel, and every 
thing that hurts, or offends, or blights the pros-
pect, or impedes the progress, or for a time 
destroys happiness and peace, and every voice 
will be hushed that is screaming "sedition, re-
bellion, disloyalty to the constitution, evict
those people of the mountains," et cetera. We
will wake one morining and behold all such 
silent, the night had carried them away, and 
"joy cometh in the morning." Foot to foot,
shoulder to shoulder, hand to hand, heart to 
heart, brain to brain, like well-traiued soldiers 
let the Latter-day Saints move on. "The sword  
of the Lord and of Gideon" being thier 
mouth.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

(Continued.)
	"During the early period of the life of my
son Joseph I was engaged in teaching a private
school in the old schoolhouse built by Presi-
dent Young, in which, for many years, ward
meetings were held in that locality, also fast
meetings, where the children were blest after
the pattern of the Savior, and according to the
order of the Church of Jesus Chaist of Latter-
day Saints. There, on one occasion, Joseph
was blest by President Brigham Young, and
great things were promised him, among which
it was said that he should supersede his father
in holding the keys of the priesthood upon
the earth. I was very grateful for the bless-
ings and promises made to him by the one
holding the highest authority given to man
upon the earth, and yet it created in me a feel-
ing of greater humility as well as an ardent
desire to dedicate him more fully to the divine
work to be accomplished in this generation. L
felt the need of the Holy Spirit to assist me in
training him up in the nurture and admonition
of the lord."
	"Zion was growing and increasing, people
were getting more comfortable homes, and the
prosperity of the Saints was gradually becom-
ing apparent. From a barren and desolate
land villages and towns, farms and mills sprang
up by dint of the hard labor and energies of
the people, aided and blest by the Almighty.
My husband's wives were all made quite com-
fortable for those days, although now such
surroundings would seem quite old-fashioned
and countrified. We had to card, spin and color
our yarn, and weave, and the dresses made by
our own hands were more highly appreciated
by us then, than the silks and velvets some of
our young mothers are able to buy now. We
knew the worth of these things, for our own
hands had made them. We made our own soap,
we made our own molasses for sweetening, from
beets and sugar cane; we made our own candles,
and lived mostly by means of home made
articles. All this was a rich experience, and
taught us how to feel for each other, and to ap-
preciate every effort for advancement in the di-
rection of temporal progress. In those early
times in the valley the Saints were blest with
great faith, and there was very little sickness,
the gifts of the Gospel were enjoyed to a great
degree, the people were humble, and the pride
of the world was not so prevalent as it is to-
day."
	The next event of importance which oc-
curred in the life of Sister Presendia happened
on the 15th of November, 1853. She was
helping her son Oliver to move a lye leach
and was walking backwards and hit her heels
against a log and fell breaking her left arm.
The elbow turned downwards breaking the
ligaments of the wrist. In her own words,
"it was a terrible smash." She says, "I got up
by help of my knees and held my arm with
my right hand, straitened the arm and fixed
the bone so as to make it look natural and sent
for Brother Kimball. He said it looked to be
all right and he did not believe it could have
been broken, so sent for Dr. Ezra Williams
who lived just across the street, by this time
the arm was so painful I could hold it myself no
longer, and Sister Williams, the Doctor's
mother, held my hand for me. Dr. Williams
was not a surgeon and was unable to deter-
mine whether the arm was broken or not. Ac-
cordingly Dr. France was sent for, he under-
stood the human organism thoroughly and
knew directly what was dislocated and how to
dress the arm. Knowledge is power in such
extremities as this. I then learned my arm
was broken by the sense of feeling when the

[Column 2]

good doctor attempted to put it in its proper
place and bind it up. I was living at that
time where the old church blacksmith's shop
now is, in a small adobie house. Unfortunate-
ly for me fourteen months afterwards I fell on
the ice and broke it again, which was as a natur-
al consequence more severe and more trouble-
some than the first break. In those days we
did all our own spinning, coloring and weav-
ing. I had an English sister staying with me
by the name of Parsons to assist me as I was
unable to use my arm for some time. Sister
Parsons was a very good woman, very capable
and lady-like, but though she did her very
best, no one can do everything, and my sewing
was greatly behind on account of my having
had these accidents. Sister Mercy R. Thomp-
son, dear, kind-hearted soul, understanding my
circumstances made a surprise party and a
sewing bee all in one, and thus a few good sis-
ters helped each other and made up the child-
ren's clothing. Such kindness I shall never
forget. These were the times of scarcity, and
the Spring of 1856 was the time of the grass-
hopper famine, when those who had something
laid by lived on half rations, but many of the
Saints had no provisions at all and those who
were partly supplied, divided their scant store
with those more destitute than themselves. I
felt so keenly the sufferings of the people in
this time of scarcity that although I only re-
ceived half rations in common with the rest
of Bro. Kimball's family, yet I asked the Lord
in prayer to take away my appetite and give
me strength to keep up without it, so that I
might give my rations to the poor children who
had nothing. Strange as it may seem the
Lord heard and answered my prayers. I was
enabled to keep up my usual strength with
scarce any food at all, and the desire of my
heart was granted me that I might impart my
share to those who had none. In that dread-
ful time many were the scenes of distress piti-
ful to relate, and some were not able to endure
this severe test of their faith and apostatized
from the Church and went away. Some lived
on nothing but roots and greens for weeks to-
gether. Verily it was a time of trial that
pierced men's souls; to hear one's children cry-
ing for bread without a morsel to give is some-
thing that even strong men shrink from, and
the tender hearts of mothers in times like these
are torn with anguish."
	"In the summer of 1857 it was arranged
there should be a general celebration of the
24th of July, Pioneer Day as it is called, in
the tops of the mountains, at the head waters
of Big Cottonwood. Quite elaborate prepara-
tions were made and hundreds of the people
gathered there the day previous. Brigham
Young, then Governor of Utah, Heber C.
Kimball, Daniel H. Wells, George A. Smith,
and in fact all the leading men of the Church
went up to take part in the exercises and par-
ticipate in the enjoyments of the festive occa-
sion. They took with them their wives and
children, and many others joined the company,
for it was the people's holiday, and it was a
season of rejoicing for there had been a plenti-
ful harvest the year before after the famine,
and a day of prosperity seemed to have dawned
upon the saints."
	"Bro. Kimball had invited me to go up with
him, and Mother Whitney was with us. The
roads were steep and I walked so much going
up the mountain that I had chills and fever
that night. Mother Whitney administered
comfort to me and blessing and I was healed.
It was a splendid time of recreation, and vari-
ous pastimes and amusements were indulged
in, dancing, singing, orations, and O, how
grand the cannons sounded resounding from
peak to peak on these high mountain tops.
We were so near to heaven and heavenly be-
ings that every one felt the pure atmosphere
and all were so very happy. In the midst of

[Column 3]

this at what seemed a supreme enjoyment, a
time of liberty and peace, two messengers rode
into camp having just arrived from the plains
with the United States mail, and brought the
tidings of Johnston's army being on the march
for Utah. What a feeling came over the peo-
ple with these tidings. President Young had
only just before said if they will let us alone
for ten years we can save ourselves by the
help of God. The gravest matters of state
were discussed there during the next few hours
and the people returned with sobered counte-
nances and reflecting upon the serious condi-
tion of affairs."
	"The history of the Echo Canyon war is
well known, this was the next particular inci-
dent, it occurred the following fall and winter.
My son Oliver was one of the number who
went out with that expedition under Gen.
Wells, and many were the hardships endured
by those brave men. Their clothing was poor
and many suffered much with the cold on ac-
count of that. Oliver had his share of the
bitter experiences of that time and came home
when he was relieved from duty destitute and
worn out with fatigue."
	Following this was "the move," which trans-
pired in the spring of 1858.
	This wholesale moving was a time of
experiences, the people were comparatively
poor, especially in clothing and what is known
as family groceries, and any sort of delicacy or
luxury was rare, and was always saved for the
sick among us. President Kimball moved his
family south a few at a time, as did all those
who had large families, for whatever the world
may think of the advantages men enjoy in
having large families, there is certainly a heavy
responsibility resting upon them, especially
when there is any move to be made involving
a change of place or residence. Large bodies
move slowly, it is said, and that is why all
these large families could not move south at
the same time. Sister Presendia at this time
had her two boys, Oliver who was then a grown
young man and expected to do a man's work
in the family, and her little son Joseph, just
at a most interesting age.
	"It had been determined to leave our lovely
city to the army and all go farther south. Bro.
Kimball fitted up some teams and started a
part of his numerous family, I being one of
the number to make the first move to leave
our homes, the other wives were Anna Gheen
Kimball and Ellen Saunders Kimball, with
all our children. My son Oliver had been
married just before to Mary Ann Lack. Our
directions were to go as far as Springville and
remain there in care of Bishop Aaron Johnson.
We were most kindly received by him and his
family and well provided for. We left Salt
Lake City and our pleasant homes so endeared
to us because of our previous privations and
wanderings, on the last day of March, 1858.
We had no expectation of returning; we made
the sacrifice fully counting the cost. It was
no new thing for the Latter-day Saints, and
they seemed to accept it with the same spirit
of serenity and resignation, that has ever and
always characterized their movements in times
of the severest trial. While I was in Spring-
ville I was always busy, every one had to work,
it was an absolute necessity. I had left all, my
home, my furniture, my household appurte-
nances, such little things as are the ornaments
of home, it was very little we could take with
us, only the barest necessities, but all I wished
particularly for was my bedstead, lying on the
floor again was so hard after our long and
tedious journeys, it was annoying to be obliged
to submit to it again, and all on account of 
those who had already previously driven us in-
to the wilderness and been the cause of all
our hardships. Still there was no hardness in
our hearts, only pity for the condition in which
we were so unexpectedly placed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

TO M.C.S.

Last but not least, unfailing, faithful friend,
	My heart sends forth its gifts of love to thee,
In language where the poet's sweet voice ascends,
The present joins, and with the future blends
	In choral song, a soul-felt harmony.

Well, listen, first unto the voice that sings
	Of the far years that form our mutual past;
While thoughts fair fingers fondly touch the strings,
And memory flies to fold her shadowy wings
	Over a realm whose treasures always last.

Forever last! for though estrangement's gloom
	Too often falls o'er friends we once have known,
Joys they have shared can never cease to bloom,
Searched for, and set, like flowers above a tomb,
	The troubled spirit calls them still its own.

I well remember, when a little child,
	Of wandering by a group of household graves,
The one fair spot, amid a forest wild,
Where blossoms bright, and rare, pale roses smiled
	Up to the boughs that bent like sylvan shades.

While leaning low to read the records there,
	A lady came and smiled, and whispered, "See!
This is my flower garden; full and fair
The buds expand and bloom above despair,
	The buried here were friends to you and me."

And so through life, amid the dearth and doom
	Of severed friendship, I have seemed to see
Those tender flowers upon the sunlit tomb,
And in my heart these words have since found room,
	"The buried here was once a friend to me."

But the voice sings, and bids us list again
	To the dear, tender tone that trembled up
Till the calm present joins to lead the strain
While spirit voices swell the sweet refrain,
	We drink delicious drops from memory's cup.

And gazing down into its tranquil deeps,
	A broken fountain faintly comes to view;
O'er its hushed source a heavy shadow sleeps,
And wearied hope amid the ruin weeps
	Great drops that gem the trampled flowers like dew.

It matters not by what rude hands, or when,
	The full, fresh font was shattered, but it seems
Song and bloom and beauty perished then,
That its dim waves will never flow again
	Beyond the barrier of broken dreams.

The picture grows, and lo, with laughing sound,
	Forth from its mossy vine-wreathed rock a rill
Leaps to the light, and the low hills around
Echo the songs that ceaselessly resound
	From the full waves that dance or dream at will.

Where'er it flows a fragrance fills the air;
	The daisy sleeps beneath the lily's shade;
Sweet song birds flit and flutter everywhere,
But whether bending bowers or ruins bare
	It wanders by, its song is never stayed.

Lovingly lingering where the summer lies
	Catching a ray from every sunbeam passed;
Touched by the tints that fill the far off skies,
Along its course the sparkling current hies,
	And near the silent fountain flows at last.

Leads gently by, and bubbling o'er the brim
	Fills the lone font and softly sweeps away;
Lends its own light unto the wavelets dim,
And leaping through the shadows gray and grim
	Fills all the air with grateful glittering spray.

Taught by the tide, the wakeued stream once more
	Wells forth to join the rapturous, ringing trill;
The shattered shrine resistless rises o'er,
And where dead flowers and silence slept before,
	Together glide the fountain and the rill.

Fearless and free where falsehood lurks in yain, 
	Through storm and shine the blended waters run;
Some mournful measures mingling in the strain,
Keeping their course along life's lessening plain
	To that far sea beyond the settling sun.

Even thus has Maggie's life flowed into mine;
	Thus undivided have our days sped on;
May every year some tendril new entwine,
Some sweet note rise, some soul gem softly shine
	To light the hours that wait the lingering dawn.

[Column 2]

The song is hushed—the touched chords tremble yet—
	The pen is stayed--but still the picture lives;
We list the dying sound with sweet regret;
But on the scene fair faith her seal has set,
	And friendship's hand the gift to Maggie gives.

	B.M.R.
March 13, 1875.


[Column 1]
HOLIDAY TIMES. 

	As the holiday season approaches it brings
to one and all many thoughts and peculiar to the
time. In youth they are joyous, not serious
thoughts; bright and fanciful pictures present
themselves, holding out a panorama of beauti-
ful visions where gladness, merriment and
feasting abound.  Who shall say this is not
good, and exhilirating to the mind and body? 
No one can dispute the fact.  We all know by 
experience, who have lived long in this world, 
that nothing is more injurious to health than
depression of spirits.  "Sadness tends to death,"
was a favorite saying of one of our dear sisters
who has gone from our midst, but whose ex-
ample of cheerfulness under the most trying 
circumstances of life is worthy of imitation. 
Courage to bear adversity is commendable, 
courage in poverty, if it be honest poverty, is 
a true sign of heroism.  It is easy to hold up 
one's head in prosperity, that requires no par-
ticular quantity of courage whatever, but to 
shrink into a nutshel because fortune, the gid-
dy dame, has been playing us some mad freak
is ignoble.  Others may frown upon one be-
cause of adversities, because of an empty purse, 
or "lack of the needful," but one should pre-
serve his own equinamity, should think well of 
himself, should have the courage to look his 
friends in the face, if his  honor has been
maintained through it all, and congratulate
himself that he has the stamina to brave mis-
fortune; it is a proof of genuine character not
to sink under an accumulation of difficulties. 
	
	"Dearly bought the hidden treasure
	Finer feelings can bestow!
	Chords that vibrate sweetest pleasure
	Thrill the deepest notes of woe."

	Never was anything more strictly true than
these poetic sentiments of Robert Burns.  It is 
indeed those who feel the most keenly who en-
joy most and who suffer most It is argued by 
some wise acres that all pain is alike, but the
most learned medecin knwos that there is all
the difference imaginable in the degrees of in-
tensity of bodily suffering, and the heart as 
well. Tell me that all men and women are 
alike, they all suffer alike, all enjoy alike, it is 
not true. Our intelligence teaches us differ-
ently when we reflect and reason upon the sub-
ject. 
	Let me not digress. I was intending to 
write of holiday times; well, even this has as
much to do with the poor as the rich, they en-
ter into the solid enjoyment of these festive oc-
casions with as true a relish for pastime and 
happy reunions, as do those whose wealth and
grandeur make them the cynosure of all eyes. 
But those who have means at their command
might be  more intensely happy if they sought
to bless the meek and lowly, and without os-
tentation in some delicate manner bestow such
attention as would afford grateful appreciation
without woundi[-]g the sensibility of the reci-
ient.To know how to scatter bounties grace-
fully is as ingenious a matter and requires as 
much tact and skill as to probe a wound in or-
der to heal it.  Jesus said, "Take heed that ye
do not your alms before men to be seen of 
them."
	Why do we not follow the teachings of our
divine Master? He sought out the poor and
visited them.  He went not into the mansions
of the great of the earth, but into the hedges
and byways, and He said, "Blessed are the
meek, for they shall inherit the earth." There 

[Column 2]
may be a shadow at the holiday season or 
times, even on the Christmas day when all 
should be at peace with one another and all the
world, but even that may be sanctified to the
good of those who accept all the vicissitudes of 
life as dispensations of a divine providence
for the best good of the human family.  A lit-
tle pensiveness is beautiful mingeld with the
hilarity of a Christmas gathering, the blend-
ing of the more sober and thoughtful with the 
gay and hilarious gives tone to the holiday pic-
ture, and seasons the two elements, softening
and subduing the more ecstatic joy. and these
elevate and modify the sober and reflec-
tive.  And one can scarcely help feeling a holy
awe and reverence even on the most joyful
Christmas occasion, when recalling the incident
that led to the celebration of the most impor-
tant event which has occurred in the history
of the world since the tragedy which trans-
pired in the Garden of Eden.  Therefore it is 
meet to mingle tears and smiles on such an im-
portant anniversary. 
	
	"The time draws near the birth of Christ; 
	The moon is hid; the night is still; 
	The Christmas bells from hill to hill
	Answer each other in the mist."

	O, how significant are these choice lines of 
Tennyson; how many hearts can echo the re-
frain; a mist of pearly tears envelops many a 
household at these holiday times; and yet 'tis
sweet to feel thus, 'tis even sacred, so much so 
that one would not lessen the pain for the ex-
treme of pleasure. 'Tis sublime to contem-
plate the glory of immortality, and when we 
recall the birth and resurrection of our blessed 
Savior, our hearts are enlarged, our souls in-
spired with a divine enthusiasm that blends in 
harmony the celestial elements of our nature
with the immortal kinship.  We are not what 
we were, but what we would be; 

	"With trembling fingers do we weave
	The holly round the Christmas hearth; 
	A rainy cloud possess'd the earth; 
	And sadly fell our Christmas eve."

	"At our old pastimes in the hall
	We gambol'd, making vain pretense
	Of gladness, with an awful sense
	Of one mute shadow watching all."

	Are there any homes where no shadow falls
on Christmas day? From out these happy yet
shadowy households has past perhaps the most
glorious, the most perfect, the most complete
personification that made life dear and desira-
ble. On Christmas day, once the advent of 
the blessed, the precious Messiah, are we not
permitted to obtain a glimpse of the "beyond,"
and to commune in secret meditation, in si-
lence, with those whose lives were interwoven
with ours, and who can never pass from our
memory while time endures. Blessed day! 
And blessed memories thou bringest, for though
joy waits on thy footsteps, and mirth and gaie-
ty are thy handmaidens, yet withal thou hast
a silent shadow in thy train of followers, it 
is the pall that hangs forever like a mantle
over the altar of consecration, where mortals
bow in adoration of the Omnipotent, and ac-
cept the inevitable, feeling assured of the felic-
ity that those attain to, who pass the ordeals 
necessary that their names may be written in 
the Lamb's Book of Life. 	AUNT EM.


The power of a man's virtue should not be 
measured by his special efforts, but by his or-
dinary doing.—Pascal. 

	Letters, or at least the letters of most peo-
ple, are unsatisfactory after long absence. The 
mystery that we want to penetrate, the soul
that we want to reach with our soul, cannot un-
veil itself to us on a sheet of paper, even if it
yearn to do so, and is willing to let us know as 
much as we can understand.—Jean Ingelow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

     Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
    EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
    Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1883.


[Column 1]
DISFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN.

	Ere Congress assembled the various methods
to put down "Mormonism" were being aired
through the newspapers. Once it seemed as if
women had no part or lot in the matter, but
since the ballot was given to the women of
Utah, they have become an important factor
in the question that so astonishes, perplexes
and vexes the nation. Cassidy, of Nevada,
wants the women of Utah disfranchised. That
is not new, he wanted it last year. It is not
very chivalrous to say the least, to take any
civil rights from women, who, according to the
general acceptation of the situation, have so few
privileges of any sort. It proves, however, that
having the franchise does give women power,
that they are a strength even in their "weak-
ness." "Mormon" women vote for the men
whom they have known and proven, and this
is the proof Cassidy gives us, that they do not
know how to vote. If these same women would
cast the ballot for the men who come here and
call them fools, ignorant dupes, and their child-
ren a name one does not like to soil the paper
with, then, I suppose, they would be counted
brave and intelligent, and they might retain
the franchise with all propriety, because it
would help the "Liberals" to place and power,
	The women of Utah have for nearly thirteen
years gone to the polls and voted as their best
judgment dictated, and no man or woman can,
truthfully say any evil has grown out of it. On
the contrary, we affirm women have become
more cultivated in the public weal, and have
sought and imparted to each other information on
general questions pertaining to rights, govern-
ment, laws and their enforcement. When
women know more of these matters it will be
better for any country. The children of wise
mothers are always an improvement upon those
of ignorant ones, and the wife who can talk in-
telligently with her husband on politics, may
keep him at home occasionally, whereas, other-
wise, he would seek the companionship of some
man or set of men, in order to discuss the sub-
ject.
	As for men loving women more who know
very little, who are submissive and inferior, who
have no positive opinions of their own, why
they are certainly inferior men, and it is not
that class of men that strong minded women
would choose for husbands, so they need give
themselves no uneasiness on the subject at all.
These men will not seek such women for mar-
riage, and such ladies would refuse them if
they should. But marrying will go on just the
same, and the clever women will wait until
some great souled, brave hearted man does ask
them. And pending that event go on with
some noble employment, "doing good as she hath


[Column 2]
opportunity." But this is not the subject under
contemplation, it is Cassidy, of Nevada, on the
disfranchisement of "Mormon" women. What
good will this disfranchisement do? It will not
solve the "Mormon" problem at all, nor will it
effect the majority vote, only there will be few-
er votes to count, which will make the present
authority less trouble. Mormon boys are attain-
ing their majority daily, and will vote just as
they please, and there will always be enough of
them to outvote the opposite party, no matter
how it multiplies, rest assured of that fact.
Therefore, Mr. Cassidy might as well save his
credit, and redeem himself as far as possible
from the disrepute he incurred last year by try-
ing to moot this same offensive question, and
let "Mormon" women go on voting as it pleases
them, and it will not affect his politics in the
least. It is strange he should want to meddle
with this affair at all, as there is plenty of mate-
rial for him to work upon in his own state with-
out coming over into Utah, and moreover med-
dling with the affairs of women, which is never
a wise thing to do in any case; much less when
it comes to such a general matter as this one, of
the right to vote. "Mormon women are ex-
ceedingly ambitious; they not only want to vote
but to have their rights extended to holding
office—we trust this will not wound the sensi-
tive feelings of Mr. Cassidy. So far from relin-
quishing their own right to vote so honorably
obtained, and so nobly maintained, they are all
the time working in the interests of equal po-
litical rights for all women; and furthermore,
have interceded with the Legislature to so
revise the Statutes of Utah as to make women
eligible to office. Vex not thyself Mr. Cassidy,
for it may be that women can never get a ma-
jority of votes to elect them to any office, should
they be fortunate enough to receive a nomina-
tion, and even that is very uncertain. Certain-
ly not if men were as narrow-minded as the
honorable Senator from Nevada. Is it an easy
matter to take away this boon once granted
and exercised? One would not think so judging
from the records of nations and pepoles; how-
ever, "Mormons" are not to be dealt with in the
same manner as other folks. There is no excuse
for repealing this law except that "voting is not
good for women." There is a trite saying some-
where extant, that, "What is sauce for the
goose is sauce for the gander," and vice versa, if
voting is good for the gander it must be for the
geese necessarily, but lest we should incur the
displeasure of the author of the "Geese of Gan-
derica," perhaps it would be better to
choose some other term. Remember,
Mr. Cassidy, the Edmund's Bill disfran-
chised both men and women who had ever
obeyed the celestial law—and after doing all
that, one would think there would be a boun-
dary to the extent of disfranchisement. Now
no one goes to the polls who is, or ever was in
the practice of plural marriage. This ought to
satisfy all people who clamor so about the deg-
radation of that paculiar principle. Now,
whether our young people will throw away
their political rights, esteeming them as nought,
for the higher law, remains to be proven.
Nevertheless, there will always be a majority to
keep the ship Zion balanced. Wait and see. It
is possible that the generation born in this
holy order, and heirs to the Priesthood are to
make another epoch in the history of the
Church.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We have received, from one of our favorite
contributors, a Christmas Story for our next
number. It is a true story graphically told. We
are exceedingly grateful for the article, and

[Column 2]
﻿think the readers of the EXPONENT cannot fail
to be pleased with, and appreciate the story, and
admire the author's style of telling it.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
Weber Stake will be held in the Ogden Taber-
nacle, on Friday, the 7th inst., meeting com-
mencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. The Y. L. M.
I. A. will hold their Conference on the follow-
ing Saturday, at the same place and same hours.
It is expected Sister E. R. S. Smith and Zina D.
H. Young will be present.

	WE recieve, by courtesy of some friend, a
copy of a "Swiss Woman's Paper," published in
the interests of the women of that country. It
is printed in German, though some parts of it
are in the Zurich dialect. It contains a contin-
ued story, poetry, and miscellaneous articles of
various kinds. The paper is published every
Sunday, and edited by Mrs. Eliza Honnegar, St.
Gallen.

	MRS ANNIE WELLS CANNON, formally con-
nected with the office of the EXPONENT, and
whose departure for Europe with the mission-
aries on the 16th of October was announced in
our columms, arrived in Bern, Switzerland on
the 5th of November in good health and spirits
after a very pleasant, though rather fatiguing
journey across land and sea. At Bern she met
her husband, Elder John Q. Cannon, now Presi-
dent of the Swiss and German mission, after
having been separated from him for two years
and three months. We are anxiously waiting
for a descriptive letter of her travels, etc. for
publication.

	THE Ladies Conference of Salt Lake Stake
will convene in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Friday and Saturday, Dec. 14th and 15th;
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. each day. It
is hoped there will be a general attendance of
the sisters from the several branches in the
Stake. The Relief Society will occupy the day
on Friday, holding two sessions. The Primary
will assemble on Saturday morning. Children
from the several wards are invited. The Y. L.
M. I. A. will occupy the afternoon on Saturday.
A full and prompt attendance is earnestly de-
sired.

	A MEETING was held in the 2nd Ward of this
city, October 28th, ult., to reorganize the Primary
Association of that ward, Mrs. Sarah Wheeler,
President of the Relief Society, presided. Sis-
ters E. R. S. Smith, E. B. Wells and E. C.
Clawson were present by invitation. Sister E
R. S. Smith officiated in organizing. Bishop
Peterson and his counselor, James Leach, were
present and approved the proceedings. Officers
as follows: President, Mrs. Phebe C. Young;
Connselors, Johanna Olsen and Emily Hart;
Secretary, Hannah Olsen; Assistant Secretary.
Master Seymour Young; Treasurer, Pauline
Olsen. Remarks suitable to the occasion were
made by the visiting sisters, also Sisters
Wheeler and Young, and by Bishop Peterson.

	THE Juvenile Instructor Office have just is-
sued a new publication, "Lydia Knight's His-
tory." The first book of a series to be published,
entitled, "The Noble Women's Lives Series."
Price 25 cts. For sale at the Juvenile instruc-
tor Office, Salt Lake City. The author is
"Homespun," whose articles often appear in
our columns. It is a little different in the style from
such books generally, and well calculated to
please, as well as edify and instruct the reader.
The most minute details are strictly true, and
this ought to recommend it to the Latter-day
Saints. We are gratified that Homespun has
made this effort to do good, and cannot help con-
trasting her busy literary life, and many domes-
tic cares, with some of our sisters who think
when they marry and have one baby that they


can find no time for improvement, not even to
read. Sister Knight's history is similar to that
of hundreds of other upright, honorable women
whose persecutions and hardships, whose faith
and integrity to the Gospel of Christ has been
unflinching through evil report as well as good.
It is well for our young people to become ac-
quainted with the lives of those who have
helped in the beginning of the Church, who
have been among the early workers for Zion and
whom no accumulation of trials or difficulties
could cause to waver or turn away. There is
much rich material for history, for poetry and
for the drama among this people, and it is the
children of the Latter-day Saints who should
take up these facts and weave them into readable,
creditable prose and poetry, that will enrich the
literature of Zion. Homespun has begun a
good work and may she be able to accomplish
much in this direction, that will make her a
name worthy to be handed down to posterity as
a litterateur.

	THE Unity Club and Ways and Means Com-
mittee are busy preparing for the BAZAR for the
benefit of the Deseret Hospital fund, which will
open in the Social Hall on the 13th inst. It is
likely to be quite a large affair, as the Relief So-
ciety and Y. L. M. I. A. in the city, and also
in the country even, are invited to send in dona-
tions of whatever they like to give to this benev-
olent purpose. The Unity Club has been most
liberal in the past, and has aided the institu-
tion very much by the efforts of its members,
and as the winter is coming on it is an oppor-
tune time to help increase the means of blessing
the sick and afflicted. It is hoped, by those
whose labors have been unceasing in establish-
ing the Hospital, that the associations will re-
spond willingly and liberally to the call, both
the Relief Society and the Y. L. M. I. A. It
has been an immense undertaking and is still
in view of the fact of only a small proportion
being able to pay the full amount for the treat-
ment received. Then the officers labor under
another very serious difficulty, which is, that
they are renting the building, which is unavoid-
able on their part, and the rent alone amounts
to $720. a year, at the rate of $60, per month,
with other incidental expenses on the premises,
in addition to furnishing the house, keeping the
domestic and medical departments supplied with
every necessary for the use of patients and pay-
ing for help. It is quite a common occurrance
in other cities and towns for ladies to get up
bazars, fairs, theatres and entertainments for
thee benevolent purposes, and as Latter-day
Saints we should certainly be wide awake to
take care of those who need attention, kindness
and charity. The BAZAR will be arranged at-
tractively, and as this is just the season before
Christmas when people's hearts grow very ten-
der as the anniversary of time approaches when
"Peace and good will to all men" was declared
upon the earth, there is very little doubt of its
being a financial success.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 101


[Column 1]
EFFECTS OF THE GOSPEL.

	The fruits of the Gospel are life and salvation,
so we will take this as the key to our subject,
whose minute effects are countless, and we can
only tell a few, trusting they may serve as a
stimulant to thinking minds in studying upon
the principles of the Gospel, and its wonderful
effects upon the children of men. We will look
for a moment at the case of our first parents,
Adam and Eve, immediately after their trans-
gression and fall; cast out of the presence of God,
with whom they had walked in the Garden of
Eden, bowed down with grief and shame at
His displeasure, feeling bitterly the weight of
the curse resting upon them.

[Column 2]
	We do not know how long they were left in
this state of darkness and misery, but we know
that after a time God revealed to them the Gos-
pel plan of life and salvation, that it changed
all their weeping and mourning into songs of
joy and praises unto God for the mercies and
blessings made known unto them relating, not
only to themselves, but unto all their posterity.
It gave them strength to brave the thorns and
briers, the pain, and all the ills of their new con-
dition, as they went forth to work our their sal-
aation, to learn the sweet by the bitter in their
journey back to the presence of God.
	Turn to the Bible and read the effects of this
Gospel upon the disciples of Christ; how it
called them from their various avocations in life
to follow Him, the greatest teacher of the Gos-
pel the world has known. It gave those follow-
ers of Christ, those saints of former days, power
to battle against sin and Satan, to withstand
temptation, to bear the persecution heaped upon
them, and to many it gave the power to lay
down their lives for its principles. It sustained
Job in all his afflictions; gave strength to Paul
in his endeavors to sustain and spread abroad its
truths, and courage to David to dare the man-
dates of unjust and wicked men. Its principles
led Enoch and his followers on to perfection, so
they had to be removed to a higher, purer
abode.
	Let us now look for a moment at the effects of
the lack of the Gospel among men. Do you
think if the Jews had possessed one spark of its
spirit and light they would have crucified Jesus,
and said, "Let His blood rest upon us and our
children." No, its light had gone out; been des-
troyed by the evils and abominations that filled
the nation. Would the world have mocked and
derided Noah as he builded the ark and warned
them of the coming destruction? No, it is the
utter absence of the spirit of the Gospel, its
principles and power, that brings ruin, misery
and desolation upon individuals and upon na-
tions.
	We can read the records of the past, can trace
therein the marvelous results of the Gospel, see
its mighty effects. How Israel was prospered
and blessed while she walked in its light: how
Egypt was favored of the Lord while she heark-
ened to its promptings, and the dire results of
both in failing to regard its principles and teach-
ings.
	But let us come nearer home that we may
not only read but see its workings and results.
It was that which sustained our Prophet Joseph
Smith through years of intense labor and perse-
cution until he established again in the earth
the true Church of Christ; until he began again
a work that reaches from the beginning unto the
end of time. Its voice has reached unto the
ends of the earth; no spot so high, so low or des-
olate, but it has or will reach, as thousands of
our Elders testify, and as tens of thousands of
the dispersed of Israel bear witness who have
gathered from the Islands of the Seas and from
parts afar off. We have seen by its magic power
the desert places become fruitful fields and smil-
ing gardens; the restoration of faith and confi-
dence almost fled from earth. The work is on-
ward; the battle for a time unceasing; but weary
not, for there will come a day of victory and
rest, for the Great God has decreed it, and when
the work of the Gospel is fully completed we
will find our sin-stricken world redeemed and
restored to that high position from which it has
fallen.								HOPE.


BE DILIGENT AND FAITHFUL.

	Should we not make it our daily business to
live our religion according to our professions,
walk uprightly as becometh the children of the


Most High? Why have we come here, is it
not that we may prepare ourselves to enter into
a higher and holier life, which is to last forever?
In what way shall we prepare for the next life,
is it in repining and complaining of our lot,
wasting our time in frivolity and nonsense?
Should it not be a question with us, in what
way can we use our time, which has been al-
loted to us here, in wisely preparing ourselves
for that great future where we shall reap the re-
ward of our doings here upon this earth? Would
it not be pleasant to contemplate that while liv-
ing here to-day that we are trying to do the
very best we know how, seeking continually to
know and do the mind of our Father which is
in heaven being obedient to those whose right
it is to guide us along, ever striving to live hum-
ble and prayerful. Jesus said that for every
idle word and thought we will be called to give
an account. Have not all of us a talent, one if
not more, if so, should we not put that talent
out to usury, ever striving to do good, be kind
and loving to our parents, brothers and sisters,
and all those with whom we are associated.
Can we be in the society of the kind and pure
without feeling comforted and strengthened un-
der such an influence? If we expect to associate
with the intelligent we must seek to become in-
telligent ourselves. Should we not be meek and
lowly that we may become more and more like
our Elder Brother, Jesus Christ, who said,
"Where He was His should be also." To pre-
pare ourselves to be like Him must we not fol-
low out those sublime teachings where He said,
"Do unto others as you would wish others to do
unto you, to forgive others their trespasses as
we hope to be forgiven our trespasses." Jesus
also said, "If you love me keep my command-
ments." Are we diligent in keeping the com-
mandments of God as we receive them from
time to time? Jesus also said, "Let your light
shine before men that others seeing your good
works might glorify your Father which is in
Heaven;" also, "He that is ashamed of before God
and His holy angels, and he that is not ashamed
of me before men him will I not be ashamed of
before my Father and His holy angels. Let us
then be up and doing, striving with all our
might to so live that we may have a testimony
within us concerning the work of God in these
last days, which shall be like a well of living
water springing up unto eternal life. The
pleasure of this life are nothing compared with
those we experience when we feel that we are
living up to what we profess, walking in the
line of our duty, and doing good.
						AUNT HANNAH.
	Nephi.


THE WORD OF WISDOM.

	I thought I would write a few words upon the
Word of Wisdom. I feel timid in so doing for
I believe it means so much more than our weak
minds can comprehend, except we are enlight-
ened upon it; but if we show our willingness we
may learn little by little until we become per-
fected in it. Some think to quit drinking tea
and coffee a great sacrifice, but I think those
who feel that way will esteem it a very small
thing before they are tried as Abraham was.
Nearly all human beings think they came into
the world to be tried; so let us each ask our-
selves the question, do we believe our Heavenly
Father has revealed these truths for our benefit?
If we do we should rejoice that we have the
privilege of showing our appreciation of them,
and try to adopt them in our every day life. I
fear, if we are too weak to try, that we will like-
wise be too weak to stand when the destroyer is
on the errand of death.


If we read the eighth verse of the fourth chap-
ter of the Book of Helaman, Book of Mormon,
Nephi, son of Helaman, says, "That except the
Lord doth chasten His people with many afflic-
tions, yea except He doth visit them with death
and with terror, and with famine, and all man-
ner of pestilences, they will not remember
Him."
	Let us think of these words, and imagine our-
selves each a missionary to watch and guard
number one, that we may study the laws of
life and salvation and try to carry them out,
whether it is the Word of Wisdom or any other
good principle, that we may be found with oil
in our lamps when the Bridegroom cometh, is
the desire of your friend,
						MARY J. MORRISON.
	Manuscript Paper, "Young Ladies Herald of
Union," Spanish Fork, Nov. 15th, 1883.


102	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
		MISSISSIPPI.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Camp life in February was quite a novel ex-
perience, and might be called a pleasant one
at Sugar Creek when compared with what was
laying before us; more especially the youthful
portion—they feeling no particular responsibil-
ities resting upon them, nor any great hard-
ships as yet. The band played every evening,
and Hans C. Hanson, an adopted son of my
parents, was very fond of playing his violin.
My husband would often join him with his flute,
and there being quite a number of young people
in my father's family we could form a cotillion
or French four by the big log fire, and often we
did so at evening, and danced to amuse our-
selves as well to keep our blood in proper
circulation. I there took my first lesson in
the Danish waltz. The weather was so cold
that it was impossible to keep warm without
exercise. Many declared that they had never
suffered so much from the cold as they did at
Sugar Creek, and we were informed that nine
children were born the first night the Saints
camped there. Feb. 5th, 1846. The inspiring
music by William Pitts' brass band, which was
organized into companies of tens to travel to-
gether, often gladdened the hearts of the Saints,
and helped greatly to keep their spirits from
sinking. They appointed Wm. Cahoon and
Howard Egan captains over them.
	Before starting from Sugar Creek the fol-
lowing memorial was addressed "To his excel-
lency Governor of the Territory of Iowa:
HONORED SIR:
	The time is at hand in which several thou-
sand free citizens of this great Republic are to
be driven from their peaceful homes and fire-
sides, their property and farms, and their
dearest constitutional rights, to wander in the
bareen plains and sterile mountains of western
wilds, and linger out their lives in wretched ex-
ile, far beyond the pale of professed civilization,
or else be exterminated upon their own lands
by the people and authorities of the State of
Illinois. As life is sweet, we have chosen
banishment rather than death, but, sir, the
terms of our banishment are so rigid that we
have no sufficient time allotted us to make the
necessary preparations to encounter the hard-
ships and difficulties of these dreary uninhab-
ited regions. We have not time allowed us to
dispose of our property, dwellings and farms,
consequently many of us will have to leave
them unsold, without the means of procuring
the necessary provisions. clothing, teams, etc.,
to sustain us but a short distance beyond the
settlements; hence our persecutors have placed
us in very unpleasant circumstances.
	To stay is death by fire and sword; to go in-

[Column 2]
to banishment unprepared is death by starva-
tion. But yet, under these heart rendering cir-
cumstances; several hundreds of us have started
upon our dreary journey, and are now en-
camped in Lee County, Iowa, suffering much
from the intensity of the cold, some of us are
already without food, and others have barely
sufficient to last a few weeks; hundreds of
others must shortly follow us in the same un-
happy condition. Therefore,—
	We, the presiding authorities of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as a com-
mittee in behalf of several thousand suffering
exiles, humbly ask your Excellency to shield
and protect us in our constitutional rights,
awhile we are passing through the Territory
over which you have jurisdiction. And,
should any of the exiles be under the necessi-
ty of stopping in this Territory for a time,
either in settled or unsettled parts, for the pur-
pose of raising crops, by renting farms or up-
on public lands, or to make the necessary pre-
parations for their exile in any lawful way, we
humbly petition your Excellency to use an in-
fluence and power in our behalf, and thus pre-
serve thousands of American citizens, together
with their wives and children, from intense
suffering, starvation and death. And your pe-
titioners will ever pray."
	In the diary of President Young was writ-
ten as follows: "Our homes, gardens, orchards,
farms, streets, bridges, mills, public halls, mag-
nigcient Temple and other public improvements,
we leave as a monument of our patriotism, in-
dustry, economy, uprightness of purpose, and
integrity of heart, and as a living testimony of
the falsehoods and wickedness of those who
charge us with disloyalty to the constitution of
our country, idleness and dishonesty."
	On the first day of March the majority of
the companies left their encampment. The fol-
lowing is copied from Sister Jane B. Taylor's
journal:
	"Sabbath morning, March 1st, a meeting was
called for the purpose of giving general instruc-
tions to the brethren regarding their journey.
Bro. Kimball exhorted the Saints to be diligent
in prayer to Almighty God all the day long. He
called especially upon the heads of families to at-
tend daily to family worship, and to give heed
to counsel, assuring them that if they did so
God would bless them, and angels of God
would go before them, and would be the break-
ers up of our way. He left the camp with
family shortly after meeting was dismissed—
Brigham's family towards evening."
	There was a great amount of sympathy mani-
fested by the people as we traveled through
Iowa. Many visited our camps, and wherever
the companies stopped our men were able to
find employement. The splendid music made
by the Nauvoo Brass Band quite surpassed
anything that had been heard in that part and
they were cordially invited to play at every 
settlement, and requested to give a number of
concerts—this they did after consulting the
Presidency, and for which they were gererous-
ly recompensed. Thus we see that God did
fulfil the predictions made that day by my
father, and truly His angels went before us,
and He was the breaker up of our way.
	It will be remembered by those familiar
with our history that a letter was received
about this time from Samuel Brannan, con-
taining a copy of rather a strange agreement
between him and a Mr. A. G. Benson, which
he desired the authorities to sign. This, it
seems, was read at a council held by a number
of the Apostles in a valley half a mile east of
the camp. Sam Brannan was scheming for
nought but worldly profit, and wanted the
Latter-day Saints who had been exiled to join
him, and a host of political demagogues to as-
sist them in their plans to settle upon the sea-
shore, then to rob them, after which the ar-
mies of the U. S. could compel them to sub-

[Column 3]
mit. Brannan already had charge of the
company of Saints who went around in the
ship Brooklyn, whose sad story "the half has
not been told." The idea of our deliverance,
coming through such a sonrce. Ex-Postmas-
ter Kendall and Benson, his agent, and others
had hood-winked Brannan into the belief that
"unless the leaders of the Church signed an
agreement with them, to which the President
of the United States, he said, was a "silent
party," the government would not permit the 
Mormons to proceed on their journey west-
ward. This agreement required the pioneers
"to transfer to A. G. Benson & Co., and to
their heirs and assignees the odd numbers of
all the lands and town lots they may acquire
in the country where they may settle. In
case they refused to sign the agreement the
President, it was said, would issue a proclama-
tion, setting forth that it was the intention of
the Mormons to take sides with either Mexi-
co or Great Britain against the United States,
and order them to be dispersed." This was
one of the plans instituted by Lucifer, who
wanted to reconcile God and Baal, but we had
wiser heads, who understoood their duty bet-
ter. President Young and his brethren were
determined to carry out the plans previously
laid out by Joseph Smith; and they saw the
wisdom of settling in a country where they
could be out of the reach of ruthless and ex-
terminating mobs, until Zion had increased
ad put on her strength. The Apostles did
not desert their people to run from their ene-
mies, as advised by Mr. Benson, to avoid be-
ing arrested; but it was in God that they trust-
ed, and to Him alone the pilgrims looked for
that protection which had been withheld from
them by their own countrymen. And it was
Him who led and placed them here upon the
"mineral back-bone" of the continent, and
this fact, with the wonderful prosperity that
has attended the Latter-day Saints, makes it a
constant eye-sore to "Uncle Sam."
	In that first exodus there was such a great
desire among the people and such a determina-
tion to emigrate with the first company that
there were hundreds started without the nec-
essary outfit. They could neither procure suf-
ficient teams nor provisions, which retarted
our progress, and was the cause of a greater
amount of suffering than there would other-
wise have been. And my father, in speaking
of it, said, under the circumstances it would
take years to reach the mountains.
	Our difficulties commenced the first day that
we started from Sugar Creek; and my trials as
well. My father had one large family carriage
in which mother and the children and most of
the women folds were obliged to ride or else
walk, as his wagons were all so heavily loaded;
I did not consider that my marrying had les-
sened my claims, nor given any one else the
right to my place by the side of my mother,
and it was something of a surprise and a
trial to my weak faith to find that my father's
family had become so large that he had not
conveyances for them. One of his wives
(Christine Golden) who came from Philadel-
phia and was living with the family of Bro.
Jedediah Grant at Sugar Creek, was unknown
to me until I met her there. She was a very
proud-spirited woman, and that morning father
sent her to his carriage, but finding it crowded
full she turned without a word and went and
rode that day with Sister Grant. After be-
coming acquainted we made our confessions,
and many a time we have referred to that day
and laughed heartily over it, as well as other
things that once vexed and tried us. At every
bad place the teams had to be doubled, and
the first day we were detained, it seemed to me
hours, while they crossed over a deep ravine
and drew the loaded wagons up a steep hill on
the other side. The rest had all got out of the
carriage, and while I sat holding the reins the


wind was so cold and piercing that it seemed
to me as if I should perish. We only made
six miles and encamped for the night on a
small creek about fifteen miles from Farming-
ton. "The same evening President Young ar-
rived with the remainder of the camp, except
the artillery, which came up later in the even-
ing." (H. K. Whitney's Journal.) The
snow had to be cleaned away to pitch the tents,
and our beds were made upon the frozen
ground. We were not blessed with a stove
in our tent that night and it was impossible to
get warm by the camp fire; so that night I laid
nothing off, not even my hood or josie. But
the weather moderated before morning and
the back bone of winter was broken. We
started from there about noon and traveled
only seven miles in consequence of the bad-
ness of the road. We passed through Farm-
ington on the 3rd and encamped three miles
beyond—making ten miles that we traveled
that day—the mud made traveling almost im-
possible. We overtook President Young here,
also Bishop Miller, who with his company had
been encamped about a week.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 103


[Column 1]
OLD LETTER.

	Looking over some old letters the other day
to see what I could dispose of to make room
for more, I found this one from Prof. Barfoot.
I thought perhaps 'twould not be amiss to pub-
lish it. How beautiful to me was this dear
old gentleman, one of nature's noblemen in-
deed, and the inheritor of a distinguished title,
which he held of no worth compared with the
honor of a Latter-day Saint. He was a man
of education and culture, though so excessive-
ly diffident and unassuming that few people
knew him well enough to appreciate his worth,
How delicate and refined his thoughts and
ideas were, and how reverentially he referred
to the Gospel and the influences of the Holy
Ghost.
	I loved to go into the Museum and talk with
him, I always came away wiser than when I
went, he imparted knowledge, as he did every-
thing, unobtrusively. How sorry I have felt
that I had not known him longer, and that I
had not more time to spend in his society. Be-
cause of this lack of time I occasionally wrote
to him, and his answers were always prompt,
edifying and instructive. The letter given
here was spontaneous, and one gets so much
fault found with them in this world that a little
appreciation is very acceptable. The great
fault of many of us is that we neglect the peo-
ple we meet every day to worship those at a
distance, or who have lived in another period
of time, and after they have gone we mourn
that we gave so little heed to them, or perhaps
that we have neglected them.

DESERET MUSEUM.

SALT LAKE CITY, July 16th, 1881.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister, I have been made pleased with
your pen-pictures of natural objects I love so
well;, what a fascination there is in gazing, even
mentally, on "the old forest," "the moss
grown rocks," "the sea—the shells and the
corals, gems of the ocean, the ferns and
flowers and clinging moss." We love to call
up these associations, and with them emotions
of the "auld lang syne" hinted at in the beau-
tiful verses: "In my first primeval childhood."
Our religion is full of poetry of this kind. The
"memory of the past" extends indefinately
backwards, expecially when the Urim and
Thummim ("the hights and perfections") of
the Gospel are with us. Then we can realize
dimly, dreamily it may be, something of the
past, when we dwelt in the presence of our Di-

[Column 2]
vine Father and delightful thought, of our
Divine Mother.
	And, then, when we sit beneath the canopy
of heaven, and are animated by a perception
of its vastness, what a sense of freedom is rea-
lized, although, as you remark, "The most love-
ly things of earth seem insignificant compared
with the grandeur and exquisite beauty of the
starry heavens." You have added to the pic-
ture, "by moonlight," which lends an addition-
al charm to the scene.
	As to your "guess," "Some day, may be, we
shall enjoy all these beauties and more, and
our hearts and souls be satisfied?" We shall.
	Now, the "Transcendalist" tells us that our
brain has been made for us, and that associa-
tions are mentally reproduced by our environ-
ments, which bring to the mind pictures of the
past as they were seen by our progenitors.
This is very kind of the philosophers, but I
would rather believe that we have a dim, it
may be a dreamlike remembrance of the past.
I think that our conception of "transcendental
physics" is more rational. If we have enjoyed
the beautiful things of our "primeval" garden,
where the flowers and trees, the living waters
and the living light were none the less lovely
because we were innocent; why not, by the
light of that spirit that "shall bring nll things
to our remembrance," have a glimpse now and
then of past beauties to cheer us on the way?
	As to the desires for "culture in art, litera-
ture, and the studies of nature," Parley P.
Pratt gives us some beautiful illustrations of
the influence of the Holy Spirit in his "Key
to Theology," And to some of us, who have,
in a degree, receieved of the things of the king-
dom to which we have been made heirs, to
whom the patent of nobility has been given,
signed, sealed and delivered by the living
Priesthood of our Heavenly Father; what won-
der if, at times, the remembrance of the glories
of our "primeval childhood" should be re-ec-
hoed in our souls and gladden our mental eyes
with their sweet sounds and dazzling beauties?
	I thank you, my sister, for your kind words,
they remind me that I am a Latter-day Saint.
What a glorious world you have to sow the
seeds of truth—seeds which never, never die!
	You shall have something for your valua-
ble magazine, I am glad of your prayers—
The prayers of the Saints have often aided
and sometimes given me a new lease of life.
	Very faithfully yours in the Gospel, with
fervent wishes for your prosperity,
					JOSEPH L. BARFOOT.


HEBER PRIMARY FAIR.

	The Primaries of the East and West Wards
of Weber held a Fair Nov. 14, in the Ladies'
Hall. There was a very fine display of fancy-
work, knitting, crochet, mats, patchwork, flow-
ers, baskets, cookery of all descriptions, pies,
cakes, plain and fancy bread, butter, jellies,
etc. There were also drawings, woodwork,
etc., done by some very small boys. There
was a variety of other things too numerous to
mention.
	There were present at the Fair, President
of the Stake and her Counselors, Presidents of
the Associations of the Wards and their Coun-
selors, also the Bishops of the Wards. It was
also largely attended by the children, their
parents and friends.		MARION TODD,
								Secretary.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

WASATCH STAKE.

	The Conference of the Relief Societies was
held in Heber City Hall, November 9th 1883,
Mrs. Emma Brown presiding with her counsel-
ors. Local authorities present Pres. Hatch

[Column 2]
Bishops Foreman and Rasband. Minutes of
former conference read and approved; also the
reports, showing the societies financially in a
flurishing condition. Sister Brown made
some remarks; she also read a piece from the
EXPONENT, "The Prophet Joseph's counsel to
Relief Societies." The presidents of the sever-
al wards each gave a verbal report, showing
the spirit of improvement. The secretary then
read a letter from Sisters Snow and Wells,
which was full of good counsel and encourage-
ment. Pres. Hatch then addressed the confer-
ence upon the Word of wisdom; he felt pleased
to meet with the sisters. A good spirit pre-
vailed throughout the conference.
	Conference adjourned for six months. Sing-
ing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet."
Benediction by Bishop Foreman.

JUAB STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	During the past two months the presidency
of the Relief Society of Juab Stake, in con-
nection with President Paxman and party,
have visited the different branches of Relief
Society of this stake.
	Found the sisters alive to their duties, and
laboring earnestly for the advancement of
Zion's cause. Also visited Juab Station, Oct.
30th, and organized a Relief Society and
Primary Association in that branch. The fol-
lowing officers were elected for the Relief So-
ciety: Mrs. Hannah Kinder, President; Mrs.
Susan Witbeck, and Mrs. Mary E. Taylor,
Counselors; Mrs. Mary F. Bigler, Secretary;
Mrs. Christena Jensen, Treasurer.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Juab Stake will be held at Nephi,
Dec. 15th and 16th, 1883.

MISS M. E. HOYT,
Secretary.

SANTAQUIN Y. L. M. I. A.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I write you a few items in regard to the
Y. L. M. I. A. of this place. It is now ten
years since they were first organized. Ever
since that time this association has been grow-
ing in interest as well as numbers, until it has
reached nearly every young lady in the place.
Mrs. Nettie Tietjen, who has been President
for the past five years, has resigned, being
about to leave the place during the winter, and
the following persons were sustained as officers,
and set apart by Bishop George Hallady and
Second Counselor, E. W. Clark: Rosetta Open-
shaw, President; Annie Anderson and Emma
Wall, Counselors; Augusta Tietjen, Secretary;
Sadie Harris, Assistant Secretary; Bettie Boss,
Treasurer. E. J. Stickney, Supt.

SANTAQUIN PRIMARY.

	The President of the Primary Association of
Santaquin having also resignd, a reorganization
of the same was attended to by Bishop George
Hallady and First Counselor, Eli Openshaw,
which took place Nov. 17th, 1883, with the
following sisters as officers: Elizabeth Wall,
President; Agnes Clark and Annie Broad-
bent, Counselors; Josephine Ahleen, Secretary;
Maud Kirkman, Assistant Secretary; Augusta
Tietjen, Treasurer. E J. Strickney, Supt.

FOUNTAIN GREEN PRIMARY.

	The Fountain Green Primary held their
Conference and Fair Nov. 24th, 1883; the
Conference being at 10 o'clock a.m. in the
school house. The little ones did their part to
make it interesting, by giving recitations, dia-
logues, essays and singing beautiful little songs.
After which we had some very good remarks
from some of the brethren and sisters who
were present, expressing their pleasure and sat-


isfaction with the exercises. Following this
the children were surprised with a little picnic
of apples, cakes and candy, being passed to
them by the committee. They were then dis-
missed for an hour, to meet again at the Fair
at 1 o'clock p.m. in the hall.
	It was a very pleasing sight to look upon the
many different things prepared by their little
fingers for the occasion. There were a great
variety of ornaments, such as mottoes, zephyr
flowers, cases of many different forms, tidies,
collars, some bead and some crochet; rugs,
quilts, stockings, and some very neat hand-sew-
ing in a dress made by a little girl. There was
also a nice assortment of confectionery; cakes,
pies, jellies, etc. There were also some very fine
vegetables, and some wood-work prepared by
the boys. There were many other things too
numerous to mention. At four o'clock our
Bishop made some very good remarks and dis-
missed by prayer.
			HANNAH COLLARD, President.
			ANNIE ANDERSON, Secretary:


104	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE ETHICS OF ECONOMY.

	There is a curiously erroneous idea pervad-
ing among certain classes of people that there
is something extremly plebeian about economy,
and conversely that it is a good form to spend,
in an apparently careless manner, with an air
of "I don't care anything abont the cost; I
mean to have it." whether the commodity be
dry good, confectionary or carriage hire. This
free-and-easy way of dispensing one's income is
to a notable extent an attribute of a certain
class of women. Men, who more generally
earn their money, are usually more select in
their methods of spending while they also
spend more liberally. Women of wealth sel-
dom fling money about so lavishly, as having
been accustomed to its use they better under-
stand what money represents. As a usual
thing it is the people of small, but prompt in-
comes, salaried people, who spend the most
lavishly and extravagantly. These, too, are
the people who complain of the cost of actual
living; who grumble about rent and grocers'
bills when they spend each month nearly an
equal sum in little expenses for they know not
what.
	Professor David Swing, of Chicago, has re-
cently been moved to utterance on this univer-
sal complaint about the cost of living, and re-
ferring to it he says:
	But the table is not the only place where the
bill of family expenses need not be large. In
all departments of home-life money is thrown
away. The custom is to open an account at
some popular storehouse and let the dealer
charge what pleases him. Thus the corner
shopkeeper gets rich and the family in the cot-
tage grows poor. Let the rich fatten these
shopkeepers; the humbler class cannot afford
to be charitable. There is no fixed price for
one in ten of the necessary commodities. Peaches
are fifty cents a basket or a dollar a basket, not
according to quality, but according to the sel-
ler and the place where sold. It is well to buy
of the dollar man if we wish to help him along,
but if the buyer needs help he would better
look up the fifty-cent man—the peaches being
the same. The millionaire sends out and pur-
chases a clothes wringer for three dollars; that
is well; it helps the seller; but the humbler
housekeeper can buy the same article exactly
for two-thirds of that sum. One thing is cer-
tain, that nothing is more flexible and submis-
sive than this very expense bill. But it does
not follow that one must have an enormous in-
come, and be beyond the reach of all perad-
venture. It is far better to take some risk
than to be homeless. A plain dinner in one's
own home, with one's beloved wife at the other

[Column 2]
end of the table, is better than a table d' hote
feast away from these other attractions. If eat-
ing were the main aim of existence, then the
proposition to sell wife and children and home
and books and hire a French cook would be
worthy of consideration.
	There is a further consideration involved in
this matter of scattering one's income about.
We spend our money for what we like. Our
expenses represent our tastes and our tenden-
cies. If our idea of social intercourse is that
of fragmentary conversation between the
courses of a French menu, we buy dinners for
our friends. If books and pictures represent
happiness we invest in those. If in dry goods,
we contribute to the prosperity of the merchant.
At all events we spend our money for what we
like, and are like that for which we spend our
money.
	It is an indication of character, and has also
its inflex influence on character. The matter
of amusement-going is one involving several
interests. Unquestionably the money invested
in a good dramatic performance or a fine opera
is a better investment than if put in the bank.
It is capital invested in the culture of life.
But who are you who have no interests, no en-
tertainment, no occupation at home, that you
must each night contribute your money and
your time to a company of strolling players,
whose performance may be all very well for
empty-headed people who must be externally
amused, but is quite the reverse for one who
has in himself the power of intellectual activ-
ity. The conservation of energy and of time
is a lesson greatly needed in the average indi-
vidual life of our great cities.—Selected.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
Poems by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Casiemers,		Washboards
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephone Communications between Office and Residence

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARD,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, SUPT.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

