VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1884.	No. 16.


TO PEARL.

[INFANT DAUGHTER OF LORENZO W. RICHARDS
DECEASED.]

How strong are the ties 'tween the dearest and truest,
	How ruthless is death when he snaps them in twain!
When we sense that some loved one can never come to
	us,
	How crushed is the heart with the parting and pain.
The glorified dead are the fortunated only—
	Misfortune and sorrow no more will they know;
Alas! for the living, the loving and lonely—
	Only those who have suffer'd can fathom their woe.

God grant it, indeed, that these sorrowful mourners
	May prove that for good our afflictions are given;
We're here but "to-day," even transient sojourners;
	To-morrow you'll meet with the lov'd ones in heaven.

To the sweet, tender bud from the tree now trans-
	planted
	We offer this tribute of pity sincere;
Not for thee is the boon that to many is granted,
	The protection and love of a father so dear.

May the angels of mercy be charg'd to attend thee;
	May your sorrow bear fruit of the loveliest kind;
To the love of "the Father of all" we commend thee,
	In whom ev'ry orphan a Parent can find.

While you mourn for the father, whose name you can
	honor,
	His loss to your mother you never will know;
May your love be a light that will shine down upon her,
	And comfort her heart in despite of her woe.

For surely our children can comfort or grieve us
	More than anyone else in the whole world beside;
If of long cherish'd hopes by their deeds they bereave
	us,
	'Twould indeed have been better if early they'd died.

The name that you bear is both honor'd and hoary,
	'Tis known and respected at home and abroad;
Oh! be not the one to diminish its glory,
	Nor turn from the path that your fathers have trod.

For the truth may you seek, yea, and find the refreshing
	Pure waters of life as they flow from above.
May your life and your labors be truly a blessing
	To the Kingdom of God and the friends whom you
	love.				EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.


WOMEN IN POLITICS.
				-------
	Dr. W. Hammond has failed to produce
any physiological reasoning why women should
not exercise the right of franchise, and become
educated pertaining to the laws and politics of
the nation. Now, as we belong to that unfor-
tunate class whose brain is deficient in weight,
we would like to ask the learned philosopher
whether the superior intellect consists in the
quantity or quality.  This learned anatomist
further asserts that the governing power of the 
world is to be found in the brain of the male.
Where shall we go to find a precedent, not in
our own dear native land of liberty, but back
to the old monarchial governments of Europe.
We learn from history that queens have often
excelled kings in the administration of civil
government, not from a superior power of rea-
son or intellect, but from a clearer moral
sense of justice.
	It has been said that Isabella I. was the
greatest and noblest ruler that has ever gov-
erned Spain, because she sought to do right.
	Theresa Maria, with a very limited educa-
tion, was the wisest and best sovereign who has
held sway over Germany, because she labored
for the good of those she governed.  What is
said of Victoria of England.  Her refined
taste and graceful propriety of manuer, coupled
with her superior intellect has casued vice and
folly to retire abashed from her majesty's pres-
ence.  And 'tis said that the English people
rejoice when the sceptre passes into the hands
of a woman.  Compare the reign of this noble
woman with that of the kings who preceded
her, and see if her success as a ruler for the
last forty-three years will not encourage those
who are deficient in weight of intellect to cul-
tivate that organ, the brain. It is said by men
of knowledge had a king been in power that
England would have been involved in blood-
shed and war.  Compare the administration of
the government of the United States to-day
with that of England with that sacred instru-
ment, the Declaration of Independence, to
point out the way, and it should be  the poli-
tician what the compass is to the mariner at
sea; and while this heaven-born boon of free-
dom was held sacred and inviolate the admin-
istrators were blessed with wisdom and peace,
and prosperity reigned throughout the land.
What are they doing in Congress to-day?  Writ-
ing stringent bills in violation of the Constitu-
tion to oppress and destroy the portion of its
subjects that worship God according to the dic-
tates of their own consciene. How long will
free-born American citizens stand silently by
and never raise their voices against such pro-
ceedings; we declare to the world that we claim
and assert our consitutional rights; not chang-
ing the meaning of the clasue in the Consitut-
tion as the Supreme Court did in the Rey-
nold's case, making it mean you can believe as
you please; who ever heard of any one worship-
ing God by believing and not acting or speak-
ing.  Under a monarchial government Eng-
land protects her subjects and also foreigners
in their religious worship; while the represent-
atives of a republican government are disfran-
chising and oppressing, and have failed to pro-
tect a portion of its citizens in their constitu-
tional rights.  It is said that history repeats
itself.  When the iron heel of oppression, under
the monarchy of the old world, stood upon the
neck of our Puritan Fathers, insomuch that
their souls thirsted for freedom; they not only
braved danger in crossing the mighty deep, but
suffered privation and danger from the red
men of the forest, but laid down their lives for
that most sacred heaven-born boom, liberty.
Did not our mothers share in those perils and
dangers? Did they not feel the patriotic fire
of freedom burning in their inmost souls, in-
spiring them with courage to exclaim, on ,on,
to victory?  Now, we would ask the learned
philosopher of the nineteenth century, what
has been done by the party in power to ele-
vate women? What has been the popular
teaching of the past relative to woman's
sphere? Oh, she is too refined to meddle with
politics; it is not necessary for her to know
anything about the law; it is very unpopular
and not lady-like to go to the polls and vote.
What is the result?  Where are our states-
men and patriots?  Have they been regenera-
ting and progressing since '76? Read the Con-
gressional Records from the day that Cullom
Bill violated the spirit and letter of the Con-
stitution, that same spirit is prevailing in
the hearts of some of the senators and repre-
sentatives to destroy the original letter and
meaning of the Constitution, which is more sa-
cred and dear to every American citizen than
life itself. 			E. PLURIBUS UNUM.


A FEW THOUGHTS ON THE VEXED
QUESTION.

	We are pleased to note the stand which has
been taken by the Executive Committee of the
New York State Woman Suffrage Association
on the proposal of Senator Edmunds, to de-
prive the ladies of Utah of franchise. This is
highly commendable and much more saint-like
than the course advocated by him and others,
who are becoming cranky upon this "Mormon"
wife question—at least, when undertaking to
solve what they term "a problem," which does
not exist, only in their imagination. We
would like to ask some of the proud ladies of
our Christian land, whose squeamishness over
this plural order causes them to turn up their
eyes in such holy horror, and their lips with
scorn and contempt at the name of "Mormon,"
and also those who would advocate the extreme-
nation remedy proposed by some of their Chris-
tian divines and lady lecturers, who like Mrs.
Newman would like to see all "Mormon" wo-
men disfranchised, and feel themselves justified
in so doing, and sending circular letters to all
countries from whence the "Mormons" draw
their converts, describing the horrors of poly-
gamy in Utah, at the same time professing
for us such charity, do they fully realize, were
they to accomplish their ends, the great amount
of suffering, the weeping, the wailing and ut-
ter desolation that this would bring to the
hearts of the widow and the fatherless, whose
cries would ascend up daily and hourly to Him
who has promised to be their Father, until He
would avenge them of their wrongs? Do any
of them suppose for a moment that the women
of Utah would be such fools as to leave homes,
where they are called by the honored name of
wife, and their children acknowledged as law-
ful heirs to the father's name and estate, to
work in their establishments to earn their daily
bread? What palpable ignorance is exhibited
by such. It makes one laugh it sounds so lu-
dicrous. The idea of the ones who desire mak-
ing their escape from this Territory to do so by
an underground railroad. Why, one might
suppose that Mr. Newman had been asleep as
long as old Rip Van Winkle, and we feel to
pity him, we do indeed; and all the rest of them,
and were we not the most charitable people in
the world we should despise them for their ig-
norance, their superstition and slavish subjec-
tion to the current of popular opinion and
popular sentiment. But we assure such that we
are laboring for their enlightenment and their
elevation in the scale of manhood. And would
that they could see their own situation, and re-
alize that the most alarming and crying evils
of the day—the twin relic if they please—
which has so utterly demoralized society is
nearer home than Utah. We think it high
time that some effective and lasting remedy
should be administered instead of legalizing
the crimes of political theft and prostitution—
letting the harlot, the fornicator, the adulterer
and the murderer of innocents go "scot free,"
instead of fighting an imaginary evil which
has borne no such fruits. These are some of
the common usages and customs among those
self-righteous souls who preach morality and
go into occasional spasms over the marrying
propensity of these "Mormons," and would
trample them under foot, also the constitution,
and every law and principle of our govern-
ment, which we were taught from our earliest
childhood to love and revere. But will they


dare to apply this anti-republican, anti-chris-
tian method to the “Mormons,” and continue to
allow their vile and wicked practices to be
carried on right under the very nose of Chris-
tendom, and all these things be sustained and
screened under its broad mantle?  We would
welcome the honorable of the earth, and would
that they could all come and see for themselves,
if they would only let reason rule instead of
prejudice and hatred, the offspring of these
sleek and crawling sycophants and scandal-
mongers,who gain their living in our midst by
lying and distorting every truth to deceive the
simple and unwary—there is no other place
where such creatures could remain unpunished,
and the innocent be made the target of the
press and the pulpit—united only in the one
scheme—sweeping us out of existence, and tak-
ing possession of the rich harvest that lies so
temptingly before them.
  But though the hundreth decree has gone
forth that “Mormonism” must die, it never be-
fore appeared so much like living—in fact it
seems to have taken a new lease, and the heav-
ier the breeze, the swifter we will sail into note
and popularity.  Though our enemies have
never yet accomplished their ends, still they
seem very jubilant over their great expecta-
tions, particularly from the present philan-
thropic measures of Mr. Cullom, and there are
thousands who are willing and anxious to set
the dogs on us to speedily finish up their foul
work.  But we ask, in all conscience, why the
knife should not be first placed at the root of
the cancer which is eating and undermining
their own social circles, and if nothing else will
do but bloodshed let them begin there instead
of waging war upon an “ignorant, benighted
and superstious people, who are just simple
enough to accept the truth and nothing but the
truth, however humble may be the source; and
therefore are not half so likely to spoil as are
those who dwell in the polluted atmosphere of
the great metropolis, of which all are so well
posted—their own press being filled with ac-
counts of the most dishonest, wicked, corrupt,
and desperate deeds in high and low places,
and such unheard of crimes—that the sound of
it is enough to make one’s very blood curdle in
his veins.  The Latter-day Saints may feel
proud to be distinguished by their title, and
God grant that we may ever be worthy of this
distinction.  As President George Q. Cannon
remarked, in our late conference, “He evident-
ly designed this land for just such a people as
the Saints, and their enemies have driven them
to the fulfillment of their destiny.”
    Whose wrath is the most to be dreaded that
of the Almighty or that of His subjects, for
instance, these pharisees, priests, office-seekers,
and a few men who now form the Supreme
Court of the United States? Who besides Him
has the right or the power to prescribe for us
our religious belief and practice?  He tells us
that faith without works is dead—but Congress
passes a law to prohibit the free exercise there-
of, when they know as well as we, that they
are forbidden to do this by the Constitution--
Polygamy is upheld by Scripture, which they
also know. Then away with their flimsy ex-
cuses.  They hate us just as Cain hated Abel,
because we are favored of God, and it is our
union which they dread, and our wealth and
power is what they covet.
                             HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DESTRUCTION AND DESOLATION
		YET TO COME.
			------
DEAR SISTERS:
	I often think how good it is that we have
the privilege of meeting together in our Asso-
ciations, and exchanging our  thoughts, for in
this way, we become unified.
	We learn in Doctrine and Covenants 143rd


page, 7th verse, that the elect of God are those
who do not harden their hearts.  The 8th
verse says; "Wherefore, the decree hath gone
forth from the Father, that they shall be
gathered in unto one place upon the face of
this land, to prepare their hearts and be pre-
pared in all things against the day when tribu-
lation and desolation are sent forth upon the wicked."
	I think if any people on the earth have
cause to rejoice it is the Latter-day Saints, and
yet we mourn to think there is so much hard-
ness of heart in the world, for the majority of
mankind reject the revelations which our
Heavenly Father has revealed in this dispen-
sation, whereby the inhabitants of the earth may
escape the calamities which will surely come.
	Doctrine and Covenants 144th page, 18th
and 19th verses says: "Wherefore, I, the Lord
God will send forth flies upon the face of the
earth, which shall take hold of the inhabit-
ants thereof, and shall eat their flesh, and
shall cause maggots to come in upon them, and
their toungues shall be staid, that they shall not
utter against me, and their flesh shall fall
from off their bones, and their eyes from their
sockets."
	The 20th verse says: "And it shall come to 
pass that the beasts of the forest and the fowls
of the air shall devour them up.:
	We do not fear, we only pity those who are
seeking to take our rights and liberties from us,
for we know to well what their fate will be.
The Bible also speaks of many things that will
befall those who persecute the church or Saints
of God.  Isaiah, 49th chapter, 26th verse says:
"And I will feed them that oppress thee with
their own flesh, and they shall  be drunken
with their own blood as with sweet wine, and
all flesh shall know that I, the Lord, am thy
Savior, and thy Redeemer, the Mighty One of
Jacob."
	In the 9th chapter of the Revelations of St.
John, it refers to locusts being sent upon the
earth, and unto them was given power as the
scorpions, and they should not hurt the grass
of the earth, neither any green thing, neither
any tree; but only those men which have not
the seal of God in their foreheads.
	The 6th says; "And in those days men shall
seek death, and shall not find it; and shall de-
sire to die and death shall flee from them. The
locusts are compared as horses prepared for
battle, and on their heads were, as it were,
crowns like gold, and their faces were as the
faces of men.."
	The 10th verse says: "And they had tails
like unto scorpions, and there were stings in
their tails: and their powere was to hurt men 
five months." Much more is said, but I
thought this enought.
	We feel more like praying for those who op-
press us, that they may repent while there is
time.  As for the true Saints, if we lay our
lives down in this cause we know that we shall
find them again.
					MARY J. MORRISON.
Manuscript Paper, Young Ladies' Herald of
Union, Spanish Fork, Dec. 17th 1883.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.

NEPHI, JUAB STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The R. S. of Juab Co. held their Quarterly
Conference in the Nephi Meeting House, Dec.
15th, President Mary Pitchforth presiding.
After the usual devotional exercises, the min-
utes of the previous conference were read, also
the statistical and financial reports.
	The presidents of the different branches
gave verbal reports of their respective wards,
showing them to be in good condition and
working harmoniously with the Priesthood of
God.


Sister Elizabeth Kendall then bore a faith-
ful testimony to the truth of the Gospel; was
truly thankful that her life had been spared to
meet with the sisters again in a conference ca-
pacity; felt that these organizations had been
the greatest blessing ever conferred upon the
sisters, and that they appreciated their privi-
leges and were striving to qualify themselves
for every duty dependant upon them, both tem-
poral and spiritual.
	Counselor Joel Grover was the next speaker;
expressed his gratitude for the privilege of
meeting with the sisters and partaking of the
Good Spirit; exhorted the sisters to faithful-
ness; said the trials and difficulties encumbered
upon us by our enemies seemed to give us en-
ergy and strength.
	Sister Jane Picton spoke of the Salvation
Army in the world, thought the title would be
a very appropriate one for the sisters of the R.
S. Said they were truly a salvation army, for
they were laboring for the temporal as well as
the spiritual salvation of the human family.
Our enemies are doing all they can to anni-
hilate us, but if we are true and free from sin
they cannot overpower us.
	Bishop Udall spoke for a short time, and en-
couraged the sisters in a kind, fatherly way;
prayed for God's blessings to attend their la-
bors. After singing and prayer the conference
adjourned till 2 p.m.
	The conference convened at 2 p.m. accord-
ing to appointment. After singing and prayer
Sister Amy Bigler spoke of the progress of the
society here, and the duties and responsibilities
of mothers in rearing their children.
	Short addresses were made by Sisters Han-
nah Grover, A. Midgely, N. Brown, and R.
Udall, in an encouraging and sisterly man-
ner.
	President Wm. Paxman spoke of the indig-
nation and bitter feelings of the world against
us as a people, of their plots and schemes to
destroy us; also spoke of the financial crisis
which is bound to fall upon this people; advised
all to keep out of debt, be economical and ab-
stain from all unnecessary luxuries; seek the
Spirit of God and act with wisdom in all
things, and be prepared for the great events
which await us.
	President Mary Pitchforth wished to thank
the brethren and sisters for the prayers they
had offered in her behalf during her late ill-
ness; was truly happy to be able to meet with
them in a conference capacity. Conference
adjourned for three months.
			MARY PITCHFORTH, President.
			M. E. HOYT, Secretary.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The woman's department in the Hospital
for the Insane, in Indianapolis, is hereafter to
have a women physician. For more than
twenty years Dr. Mary F. Thomas has labored
through every available channel for the ap-
pointment of a woman physician in the Insane
Asylum, bringing the subject before every Leg-
islatnre and before the Indiana State Medical
Society. Others have urged the measure, and
now it is an accomplished fact.
	A beautiful lamp shade cover is made of gar-
net satin ribbon, torchon lace and small plush
balls. To find the needed lengths of ribbon
and lace, measure around the bottom of the
shade and allow for each three inches more
than the exact measurement. Run the lace
neatly on the edge of the ribbon and sew to-
gether. Shirr the ribbon three-quarters of an
inch from the upper edge, leaving the shirr
string long enough to tie underneath. Fasten
the balls on the lace, and embroider all the
solid parts of the lace with embroidery-silk cor-
responding in color with the ribbon nsed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				1


ADDRESSED TO SISTER PRESENDIA
			KIMBALL.
It should be higher pens than mine to sing thy praise,
And grateful peans to thy memory raise,
But in the speaking silence breathing round
My trumpet small gives no uncertain sound!
But craves to speak the truth regarding thee,
And which would fill a volume grand and free.
Thy life is known to Saints of latter days,
In holy rites, and round the sick one's bed
Thy gentle step is heard with noiseless tread,
To bless, to comfort and prescribe in faith
Some simple remedy that may save from death!
And then thy prayer--a sister's prayer of love
Calls down a blessing from the realms above!
Yes, many, many hast thou blest indeed,
By means so gentle, yet so grand in need;
And then the form--from whence the living breath
Has pass'd, and laid the weary one in death,
With pure and holy touch thy hand has deck'd
In saintly robes the body death has wreck'd,
And given peace and satisfaction in that hour
To loving friends who mourn death's awful power.
Who does not know the balm it brings to see
Our treasured dead approach'd with sanctity?
They have become so sacred in our eyes
As though a part of us had pass'd into the skies!
As though by some mysterious means we had become
Allied more closely with our eternal home!
In many such a sad, yet holy scene,
Hast thou a kind, efficient helper been;
And now in your declining years, dear friend,
May friends be round you till the final end
In sweet acknowledgement of days gone by,
When you in times of need were ever nigh,
Not only to the rich, but chiefly to the poor
Thy aid was freely given o'er and o'er;
A crown eternal is in store for you,
But earthly blessings now are surely due.
The things of earth the earthly body needs,
And nature is imperative when'er she pleads,
Yet oft, alas! through life we often find
the good, the pure the noble and the kind
Lack much, which they in truth have fairly earned,
But well I know you have the lesson learned
To be content with that you do possess,
And feel the hand of God to thank and bless.

Dear friend, my heart feels full in praise of thee;
Long may your life be lengthen'd out to be
A calm sweet evening now "the day is done,"
And God, and you, and all the Saints be one,
Such is my heart's devotest fervent prayer;
I crave your friendship I may ever share.
Accept the simple song my heart doth sing
Your friend and sister, HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.


[Column 1]

THE HUNTINGTON GATHERING.

	The event of the season with us, as a family, was the
gathering of all the members of the Huntington family
possible, at Springville last Christmas. It seems so pleas-
ant to record scenes of joy and gladness in this world of
disappointment and sorrow, and among the bright spots
of my life will ever gleam that of my meeting with my
loved and honored kindred, the 25th of December
1883.
	Onr programme was as follows: Visiting cousins,
aunts, uncles, etc. through the day, and at six p.m. we
all assembled at the City Hall, a large and beautiful
building, which had been secured for the occasion by
William, the eldest male member of our kin in this Ter-
ritory. The large hall was brilliantly lighted; with
dear Aunt Presendia, my honored mother and dear Aunt
Fanny, Uncle Dimick's widow, Uncle's William and
Oliver sitting on the stage, made as grand and beauti-
ful a picture as one would wish to look at, with a few
friends and sub members of the family as a back ground.
Facing them, in the body of the hall, were the sons and
daughters with their husbands and wives and their
children; which are not a few, and a few invited friends,
complete the picture. A solemn hush, a sweet peace
stole over the assembly, broken by that immortal
hymn "O! My Father." Prayer by Bishop Packard. A
song selected from the history of the Huntingtons, that
was composed for a similar occasion, in Stanford Conn.,
1857, "A Welcome," Wm. Huntington; "Selections
from family history," O. B. Huntington; "Speech,"
Presendia Kimball; "Speech," Zina D. Young; "Address,"

[Column 2]

in behalf of Dimick Huntington, deceased, Z. Jacobs.
These last three speeches were delivered while the four
original members, with Aunt Fanny, supported by Zeb-
nion, who spoke for her, were standing in a semicircle
on the stage, and was truly a very touching little scene.
Then came an original poem, written for the occasion
by Bro. William Clegg.
	[Poem.]
A gratifying aspect we here to-day behold,
A sight of more attractiveness than a store of shining
	gold;
A host of people, in whose veins there flows one kindred
	blood,
Who have come to greet each other with feelings pure
	and good;
The representatives are they of an illustrious line,
Whose noble deeds in days of old on history's pages
	shine.
The Huntingtons successors of a bold and manly sire,
Whose heart in old chivalrous times beat high with 
	martial fire;
A race of leading spirits through the ages that have
	stood,
Well known and foremost in the ranks among the brave
	and good,
The name was one that should endure, as plainly now
	appears,
For vastly it has multiplied as onward come the years?
What numbers must have answered to this greatly
	honored name
Since it first shone conspicuously upon the roll of
	fame.
Yes, since the bold "Siward" drew forth his glittering
	sword
To the present time, did hist'ry room for our name af-
	ford.
In the eleventh century, (more than eight hundred
	years
Have fled, since first on Albion's annals "Huntington"
	appears).
'Twas placed on "Siward" by the king for faithfulness
	maintained
In aiding Malcolm to the throne Macbeth through crime
	had gained;
To unseat this vile "Usurper" valiantly he fought,
Performed his duty well, as by his times and conscience
	taught,
And England's King, admiring much his actions in the
	field,
Appreciation plainly by exalting him revealed,
As a mark of "Royal Favor" the Monarch on him placed
A "Title," whence the wide spread name we proudly 
	own was traced;
In peace, in war, at home, abroad in struggles for the
	right,
In law, in education, dispensing truth and light
In the vanguard ever present, in science, or in art,
In all that seemed for human good the Huntingtons
	took part;
And when the land that gave them birth their liberties
	denied,
Some crossed the broad Atlantic and intolerance defied.
In sixteen hundred thirty-three a pilgrim crowd were
	found
Their native land forsaking, for the home of freedom
	bound,
But ere they reach the shore the "resistless shaft,, is
	thrown,
And the leader, Simon Huntington, by death is stricken
	down.
There while his wife and children in bitter anguish
	weep
He sinks into the ocean to take his last, long sleep.
His sons are our forefathers, a few here that claim can
	boast,
But through this great "Republic" they form a mighty
	host,
As teachers and examplars in morals widely known,
A band of men who never fear their sentiments to own.
The stream of time still rolling on brought on the Lat-
	ter-days,
When the fulness of the Gospel sheds forth its glorious
	rays;
The cause of universal good the Huntingtons espouse,
And strive the sleeping millions from slumber to arouse.
Yes, some all risking for the truth have braved a frown-
	ing world,
And in the face of bigotry the Gospel flag unfurled;
They find their noble lineage links with Abraham of
	old,
A pedigree more precions than earth's princes may un-
	fold,

[Column 3]

They, too, have learned how they can aid the myriads
	passed away,
And meet them all in glory in a fast approaching day.
To say that all were faultless, that none recreant had
	been,
Would claim for human nature what never yet was
	seen;
But here we see rejoicing a goodly number met,
Inclined to bless each other and all errors to forget.
Let those who love the Gospel its riches still proclaim,
And never dim the lustre of their' grand, historic name.
And those who may have stepp'd aside in a dark and
	trying day,
Reform at once, and travel on the bright celestial way.
Then when this mortal life is o'er and all in death shall
	rest,
May all now present meet again, in mansions of the
	blest.	WILLIAM CLEGG.
	This was followed by songs, recitations; next danc-
ing; how we did dance. The old ones led out, then
came the children; it seemed like old times, for every
eye beamed love, and every lip was wreathed in smiles.
	Much of our enjoyment was due our kind and noble
friend, Brother Boyer, who devoted himself to our enjoy-
ment the whole evening; "his kindness shall never be
forgot." Supper, and such a banquet! it was grand!
The table did not groan exactly, but we did. Over two
hundred partook of the bounteous feast.
	At midnight we separated, each heart filled with
gratitude and love for such a "never to be forgotten"
event.
	A member of the Huntington family.
		(ZINA Y. WILLIAMS.)


HONOR TO WIDOWS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We had a very pleasant affair on Friday,
the 3rd inst., gotten up by the officers of the
Relief Society in their new hall for the widows,
widowers, missionaries wives, newcomers, and
a few old people, numbering over seventy. Pre-
cisely at one p.m. dinner was served. After
dinner, speeches were made by John C. Naile,
J. Beck, Counselors W. H. Winn and Andrew
R. Anderson and Bishop T. R. Cntler, inter-
spersed with songs and dancing until five p.m.,
and all who participated felt it had been a
time of rejoicing and one long to be remem-
bered.			R. STANDRING, President,
				M. A. STANDRING, Sec.


WOMEN PHYSICIANS IN INDIA.

	In response to the invitation of the Bombay
merchants' committee several months ago
formed to induce first-rate female physicians
from England to establish themselves in that
city, Dr. Edith Pechey sailed for Bombay a
fortnight ago. She is to be followed by an-
other medical woman, and both are to be at-
tached to the hospital and dispensary which
the merchants are about to found. Dr. Pechey
is the woman who in 1870 won, but was not al-
lowed to receive, the Hope Scholarship in the
University of Edinburgh. She and her com-
panion are to receive liberal salaries, and will,
besides, have abundant opportunities for pri-
vate practice. "It is thought probable," says
The London Standard, "that the foundation-
stone of the hospital may be laid by the Duke
of Connaught, who will thus well represent the
interest expressed by her Majesty in 1881, in
response to a pathetic appeal of the Maha-
Raja of Puna, who besought her to send medi-
cal women to the aid of the perishing sufferers
in a thousand zenanas, into which no male prac-
titioner can enter."


Fine bunches of grain, grasses, etc., tied with
bright ribbon, and mounted on a panel of
plush, or velvet, make handsome ornaments.
Autumn leaves, crimson maples, or firey
sumachs, make happy effect against an olive
panel, the ribbon being red shading to brown.


124	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I.; East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
	SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	The clause in Senator Edmunds bill, abolish-
ing woman suffrage in Utah, is calling forth de-
nunciation and severe criticism, and will bring
down upon his devoted head the indignation of
all good suffragists. Whether the fact is under-
stood and appreciated or not, woman suffrage
has been a success in Utah. Almost without
exception women have gone to the polls; and
they have voted as their own judgment dictated;
and the women of the Latter-day Saints have as
strong opinions of their own as the women of any
other community, misrepresentation to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
	Why the Senator from Vermont should trou-
ble himself about "Mormon" women at all is diffi
cult to understand 	It would s[-]em all-sufficient
for him to propose general, special adverse leg-
islation for Utah, without singling out women
to make specific legislation for. He must look
upon woman suffrage as a power, or why should
he wish to abolish i[-]; if it is a positive power
then in the hands of the intelligent and wise it
may be a power for good, and if so then the na-
tion needs it, for the neccessity of powerful
agencies for positive good seems at the prese[-]t
t[-]me to be imperatively essential.  There is
little doubt of suffrage in the hands of women
effecting a general reformation in the morals of
society.  Women are not likely to vote for men
who will license growing evils in the midst of 
the great cities of the world.
	The Ladies of the Woman Suffrage State Ex-
ecutive Committe of New York, who are as 
clever and as shrewd as any women in the 
world, have entered their protest, by "denounc-
ing Senator Edmund's proposition for the dis-
franchisement of the women of Utah as a gross
wrong to the non-polygamists and to polyga-
mists by compulsion, and is punishment with-
out trial of those who believe in polygamy.
New York senators and representatives are
called upon to resist the proposition."
	These women have indeed been fearless in
thus speaking for those who believe in this prin
ciple which has been so much legislated against-
and is so exceedingly unpopular.  It is quite re-
freshing to hear of any one saying those Mor-
mons who are being disfranc[-]ised should have a
trial.
	There are people in Utah who know how un-
just has been the ruling in regard to disfran-
chisement.  The very fact that the oath applied
to the citizen who registered included ("in the
marriage relation") shows plain[-]y that it was 
only intended for those who pract[-]sed the prin-
ciple of plural marriage, and allowing the most
vile and disreputable, wheter man or woman,
the privilege of the elective franchise, which
Mormon women have held as a sacred boon giv

[Column 2]
en them from God.  No matter how intelligen[-]
or clever a woman might be, a property owner
and tax-payer, a widow or a wife, if she had
ever at any time in her life lived with a man
who had at any time in his life been in the prac-
tice of plural marriage, she was by that exclud-
ed from the polls.  Is not this stretching the
thread of the law to its utmost tension?  Yet in
the very face of this fine spun theory—women
who were known to be Magdalenes, were sl-
lowed to go and register and vote.  The same
or similar, with men, and this is the example
of consistency practically carried out by the
Utah Commission.
	Alice Stone Blackwell has written at some
length upon the subject of disfranchising Mor-
men women in the "Woman's Journal," pub-
lished in B[-]ston.  After going over the ground
and telling what she heard in Utah last sum-
mer, and so forth, she very adroitly sums up the
whole matter by saying, The two questions
which suggest themselves in regard to this "fore
most good feature" of Senator Edmund's bill,
therefore, are—first, where is the justice of it?
and secondly, where is the use?
	This phrase, "foremost good feature," is from 
the Boston  Herald, a very popular paper and
ably edited, but opposed to woman suffrage.
	The Herald had said, "Senator Edmund's new 
anti-polygamy bill contains several good fea-
tures, foremost among which is the provision
abolishing woman suffrage in Utah.  This right
of the slaves and dupes of the Mormons has
proved a bulwark of defense for polygamy, and
it should be withdrawn."
	People stand off at a distance and call the
women who have helped to lay the foundations
of this Territory dupes and slaves.  It is easy
calling names, but is it fair?
	The Mormon women pioneers were most of 
them from the Eastern States.  They were
women of the intelligence and endurance, with
strong religious convictions like their foremoth-
ers and fathers, the Pilgrims.  Their religion
was dearer to them than their lives, for many
died, and those who lived, lived as it were by
faith.  Privation and hardship, poverty and toil
were their daily companions.  Yet through all,
the implicit confidence in  God that He would
be the God of Israel in the latter as in the for-
mer times supported them while passing through
the most severe ordeals.  It was given to the
Mormon people to open up this great country,
they had the nerve to endure it because they
were actually driven into these mountain fast-
nesses.  And it was also a fulfillment of proph-
ecy.
	But to return to the subject of the franchise.
Women in almost every part of the civilized
world are agitating this question, and it is but a
matter of time, for woman's star has risen and
the brilliancy of its light is peering into dark
places and illuminating the darkness of centu-
ries.  When women combine together with
great tenacity of purpose it will be strange in-
deed if they do not succeed in their undertak-
ings.  As the poet says,

"Where is the man who has the tact and skill
To stem the current of a woman's will?
For when she will she will, you may depend on't,
And when she won't she won't, and there's an end
on't."

Mormon women are no exception to this gener-
al rule.  They are as positive and strong willed
as other women.  Principle controls them.
They have e[-]poused a faith, a doctrine, and they
maintain it and sustain it with as much fervor
and devotion as do "Mormon" men.
	They are as jealous of their rights as any other
class of women on the face of the earth, but
they are also ready and willing to make sacri-
fices of self upon the alter of their faith.  Should

[Column 3]
they be despised for this?  Is it not honorable?
Have not martyrs and heroes in all ages of the
world done the same thing? Why are "Mor-
mons" despised and hated because they are zeal-
ous and ready to make sacrifices for their relig-
ion, while others who have taken the same
course are held up as patterns of zeal and fideli-
ty to a noble cause?
	There is a large class of women who are work-
ing for equal political rights, and they are fast
becoming a power in the land—and by and bye
that power will be an overwhelming force, and
the Congress of the United States will pay more
respect to them than it seems inclined to do 
now.
	We wish these advocates of woman suff[-]age
success.  The time has come when woman's 
moral forces are needed in the regulating of
laws for the suppression of vice and crime.  Are 
they not an interested party? It is not alone
because of unjust taxation and a desire to stand
equal with their husbands and brothers, but it
is for the better protection of the home, the
foundation of all good government that women
are asking and interceding for political rights.
It is a broad and  momentous question.
	Most sincerely do we appreciate the noble
stand taken by this women of New York, who 
sp[-]ke in defense of our right of franchise, and
we know that every woman who has voted in
Utah and felt the privilege a sacred boon will
join with us in thanking these intelligent ladies
for manifesting an interest in our cause.
	There are several ladies who have spoken pub-
licly on our question in  times past in the halls
of Congress and before Committess, who de-
serve to be faithfully remembered by the Mor-
mon people, and to have their names recorded
for their courage and fearlessness in airing an un-
popular cause, and one which they knew would
bring censure upon them.  Foremost among 
these noble and grand women are Mrs. Sara An-
drews Spencer, Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, of
Washington, and Miss Matilda Hindman, of
Pennsylvania, and Mrs. Elizabeth Lisle Saxon,
of New Orleans.
	Perchance we have some friends still, and if
not we know in whome to trust, and in the fu-
ture as in the past, we will look to Him for pro-
tection who will not let a sparrow fall without
His notice.  Think of it, ye wise men and great,
and consider well the policy you would adopt
towards a people whose pronounced religious
principles has caused the worled to hate them.


EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE Utah Legislature convened in the City
Hall, Monday, January 14th.; nearly all the
members present. After some preliminary cer-
emonies the necessary officers were elected, Hon.
W. W. Cluff was chosen President of the Coun-
cil; C. W. Stayner, chief clerk; Hon. James
Sharp, Speaker of the House; and Junius F.
Wells, chief clerk. The oath of office was ad-
ministered by Secretary Thomas.
	ON Tuesday morning, Jan. 15, a joint session
of both Houses of the Legislature convene[-]
and His Excellency, Governor Murray, was in-
troduced by Hon. W. W. Cluff, and delivered
his message to the Legislative Assembly.


SIGNS OF THE LAST DAYS.

	Hark! ominous sounds come from afar! Dis-
asters by sea and by land.  Shipwrecks—cy-
clones—tornadoes—earthquakes—fires—explo-
sions—wars—bloodshed—murder most horrible—
suicides—secret combinations, accidents of all
kinds, nation against nation, husbands killing
their wives, mothers killing their children, bro-
ther against brother, sickness and death stalking
through the land. Surely the word of the Lord
is being fulfilled in the last days, and His judg-
ments are going forth upon the whole face of


the land. And the end of the wicked draweth
nigh. All eyes are turned towards Zion. The
President of the United States counsels against
the people of God. All sects are united in the
one object—annihilating the Mormons; but ac-
cording to the signs of the times they will have
plenty to do at home without interfering with
this people. And God grant that all the honest
may be gathered out from the nations before
the land is laid in waste And may He help
the saints to live more righteous, that they may
be worthy of His protecting care, and of the en-
joyment of those blessings that flow from His
bounteous hand. That they may be prepared
to meet Him when He comes to dwell on Mt.
Zion and enjoy His presence forever and for-
ever.							E. DOW.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 13th, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN'S VIEWS.

	In reading the President's message we find
the following: "I am convinced, however, that
polygamy has become so strongly intrenched in
the Territory of Utah, that it is profitless to at-
tack it with any but the stoutest weapons which
Constitutional Legislature can make; I favor,
therefore, the repeal of the act upon which the
existing government depends, and the resump-
tion by the National Legislature of the entire
political control of the Territory, and the estab-
lishment of a commission." Compare the ad-
vice with the following: "Any Legislation
whereby Congress may supplement the guaran-
antees which the Constitution affords for the
equal enjoyment by all the citizens of the Uni-
ted States, of every right, privilege, and immu-
nity of citizenship will receive my unhesitating
approval." What a favor! What a distinction!
What! destroy our territorial government!
What for? Forsooth, take away the rights of a
loyal people, born free men and women, living
under the starry flag of liberty. Is it because
we take the right given us by the Constitution,
to regulate our own domestic affairs? By what
right does the President, or Congress, presume
to interfere with our local laws? Did not the
Congress of this nation grant us a territorial
government, with the power to make our local
laws according to the views and good of the
people? The organic act of the territory gives
us the right to make laws with a view to the
best interest of the people, (providing we do
not make any that will come in contact with
the general government) and we have the privi-
lege of making our marriage law to suit our
ideas; if we conclude to have no wife at all,
whose right is it to interfere? It is strictly a
point upon which local authority has jurisdic-
tion, we do not ask any other state or territory
to incorporate in their code of laws any that are
obnoxious to them; we do not interfere with
them as to what laws they shall make, neither
do we acknowledge their right to interfere with
ours. Even the President has no right when
he stoops to oppress and pervert the spirit and
intent of the Constitution, much less to incor-
porate a reign of Ecclesiastical Inquisition, and
pander to the clamor of religious bigots, and
rule and control the consciences of men, and say
what they shall incorporate as principle in their
religion. Why not say to the Catholics (when
they believe in celibacy) that they shall marry,
or to the Jew, that it is the will of other relig-
ionists that the seventh day is the Sabbath; this
government has no right to require us to aban-
don any principle of our religion, and make us
forego the dearest constitutional rights we pos-
sess. It is the climax of oppression, and we
must submit or have our territorial government
destroyed. I ask, who are the traitors? Traitors
to the people's interests; traitors to the trust re-
posed in them, and to the Constitution of Amer-
ican liberty. We as a people love and revere
the Constitution as an inspired document, but
we deplore a corrupt administration; we

[Column 2]
sincerely pity those that have lost sight of
the true principles of freedom. We as a peo-
ple claim the right to have a state government
(having the requisite qualifications) to manage
our own affairs, and be protected in our rights by
the present government; what do we find?
Those that should protect us going back to the
old colonial time, using force to compel a free
people to become serfs, to have no voice as to
who shall be their rulers, to establish a mon-
archy in this free land of America. Well may
we ask, 'Is this a land of liberty?" Taxation
without representation was the cause of the
Revolutionary war, and what are the custodi-
ans of the people's rights doing to-day? Are
the statesmen, legislators, and senators of this
great nation taking a course to perpetuate the
principle of freedom and union, and maintain a
union of state and people? Is not policy and
party interests sapping away the very found-
dations of this once great nation?
	Look at the secret combinations and secret
societies, and look at the struggle between cap-
ital and labor, and the lack of confidence in men
of position, and the distrust in those that should
defend the union and equal rights to all who set
foot upon American soil. How much of brain
or good judgment is shown in the management
of national affairs?	*	*	Once in a
while there is a man that dares to defend the
rights of the people, that has a spark of the
spirit that animated the bosoms of the revolu-
tionary fathers, and that want to protect the
fundamental principles of this great republic;
we say God bless such men. The seeds of sedi-
tion and civil war are being fostered like a
smouldering volcano, and unless the rulers and
statesmen rid themselves of their selfish-
ness, and let honor, truth and justice be their
motto, they will have enough to do nearer home
than Utah. The day has come spoken of by the
prophets of old: "howl ye, for the day of the
Lord is at hand; it shall come as a destruction
from the Almighty, and they shall be afraid;
pangs and sorrows shall take hold of them; they
shall be in pain as a woman that travaileth;
they shall be amazed one at another; their faces
shall be as flames: behold, the day of the Lord
cometh, cruel both with wrath and fierce anger,
to lay the land desolate, and He shall destroy
the sinners thereof out of it." The time is com-
ing when all they that persecute the saints of
God will be cut off from the face of the earth,
for the Lord has said by the mouth of His
prophets, in the last days He will send dire des-
tructions upon the ungodly, famine, pestilence,
plagues, and that they should slay one another
until the land should become desolate. Then
we as saints of God do not complain, for we
know in whom we put our trust; we know that
whosoever lives godly in Christ Jesus must suf-
fer persecution; then what effect does all this
clamor, all this extra legislature have upon this
people? Does it weaken their faith, does it
make them feel like forsaking their religion, or
the principles thereof? No. For we know that
God will protect His own, and that our enemies
can have no power over us so long as we do
right, and we ask no favors of our enemies, only
our just rights.
	I will say a few words in regard to our fran-
chise. It is passing strange that our wise sena-
tor, Mr. Cassidy, should have so much intelli-
gence and wisdom when his mother was a
woman, and women are such fools that "they
don't know how to vote." Are not women the
ones that implant the principles of manhood, of
intelligence, of honor, of honesty and refine-
ment in the bosom of man, even before he opens
his eyes on this world. Is it not the refining
influence of women that stamps the morals of a
a community, that is the foundation of good so-

[Column 3]
ciety? Take a community where men has the
predominant influence, (say in mining camps,
for instance.) and what is the condition of socie-
ty? It is of the lowest grade. On the other
hand, let women have the predominant influ-
ence and the reverse is the result. Read the
history of all our great men, and you will find
that it was the training they received at their
mother's knee and the modifying influence she
held over them prompted them to greatness
Then who shall dare to raise a voice to deprive
women of their rights? Are they not citizens;
are they not persons? If not, what are they?
Is not one citizen equal with another? As
women can hold property and is taxed for that
property? If a woman violates the laws of the
land she is held accountable to the law, she also
has the right to the protection of this govern-
ment the same as a man, but she must not vote
(she does not know how to). Why not? I claim
that women have the same rights as men, and
that they have brain enough to know who to
vote for, they, as a general rule, do not let policy
rule them to the exclusion of principle, in the
choice of men for office; they vote for men that
have proved themselves capable, that have the
people's interests at heart, and that will perpet-
uate the principles of freedom and equal rights
to all citizens. I hold that a citizen is a citizen,
whether man or woman, if not, why hold a
woman responsible to the law? Has not a
woman the same power to think, to act, and
study; are not her intellectual powers as great
if cultivated? Has she but the same power to
educate herself as man? Certainly she has. If
she has not had the opportunity to develop
those powers, it is because man has deprived
her of her natural rights; man has stood in the
way of his own interests, instead of raising
woman to her proper sphere, and making her
his equal, a counselor, a companion, and a help-
meet truly, and having an intelligent wife, he
has contented himself with having a household
drudge, a thing of convenience. But a dawn is
breaking for the women of this nation, and she
will show in the near future that she is not on-
ly capable of voting, but of holding office. Mr.
Cassidy will find that the day has passed for
men to fight against the advancement of women,
for they have one faculty more prominent, per-
haps, than men, which is pertinacity. We
claim as our right to say who shall make our
laws, who shall rule over us, and who we will
vote for. We do not intend to be enslaved with
out a protest. Where will you find a people that
have shown the indomitable will and perseve
ance, that have accomplished what this people
have, in the some length of time? Or a people
that have shown the amount of intelligence
and statesmanship ability, or the powers of en-
durance? Does it all show a community of ig-
norance? No; we are a people that are governed
by the power and intelligence of Almighty
God, and herein consists our power of unity, be-
ing inspired by the same spirit we are united in
all things; this is why we vote as a unit, this is
what makes the wicked tremble. It is not a
small handful of people that priests and people
are fighting against, but the Almighty Father,
the ruler of the heavens and the earth; that
King before whom every knee shall bend and
every tongue confess His power, His might, and
His right. Praying for the welfare of the King-
dom of God.				SARAH A. FULMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., Dec. 23, 1883.


WASHED TO DEATH.

	I am aware that in writing upon the subject of wash-
ing little children too much I will come in contact with
an old-time established custom, which is more univer-
sally indulged in to-day than ever before. Most of the
mothers think that if they do not wash their little bod-


[Column 1]

les over once or twice every day they have neglected
their little darlings almost beyond forgiveness. Mothers,
it is not so, but by the washing of them yon have done
them a life-long injury. Some may stop here, not wish-
ing to read any further. To such I would say, read the
article through and reflect upon and comprehend the
plain self-evident facts herein contained, and then if you
are not convinced that little children are washed too
much I will trouble you no more upon the subject.
	Man was not made nor constituted to be an amphibi-
ous animal, in fact his whole body naturally resists the
outward application of water, and most children decid-
edly object to it when old enough to say so; then the
daily washing of them usually ceases; but my object is
to speak for those who are not old enough to speak for
themselves, during which time the greatest injury is
done to them.
	The principal office of the pores of the skin is to pass
off constantly an insensible perspiration, and in a 
healthy person they will allow just enongh to escape to
keep the system in a healthy condition, without any ar-
tificial appliances. Nature will do its own work. The
application of water to the skin opens and relaxes these
pores, which will allow a superabundance of insensible
perspiration to escape, and anyone can readily under-
stand that this would weaken, not only the pores and
skin, but the whole body, if often repeated.
	Most children when born, and for a few days after-
wards, have healthy pores, with a lively glow on the
skin and a firmness to their flesh, which would remain
and the glow gradually wear off if nature were allowed
to take its own course, but they all soon disappear after
being subjected to the daily water baths, and in the
place of the glow on the skin it assumes a sickly, pale
white, and the firm flesh becomes soft and flabby, al-
though the child may be fleshy, and there is but little
muscle in the arms, and when handled the flesh almost
seems to leave the bone. In fact healthy pores need
washing no more than healthy bowels need physic, and
the former is weakening and injurious to the human
system as well as the latter, and who would think of
giving physic to their children daily as they give them
their baths.
 	Healthy men have been brought to extreme weakness
by taking a daily bath, but have regained their usual
strength and vigor after omitting the baths, and boys
have received lasting injuries by going in swimming too
often or by staying in the water too long. The judici-
ous farmer is careful not to irrigate his grain too young
or too much, knowing that if he does so it will turn
pale and lessen his crop at the time of harvest. How
much more ought mothers and nurses to be careful of
the tender plants under their charge, and not wash
them too much and thereby weaken them and lessen
their harvest of life.
	Man and the horse are similarly constituted. Who
ever saw a colt take a voluntary bath, or even the
young of any animal to do so. All nature proclaims
against it.
	Bathing is good in consumption, liver complaint and
other diseases when the pores need opening. Emetics
are also beneficial in some sicknesses, but who would
give a daily emetic to their children? Medicine that is
good in sickness is injurious in health. Water is a
powerful extractor of the electricity aud other health
promoting elements of the human system, as may be
witnessed by placing the hand in warm water for a 
short time. It soon becomes white, wrinkled and weak-
ened.
	Some may ask, "How often should I wash my body?"
There are some parts that need spunging off daily, but
some physicians decidedly object to their little children
being bathed all over in water oftener than once in a
week or two. And then, mothers, why not take the
word of the Lord for it, and use "strong drinks for the
washing of the body." But do not wash daily with
water and then with liquor, for the liquor cannot restore
that which the water has taken away.
	I do not expect to write in this short article an hun-
dredth part of what would be necessary to fully venti-
late a subject so new and in direct contact with an al-
most universal practice, but only sufficient to get the
people to reflect for themselves on the many things con-
nected with this subject too numerous to mention, for
when I reflect upon it I feel, as it were, an inspiration
upon me to call to the mothers to stop and consider for
themselves, and realize what they are doing to the lit-
tle cherubs God has given-them, and forbear before it is
too late.
	I do not wish to be understood by adopting the cap-
tion of this piece that I think the children are washed
to death at the time of giving them their baths, but by

[Column 2]

their pores being opened and relaxed so often, thereby
giving the vitality of life an avenue of escape, reducing
the muscular and nervous powers, debilitating the
whole system, making it more liable to catch cold, re-
quiring a closer confinement from the fresh air, thereby
depriving it of the endurance necessary for the tender
plant to pass safely through teething, measels, whoop-
ing cough and many other complaints that children are
heir to, and they succumb, and death takes them away,
for the doctors nor their medicine cannot restore the vi-
tality which has been slowly but surely washed out of
them, and the parents and relatives are left to mourn
their loss, and wonder why it was so? The answer
could be constantly given, "You have innocently
washed your child to death."	S. F. ATWOOD.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
			MISSISSIPPI.
	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
     On the 7th a message came from President
Young, who was twelve miles ahead, requesting
my father and the rest to come on. That day
Horace succeeded in getting a wagon for us
and also a gentle yoke of oxen. Previously we
had had no place in particular. I had traveled
mostly with my mother, and our lodging had
been, like that of hundreds of others, on the
ground. But here was a new lesson for
Horace, who from a school boy in Kirtland
had done little else but printing and school
teaching—yoking up and driving oxen he had
never before undertaken. On the 9th, after
leaving this place, he wrote, “Started this
morning about eight o’clock—took my first les-
son in the science of oxology.” On taking the
ox whip to drive, the first thing he did was to
go on the wrong side, and then had to endure
the roars of laughter from several of ths boys
who were standing ready to witness his first
effort, but some of them were quite as green
as himself in the practice of ox driving. But
after seeing his chagrin one of them took the
whip and drove a little ways to give him an
idea how it was done, and he soon became as
handy in yoking, unyoking and driving ox-
teams as any of the boys, and even some of
our sisters were schooled in the  same science
before we got to our journey’s end, as numbers
of our brethren who came out from Nauvoo as
teamsters, returned after a little; some of them
taking their teams with them, after we had ob-
tained some from other quarters.  We had
doors, generally, cut on the left side of the
wagon covers. Boxes and bags of grain, etc.,
were packed in the rear part of our wagon,
upon which our bed was made. We had our
provision chest in front, which served as a ta-
ble, and between was just room for my chair—
this being my only piece of furniture—the
most of our household chattels having been
left in our house in Nauvoo. I could now knit
and read as we traveled, and Horace could
read or play his flute as he liked, and none, I
think, but those who had a like experience can
form the slightest idea of the appreciation and
happiness it gave us, to have a little wagon all
to ourselves, which, under the circumstances,
was next thing to paradise.
     “On taking the team to drive,” Horace says,
I went into Brother Kimball’s company—had
not gone far before it commenced to rain,
which continued through the day and night—
traveled seven miles and encamped about six
p.m. on the open prairie, in one of the most
disagreeably muddy places I remember ever to
have seen—drove our horses and cattle about
a mile to the nearest wood, which consisted,
principally, of elm trees, and afforded them an
excellent opportunity of browsing. Some of
father’s teams got stuck in the mud, and had
to stop a mile or two back, and none reached
us except Joseph Kingsbury with the buggy,
the one horse wagon, and Sarah Ann’s wagon.
Bro. Pond broke his harness in attempting to
extricate himself from a mud hole. Bro. Lo-
renzo Young and others of our company were
unable to come up, as also Parley P. Pratt and
his company.”
     The muddy camping place, mentioned by
Horace, was one not easily to be forgotten.
The dismal places were the ones that seemed
to impress themselves the most indelibly upon
my memory, but this one really had its pleas-
ant side, for I remember how grateful I felt
there to be under a tight wagon cover, where
we were comfortable and secure from the cold
and beating rain, which; falling upon the cov-
er, served as a kind of lullaby to soothe us to
sleep. And in the morning my cousin Netty,
the head cook, brought us some warm eatables,
requesting me to stay in the wagon, as she
would rather bring our breakfast to us than
have me bothering around in the mnd, to which
arrangement we very cheerfully submitted.
     “Friday, 10th,” wrote Horace, “This morn-
ing found the rain had not ceased falling, bnt
on the contrary, pouring down with redoubled
vigor.  Getting our cattle from the woods, we
started about noon, doubling our teams, when
it cleared off—leaving Joseph C. Kingsbury
behind, as also three of Bro. Kimball’s teams
in the care of Hans C. Hanson—traveled three
miles and a half and encamped at three p. m.
on the East Fork of Locust Creek, near where
Brigham had previously encamped—one of the
most beautiful locations for an encampment
my eyes had ever beheld, in fact it seemed as
if expressly designed for our use, and in con-
trast with the place where we had last stopped,
a perfect paradise.”
     “Saturday, 11th. Bro. Kimball’s horses, ox
teams and men, including myself, went back
after the wagons left behind. Wm. Kimball
put four of his horses on Sarah Ann’s wagon,
and one ox team was taken back a mile fur-
ther to pull one of father’s teams out of a mud
hole, and the folks all got to the camp about
half past three o’clock—the same time we did
with the ox teams. When we arrived found
Brigham here with two other brethren—they
were in council. Bro. B’s camp is two miles
from here.	*	*	To-day made a coal
pit that we might be able to do some black-
smithing.”
     “Sunday, 12th.	*	*	A meeting
was called at 11 a.m.,present, B. Young. H. C.
Kimball, P. P. Pratt, O. Pratt, A. Lyman, G.
A. Smith, J. Taylor, Bishops Whitney and
Miller, and several others. Bro Young spoke;
gave some good instruction, and concluded
with a plan for our future movements--that
was to send fifty men ahead to the source of
Grand River, and then to make some improve-
ments--fence in about two miles square—build
some huts, plant some grain and  garden seeds,
then save their garden seeds, which would not
otherwise keep any length of time—after that
for the main body to follow them—from here
we are to take a north-west course till we ar-
rive at the head of Grand River--from there
proceed to Council Bluffs, on the Missouri
River, then over the mountains, leaving be- 
hind at our new settlements those that
have not the means to prosecute the journey,
thereby furnishing a sojourning place for those
who may hereafter come on from the States.
Bro. Brigham and the brethren with him went
back to their camp after having taken dinner.
In the afternoon Bro. Kimball called a meet-
ing; gave some good advice to the brethren—
partook of the sacrament and dismissed with
prayer.	*	*	*	The weather has
continued fine since Friday last. To-day a
number of our teams, also two of Bro. Kim-
ball’s, went to bring np the remainder of our
company, viz: Bro. Lorenzo Young, Lyman
Whitney, and a wagon that father had left be-
hind. We are now in Putman Co., Missouri.”
   “Tuesday, 14th. Struck our tents and pro-
ceeded to Bro. Brigham’s camp,	*	*	where


[Column 1]

we arrived late in the day.	*	*	Had
to double our teams some distance across the
bottom, as also the hill on which we encamped.
*	*	Soon after arriving went to Brother
Willard Richards' tent, which is called the
post office of the camp of Israel, where Charles
Decker had just arrived from Nauvoo, bearer
of a number of messages and letters." That
evening the band also came up, and they
played for President Young and father before
retiring. All remained at this place till Thurs-
day except Bishop Miller and company, they
went ahead next morning. Horace wrote:—
"This afternoon the pioneers of our company,
consisting of about twenty men, with others
from Bro. Brigham's camp, started for the head
of Grand River.	*	*	Bro. Kimball
gave them a good deal of advise, such as never
to involve themselves in any quarrels, strifes or
contentions with the inhabitants, but on the
contrary, to court their favor by every possible
means in their power. Bro's Kimball and
Markham accompanied them a short distance
on their route, and gave them other good coun-
sel.	*	*	Hans Hanson took his cow
and went with them."
	As I learned, through the mail, that Wm.
Clayton was the father of a child by his wife,
Diantha Farr, who was left with her parents in
Nauvoo. I bore the tidings to Wm., whose de-
light knew no bounds, and that evening Hor-
ace, myself and a number were invited over to
their camp, Wm. being one of the band, whose
encampment was only a short distance from
ours, and which event Horace mentions thus:
"In the evening there was a grand christening
held at Bro. Clayton's camp, in celebration of
the birth of his child in Nauvoo."	*	*
	Thursday 16th. Left our encampment at
half past 9 a.m., proceeded about six miles and
encamped at 2 p.m. on the prairie near where
Bro. John Taylor and George A. Smith had
encamped the night previously. To-day eight
rattlesnakes were killed by our company, and
two of the oxen in the same were bitten. One
of Wm. Kimball's horses lips was swelled con-
siderably, supposed to be occasioned by the bite
of a rattlesnake. To-day is the first time we
have seen any of these reptiles on our journey."
I remember that day, and of seeing our men
killing snakes in the grass, where our tents
were afterwards pitched, and it was enough to
give one nervous spasms to see them, and then
to think of sleeping in the neighborhood of
such dangerous enemies.
	Horace continues:—"As we progress on our
route game grows quite plenty, more especially
deer and turkeys, of which there are several
almost daily brought into our camp; vegetation,
also, is now commencing to spring up around
us, which we consider quite a blessing, as we
have had no corn for our cattle for two or three
days. Brother Brigham and the band are en-
camped within half a mile of our place—on ar-
riving here had to drive our cattle a mile or
two to give them a good chance to feed."
On the morning of the 17th our company
proceeded about eight miles and encamped in
a grove of hickory on a stream called Medicine
Greek, named by the Indians, no doubt. Prest.
Young, Bp. Whitney and others, with the
band, had encamped three quarters of a mile
ahead, and father, learning this, determined to
go on.
	Horace says:—"We started about five p.m.,
and after descending the hill and crossing the
creek we were detained by the fire on the
prairie about three quarters of an hour, and a
number of us were obliged to stand by with
sticks to whip out the fire in order to make
onrselves a road" or passage through it; we then
went on without interruption to the place where
the rest of our company were encamped. Here,
also, we overtook Bp Miller's company. Our
two principal hunters, Bro's Higher and Smith,
went out before starting this morning, and cut

[Column 2]

down two bee trees, bringing into the commis-
sary three pails full of first rate honey—they
also killed two deers and turkeys during the
day, which was distributed to the company."
Saturday, 18th. Father started his wagon
and we went two miles and camped, when he
returned to a council, Horace says, which "con-
sisted of the principal authorities of the Church,
together with the captains of tens, fifties, hun-
dreds, etc. Their decision was in accordance
with the former suggestions of Prest. B. Young.
Council being over father, with his family
started aud came up with us, Bro. Brigham re-
maining behind, as also Bp. Miller and the
band. Bro. Taylor is encamped within a short
distance of us—took a short fishing excursion
down the creek this evening—caught three fish
but not very large ones; some few cat fish. This
afternoon they sent into the country for corn."
	"Sunday, 19th. Fine weather this morning,
Porter and Edwin Cutler came from Nauvoo
with the mail to-day; left there last Thursday.
Some families have started and are starting
from there all the time. This afternoon, at
four oclock, a meeting was called between Bro.
Taylor's and our camp. Bro's Taylor and Kim-
ball spoke at some length, giving a great deal
of good instruction, cheering up the hearts of
all. Bro. Kimball told us it would be neces-
sary to allow only one half pound of bread
stuff per day to each individual for 500 days in
going 1,500 miles over the mountains. Had a
letter from our pioneers, stating that they had
a job to do of building a jail and storehouse,
worth $250, on the East Fork of Grand River,
thirty miles from here. Yesterday wolves were
seen around the camp."
	"Monday, 20th. Beautiful day, the birds
begin to sing, grass to grow, and everything as-
sumes a pleasant aspect. Bro. Pack came in
with one of the teams sent out after corn.	*
They had to pay 20 cts. per bushel. Brother
Spencer, who has been a long way back, just
came up with us this afternoon. In' the last
mail Bro. Kimball received a number of the
Hancock Eagle. He and father went back to-
day to attend the general council."
	"Tuesday, 21st. Bro. Hosea Cushing and
Wm. King, who had been adopted into father's
family, came in, bringing twenty-two bushels
of corn. My brother Wm. not returning with
them prevented father from starting that day.
Bro. Brigham and Bp. Miller and companies
passed us that morning. An Indian was seen
for the first time passing through our camp—
there was said to be an Indian encampment
somewhere in that vicinity—were out hunting.
Bro. Pond and Durfee, who came that far with
their teams to assist Bp. Whitney, were releas-
ed that day with their teams to return to Nau-
voo to their families. That evening it com-
menced raining, and continued most of the
night, accompanied by thunder and lightning.
Father and Bp. Whitney arranged their load-
ing while there—taking out some things to dis-
pose of for provisions to the inhabitants. Horace
wrote four letters for my father to send back
by Porter—namely: to two of his wives, Sarah
Noon and Amanda Gheen, Bro. Winchester,
Bro's O. Hyde and W. Woodruff."
	"Thursday, 23rd," Horace wrote, "This after-
noon Wm. came back, having explored most
of the country as far as Grand River—saw our
pioneers there, who, he says, find plenty of work
to do—cattle are rather scarce there, an Ore-
gon company having traversed the region
round and engaged above 500 yoke of cattle
previous to his arrival. Bro's Pond, Porter,
Vm. Cutler and Father Durfee started back
to-day, taking two buggies with. them. Porter
took my watch with him to get fixed. About
three o'clock p.m. we started and went four
miles, and encamped about dusk on the edge
of a ravine in the open prairie, where there
was beautifnl feed for our oxen and horses, the
grass being of very high and thick growth,"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 127


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

OGDEN, WEBER CO.

	Minutes of the 18th Quarterly Conference
of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Co., held in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Saturday, December
8th, 1883, President Sarah Herrick presiding.
After the usual opening exercises and reading
of minutes Prest. Herrick addressed the meet-
ing. She was truly thankful that we were
privileged to meet this morniug under so favor-
able circumstances, and that we were favored
with the presence of Sister Zina Young and
several of the brethren. Felt a deep interest
for her young sisters, and desired to do all in
her power to assist them to become wiser and
better; could see they were improving; hoped
they would continue to attend their meetings,
and ever make good use of the time allotted
them.
	Verbal reports were given by Presidents E.
N. Hill of the 1st Ward Association; R:
Monch, 4th Ward; E. S. Richards, 2nd Ward;
M. M. Halls, Huntsville. Each felt encou-
aged, by the advancement the members were
making, to continue their labors. Notwith-
standing their efforts to induce all the young
ladies to attend the meetings, some appeared
careless and indifferent, such they intended to
visit, and try by every means in their power to
awaken. They desired to live humble and
prayerful, ever seeking the Spirit of the Lord
to guide them, that their labors might result in
much good.
	Sister Zina D. Young had listened with in-
terest and pleasure to the minutes and reports.
Believed a good work was being done by the
associations of this county, which she trusted
would continue. Wished to see the youth of
Zion excel in everything that was good; and in
order to do this they must have pure hearts,
must be obedient to those placed to lead them,
seek to learn and practice that which is right,
and eschew all evil. After having Sister Jos-
ephine West read from a discourse of Prest.
Taylor's what he had said in regard to round
dancing, wished all who felt to carry out this
counsel to raise their hands. Many, if not all
hands were raised. This she said gave her
pleasure, for she was satisfied they would re-
ceive a blessing by so doing. Prest. Young
did not approve of this amusement and desired
that the people would not engage in it. Urged
her young sisters to attend their meetings reg-
ularly, to observe the word of wisdom, be kind
and obedient to their parents, and seek to pre-
pare themselves to fill honorably the noblest
position to which they can aspire, that of wife
and mother. Spoke of the Primary Associa-
tion, said it was our duty to encourage the
children to do right and attend their meetings.
Her prayer was that the Lord would bless and
prepare us to enter His presence with a fulness
of glory.
	Elder Joseph E. West was indeed pleased to
see the young ladies so ready to observe the
admonition of Prest. Taylor in regard to our
amusements. The Central Board of the Young
Men's Associations of this County were making
arrangements to give a series of parties in Og-
den, and a committee had been appointed to
visit the Y. L. Association to ascertain if they
would join them. They intended to conduct
these parties strictly in accordance with the
wishes of our leaders. They would hold a
meeting to-morrow night in the vestry, and
Prest. Anderson would like the officers of the
Y. L. A. to meet with them. Without a union
of effort and action we could not accomphish
what we desired. We must work in harmony,
and use our influence in the right direction.
 Meeting adjourned till 2 p.m.
 Afternoon session. Congregation sang, "Re-
deemer of Israel." Prayer was offered by
Bishop Robert Mc.Quarrie. Presidents M. E.


[Column 1]
Russell, of Riverdale; Annie Madsen, of Mar-
riotts; Ellen Waldron, North Ogden; and Mary
A. Crane, of Lynne, then reported the condi-
tion of the Association over which they presi-
ded. The reports were very similar to those
given in the forenoon. All thought the coun-
sel in regard to our amusements was good;
would try to observe it and help others to do
so. The Riverdale young ladies had already
given up round dancing, as it had been known
to them, by one of their number speaking in
tongues, that it was displeasing in the sight of
God.
	Prest. L. W. Shurttiff was gratified to see
the interest manifested by those called to pre-
side over the associations of this county. He
felt to say, God bless them and help them to do
the good their hearts desire. Could assure his
young sisters that if they would follow the ad-
vice of those placed to guide them, all would
be well. Sincerely hoped they would give
heed to Prest. Taylor's instructions, which we
had heard read to-day. Spoke at considerable
length on the many duties devolving upon us
as saints; also gave many words of praise and
encouragement. Prayed the blessings of the
Lord to rest upon all who were striving to
work righteousness.
	The meeting was also addressed by Bishop
R. Mc.Quarrie, Elders Wm. R. Stowell, L. J.
Herrick, Counselors Emily S. Richards and
Josephine R. West. Each heartily endorsed
all that had been said, and felt to do all in
their power to assist in carrying out the in-
structions of Prest. Taylor.
	Counselor E. S. Richards thought it would
be wisdom to discard round dancing altogether,
and took a vote to learn how many were of the
same mind. A majority were in favor of
abandoning it.
	Prest Herrick felt that the excellent teach-
ings we had received to-day would prove a
great blessing to us, for she was satisfied that
we would not only remember, but practice
them. Would endeavor to have her young la-
dies comply with the wishes of those in author-
ity, and would try by her example and advice
to encourage them to love the truth, and do
only that which is right. Warmly thanked all
who had contributed to make the meeting so
pleasant and interesting, and adjourned the
conference for three months.
				R. CANFIELD, Secretary.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE, ARIZONA.

	The First Quarterly Conference of the St.
Joseph Stake of Arizona, convened in the
bowery at Pima, Sept, 2nd., Prest. Layton and
Counselor D. P. Kimball were present, also the
Bishops of the various wards. We were
pleased to note some five or six of the Mormon
Battalion present, also the Patriarchs of the
St. Joseph Stake, Wm. Mc.Bride and Phile-
mon Merrill. Reports were read from four
different organizations of the R. S., which were
encouraging. S. David, Pima, Curtis and
Graham wards were in a progressive condition;
there is also an organization of R. S. at
Thatcher, which is prospering. The society at
Pima had sent twenty-five dollars to a poor
widow in Arkansas, to assist her to emigrate,
and she arrived here just in time to see and
hear Apostles Young and Grant, whose visit
here was highly appreciated by the saints. The
cry of the watchmen on the towers of Zion has
saluted our ears in this remote land, and the
majority of the people are trying to reform
	The young men that were called to labor
among the House of Jacob are responding and
beginning to qualify themselves to fill a great
and important mission.
	The Second Quarterly Conference of the R.
S. and Y. L., together with the Primary As-
sociation of the St. Joseph Stake of Arizona,
convened in the Hall of St. David, Nov. 30th,
1883. Friday morning at 10 o'clock meeting

[Column 2]
called to order by Prest. W. East. After the
usual exercises there was much good instruc-
tion and powerful testimonies given by the pre-
siding board, exhorting the sisters to magnify
their calling and seek to establish home indus-
try, and by all that is sacred and true not to
neglect the training of the youth of Israel.
	We mothers must teach them faith while they
are yet young, that this principle may be cul-
tivated and grow into a mighty power in the
earth. The young people and Primary Asso-
ciations have been organized for the special
training of those noble spirits that have been
held in reserve to come forth to receive this
education preparatory to the Kingdom and
coming of our Lord and Savior, and God will
hold us responsible.
	Prest. Layton expressed himself well pleased
with the report and spirit of the sisters' confer-
ence, and wished us to continue our meeting
Saturday morning, as the Apostles had not ar-
rived, which we did, and heard encouraging re-
marks from Patriarch Merrill. The young
ladies were ably represented by Counselor
Rhoda Foster. The young ladies of this Stake
certainly deserve credit for good behavior and
willingness to perform their duty.
							W. EAST.
	P. S. I am acting as School Trustee in
this district; our secretary will send you a full
report, with wages of officers and Sec.	W. E.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Alpine, Utah Co., Dec. 30th, 1883, Theodocia,
beloved wife of Wm. Brown. Deceased was born at Al-
pine, May 5th, 1852. Three weeks previous to her death
she gave birth to a babe that lived only one week. She
had been a great sufferer for many months, and her
death was a happy release from this mortal tabernacle.
She died in full faith of the Gospel: she was for many
years a faithful member of the Relief Society, and never
failed to bear a faithful testimony of the Gospel and of
the power of God.
	We feel to sympathize deeply with the relatives and
friends, of which she has many. She leaves a husband
and three children to mourn her loss.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1863.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.

IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,

HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.
________________________________
Special to the Ladies.
___
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
_________________________________________
HENRY DINWOODEY.
____
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.
____________________________________________
FAuerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.
____________________________________________
For Sale at this Office.
_______
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
_______
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	- 25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		- $1.00	"
	"	vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,  1.50	"
__________________________________________
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, 11th Ward, No. 31, Seventh
East Street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
_____________________________________________
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOLLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.
______________________________________________
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODEE PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the 
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

