VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1884.	No. 2[-].


READY: A WATCHWORD.

	"Be ye also ready; for in such an hour as ye think
not, the Son of Man cometh."—Matthew xxiv, 44.

Ready! oh! are you ready
	if the Lord should come to-day?
Or do you rely on the sprinkled blood
	To take your guilt away?
Or are you still standing doubting,
	Lingering outside the door,
Which when once He comes will be closed to you,
	If you enter not before.

Ready! oh! are you ready?
	Sisters, this speaks to you,
For the Lord's own child, though safe, may be
	Ashamed to meet Him too.
Will He find you watching, praying,
	In the day when He comes again?
Or are you asleep while others weep
	For the sorrows and sins of men?

Ready! oh, are you ready?
	For soon He may be here;
Will He find you loyal and true to Him,
	Or shrinking and full of fear?
Will He find you enduring trials,
	As a faithful soldier must,
Content to tread where His prophets led,
	In a life of simple trust?

Ready! oh, are you ready
	If the Lord should call away,
No idol chaining you down to earth,
	But ready to go to-day?
For it may be that He is coming
	Before the evening fall;
But whether at noon or midnight,
	Be ready when He shall call.
							M. A. GREENHALGH.
Meadow, March 7th, 1884.


[Column 1]
WASHINGTON'S HOME.

	One beautiful day in August our small par-
ty of three set out about 10 o'clock a.m. to vis-
it Mt. Vernon. We stepped into a street car
which carried us to the river, and after much
pushing and asking many questions, we suc-
ceeded in boarding the steamer bound for that
point. For the first few minutes we were in a
state of excitement hearing some women say
that this was not the Mt. Vernon steamer, but
'twas not many minutes before the Capt. ap-
peared upon the scene, and he soon quieted our
fears. The boat was small and terribly crowd-
ed, and it seemed to me I had never seen so
many children since I left home. Our little
brown eyed third person seemed the nucleus
around which all the children congregated
with apples, sugar plums, bread and butter,
cakes, etc., for children never seem to feel an
excursion is an excursion unless they have
their hands and mouth full of something good
to eat. It was quite amusing to see these little
ones enjoying themselves by daring acts and
to hear the poor mothers exclaiming, "you will
lose your hat; there, I knew you would drop
your handkerchief; will you quit leaning over
the railing? I shall never try to take you
children any place again." Such were the
ejaculations of each fond mother, and never
once did the children settle down, and never
once did the mothers lower their voices.
	On the otherside of the boat the young peo-
ple had seated themselves, and with their com-
panions were enjoying themselves in a quiet
way, admiring the scenery and occasionally
glancing at the noisy children on the other
side. We enjoyed the whole affair immensely;

[Column 2]
the scenery along the Potomac was beautiful,
the breeze refreshing, and all this, with the
happy music of the children's voices, seemed
to fascinate me so that I felt rather disappoint-
ed when the boat made a sudden stop and the
Captain called for those who wished to stop at
the Grove. Then "there was hurrying to and
fro," the children cried, mothers scolded, some
told the captain they knew he would start be-
fore they got off; but at last they all stood on
the shore, their baskets half empty, and their
faces as smiling as a sunbeam.
	It was not many minutes before we pushed
off again; all the little ones had left us, and al-
though it seemed quite lonesome, yet I confess
we had a much better chance to see the sur-
rounding country, for our attention was so
unavoidably drawn to them while they re-
mained. While chatting about the scenery,
the life of Washington, whose home we were
about to visit, the time passed rapidly, and we
could hardly believe our ears when some one
says this is Mt. Vernon. The boat stopped,
and as every one else seemed to be getting off,
off we got, too. We had not walked many
steps from the landing, however, when we saw
a colored man who immediately, on seeing us,
sung out, "Dis way for de excursion wagon."
We paid our ten cts. and got into the carriage,
supposing it to be some distance to the tomb,
but in about two minutes our colored friend
sang out, "Dis is de tomb of de great Washing-
ton; those who wish to look around may alight
and walk the rest of the distance." So, not-
withstanding our dime we concluded that we
wanted a good look and so allowed him to
drive off without us. We seemed to be about
the only strangers, the others had come mere-
ly for a day's out and a rest from the bustle of
the city; so most of them remained in the car-
riage, and those who stopped only seemed to
give a passing glance and then walk off to some
other parts of the grounds, so that we had an
opportunity of gazing without being gazed up-
on, and our remarks did not have to be whis-
pered, but we gave full vent to our feelings.
	The tomb was of red brick, and built on the
side hill, and would have looked quite old and
dull had it not been for the beautiful vines
which covered it and the bright wild flowers
that spotted the grass, these lit up by the bright
summer sun, looked anything but gloomy.
There were no cultivated flowers, but wild ones
blossomed in abundance, as if they, sweet em-
blems of the dead, spoke of him and told us,
for the thought would come, that he needed no
marble tomb or costly monument, but that his
deeds were engraven on each true heart, the
place from which they sprung.
	From the door, which was made of iron
bars, we could see into the tomb, where all was
white and deathlike. From here we followed
the others to the old tomb, but there were just
a few old boards left there to mark the spot
where he had first been laid. As we felt anx-
ious to see the house and the many old relics
therein, we hurried towards that point. The
house stands just on the banks of the river,
and it would be difficult to imagine a more
lovely spot than Mt. Vernon, with the river
flowing smoothly in front, with its many boats
and steamers gliding softly by. The grove,
with its sequestered nooks and rustic seats, the
well kept grounds, with their choice shrubs
and trees, and the large conservatories with
their collection of plants, all combined to
make it just what the home of such a man

[Column 3]
should be. The house faced the river, though
both east and west sides are called fronts, very
long and of white color, the servants quarters
and offices are joined to it by long covered
walks, such as we call porches, is, of course,
decidedly old fashioned, and to me seemed
very grand, although some of the rooms up
stairs were quite small, but this, of course, was
an evidence of its age. The rooms are said to
be fitted up just as in his lifetime; the furniture
was elegant, yet so quaint and old that I could
imagine the forms of those long passed away
gliding softly through the rooms. There are
some few of the better furnished rooms where
visitors are not allowed to enter, these have
bars across the doors.
	An association was formed some years ago
called, The Ladies Mt. Vernon Association; it
was formed for the purpose of keeping the
house in good repair and leaving some one
there to attend to it and to show strangers
around. These ladies have recovered most of
the original furniture and have worked hard
to keep the house in its originial style, so that
it is almost, if not quite, as it was in Washing-
ton's life time. We could scarcely tear our-
selves away from the house, but finding it past
lunch time we went out, thinking we could pro-
cure some lunch there, but, alas, each little
group had their little basket; this looked sus-
picious, but we went to an old colored lady
who was in charge of the house, but could not
prevail upon her to sell us anything. It was
unfortunate for us the first day that lunch had
not been served there, and so we had to make
the best of it and enjoy our picnic as best we
could without any picnic at all. We wandered
about for some time and then went down to
the river side to wait for the steamer. While
waiting there we noticed that all the boats
stopped in front of the house and tolled their
bells; this seemed to me a very sad and sweet
remembrance.
	'Twas not long ere our boat arrived and we
were on our way back to the city; the air was
delightful in the cool of the evening, the music
furnished by two Italian harpists sounded very
sweet on the water. On arriving we took the
car again, which was crowded to the uttermost
part with a party of little children, I counted
thirty. They were all dressed alike in little
gingham dresses and white sun bonnets. They
looked very neat and pretty and never having
seen so many sweet little girls dressed all alike,
I enquired of a gentleman near me who they
were, "They are little orphans," said he, "and
that old gentleman at the other end of the car
takes care of them all, clothes, feeds and
teaches them for nothing except the love they
give. He has been taking them on an excur-
sion to-day, see how happy he looks." And
indeed he did look happy, and each of these
beautiful children would look up at him
and smile so sweetly. I asked if he was
wealthy, for he looked quite shabby.
"Oh, no! he has devoted his life and
means to the orphans." What a sweet
task, and yet how few are so generous
and good. Some of the gentlemen in the car
held two or three of the little girls in their
arms, and I saw not a few dimes slipped careless-
ly into the little dimpled hands, and many an
eye filled with tears as they saw the smile of
gratitude that beamed from those sweet child-
ish faces. Thus ended the day so gloriously
spent; one never, never to be forgotten.
									GIPSY.


178	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
FOR WHAT ARE WE CALLED IN
QUESTION?

	For that which we believe, or for that which
we do not believe? We believe what is writ-
ten in the old and new Testament; we fully be-
lieve in all the words spoken by the Savior,
and the testimony of His Apostles. We be-
lieve in the fulness of the everlasting Gospel;
a crucified and risen Redeemer, and in all the
gifts and graces of the Gospel, and in the ful-
filling of prophecy; that not one jot nor tittle
shall fall short of its fulfilment. "Though the
heavens and earth shall pass away, not one
word shall fail which I have spoken," saith the
Lord.
	Then it stands us in hand to read and find
out what has been fulfilled and what has not
been fulfilled. Has the Gospel been preached
to every nation, kindred, tongue and people,
as spoken by John the Revelator, 14th chapter
and 6th verse? Now let us read St. John, 18th
chapter, 36th verse, last clause, "But now is
my kingdom not from hence." In another
place He told the Jews that they should see
Him no more from henceforth, until they
should say, "blessed is He that cometh in the
name of the Lord." In another place it speaks
of "the kingdom suffering violence, and the
violent take it by force," so that Christ could
not establish His Kingdom on the earth at
that time, for all holding the priesthood, the
authority wherein all right was invested, to
continue or establish a kingdom were taken
from the earth.
	And when He administered the wine He
told the disciples, 18th verse, 22nd chapter of
St. John, "For I say unto you, I will not drink
of the fruit of the vine until the Kingdom of
God shall come." So we see by this language
that the Kingdom of God was not continued.
St. Matthew, 24th chapter, 14th verse, "And
this Gospel of the kingdom shall be preached
in all the world for a witness unto all nations;
and then shall the end come." Meaning that
Gospel of the kingdom unchanged.
	St. Paul says, Epistle to Galatians, 1st
chapter, 8th verse, "But though we, or an an-
gel from heaven, preach any other Gos-
pel unto you let him be accursed." Also,
John's second Epistle, verses 9, 10, 11, speak-
ing or writing to the elect lady to receive no
other doctrine than that which had been
taught.
	"Whosoever transgresseth and abideth not
in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He
that abideth in the doctrine of Christ hath
both the Father and the Son."
	We may examine the doctrine of Christ as
it was taught by our Savior. He set the ex-
ample by being baptized by John in Jordan;
after this the Holy Ghost rested upon Him.
He then commanded His disciples to baptize,
and this after His resurrection from the
grave.
	St Mark, 14th chapter, 15th verse, "And He
said unto them, go ye unto all the world and
preach the Gospel to every creature. He that
believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and
he that believeth not shall be damned," etc.
	The 20th verse says, "And they went forth
and preached everywhere, the Lord working
with them, and confirming the word with signs
following." Amen.
	Now, the Sectarian's belief is that the signs
are all done away with, and no longer needed.
And they persecute the Latter-day Saints be-
cause we believe they are essential to our sal-
vation, and necesary to make the Church of
Christ perfect, and we can give the proof by
reading 1st Cor., 12th chapter, all the chapter;
the 27th verse reads, "Now, ye are the body of
Christ, and members in particular," "That
there should be no schism in the body." God
set in the Church apostles, prophets, teachers,
miracles, gifts of healing, helps, governments

[Column 2]
and diversities of tongues. Eph., 4th chapter,
12th verse, we read, for the perfecting of the
Saints, for the work of the ministry, for the ed-
ifying of the body of Christ.
	May I ask how long? Until they were no
longer needed; I cannot conceive of that time.
When God has a kingdom on the earth, and
His Gospel preached by His subjects, for it
reads, in the 13th verse, "Till we all come in
the unity of faith, and of the knowledge of
the Son of God unto a perfect man; unto the
measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ."
14th verse, "That we henceforth be no more
children tossed to and fro, and carried about
with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of
men and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie
in wait to deceive;"
	The 5th chapter, 20th verse, "That He might
sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of
water by the word."
	The 27th verse, "That He might present it
to himself a glorious church, not having spot
or wrinkle, or any such thing, but that it
should be holy and without blemish."
	Now, we believe that this same kingdom will
be set up again upon the earth according to
the vision of Daniel, 17th chapter, 27th verse,
"And the kingdom and dominion and the
greatness of the kingdom under the whole
heavens shall be given to the people of the
saints of the Most High, whose kingdom is an
everlasting kingdom, and all dominions
shall serve and obey Him."
	We know that in former days a great many
prophecies have been literally fulfilled. The
scattering of the Jews; but in the last days
God would remember them in great mercy,
and they would gather back again upon their
own lands and build up Jerusalem, for they are
of the true olive tree, and God's ancient coven-
ant people. The Gentiles were grafted into the
tame olive tree, but inasmuch as they trans-
gresseth and abideth not in the doctrine of
Christ, and will not receive it in its truth and
purity, they will not be spared, but be cut off,
and the house of Israel will come up in remem-
brance before the Lord, and the last shall be
first the same as was last. The little stone is now
cut out of the mountain without hands, and
will roll forth until it fills the whole earth, and
will break in pieces all other kingdoms. And
the God of heaven would set up His Kingdom
and it should not be destroyed nor given to an-
other people. We know the kingdom which
Christ and His disciples desired to establish
was destroyed; a great apostacy and falling
away took place. Whereas, the Jews sought
not the law by faith, which was a law of car-
nal commandments; but by works it became to
them a stumblingstone; the Savior fulfilled this
law and offered to them a higher law, which
they did not receive, but rejected as a nation.
Then Paul said, "Lo, I turn to the Gentiles
and they received it gladly." But this little
stone of which I have spoken, which is the
word of God, is now a stumbling stone to the
Gentiles, and if the Lord spared not the natur-
al branches because of unbelief, how much
less will He spare the wild ones in unbelief.
The 3rd chapter, 20th verse Acts, says, "And
He shall send Jesus Christ which before was
preached unto you."
	The 20th verse says, "Whom the heavens
must receive until the time of the restitution
of all things, which God hath spoken by the
mouth of all His holy prophets since the world
began." But as it was in the days of Noah,
so shall it be at His second coming. His gos-
pel must be declared unto all that will receive
it, to prepare the way for His coming, to build
temples and to send forth messengers to say,
"Come unto me all ye ends of the earth and
receive my Gospel and be saved in my King-
dom." And they who will turn away from
their sins and come in at the door, and not try

[Column 3]
to climb up any other way, will receive a
knowledge for themselves.
	The women of this Church are called igno-
rant, and it is said of us, we are dragged into
measures by a crafty and cunning priesthood.
This is an untrue assertion. We have the
same privilege to investigate and seek knowl-
edge for ourselves as the men of this Church
have, and full as much time to do so. We re-
ceive the gifts and blessings of the Spirit which
confirm us in the gospel which they teach,
and if it did not agree with Scripture we have
sense enough to detect an error and disown it.
This is our right and privilege. But the more
Scripture we read, and the more we investigate,
the stronger is our faith, and the more thor-
oughly are we convinced of the truth; and if
we would be called Abraham's children we
must do the works he did. We believe and
accept the truth wherever it is to be found, and
our opponents must not condemn us because
we cannot believe the opinions of men. We
want the law and the testimony of the Scrip-
tures, and if they speak not according to this
it is because there is no light in them. We
have been thoroughly conversant with the di-
vided opinions and schemes of Christendom,
which pointed out diverse ways, but not to the
straight and narrow way that but few find.
Wide is the gate and broad is the way that
many go in. Our Savior said enter in at the
door, and He has shown us plainly the door in
which to enter and receive salvation. Shall we
obey His voice, or the voice of a stranger? No,
the sheep knoweth not the voice of a stranger.
These are our views of the reading of the
Scriptures.
	Our friends abroad want us to forsake the
one Lord, one faith, one baptism and His word,
for their views, which they divide and subdi-
vide, firstly, secondly and thirdly, all nicely
written down on paper and put between the
leaves of the Bible, and when it is read to the
people on Sunday it sounds no more like Bible
doctrine than a wolf looks like a sheep. Do
they think for one moment we could retrograde
and throw away truth for fables to please their
notion of things? Why don't they advise the
reformers to turn back to their standard, the
older churches which they came out from, be-
cause of their inconsistences? But we came
not out from any of them. The priesthood
was revealed to Joseph Smith in its primitive
form and purity. It is far in advance of all
sectarian dogmas, it is the true and everlasting
Goepel, wherein no change has taken place,
and this gospel of the kingdom will prevail
over all error and superstition, and if our op-
ponents can dethrone Jehovah, bring to nought
His work, and overthrow His Kingdom that
He has set up for the last time, if they can
fight Him they may then bring into subjection
to their will the Latter-day Saints and scatter
us to the four winds.
				MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	P. S. Thank you, lady lawyer, the time you
over-run was well occupied, and spent in a good
cause. A great pity you was begrugded those
few minutes to speak in defence of right. I
guess they were a little nettled at the truth you
spoke. Those men have had the floor so long,
and had it all their own way, they don't like a
woman to express her views on the situation.
	We Latter-day Saint women will accord to
you all the time you require to speak on so im-
portant a subject as human rights. And you
shall have our prayers, and they shall avail
you much. Women of the land, you have as
much right to uphold and sustain all classes in
their rights of freedom and the pursuit of
happiness as the sterner sex; and true religion
must and will encircle all.


Peace if possible, justice at any rate.—Wen-
dall Phillips.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 179


AFFECTION.

God bless Sister Horne;
	I love to hear her voice;
I love to hear her warn
	The people of God's choice.

Her words are most discreet,
	Her actions correspond;
She fain would guard our feet
	From weaknees and from wrong.

Oft have I sat and listened,
	Yea, many years ago,
And wondered how such wisdom
	From woman's lips could flow.

Her words unlike "weak woman,"
	But like God's servant brave:
Called forth to preach the Gospel,
	Such words of life she gave.

She has served her God in youth,
	And honored Him in age;
Has stood by right and ruth,
	Yet humble, meek and safe.

God bless all her associates,
	I love them everyone;
They are as noble women
	As heaven ere smiled upon.

There are none in ancient story
	Excelling them in deeds;
They give to God the glory,
	And help the orphan's needs.

God bless His worthy handmaids,
	Yea, bless each hoary head:
I love to hear their counsels,
	I love the truths they spread.
								M. L. M.


MORMON MISSIONARY LIFE.

The Elders when called to go forth to preach
	Have trials to meet every day.
The Gospel of Jesus we're willing to teach
	To all that will hear what we say.

We meet many people, while far from our homes,
	Who care not for "Mormons" at all;
Like Talmage they say, "We should pick up our guns,
	And feed them some powder and ball."

Such cases are rare, yet they can be found
	In great Christian nations to-day.
When met by such people in traveling around,
	We Elders just go on our way.

Some people are anxious to hear Mormons preach
	Their doctrine so strange to the world;
They say, "Let us hear this new Gospel you teach,
	There's many a slur at you hurled."

The Elders then set forth the Gospel of Christ,
	As taught by both Peter and Paul,
These truths are for all those who wish to do right;
	The Gospel is free for us all.

We find many people who to us are kind,
	Though they are not seeking for truth.
There's many false notions imbibed in their minds,
	Which they have been taught from their youth.

Sometimes we find those who are seeking for truth,
	They are praying to God night and day.
In order that they may their talents improve,
	They strive God's command to obey.

When shown the right way by the servants of God
	To serve Him and keep His commands,
The honest will turn from the paths they have trod;
	They long on "Mount Zion" to stand.

The shepherds are gathering the sheep to the fold,
	Where they may be taught in God's way.
We gain an experience worth millions of gold,
	May God give us strength as our day.

O Father in Heaven, be kind to us all,
	May we this great mission fufil,
Be faithful and true till thou shalt recall
	They servants to "Mount Zion's Hill."
								CHARLES A. WELCH.


WHAT A GENTILE WOMAN THINKS.

	Well, this is election day, and I am out of
temper; there is so much to stir up all the sar-
casm, contempt and anger in one's nature. The
elections are for township and corporation offic-
ials. We have in near vicinity a settlement
of colored folks who really, by their numbers,
carry the election.	*	*	*	*
	There! there goes an old colored man who
has been in the workhouse all winter and is not
much more than half-witted, yet he is being
taken over to the polls to cast his vote.	*	*
Last year the Democrats played a joke on
this old negro; he happened to go to their Pri-
mary, through mistake, and they told him it
obligated him to vote the democratic ticket,
So, on election day the old man hid and did
not venture out all day for fear he would have
to vote the democratic ticket. Such intelli-
gence is required to be a voter! Woman nev-
er can understan politics.
	Here goes a wagon with five colored men,
two Germans who are never sober, and the bal-
ance Americans. They are all men, at least,
wear men's apparel; thank goodness, they are
not women, so they must be men, therefore,
capable of having a say in the making of laws
for our corporation. Do I wish to vote? No,
and yes. Do I think it will improve matters
to allow women to vote? I am not sure, for
there are so many bad and so many noodle-pa-
ted women who would go to the polls for no
higher purpose than to "create a sensation;"
and their vote would count as much as the one
cast by a thoughtful, intelligent mother, who
prayerfully watches the body politic as she
watches the physical, moral and mental devel-
opment of her own loved children. Centuries
ago the question was asked, "What must I do
to be saved?" Bob lngersoll has made a bur-
lesque of the question, and people smile, for-
getting the jailer who fell down at the feet of
Paul and Silas, and think of the eloquent in-
fidel orator. But others, aged parents, wives,
sisters and sweethearts, many thousands are cry-
ing in their hearts as they see their loved ones
going to destruction, swift unto ruin, and see
the laws of the land made by saloon keepers,
profligates, drunkards and their dupes to suit
themselves, they say, "What must we do to be
Saved?"
	In the early days of the Colonies, when
men's lives were threatened at all times by the
Indian foe and they found their ideas of war-
fare must change; that they could not choose
a leader by his orthodox belief in infant bap-
tism, that although they wer equipped
"corselets, muskets, bardaliers and portable
rests from which to shoot, and swords," the In-
dians got the better of them, killed them while
they were getting ready to shoot. They did
change their ideas and laid aside the old rules
of warfare.
	When the Constitution of the United States
was framed, the inhabitants of the country and
everything that pertains to the country were
very different from the present. Again it is
time for ideas to change; evils of various
kinds, as sly and devilish as the wily Indian,
creep upon the honest law maker and cut him
off. Every man, woman and child who desires
to save the country from destruction, who have
the good of the community at heart, must be on
the alert. Women in old times snatched up
the guns of their dead husbands and killed the
foe, they bore all hardships and dangers by his
side and were an equal and helpmeet. Women
did not vote then? No; nor do women need to
shoot Indians now; but she needs to stand side
by side with her husband, and have the right
to defend herself and her children against the
foes which beset them on every side.
							EMILY SCOTT.
	Ohio.


WHERE ARE WE DRIFTING TO.

	I never go from home to the larger towns of
our Territory but the prevailing extravagance
in dress strikes me painfully. Do I not like to
see people neatly and tastefully dressed? Yes;
but neatness does not call for extravagance. I
have seen ladies (for true ladies they were)
look better in a neatly made calico, or lindsey
dress, than many others in a profusion of silk
and satin. But, says one, we must keep up
the style of our "set" or give up our claim on
refined society. Indeed how long will your
"set" cultivate your acquaintance or acknowl-
edge your claim on refined society after it be-
comes known that you cannot meet your obli-
gations? Or which of your acquaintances
would undertake to support you in your old
age because you have spent all your earnings
to keep up the style of your set? Folly and
vanity!
	Before the desire of appearing other than
we are took hold of this people, each family
lived, not as their friends did, but as their in-
come allowed, having also a care to save some-
thing for a rainy day. But to-day we buy a
fine bonnet, not because I really need it, but
because my neighbor has a new bonnet, and I
won't be outdone by her. Then the new bon-
net calls for a new wrap, dress, shoes, etc, and,
by the bye, nice apparel looks out of sorts with
faded carpets and shabby curtains—well, I
need not portray any more of it, you know
that before half these renovations are made
debts are incurred which need not have been.
That is not all. This pride is also a thief of
time; to keep up with style things of a greater
importance are left undone, fashionable calls
take up the time we used to spend in comforta-
ble chats with the children; altogether, we are
not as happy as in the days of our simplicity.
I do not mean to say that the laboring classes,
farmers included, should not have any taste
for dress, or enjoy the means they earn by hard
work; oh, no! It is because there is no real or
permanent happiness, but sure ruin, in the vain
endeavor to ape the rich, that I would warn
them. I can understand readily how young
couples, starting out in life, can make financial
mistakes, as they are just learning their first
lesson in practical arithmetic. Poverty is no
disgrace when it is not brought about by indo-
lence and extravagance. Mary, the mother of
Jesus, was the wife of a carpenter, and I do
not think she dressed beyond her station in
life on account of her relationship to the Sav-
ior. No, He was not of the world! Then why
should we be?
	If the world takes (or mistakes) the display
of riches for the badge of refinement, let us in
Utah "tack about ship" and make talent and
intrinsic moral worth the badge of our refined
society, if any distinction we must have. Un-
less we teach our youth to steer clear of false
pride, they will drift to social ruin. Shall we,
with the light we have, pattern after the world?
Heaven forbid! Let us arise and shake this
vanity from our midst before its shackles bind
us fast and make us a derision to the world to
whom we should be as the salt of the earth,
and as a light on a hill top.
						E. C. E. FRANCIS.
	Morgan April 5th, 1884.


﻿Prayer is the outlet of the saints' sorrows
and the inlet of their support.

	An honest man is believed without an oath,
for his reputation swears for him.

	Ah! if you knew what peace there is in an
accepted sorrow.—Madame Guyon

	I have learned more of experimental religion
since my little boy died than in all my life be-
fore.—Bushnell.


180	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday,
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	MAY 1, 1884.


[Column 1]
A FEW FACTS.

	There have been of late some very strong tes-
timonies published in our columns concerning
plural marriage, both as to belief and practice.
This seems to be timely, in view of the state-
ments made by those who visit our Territory
from time to time. As polygamy, so called, has
become a national question, one would think
whatever testimony has been given to men and
women should be recorded to substantiate the
position of the Latter-day Saints. The idea that
none but the ignorant can accept such doctrine,
ought, by this time, to be abandoned; for is it
not now pretty generally known that the man-
agement of the affairs of this new and prosper-
ous country have proven that there has been,
and is, ability of a very marked and decided
character among this people?
	But, says one, "The Mormon men are shrewd
and cunning, able and efficient, but the women
are ignorant, low and degraded, or they would
never submit to become plural wives; no intelli-
gent woman would consent to such a state of af-
fairs in a free country." Now, all this proves
plainly that they do not comprehend the sub-
ject, or the motives that actuate the class of
women they are so positive in denouncing. Ig-
norant women could not understand the theory
or practice of plural marriage. It involves so
much; it is upon so lofty a plane that it takes a
high order of intelligence and fine spirituality
to accept it as religious doctrine, and to make
the sacrifice necessary to enter into such a sa-
cred order, and observe all the regulations that
pertain to this new and everlasting covenant. It
is not a light matter, nor one which can be trifled
with. It is something that requires the exercise
of all the highest attributes with which God has
endowed the human soul, and constant prayer
is necessary that the Spirit of God my dwell in
the heart—and the fruits of that Spirit are long-
suffering, forbearence, patience, charity, humil-
ity, love and faith, and that which reaches be-
yond this life and makes all things easy because
of that which is to come.
	When one attempts to reason about this prac-
tice of a plurality of wives, he may find abun-
dant physiological testimony, but Mormon
women have not accepted, nor do they accept it
on any such grounds, neither would they marry
thus with only such evidence to maintain their
position; nor could they endure the trials and
persecutions incident to such an innovation upon
the customs and prejudices of the present day
without having a knowledge that the course
they were pursuing was pleasing in the sight of
God, and relying upon His strength, which lifts
them into a higher atmosphere, and makes the
path clearer to that exaltation they are striving
to attain.

[Column 2]
	It Is because these women feel so sensibly the
noble aspirations which have prompted them
and the sincerity of their motives, knowing the
sacredness of the obligationo they have accepted,
that makes them so righteously indignant when
people contrast plural marriage with the wicked
practices so common in the civilized world. They
are as far removed from each other as the hea-
vens are above the earth. One tends to purity
of character and thought, to the promotion, pre-
servation and prolongation of human life, and
aids in the development of the better nature,
the spiritual, which always refines, cultivates
and educates the soul. The other course sows
the seeds of corruption, disease and death, tends
to the destruction of purity in human character,
and develops the baser passions, that are ever
fatal to the growth of the spiritual nature.
	It does not follow that one is always under the
divine influence because he is trying to serve
God, for men and women are only human after
all, and in their weakness often come short of
that which they desire to reach; but the Lord
helps those who put their trust in Him and try
to obey His laws; and when one draws near Him
He has promised He will not leave them to
themselves.
	Volumes might be written upon this subject
and then the half would not be told; but the
writer has been so often misunderstood in giving
her views and experience of this principle and
order of marriage, that a few facts presented in
her own way may throw some little light upon
the subject, and cause some of the thoughtless
to reflect upon a principle that is of such vast
importance to the human family, and which
would, if properly carried out, lift men and
women into a higher range of mental and spirit-
ual development, and strengthen and intensify
the chords of love and union that bind humanity
together and will ultimately lead them into the
presence of the Father and mother in heaven.


A WORD FROM BUNKERVILLE.

EEITOR EXPONENT:
	I should miss the Exponent very much were
I to get behind, and I feel to appreciate your la-
bors in behalf of the women. We live so far out
of the way we would know but little that is go-
ing on were it not for the papers. Still we enjoy
our quiet work, little or no outside influence, no
drunkeness or rowdyism, but plenty of work to
keep us out of mischief; more than usual on
dams and ditches this spring, owing to con-
tinued high water. The crops are looking well.
Small vegetables, such as raddishes, lettuce and
asparagus grace most of the tables now.
	Our Relief Society and Primary are in a good
condition. Our Young Ladies' meetings have
been discontinued for some time, due, partly, to
sickness and other causes. With best wishes
for the EXPONENT and kind regards to the Edi-
tor,				I am, yours truly,
					HANNAH A. CROSBY.
	April 23rd, 1884.


DESERET HOSPITAL.

SALT LAKE CITY, April 5th, 1884.

To the Honorable, the Executive Board of the
	Deseret Hospital:

LADIES:
	Anticipating, that during this present season,
other responsible duties will necessarily demand
much of my time and absence from the city, I
deem it wisdom, and do herein tender my resig-


nation as President of the Deseret Hospital As-
sociation.
		Yours, respectfully and lovingly,
					E. R. SNOW SMITH.

	At a meeting of the Executive Board of the
Deseret Hospital, Saturday, April 12th, the
President's resignation was accepted and the
following was adopted:
	Inasmuch as our dearly beloved Sister E. R.
Snow Smith has deemed it expedient on account
of her multiplicity of cares, to tender her resig-
nation as President, to the Executive Board of
the Deseret Hospital, therefore,
	Resolved, That we hereby express our deepest
regrets that she has thought it necessary to re-
sign her position, and that we, her associates,
express our sincere and heartfelt gratitude for
the able and efficient manner in which she has
presided at the meetings and conducted the af-
fairs of this organization, and that we most truly
realize the loss of her wise and motherly coun-
sel in the transaction of official business, and we
take great pleasure in acknowledgidg our appre-
ciation of her faithful and diligent labors for the
establishment and prosperity of that benevolent
institution.

M. ISABELLA HORNE, Ch. Ex. Com.
	PHEBE WOODRUFF,
	MARINDA N. HYDE,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D,
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
	ELIZABETH HOWERD.
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
						Secretary.

Salt Lake City, April 12th, 1884.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Wednesday, April 16th, we had the pleas-
ure of attending the annual meeting of the Prim
ary Association in the Twelfth ward in this city,
of which Sister Ellen C. Clawson is President.
The Association has improved very much during
the past year, and it is very gratifying to see
how anxious these little people are to learn to be
good and useful. There were over fifty children
present, nearly all of them quite small. The
programme was not too long, and the songs and
recitations were given in a pleasing manner.
Sister Margaret P. Young, Aurelia S. Rogers,
Lydia Ann Wells and Bishop H. B. Clawson
were present, and each said a few words of en-
couragement to the children; also Sister Midgley
and the writer
	ON Friday, April 18th, in company with Sis-
ter E. R. Snow Smith, we went to Farmington
to attend the Relief Society Conference of Davis
Stake, held in the meeting house, Sister Mary
Clark presiding. Bishop Cheeney of Center-
ville, and Bishop Secrist of Farmington, were
present. Several of the wards in the Stake were
represented by the respective presidents, and a
general good feeling prevailed.
	Sister Eliza spoke with great power and ear-
nestness, and her voice seemed strong and filled
the large building, although she is eighty years
of age. She exhorted the parents to train and
educate their children in the principles of the
Gospel, and to be sure and send them to the
Primary Association, that they may get the
spirit of the work while they are very young.
	SATURDAY, April 19th, went to East Bounti-
ful to attend the annual meeting of the Primary
Association of that place. There were about
130 children, and the large meeting house was
tolerably well filled with the sisters. Mrs. Ann
Dustin is a very efficient President, and teaches
the little ones to observe good order.


[Column 1]
	The selections were varied, and all in good
taste. Some essays read by Miss B Dustin, the
children's composition, were very creditable in-
deed, and the choice of subjects showed what
the little ones were being instructed in. There
were songs, recitations and a dialogue; also an
organ solo, and it was a pleasant afternoon enter-
tainment.
	Sisters Aurelia S. Rogers and Lucy Clark of
Farmington, were present, and spoke briefly to
the children after the exercises. We gave a
little desultory talk to them, praising them for
their excellent deportment.
	Surely Zion is growing, and the little ones are
becoming a mighty host in our midst. Sister
Margaretia Call is an able assistant to Sister
Dustin, and her Counselors are also very compe-
tent and earnest co-workers.
	On Tuesday, April 22nd, we went, in company
with Sisters M. Isabella Horne, Elizabeth How-
ard and Helen Mar Whitney, to North Jordan,
where two meetings were held; the Relief Soci-
ety at 10 a. m., and the Primary Association at
2 p. m.
	Both meetings were interesting, and good in-
structions were given. Bishop Bennion was
present morning and afternoon, also other
brethren, as well as a great number of the sis-
ters. Althogether the time was profitably and
agreeably spent. Such meetings together cre-
ate union and promote happiness, and are con-
ducive to the best interests of the people. At
the meeting of the Relief Society Sister Eliza
Spencer presided. She is a very motherly and
humble woman. Her Counselors, Sisters M. A.
Webster and Mary T. Bannion, are excellent
helps in the organization, and the sisters seem
quite as far advanced spiritually as anywhere in
Salt Lake City.
	The Primary Association has Miss Maria Ben-
nion for President, a very active and efficient
young lady, and she is doing a good work,
though very timid and unasuming. We enjoyed
our visit there very much, and all the sisters
who went felt it had been a day of enjoy-
ment and pleasant association with kindred
workers in the busy hive of working bees.
	ANNUAL meeting of the 20th Ward Primary
Association, Thursday P. M, April 24th ult.,
Mrs. Emma Toone presiding. After singing by
the children, prayer was offered by Counselor
W. C. Dunbar, then singing, minutes read and
accepted, yearly report also read and approved.
In this report among other exercises, we noticed
particularly that the testimonies borne by the
children were 137, which is an item one cannot
well overlook. It speaks well for the children
of Zion, and this is one exercise which should
be encouraged, for it is something which will
produce not only a good, but lasting effect upon
the young and tender soul. In our next issue
we will give some further particulars of this in-
teresting meeting.
	Friday, April 18th, the Primary of the 13th
Ward held its annual meeting, Mrs. Lydia Ann
Wells presiding. Singing by the children.
Prayer by Master Tommie Sloan. Singing.
Minutes read and accepted, and the yearly re-
port, which was a very good one. The exer-
cises were very well rendered, among these were
an impromptu address by Master Tommie Sloan,
which deserves special mention, and also the
questions, on card No. 4, so perfectly answered
by the children. Brief remarks were made by
Sisters Ellen C. Clawson, Mary Allsop, Presi-
dent of Primary Association at Richmond, B.
W. Smith, Margaret Young and Bishop Atwood.
Benediction by Counselor Francis Platte.
	Refreshments were served to the little folks.
This Primary is in a very good condition, the
president has labored very diligently, but the
parents, many of them, are lacking in interest

[Column 2]
concerning the training of the little ones; and
do not see that they attend as they should if they
expect to be benefitted thereby.
	On account of the fire last June, which burn-
ed all the flies on hand of the Woman's Ex-
ponent, we find it necessary to advertise for a
few numbers to complete our file for use in the
office. Those having these numbers, who do
not expect to have them bound for their own
use, will please forward them to the Editor.
They will receive the money for them, or credit
on their subscription. Numbers wanted: Vol-
ume 3, No. 23; Volume 4, Nos. 8 and 15; Volume
5, Nos. 19 and 23; Volume 6, Nos. 3 and 9; Vol-
ume 9, No. 10; Volume 10, No. 16; Volume 11,
No. 4.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 181


GRATITUDE.

	I once heard President Young say that ingrat-
itude was a great sin. I often reflect upon this,
and the privileges and blessings we enjoy. As
the young and rising generation are we grateful
that we have had the privilege of being born in
Zion? It has been said that "the time will come
when it will be considered a great blessing to
have been born in Zion," and also to have been
born in the everlasting covenant. A great many
of us have not been baptized Gentiles, but
children of the Saints. We are grateful that we
have the privilege of being heirs of God, and
joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Are we also grate-
ful for the privilege of being taught the princi-
ples of life everlasting? These things are mark-
ed out so plainly to us. Are we also grateful
that we have the privilege of living here in
these peaceful valleys, away from the wicked-
ness and corruption of the world? Do we real-
ize these blessings, and many more, too numer-
ous to mention, and do we show our gratitude
by our doings? Will it benefit us if we take no
pains to become better, or to become better try
to do better, and by so doing show our grati-
tude?
	If we follow out the counsels of those who are
placed over us, try to improve and learn wisdom,
perform the various duties required of us to per-
form from time to time, and endeavor by so do-
ing to show our gratitude. Show our Father in
Heaven that we are grateful for His mercies and
loving kindness, and by so doing let our light so
shine before men that others seeing our exam-
ple may endeavor to do likewise.
	We, as daughters of Zion, have a great many
duties to perform. It is often said that drones
are good for nothing. Therefore let us be dili-
gent, striving to do good to all with whom we
associate, and especially father and mother,
brother and sister, and show by our loving kind-
ness that we wish to do them good. When we
perform our duties others are strengthened and
enabled to rise determined to follow in our
footsteps. If we neglect our privileges will they
not rise up in judgment against us to condemn
us?
	Let us be careful to improve the privileges
and blessings we enjoy, thereby showing our
gratitude to God, that we love Him and try to
keep His commandments.
						AUNT HANNAH.
	NEPHI.


THOUGHTS AND REFLECTIONS.

	I often reflect, while perusing our excellent pa-
per, with its many choice and instructive pieces
from the pens of our dear sisters, what great
reason we have to be thankful to the one who
first inspired this great undertaking—for inspira-
tion it certainly was—whereby the women of
Zion could be heard, that we could become bet-
ter acquainted with each other, learn of eac


other's desires, faith and works, thereby draw-
ing the bonds of affection and sympathy in
closer connection. We are led to realize there is
a sympathy between us; we all have one faith,
one hope, one baptism; we are all struggling for
the same goal. The fact is brought plainer and
more forcibly to our minds that we are not alone
struggling for that haven of rest, which we have
faith in and expect will be the reward of our
works here in this mortal sphere. Some seem
fated to have more severe trials than others;
why this is so remains one of the mysteries; al-
though we are all very apt to think that we
have all the trials we can possibly endure. The
trials of this life are necessary to purify us, and
we have got to be tried as gold seven times puri-
fied by fire. If we cannot be purified by pass-
ing once through the furnace of affliction we
have to be thrown in again and again, until we
become as the pure gold that is without any al-
loy, neither spot nor blemish. We are like the
rough diamond that requires putting through
very delicate cutting processes to get the rough
corners polished, before it can attain to that per-
fection which makes it so valuable.
	The Lord will have a tried people. "Blessed
are those who come up through great tribula-
tion." Then let us thank the Lord for our trials,
for they help to bring us nearer to our God. Let
us have faith in His over-ruling providence that
He will guide us safely through. Whatever we
are called to endure, let us do so without mur-
mur or complaint in our hearts, and then the
rich blessings of heaven will attend us.
								S. M. P.
	Mesa City.


A TESTIMONY.

	I was born March 18th, 1813, in Windsor,
Hartford County, Connecticut. Was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints August 27th, 1843, in Westfield, Mass.,
by Ezra T. Benson. Gathered with the Church
at Nauvoo September 27th of the same year.
The doctrine of plural marriage was taught to
me in November by Ezra T. Benson, by the di-
rection of Brother Hyrum Smith. Another
sister, a married lady, was present. The princi-
ple had been taught to her by Brother Joseph
some months previous, and she received it like
a young bird does its food from its mother, as
she did everything the prophet presented (these
were her words to me). I could not accept it
quite so readily. I will never forget that even-
ing, and for days my heart seemed bursting with
its agony. I had been a Baptist from my child-
hood, and had been accustomed to go to the
Lord with all my troubles, and for days and
nights I did nothing but pray and weep. Ezra
and Pamella, my sister, tried to comfort me, but
I could get no comfort until, as I awoke from a
troubled sleep, after I had been grieving, a voice
sounded in my ears, it is truth. Whether I
heard with my natural ears I cannot tell, but I
heard it distinctly. This was repeated on the fol-
lowing morning, and light, joy and gladness
filled my heart. All this transpired more than
forty years ago, and I have never since doubted
the truth of this principle, which is everywhere
spoken against.
	I have written this because it placed plurality
of wives beyond a doubt in my mind, and ever
made me feel that my marriage was honorable
in the sight of God, and eventually would be in
the sight of man, and hoping it would help to
strengthen the faith of others in the truth of
Mormonism.
	I wish to bear my testimony to it before I
"pass beyond the river."
	April, 1844, I entered into the order of plural
marriage, and became the wife of Ezra T. Ben-


son; and although I have had many trials to
pass through I have never regretted it. Those
that entered this order in the early days know
what trials are, but they are passed, and many
have overcome to a great extent. This Gospel
is true, every principle of it, and it will never
be overthrown. The nearer I come to the be-
yong the plainer I see my failures to do my
Father's will, and I cry out in my weakness,

"Nearer, my God, to thee, nearer to thee;
Although it be a cross that raiseth me."
					ADELINE B. BENSON.


182	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	The following are incidents of our camp
life on the Missouri River. Monday, 15th,
Horace speaks of going to a stream hard by
to assist the girls in washing. Those uninter-
esting and unpleasant incidents I remember
very distinctly, though I might have passed
them over had he not made mention of this
circumstance. As cleanliness is next to godli-
ness, and having abundance of time when the
weather permitted, we had no good reason for
neglecting this duty. And we had plenty of
boys ready and willing to hitch up a team to
take us to the water if any distance away from
camp; if so, we would take a picnic or send
back for a warm dinner. The boys would
spend their spare time fishing or as they felt in-
clined till the washing was done. Though our
washing was not so very extensive, it was hard
enough with the sun beating down, and so
breathless and sultry that it appeared as though
we must melt down under it, and this was not
a pleasant thing to anticipate. I was not a
strong girl—having grown up like a shaded
plant I had little strength, and was what is
generally termed lazy; one of the worst ills, I
think, that can afflict humanity, if I may
judge from my own experience. But we had
ample time to do our washing, ironing and
mending, also our sewing, besides making our
daily toilet. And even our fashionable dress-
makers found employment as the warm weath-
er came on. Father had two or three wives
who had learned the trade, and the same num-
ber who understood tailoring, and one of them
had been brought up to the corset making
trade, and all of them were trained up to some
kind of useful industry, and were virtuous and
worthy women, and, as a general rule, they
sought the interests of one another. All had
their trials and temptations—being new begin-
ners in what might be termed an adverse
school, which was calculated to bring into ac-
tion faculties that might forever have lain dor-
mant—testing every one's nature, showing up
their weak points and bringing them to the
surface, to be thrown off, and learn each one to
govern themselves, which was the very thing
to make them saints or sinners. The "Mor-
mon" companies were all orderly, and were
truly models by the side of those who followed
in their trail who were not governed by the
same strict rules and religious motives and
principles that our people were. Our salva-
tion, both temporal and spiritual, depended
upon this course, and our history is a wonder
and a marvel to those who have taken the
trouble to hunt us and review it in all its ups
and downs. And my reasons for writing what
many, no doubt, think rather dry and prosy
reading, concerning the journey and sojourn of
the Latter-day Saints in the wilderness in the
year 1846, over a country which could be easi-
ly travelled in a week or ten days under ordi-
nary circumstances, but which took us six
months to accomplish, are to give to the gener-
ations that have grown up since, a little idea

[Column 2]
of the trials and hardships of those long and
tedious days and months that were spent by
the pioneers in making roads, building bridges
and houses and making farms, etc., etc., for the
comfort of the ones who were to follow; and
our experience, I think, comes nearest to that
of the children of Israel after their departure
out of the land of Egypt than any other peo-
ple of whom we have any record, though I be-
lieve that we were a more patient people. And
who have been as miraculously saved from
death in many forms than they were? And
the same God has fought for us while we have
held our peace, and has brought us deliverance
every time; and it is our wish and purpose to
trust Him still.
	Wednesday, the 17th, Horace, with some of
my father's men and W. Markham, started on
a trading expedition, also some of Bishop
Whitney's men with teams. They went into
Atchison Co., Missouri, where they threshed
out about 120 bushels of wheat, sent it to mill
about twenty miles below there to be ground,
and brought back about 6,300 pounds, also
shelled out a quantity of corn and brought
with them—also some seed wheat. Howard
Egan, who was father's principal agent, had
preceded them two or three days. They were
absent two weeks and returned on the 17th of
July, finding President B. Young and father
absent, having gone back for the purpose of
raising volunteers for the Mexican expedition.
From the 17th Horace had to depend on Peter
Hanson's journal for facts occuring during his
absence.
	Peter wrote on the 17th, "To-day, by invi-
tation, B. Young, Bro. Kimball, Dr. Richards,
Bp Whitney and some of the band came down
in carriages to the settlement to take dinner.
The agent, the principal Indian chief and a
number of others were there and appeared de-
lighted with our music. This evening our
company was enlarged by five families from
Michigan. We learn that Elder Orson Hyde
and John Taylor have just come up with their
companies." Peter speaks of the abundance
of strawberries found at that place. There
was a carriage load of us went with mother on
the 19th some distance from camp where they
grew so thick that we could not help stepping
on them. The heat was intense, being in a
small valley in the woods, and having no wat-
er, only what we carried in a jug. I had been
picking for quite a time and the berries look-
ing so delicately tempting I kept reaching for
them till I fell helpless, though not senseless.
But the rest having gone farther away from
the carriage than myself, I was alone and had
to lay there till I recovered enough to crawl to
the carriage where, though famishing for a
cooling draught, I found nothing but tepid wa-
ter. Towards sundown it grew cooler, and
feeling better, I went out again. President B.
Young came down with a carriage load of his
family about that time and we picked berries
till dusk, when we returned to camp. We had
filled all our pails and pans full and eaten till
we were clogged and wanted no more strawber-
ries that year. That day an invitation had
been received from the agent for the camp and
Wm. Pitt's band to spend the day at the Point.
This was delightful, especially to the young
people, and though I was very unwell through
the night, it was out of the question for me to
forego such a pleasure. This was the first time
that our chests had been disturbed or opened
since packing them in Nauvoo, being the first
time that we had needed anything but common
apparel. And it was really delightful to once
more see the inside of our chests and to
bring out the pretty bonnets, laces, ribbons,
parasols and kid shoes, etc., that had been
packed away, and to think that we were again
to attend a ball. And I rather think we as-
tonished the good folks at the Point to see so
many well dressed and merry hearted boys and

[Column 3]
girls and gentle people who were exiles from
civilization. Peter Hanson, in his description,
says of them, "They were mostly French, half
breeds and Indians—the ladies of all are very
interesting and quite neat in their personal ap-
pearance. Music and dancing were had, and
one of the Indian ladies wished to have an
introduction to Brother Kimball, that she
might dance with him." This was Le Clerc's
daughter, the educated chief of the Pottowato-
mie tribe. She was a spoiled child, and had
married a young white man of very immoral
habits. She had been educated in a western
city and dressed with taste and was quite ac-
complished in the art of coquetry and the be-
witching graces characteristic of the fashiona-
ble belle of society. All of the inhabitants
were warm-hearted and treated us with great
hospitality. The gaiety and excitement of the
day with the dancing was too much for me and
I was taken home very sick, and remained so
for three or four days; and afterwards received
quite a reproof from my father, when I had re-
covered enough to bear it, for my foolishness.
My husband being absent, he felt it his duty to
chasten his daughter, whose only plea was ig-
norance and a passionate love of the dance.
But the lesson came too late only as a warning
with a heavy penitence for past folly. At this
place we had some windy, dusty and stormy
days. Five families came from Michigan—and
also a large camp, called the Mississippi com-
pany, overtook us there.
	Sunday, 21st, two meetings were held and a
number of Frenchmen and Indians came up on
horseback in the afternoon. We were camped
on the Bluffs, nine miles from the Point.


﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Ladies' Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion, held in the Ogden Tabernacle, March
13th, 1884. The meeting was conducted by
President Jane S. Richards, commenced with
singing, "Come let us rejoice," prayer by Bish-
op Robert Mc.Quarrie, singing again, "Come
all ye sons of God." Minutes of the previous
conference were read and accepted, also the re-
ports, 17 in number.
	President Jane S. Richards made a few
opening remarks; was pleased in having the
opportunity of being in our midst, and was
greatly pleased at seeing so many of her broth-
ers and sisters present, considering the inclem-
ency of the weather they had done remarkably
well. Thought Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith and
Zina Y. Smith both had great courage to trav-
el as they did back and forth to our confer-
ences; exhorted us to be as persevering as they
were. Felt the Lord would bless them, and
us to, for all the good we do here, be it ever so
little. Counselor Hattie C. Brown could not
meet with us, her mother being very ill; and
having lately lost her father we all feel to con-
dole with her. Counselor Sarah J. Herrick
also hath sickness in her family, and could not
be present; but God is just and has some good
reason for afflicting His saints. All is well
with Him. Put full faith and confidence in
the Lord.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith said she was pleased
to look and behold so many of her brothers
and sisters faces, it being a little over a year
since she was here. Thanked God her Heav-
enly Father that we as women of Zion could
meet together in these meetings, organized by
the Lord for the good and advancement of
women; think of the good they can accomplish
when bound together by love and union. We
are progressing step by step; we commenced
with but little, but have been greatly blessed
of the Lord, and are increasing in numbers
and financial affairs. Spoke of the average


[Column 1]
attendance seeming small in comparison with
the number of members; but when we take a
ward into consideration there is a faithful few
minute women ready to do what is required of
them, doing their duty, comforting the down-
hearted and afllicted, feeding the hungry,
clothing the naked, attending to the wants of
the poor, blessing them, not only temporally,
but spiritually, speaking words of comfort and
of the great goodness and mercy of the Lord
unto us; exhorting our sisters to seek Him,
the great Father of all, is also a work of the
sisters, in connection with the more common
affairs of our daily life.  What reward can we
expect hereafter if we do not earn it?  Can we
share equally with those who have labored dil-
igently and faithfully?  No, we cannot; we
must extend the hand of love and charity to
those not of us; let them get the refreshings
that we get, how strengthening it would be to
both body and spirit.  She felt to ask Father
to quicken their senses; think of the quickened
five senses. The world have these five senses,
they have the germ; how is it with us?  Has
not God given us five senses and one more?
The Saints have six senses, the comforter,
which takes of the things of God and shows
us how to comprehend all things in a right and
proper manner.  We are the favored few
whose hearts have been touched; let us be very
watchful over these frail natures, lest we go as-
tray; let us culivate and strengthen the six
senses.  The Comforter will not dwell with
envy, strife, faultfinding and many other
things not of God.  Our first duty as a Relief
Society is to look after the poor, watch over
them that none may suffer in our midst; this
needs wisdom, this God alone can give.  Said
it was also the duty of every sister teacher to
administer to her sick sisters if called upon to
do so; they should be prayerful and humble,
and, through faith, bring down blessings from
heaven.  She hoped to associate with her sis-
ters, not only here, but hereafter; hoped to live
worthy of the society of the true saints of God
for all time.  Spoke on many other things of
importance; asked God to bless and prolong
oru lives that we might be the means of doing
all we came here to do.
	Sister Zina Y. Smith desired an interest in
the prayers of her brothers and sisters; felt
that it was the desire of every heart to accom-
plish something and do some good.  Our hearts
are filled with love and confidence in each oth-
er.  Do we pray for the Relief Societies in
our family circle?  The late President Brigham
Young prayed daily for the welfare of these or-
ganizations; said we can feel the spreading
work of the word of wisdom; what a long-liv-
ing effect it will have upon the spirit as well
as the body.  Spoke of prayer: prayer was the
key to the Latter-day Saints.  There are many
things the Lord will reveal unto us yet.  Heard
Brother Kimball say fourteen years ago if
every person bowed the knee night and morn-
ing there would be no apostacy among us; live
in humility and we would have the constant
sunshine of God.  Sister Zina spoke of mar-
riage among our young people, training the
young, light literature, etc.
	Counselor C. F. Middleton spoke upon a va-
riety of subjects—charity, prayer, trials and
temptations of the young, the great work de-
volving upon the mothers and fathers in Isra-
el.  He loved to mingle with us in these meet-
ings, and hoped with us to keep faithful.
	Closed the morning services with singing,
"Praise to the man who communes with Jeho-
vah."  Benediction by Counselor C. F. Mid-
dleton.
	After-noon session commenced at two p.m.
with singing and prayer.  After the reading of
the County Treasurer’s report, Sisters Genet
Bingham, Ann Beckington and Martha Bing-
ham each gave a favorable verbal report of
her respective society.

[Column 2]
	Sister Zina Y. Smith thought the soul need-
ed food as well as the body, and we should en-
joy this great picnic of spiritual things; thought
we gained strength from these associations, we
have no time to spare, we cannot live too near
the Lord; we have taken our ticket straight
through to the celestial world, and must go on
little by little, this hurrying, hardly having
time to breathe is not right, it is not the Spir-
it of God; consider well what we are going to
do, and do it, asking the help of the Lord; let
our hearts expand unto all mankind, feel for
them and try to bring them back into our Fa-
ther’s Kingdom. Thought it right and proper
that the sisters should learn to understand law
and politics, that there may be proper order
among the Latter-day Saints. Our children
must be taught all things in righteousness-
Spoke of the trials of the saints, they were
sent sometimes to prove us and for our good.
Hoped we would be blessed and be accepted of
God.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith said that it was
not the pride of the world, wealth nor fame of
the world that brought so large a congregation
together, but a more noble object inspired
them.  God has spoken, has called us, the
same God that spoke anciently; this is not the
beginning of life with us, we lived before, prior
to coming here.  Are we here to work for our-
selves alone?  No; to work for the living and
the dead; referred briefly to this work, build-
ing of temples, etc.
	Sister Smith showed plainly and in a beau-
tiful manner the difference between us and the
world.  The work of God, and the work of
the evil one.  Exhorted her sisters to be
careful in the training of their children, teach-
ing truthfulness; obedience and a love for only
the good, the noble and beautiful here and
hereafter.
	Bishop Thomas Wallace had listened to the
remarks made with great satisfaction; his mind
had already been expressed.  He also spoke,
upon the Gospel and great field of labor among
the saints of God, prayed the Lord to inspire
the saints to look after the saints in a manner
as acceptable to Him, and bless them with
great knowledge and wisdom.
	Brother Joseph Parry was pleased and edi-
fied with the remarks of his brothers and sis-
ters; thought to profit by the teaching we had
to treasure them in our minds.  We came here
to gather the true riches of the Kingdom of
God.  Bro. Parry referred to the Scriptures;
spoke on charity.
	Both Bro. Wallace and Parry explained
many grand and sublime principles with re-
gard to the work of women, and Kingdom of
our Father on the earth in this age of the
world.
	Sister Richards made a few closing remarks;
hoped all with her would strive to keep the
commandments of God, and live unspotted be-
fore the world.  Asked the blessings of the 
Lord to rest upon all, that they might go home
safely, rejoicing in the goodness and mercies of
the Lord.
	Conference adjourned for three months with
singing, "Awake, ye defenders of Zion." Ben-
ediction by Bishop Gritchlow.

PROVO, UTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of ths Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah County, held in the
meeting house, Provo City, February 29th,
1884, Counselor Mary John presiding, the
health of our beloved president, Ma Smoot,
not permitting her to be present.
	Conference opened with the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, reading of minutes of
former Conference reports, etc.  Sister John
regretted that we had no visitors from the city
o meet with us, but thought we might be edi-
fied by the sisters at home; we should fee
thankful that we were able to meet together
again, notwithstanding there was considerable
sickness in our midst.  Our reports are good.
The sisters are a great help to the brethren,
and are wide awake to their duties.
	Sister Zina Y. Williams: It gives me pleas-
ure to meet with you. There is great improve-
ment among the sisters, they are a great help
and aid, and if these societies should be dropped
they would be missed very much.  We are
well represented in all good works, we are
called upon to help in very many things, and
I often think that the Lord does not wish us to
become very rich, we are so often called upon
to contribute of our means to some good work.
Spoke of the usefulness of the Primary Asso-
ciations; referred to the silk industry; advised
mothers to let their daughters learn to reel silk
and they would have a trade that would be
beneficial to them, etc.
	Sister Mary Ellen Cluff thought the sisters
did not attend these meetings as punctually as
they should, and were the losers thereby, these
societies are of great importance, being organ-
ized by Joseph Smith.  Let us  be charitable,
be good, be liberal; our greatest responsibilities
are our children, they will bear off this King-
dom.
	Bishop Johns said, The instructions are
good, if we magnify our callings and do our
duties it will bring us exaltation.  There is a
reformation among the people in obeying the
word of wisdom, and the saints will have more
of His spirit in consequence of obeying it.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p.m. Benedic-
tion by Bro. Graves.

	Afternoon.  Conference opened with the
usual exercises. Sister Anna K. Smoot spoke
of the benefit these societies were in bringing
us together.  She had belonged to the society
for many years; had become acquainted with
many that she would not have known other-
wise. Spoke of the power of God in convinc-
ing us of the truth of his work, and gave some 
incidents of her experience.
	Henry H. Cluff made some very instructive
and interesting remarks.
	Bro. Johns said the sisters that are hero are
those that take an active part in various
wards, and I am happy to speak to those sis-
ters.  I do not know what the Bishop would
do without their help, and the influence of the
Young Ladies and Primary Association.  If
all should give their experience it would make
volumes; experiences that we have gained are
bulwarks that no ball can penetrate; the world
cannot comprehend us.  Let us continue in
well-doing.  Let us remember the aged, those
that have helped to build up tha Kingdom,
and may the blessings of God  be with us.
Amen.
	After a few more remarks from Sister John
the name of Sister Rhoda Lyman, wife of
Apostle F. M. Laman, was proposed to the
Conference as Second Counselor to Margaret T.
Smoot in the Stake organization of the Relief
Society of Utah County.  The motion was car-
ried unanimously.  After singing Conference
adjourned for three months. Benediction by
H. H. Cluff.
	The statistical and financial report is as fol-
lows:
	Members, 2,132; Teachers, 343: Meetings
held, 227; Average attendance, 598; Woman's
Exponent, 152; Other Church papers, 108;
Disbursements to the poor, $940.93; To the
Temple, $88.20; Missionaries, $53.90; Build-
ings, Stake Tabernacle, $801.15; Home indus-
tries, $17.36; Deseret Hospital, $55.40; Sundry
disbursements, $15.05; Books or stationery,
$9.05; Total disbursements, $1,981.04.
				Mrs. Caroline Daniels,
						Secretary,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 183


184	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SILK CULTURE.

	Considerable interest has been manifested of
late years throughout the United States regard-
ing this industry. Many Associations are en-
tirely devoted to its interests; the State of Cal-
ifornia has appointed a special committee; and
made a large appropriation from the state
treasury to forward its interest in general. The
committee has issued circulars requesting all
silk raisers not to sell any cocoons out of the
state, as all that can be raised will be required
at their own Filature, they also advertise to
purchase cocoons from any other silk raisers in
the United States. Utah is pronounced by all
who profess to know anything of the subject to
be second to none in natural resources for "silk
culture," and there are in existence throughout
the Territory, mulberry patches sufficient that,
if used as silk producing food, would realize
thousands of dollars annually, with such a near
market as California.
	The primary object of planting these mul
berry patches, we are aware, was "home indus-
try;” to raise the silk and manufacture it in
the Territory, was the aim. Having failed so
far to accomplish this fully, nearly all interest
in the matter has been lost, and many have
talked of cutting down and uprooting the trees,
if, in fact, some have not already done so; but
we are glad to learn that there are still a num-
ber standing. Nearly all are aware of the ob-
stacle that stands in the way of successful prog-
ress, it costs too much to reel it, and the pro-
duction is so small by all methods which have
been tried that it does not pay. We do not
wish to occupy space and time in writing upon
points connected with this subject, but come at
once to the point aimed at in this short arti-
cle.
	We have been endeavoring for nearly a year
to push to a successful issue the manufacture of
silk dress goods and handkerchiefs from for-
eign material, not having the necessary ma-
chinery for the manufacture of native silk, and
although we have not gained all we started for,
we feel assured we can go on and make a suc-
cessful business of it; but we are not satisfied
to do this, as the manufacture of native silk
has been [--]th us, as with our predecessors, the
main poi[--]
	We are happy to be able to state that we
have now in process of construction a combina-
tion reel, which can be made to run from one
to six or any number, all driven by one shaft,
at the same time, separately governed by an
"electric stop motion,” which stops each separ-
ate reel the moment a fiber gives out, either by
breaking or otherwise. By this means w.e, will
be able to reduce the cost of reeling by the quan-
tity produced, so as to effectually remove the
obstacle to the use of native silk in this branch
of industry, as by this method one reeler can
attend to a number of reels. Nothing more
need be said on this point. 	L
We will be prepared in the fall, or as soon as
cocoons can be raised and properly dried, to
purphase from one to two thousand pounds
of cocoons for our own use, and will pay the
highest market price for all first class, well
dried and cleaned cocoons. Must be free from
double and ready for use, $1.25 per pound if
exchanged for silk goods of our own make at
wholesale prices, or if in cash 1.00 per pound.
We will also furnish eggs if the different asso-
ciations will find out how many will be want-
ed, and make the necessary arrangements for
purchasing and forwarding the same; or we
will give the necessary information where eggs
can be purchased and forwarded to any ad-
dress. The latter method we would prefer, as
our hands are full of other matters; but the
great importance of attending to this matter at
once is apparent to all concerned. We there-
fore urge upon all who can to try once more
and see if by our own persistent efforts, togeth-
er with the blessings of God, we cannot make
the silk industry of Utah what it ought to be,
second to none in the United States.
All letters, whether of inquiry or orders for
eggs, to be addressed to James L. Chalmers,
Silk Factory, Salt Lake City.


﻿A number of letters written by George Eli-
ot, to "a friend abroad," have been published
in the Jourual des Debats. It is thought these
letters were addressed to Madame Bodichon.


OBITUARIES.

	I grieve to have to record the death of Sister Lucinda
S. Curtis, who died March 24th, of childbed fever, aged 32
years, 9 months and 13 days; she leaves a husband and
seven children to mourn her loss. She died as she had 
lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint, and had acted as Sec-
ond Counselor in the Relief Society since last June.
								LIZZIE LAYTON.

	DIED, at Malad City, March 26th, 1884, Mary Davis,
daughter, of Zaphonie and Caroline Jose, aged 24 years
and 6 months, leaving a husband and six little children,
(two of whom are twin girls nine days old) with many
relative and friends to mourn her loss. Sister Mary Da-
vis was a member of the Y. L. M. I. A., which she filled
with credit, possessing a meek and humble spirit she
strove to live the life of a Latter-day Saint, although
surrounded by trying circumstances. Having taken the
right course to secure her little ones in the morning of
the first resurrection she now rests in peace, to awake
when the just are called forth at the sound of the
trump, to associate with those that have washed their
robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb,
clothed with immortality and eternal life.
									ANNE SAWYER.
	Deseret News and Millennial Star, Please copy.


SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c,	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow. Vol. 1,		-		$1,00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
ris building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GOBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

