Pearls Of Great Price By Lena Lee Menan Ward, Rigby Stake
"I NOW turn the key... In the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time."?Joseph Smith.
Almost one hundred years have passed since these significant words were uttered by the voice of a prophet to a mere handful of women. Today, thousands are reaching out eager hands to grasp the key, open the door and enter into the blest sanctuary, that they may enjoy the benefits and privileges of that great organization?the Relief Society.
There are many women whose names have never been known outside of their own narrow circle, and yet they have left "pearls of great price" as a heritage to those among whom they have labored. It is of such a woman I wish to write:
As she stood irresolute at the threshold of the Relief Society room, she looked friendless and alone. The president, seeing that she was a stranger, spoke to her kindly and made her welcome. In halting, broken English, she thanked the president and made herself known. She was the bride, she said, of a missionary who had returned only six months previously from a mission in Germany. Now she had come all that distance alone to be with the Saints and to marry the man she loved. They had met and fallen in love on the sun porch of a Berlin hospital, where each was recuperating from a long illness. True to his trust as a missionary, he did not then speak of his love, but just as soon as he was at home in America he had written telling her of his love and asking her to be his wife. Leaving her loved ones behind, she had come to a strange land to the man of her choice. Now, seeking admittance into the Relief Society circle, she was welcomed warmly, and each one did her best to make her feel at home and among friends.
It was not long, however, before we who had been so eager to give to the little bride found to our surprise that we were receiving from her. The chorister of the organization had moved away, and no one had been found to take her place. As a result the singing was very poor. After several weeks, it became apparent to the president that the singing had improved very much, due largely to the rich contralto voice of the little foreign bride. The next time a musical program was given she was asked to sing, and her beautiful rendition of one of our own hymns brought tears to every eye. Soon she was chosen as chorister, and almost immediately the singing improved; new life and fervor now characterized that portion of the program which such a short time before had seemed so lifeless. She organized and directed a chorus which rendered splendid service and proved a wonderful help.
Her contribution was not alone in the field of music, however, for her knowledge of the Bible and other Church works helped to enrich and vitalize many phases of the work. Her humble but vital testimony was her most outstanding contribution; no one seeing or hearing her could help being impressed with her sincerity and truthfulness. Her face would light up and her eyes fill with tears as she spoke of the great blessings of the Gospel. She felt that the sacrifice she had made in leaving home, kindred and friends was of little consequence compared to the joy of being among God's chosen people. Spirituality seemed to emanate from her as perfume from the rose. When with her, it was impossible to think evil or sordid thoughts; rather, one was uplifted to nobler and loftier heights. As we considered the sacrifice she had made and the courage she had manifested, we were inspired to strive more earnestly for good and to serve our fellow men more devotedly.
Truly, in her behalf the prophetic words of Joseph Smith were fulfilled, for "intelligence and knowledge" did flow down to her. In one short year she had learned to read, write, and speak the English language, even better than some who had known no other tongue. Through inspiration and in answer to prayer, she was chosen to be a counselor to the president who had welcomed her into the Society, and thus her field of influence was enlarged and her greater gifts discovered. She was ever alert to conditions around her which might be improved, and assumed her responsibility in their improvement.
In summing up the "pearls of great price" this one new member has given us, I find we are indebted to her for greater spirituality and a stronger testimony of the Gospel. Among her other contributions are: the improvement and enrichment of our music; an increased knowledge and better understanding of the scriptures; a greater desire to be of service to our fellow men; a greater love for each other and our Relief Society work as a whole. Through her courage and understanding, we have found greater faith in overcoming the problems of life. Through her, we have a greater appreciation of the organization provided for Latter-day Saint women through the inspiration of their Prophet. Through this organization I met this new member, through whom my life has been blessed and enriched beyond measure. The "pearls of great price" she has left us are shining jewels whose luster will never grow dim.