Building Peace and Happiness Over A Foundation of Handicaps By Rose Duke Third Ward, Carbon Stake
"HANDICAPS!" you say. Well now, have you ever tried to hold a meeting with seventy-five ladies in a room next door to a garage? Just as we become so deeply interested in the literary lesson that we are almost Joan of Arc ourselves?Bang! Bump! Go the hammers to bring us back to a normal world again.
Or, perhaps, the theology leader is trying to teach the theme, "Love Thy Neighbor As Thyself," when?Rat-tat-tat! Bing! Biff! And for a few minutes at least we can scarcely feel that neighborly love.
Of course, on Work and Business days we are doing so much buzzing ourselves, with quilting or making tea towels and stuffed animals for bazaars, that we seldom hear the outside noises.
The heating facilities are not of the best either. We are still at the old-fashioned heater stage. You'll remember?roasted faces and frozen backs. Actually, we don't even roast our faces, because there is not room enough for all to sit that close to the stove. Most of us go to meeting without realizing that some one should get there early enough to build a fire to take the chill off the room. No fuel is provided by the Church. So far, some generous officer has brought the coal and kindling.
Then there is the music. Did you ever try leading a group of middle-aged singers with a high-pitched organ for accompaniment? We do manage to squeak out the high notes, but only an opera star could do them justice. Oh, yes, we have a piano. However, it is in the last stages of rebellion and, having worn out the player, half the time the tune vanishes somewhere in the air. Why don't we buy a new one? With what, please tell! After all, we're just a new ward. Do you know what that means? It means we have to have dish towels, glasses, dishes, silverware, tablecloths, and what not. We must depend on donations for these things. Each member is asked to bring one glass and dish towel, so the cupboard is slowly but surely starting to fill.
Then there are the individual difficulties that each ward member must overcome in order to attend meetings. One must be brought in a wheel-chair. A few live on outlying farms, and this means they must have some means of transportation. Any one who has lived on a farm knows the amount of work there is to do. Just one afternoon away means added rushing and bustling either before or after to catch up. Several women have large families of young children that must be left home either alone, in some neighbor's care, or with hired help. Hiring help very often runs into money, adding another difficulty, as many cannot afford this.
Can any one deny that we have many handicaps? But, do they stop us? No, indeed! Our group is growing, and what a group it is! Every one seems so willing to try whatever is asked of her. ENTHUSIASM is the watchword on every side, "for we have found peace, which is a happiness more full of meaning than we have ever known before, a happiness as deep as tears..."