The Smoke Nuisance
"SMOKING is increasing rapidly among high school students. This subject becomes a health problem, and it is time that health authorities throughout the country, public-spirited individuals, started to debunk the propaganda for tobacco. It is time that high school students knew that the great tobacco trusts are spending millions of dollars for lying testimonials and deceiving radio programs and pernicious advertising. "High school students should know that the hard-up hero that poses in the magazine has been paid for his endorsement, and in many cases, if the truth were known, he is trying to overcome the habit that enslaves him. Our boys and girls should know that tobacco is not a food on a par with candy and ice cream, but that it is a nerve-irritant and a poison. Whether there are fifteen or seventeen different kinds of poison in tobacco is not for us to say, but we do know that nicotine is a highly toxic chemical and that it is still used by the gardener in very dilute solutions as a spray on plants to kill insects and pests. It is time our boys were reminded of the fact that cigarettes contribute to delinquency, that they befuddle a boy and stifle his ambition and decision. Youth needs no handicap but must maintain all its mental vigor. "Public health has to do with the infant death rate, and girls who are taking the 'tobacco road' to nervous instability, sallow complexions, lack of freshness, and sterility should know that the guinea pigs exposed to tobacco smoke often had young born dead, dwarfed, and below normal weight; that the tobacco-blowing mother is an additional threat to our infant death rate which is already too high. Our boys should know that the so-called degenerative diseases, 'cardio-vascular-renal group', are the leading causes of death after age 35, and they maintain this position throughout life. That alcohol and tobacco contribute something to the prevalence of these diseases is admitted by every physician in America today. Let us tell the youth that 'cigarettes satisfy', but so do morphine, heroin, and phenobarbital. Let us plead with youth to wait until maturity and then decide for themselves whether or not they shall be users of tobacco. We must debunk this high-powered sales organization that seeks to exploit youth for profit and is really making of tobacco a termite eating at the foundation of youth."
Editor's Note: The above article was issued as part of a public health bulletin written by Dr. T. J. Howells, Health Commissioner of Salt Lake City, Utah, to physicians and public health organizations throughout the West.
Cathedral of Peace By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
RESUME
Carolyn Evans had a problem almost bigger than she could carry in the disparity of interests between herself and her husband, Turner. She had unknowingly let him grow away from her. She was suddenly and rudely awakened, and then realized the home condition was affecting the lives of her boys. Bob, the eldest, was in love with JUNE STRAUGHN but would do nothing about it because of the difference in their homes and families. Carson, the second son, unknown to Carolyn was worrying his father and older brother. Calves were disappearing from the lower pasture, and evidence pointed toward him as the thief. He, Bob reasoned, could easily feel he had a right to the calves. Carolyn, as newly selected counselor in Relief Society, had been making calls in the lower valley. When she returned, she found the gate wired fast. Turner had wired it against the loss of more calves, but she thought he had wired it out of disrespect for her. In crawling under the fence she tore her only dress; in anger, she decided there was no point in going so shabby. The next time her husband made ready to go to town she demanded to go with him. He would not give her money unless she told him what she wanted to do with it. But his credit was good, and once in the store she decided to do more than just buy a dress. However, she kept her purchases secret. On the way home she told Turner that Bob was taking Lucile Semple to the ward reunion rather than June. Turner is disgusted and vows to reprimand his son for it.
CHAPTER SIX
TRUE to his word, Turner spoke to Bob at the breakfast table the next morning after they had been in town. "Since when have you been running with the Semple crowd?" he demanded. Bob paused in the act of buttering a biscuit. "I?haven't been running with them, exactly." He saw Carson give him a swift glance. "Are you taking Lucile to the dance tonight?" "Haven't nerve enough to ask the one you want, eh? I wouldn't let a sissy like Joe Colts beat my time." "I asked the one I wanted," Bob answered shortly. It hurt all the more because he knew his father was right. He had wanted June, but he wasn't taking her now or any time. The fact that he had been very careful regarding whom he went with did not add to his peace of mind. Still Turner would not drop the subject, and suddenly Bob rose. His mouth was a straight, hard line. "I am still taking her." Striding quickly to the door, he went out. "If you want him to go with girls like June," Carson drawled, "you might loosen up. Taking the car occasionally would help." "He has a car." "Ho, you mean the flivver. How come you are not worrying about me? I am taking Garden." "I don't like it any better than I like his taking Lucile. Plenty of boys and girls ride in flivvers, as you call them. It is as good a car as Joe has." "But Joe isn't Bob." "He will have to use it if he uses anything. Mother will want the other car." Carson turned to his mother. "How come you rate the car? It must be that new house dress." "Please, Carson." At her look of distress, he laughed. He rose to leave the table. As he passed her, he grinned. "Take courage, Fair One. He'll be human yet?by the time he gets us all reared." Then he ran his fingers over her hair. "What has happened to your hair? It has lost its haggard look." She smiled at him, but at the same time she was thinking, "No wonder I keep quiet. When Turner starts something it is the only thing to do." Vaguely she wondered what drove Turner to such outbursts. She did not think of them as an emotional outlet which served him much as her quiet spells served her. She did not think of him as needing an outlet; he had things so much his own way. It was always her or Bob on whom his anger fell. Carson must not irritate him. Suddenly she felt an unreasoning anger toward her new house dress, her numerous purchases. They could not solve her problem. Had she expected them to take her back fifteen years? With help she might recover part of what had been lost. Turner would never give her that help. And, of course, she had no desire for it either.
THEN it was evening and time for the party. "Aren't you going?" Carolyn asked her husband again when he came in late and settled himself with a book. He made no answer. At her look of dismay, Carson said: "Get ready, Mom. I will drive you. Garden can go with us."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940
Still Turner did not speak, so Carolyn nodded in agreement and went to dress. Dressing slowly and carefully, Carolyn realized her hands were shaking. If this proved an idle gesture, she would never make another. "Why do I keep thinking of it that way?" she asked herself irritably. "I do not care what he thinks." However, she was very careful about dressing. She tried to coax her hair into soft waves. She could not get the effect the operator had achieved; but even with her inexperienced efforts the result was startling, for the softness gave youth to her features. She used the new powder and rouge, and then slipped the dress over her head and patted her hair into place. "Oh!" she gasped, viewing herself full-length in the mirror. "I couldn't go this way. I would be too self-conscious. I feel like a bride." But as she looked, her dismay turned to satisfaction, to deep-down joy. "I can go," she reassured herself. "It will be fun." The dress was a black sheer with white lace at the throat and a fine line of white-marked gores on a short, flared skirt. Sheer hose and black suede pumps accentuated her trimness. She was fervently thankful for the work that had kept her slender. Unconsciously she straightened her shoulders. Her head came up. When she could no longer find an excuse for lingering, she opened the door and stepped into the living room. "Gosh!" Dennis' mouth dropped. It wasn't a word as much as an exclamation.