A Hobby By Margaret Lyman Schreiner
THERE are few women, I believe, who do not have a potential talent for needle work. My own interests, as a girl, were in books and music, and while I learned the fundamentals of sewing, I little dreamed that some of the happiest hours of my life would be spent with a needle. Domesticity had but a superficial interest for me, and I lent only half an ear when my mother occasionally remarked, "I would rather be able to bake a perfect loaf of bread than to paint a picture," but I paused more reflectively when I heard a renowned physician say, "I have great regard for a certain woman who is a gifted violinist, but she excels also as a housekeeper, and I admire her ability to cook and sew infinitely more." The ordinary duties of a housewife are not regarded as being glamorous, but there is surely charm and joy in doing any task beautifully. I once saw a distinguished woman dry dishes in a captivating way. Each plate was given a happy friendly polish and then set down gently, almost tenderly, in a fashion such as might be used in bidding someone an affectionate farewell. It was impressive to see an everyday task done with finesse. The care of small children is another familiar duty that may be carried out in a matter-of-fact way or may be accomplished in a glorious manner as beautiful to behold as the work of a great actress. It is a privilege to see a child gracefully managed by a thoughtful adult who is courteous and gentle, is unhurried and unruffled, who minds her charge with the love and eagerness and joy with which an artist handles his brushes. When my first son was fifteen months old, I made a practice of spending four hours a day out-of-doors with him. I was fully aware that many children play by themselves in perfect contentment, and I rather begrudged the fact that mine displayed such a remarkable amount of unhappiness when left alone in the garden. I sighed longingly as I passed by our musical instruments and our books and magazines, which did not fit well into a child's fresh-air program, but I found that my mending could be taken outside and accomplished with no anesthetizing effect upon my conversational powers as they were taxed by such an infant. I sewed everything in my house that could be attacked with a needle, and then I realized that I liked to sew, and I began a tapestry. TAPESTRY-MAKING is an old, old pastime indulged in since the beginning of history. We have fragments of this craft from the later Stone Age and from early Egyptian times. A Greek vase made during the fifth century shows Penelope weaving in a tantalizing fashion before her distraught suitors. Tapestry specimens have come down to us from every civilization. It is the most ancient of all the arts. The method of tapestry-making
222 is to weave colored wools, called weft threads, on to warp threads in a loom or frame. The weft threads go both behind and in front of the warp threads which are completely concealed. Each warp thread is virtually wrapped with the colored wool threads. The result is a woven material that is quite different from our customary fabrics where warp and woof are interlaced. The object of this type of work all down through the ages has been to make a record, a pictorial record, "lest the deeds of those great men, our fathers, should perish". There are many ways of satisfying this desire to record, or perpetuate the present, and today our principal method is with words, but archaeologists have found language to be a tricky medium which sometimes does not survive, and which is always subject to controversy. On the other hand, what we see with the eye needs no translation or interpretation. A picture gives a record that is both permanent and universal. After the desire to record was satisfied, tapestries were put to a utilitarian use. They were hung in ancient buildings several feet from the wall to serve as draught screens, or were suspended between pillars to shut off one apartment from another. They were generally hung in folds like portieres; hence, they were not woven with a symmetrical, central design, which would have been badly distorted when pushed aside by someone entering a room, but were well covered with forms and figures and had a crowded background. Large uninterrupted areas of wool are monotonous; hence, foliage is excellent for tapestry design,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940 and since mediaeval times, verdure and mille fleurs patterns (patterns of a thousand flowers) have been in high favor. The decorative value of the draught screen appealed to the wealthy, who alone could afford them, and from earliest times tapestries became things of great beauty. Tapestry hangings grew to be the most cherished possessions of the church, the kings and the nobles, and were displayed with pride on state occasions on the walls of palaces and chateaux. At times of religious festivals, churches and cathedrals were draped both inside and outside with precious hangings. They were prized not only for their intrinsic beauty but for their biblical subject matter. The Creation, the story of Abraham, of Moses, of the Virgin, the Passion of our Lord, the acts of the Apostles and dozens of others have all been woven in tapestry. Similarly recorded are great historical events, such as the "Foundations of Rome", the "Defeat of the Armada", the "Conquest of Tunis", and the "Story of William of Normandy and How He Conquered England". In fact, all of history, both religious and political, can be seen today pictured in tapestry. Tapestry has even played a part in the making of history. It was once the custom for shrewd rulers and others of wealth and importance to present gifts of costly hangings to those with whom they had to make negotiations and treaties. When Philip the Hardy went on a political mission to the Pope, he carried with him gifts of the finest tapestries of sacred subjects he could procure. When the French wished
A HOBBY
This illustration is of a tapestry made by Margaret Lyman Schreiner. It is mounted on the back of a large chair of English walnut in the classic period of Italian Renaissance. The tapestry is entitled "Sight" or the lady and the mirror and is a reproduction of one of a set of six great masterpieces of French art known as the "Lady and the Unicorn". The originals are done in heroic size and hang today in the Cluny museum in Paris.
224 to influence the English in the mapping out of terms and agreements, the suggestions were accompanied by hangings woven of gold and silver to influence the recipients favorably. If an opponent was to be won over, or a friend rewarded, a gift of tapestry was the usual procedure. The various royal houses accumulated tremendous collections of hangings. Special vaulted buildings were erected to insure their safety and to protect them from fire and dampness. On occasions of ceremony, they were brought out and hung both indoors and in courtyards in rich profusion. Charles the Bold, (1433-1477) Duke of Burgundy, always surrounded himself with the tapestries he loved regardless of whether he was alone, entertaining, or traveling. He even carried hangings to the battlefield for his tent there. It was the favorite way of displaying pomp and wealth and luxury, and the collections were handed down and added to until the accumulations became priceless in value. TAPESTRY-MAKING is a unique art because it is a cooperative process. It requires the brains and skill of many workers; it is a long and tedious task requiring months and years of painstaking toil, and it is an art that is exceedingly costly and can only exist under munificent patronage. The love of kings and noblemen for fine and costly treasures fostered the practice of weaving, whose golden age was from the thirteenth to the eighteenth centuries, at which time enthusiasm for it began to wane. The aristocracy that had nurtured it was disappearing, in-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940. terests changed, life and living were no longer glorious riots of luxury and spending. The elegance of hand-wrought skills was too costly to flourish in the new regime. Another factor contributed to the decline of tapestry?the unwillingness of painters to subordinate themselves to weavers. Great artists, beginning with Raphael in the thirteenth century, were retained to make tapestry designs, or cartoons as they are properly termed. These cartoons had their own peculiar requirements. The artist had to adapt his work to the technique of weaving. In fact, the cartoon really served only as a suggestion to the weaver, who took the artist's pattern and freely interpreted it in wool. Hence, the success of the finished product was not attributed to the artist but was signed by the master weaver who, with his helpers, worked with skill and patience for years to fashion a single tapestry. A weaver was an artist in his own right?less creative from the standpoint of ideas, but beautifully versed in matters of color, taste, judgment and dyes. Chemistry advances increased the color range to a thousand dyes, each available in twelve tints. Furthermore, weaving technique was perfected until delicate human features could be reproduced with breath-taking accuracy. This perfection in an art that took centuries to ripen was achieved in the eighteenth century. Weavers went through a fifteen-year apprenticeship. Linen, hemp and cotton warp threads had come into use to gain thinness and strength to support the great weight of finished tapestries. Gold, silver and silk weft
A HOBBY: threads were used with the wool for enrichment. Colors were rampant. Figures were flawless. And when the art had reached this perfect flowering, the painters, who had long been irritated because their cartoons were subject to "editing" by the master weavers, and who now perceived that weaving-technique was capable of perfect imitation, began to demand that their cartoons be reproduced precisely and minutely so that tapestries would have the appearance of oil paintings. Weavers were unable to stem the tide and preserve the traditions of their craft. Tapestry grew into a purely pictorial imitation. It languished as a creative art because its life blood was cut off at the source; its designers had dissolved the partnership; its weavers were victims of the ever-existing bogy of jealousy. A glorious art wrought with poetry, history and romance went into oblivion. THE tapestry illustrated in connection with this article is a reproduction of one of a set of six great masterpieces of French art known as the "Lady and the Unicorn". These tapestries hang today in the Cluny museum in Paris. Their origin is somewhat surrounded in mystery, although it is believed that they were made in Aubusson, France, about 1460, and were woven to the order of Le Viste, Lord of Fresne, as most of the pieces bear his coat-of-arms. The original tapestries are done in heroic size and represent the five senses. The subject of each is a lady beautifully clad and richly jeweled who stands in the midst of a forest of flowers inhabited by birds and
225 animals, the most interesting of which is the unicorn. The unicorn is a creature of fable and is characterized by one long straight horn. This animal was considered a symbol of chastity during the middle ages, and it was believed that it could not be captured except by a virgin. I have worked in needlepoint two reproductions of the Cluny series? "Hearing" or the lady and the organ (shown in March issue, p. 164) and "Sight" or the lady and the mirror illustrated in this issue. I use the lady and the organ as a wall hanging. It pictures a courtyard scene with a turreted castle in the background and with trees and flowers in full bloom. The portable organ is played by the lady, and the bellows are manipulated by her lady-in-waiting. A lute player accompanies. The lady and the mirror I had mounted on the back of a large chair which was specially made to fit the tapestry. The chair is of English walnut in the classic period of Italian Renaissance. The design pictures a virgin enticing a unicorn with a mirror in which may be seen the reflection of the animal's head. The lion is supporting a standard bearing the family arms of Le Viste. When I purchased the pattern, which had been imported from France, the lady's face and the reflection of the unicorn in the mirror were already woven. They are worked in silk, and the stitches are so fine that they had to be done under a glass. On the seat of the chair, the lion and the unicorn motif is repeated, as are the riots of mille fleurs, the Gothic feature which is perfectly represented in the Cluny tapestries.
226 The little one-year-old boy who was responsible for arousing such a deep interest in tapestry-weaving is now eight, and quite self-sufficient when he romps out-of-doors. But his mother has two cherished tapestries with which to recall the days
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940 of his dynamic wish to be close to her. Editor's note: The above article is a companion article to "My Relief Society Tapestry", written by Mary Grant Judd and published in the March issue of the Magazine.