Primary Reorganization
THE completion of the reorganization of the Primary General Board has recently been announced. Pursuant with a new policy announced by the First Presidency of making frequent changes in the leadership of the auxiliary organizations, Mrs. May Green Hinckley was appointed to succeed Miss May Anderson as general superintendent of the Primary Association, effective January 1, 1940. Mrs. Adele Cannon Howells and Mrs. Janet Murdoch Thompson have been appointed first and second assistants respectively to Mrs. Hinckley, succeeding Mrs. Isabelle S. Ross and Mrs. Edith H. Lambert. Miss Beth Paxman has been appointed general secretary-treasurer to succeed Miss Mary Jack. Fifteen members of the Primary Association's former general board, each having served less than ten years, are included in the new board, and three new members have been added?Mrs. Fern Chipman Eyring, Mrs. Olga C. Brown and Miss Beth Paxman. All members of the new general superintendency have been active in practically all of the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and each has made splendid and unique contributions. Mrs. Hinckley is credited with instituting the Gleaner Girl program during her incumbency as president of the Granite Stake Y. W. M. I. A. This program was later adopted by the Y. W. M. I. A. General Board as a Church-wide movement. The Relief Society is indebted to Mrs. Hinckley for many outstanding contributions. As president of the Relief Society organizations of the Northern States Mission she was unusually successful. She directed a very impressive dramatization of the organization of the Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith in connection with the centennial of the founding of Nauvoo by the Mormon people. Mrs. Adele Howells served as counselor to Mrs. Hinckley in the Granite Stake Y. W. M. I. A. And was at one time a Relief Society president in New York City. Mrs. Janet Thompson served as president of the Twentieth Ward Primary Association for five years and was counselor of the Ensign Stake Primary Association for thirteen years. A former member of the Relief Society General Board, she is well known to Relief Society women, having made many splendid contributions to our organization. Her work as chairman of the music committee has been significant. The new Relief Society Song Book was prepared under the capable direction of this committee. Miss Beth Paxman, formerly a member of the Y. W. M. I. A. General Board, is the daughter of W. Monroe Paxman and Mrs. Achsa Paxman, a member of the Relief Society General Board. Miss Paxman has also been an active Primary worker. The capabilities, training and Church experience of the new general superintendency and board bid fair for a strong and effective Primary organization. Though each of the women's auxiliary organizations of the Church has its special assignment and works with its own particular group, all are united and are working in harmony to promote the welfare of the children, the daughters and the mothers of the Church; all are endeavoring to advance the work of the Church as a whole. That which is of interest and importance to one organization is of interest and importance to all. The Relief Society General Board extends to the new Primary Superintendency and General Board its best wishes for a successful administration.
TO THE FIELD
Message from the General Church Music Committee
MUSIC occupies a very prominent place in all meetings of the Latter-day Saints. It is estimated that approximately one-third of the total time spent in these meetings is devoted to music. Congregational singing has ever been an important and delightful feature of our services. With this thought in mind, a hymn-singing project for the entire Church membership was inaugurated at a recent meeting of representatives of the Quorum of the Twelve, the Presiding Bishopric and all auxiliary organizations under the direction of the General Music Committee. The project contemplates the learning of a new hymn every month by all congregations throughout the Church.