(To be continued)
PRAYER FOR TODAY By Lucille Waters Mattson
Tomorrow is our promise of today, Tomorrow is the day when dreams come true, Tomorrow brings us peace, and hope, and faith, For tomorrow we find courage to renew Our tireless, heedless, struggle For the worldly goal that we pursue.
Then lest today should end my life's short span, And I should go beyond in excuse and sorrow, Help me, oh God, to live today As I had dreamed to live tomorrow.
White Rose By Beatrice Rordame Parsons
THE white roses along the path to the great, white house on Madison Street were blooming again. Against a laughing sky they flaunted their pale stems of fragrant flowers. Hester Dean, standing in the doorway of her lovely home, had seen the roses bloom for twenty-five years, and always with a strange, poignant pain in her heart. Hester was tiny, oddly old for her fifty years. Her hair, neat, carefully brushed, was snowy white. But it had been touched with copper that day, twenty-five years ago, when she had gathered a handful of white roses for her wedding bouquet. Hester, the wealthiest girl in town, and David Landess, the poorest boy, were going to be married! David couldn't buy her a fine bouquet from the florist's, but she did not mind. She loved white roses. She laughed gaily as David pointed out the fairest blooms. David's eyes were dark and deep and filled with pride and tenderness, and he laughed, too, and would have gathered her into his arms, then and there, and kissed her, if her cousin Elsie hadn't come in at the gate. She looked from one flushed young face to the other and laughed sharply. "So you've decided to get married," she stated, rather than asked. There was a sly smile in her eyes as she added, "Has David got a job yet, Hester?" It was David who answered, his dark head thrown back, his tone fearless. "I'm going on a mission, Elsie. When I come back, I'm going to work hard and give Hester the sort of home she's been used to." There was an almost fierce determination in his tone as he finished, "Someday, Elsie, you'll see. I'll be rich!" "Rich!" Elsie's voice was filled with withering scorn. She moved sharply so that the silken ruffles of her gown rustled luxuriously. Elsie was older than Hester, and her sarcasm dominated the garden, holding Hester tongue-tied before it. "You'll throw away what little you have on a mission, then you'll come back and be content to live as you've always lived." Her sharp, blue eyes swept down the block to where a small house nestled among unkempt trees. She came close to where Hester stood: "Look at David's home! Will you be content to live there?" Her eyebrows shot up, and she added, "Almost anyone would be ashamed to live as David lives. Tell me, Hester, will you be happy amid such squalor?" A queer, frightened feeling came into Hester's heart. Perhaps if David's father and mother had lived, the house would not have been so shabby. But David was a man. He did not know how to fix it up. She put back her head, and her eyes were shining as she faced Elsie. "I'll fix David's home up; I'll be proud to. I'll put clean, white curtains at the windows and plant daisies and marigolds along the walk. David will help me." He would help her because he loved her.