Happy Birthday By Ramona W. Cannon LULA GREENE RICHARDS (Copy of a life-size oil portrait made by her son, Lee Greene Richards.) SIXTY-EIGHT years ago Louisa L. (Lula) Greene received a letter which caused her both joy and perturbation. Eliza R. Snow and other leading sisters wanted Mormon women to have a periodical; they could represent themselves "better than to be misrepresented by others". Incredible as it seemed to Lula, they had invited her to come from Smithfield to Salt Lake City to be the first editor of the proposed sheet. Should she, a girl of twenty-two, accept such a responsibility? Was her education adequate?a few opportunities to attend village schools, one brief term at Tripp's and Rager's in Salt Lake, and one: at the University of Deseret, under Dr. John R. Park? Suddenly in her heart was born a new appreciation of educa- HAPPY BIRTHDAY tional riches bestowed upon her by two people, her father and Eliza R. Snow. The former, a natural and an excellent teacher, had been her actual instructor much of the time. How far his enlightenment had extended beyond the boundaries of an ordinary schoolroom! And Sister Snow had passed on to Lula, through correspondence, the graces of her own mind and soul. The young girl had been writing verse and prose since childhood, contributing to The Juvenile Instructor, The Salt Lake Herald and a manuscript sheet, The Smithfield Sunday School Gazette. Sister Snow had encouraged and instructed her, and was now offering her this wonderful opportunity. At length, President Brigham Young called her to accept this work "as a mission and set her apart and blessed her. She felt truly dependent upon God for success. A year later, President Young united Lula and Levi W. Richards in marriage and blessed the new wife for a greater mission, that of rearing a family. For five years her wise: and gentle influence was felt among the women of Zion, through The Woman's Exponent, the predecessor of The Relief Society Magazine; then she found her strength unequal to both public and domestic demands and gave up the literary work she so much loved. 249 The marriage of Brother and Sister Richards was a happy one. Both possessed refinement and intellectual and religious interests, besides their common love of children. Three daughters died in infancy; four sons grew to manhood and "married well", says "Aunt Lula". Willard died, leaving a large family, but the other three sons still survive: Lee Greene, the artist; Evan G., a dentist; Heber G., a professor of English in the University of Utah. All would be a credit to any family. In Sister Richards' early years, she served as an aide to the Mutual, Primary, and Relief Society presidencies, representing these organizations in many parts of Zion. In later life, she spent forty years working in the Temple. As time permitted, she continued her literary efforts, publishing articles, stories and poems in our magazines, and also a volume of verse called Branches That Run Over the Wall. Lula Greene Richards' life has been like a_ threebranched candlestick, her religious, her family, and her literary activities all stemming from the same devoted heart, and a bright light burning constantly on the altar of each. On April eighth, "Aunt Lula" Richards will be ninety-one years old. The many thousands who know and love and honor her wish her, from the depths of their hearts, a happy birthday! A Handicapped Boy By Margaret Johnson. Jimmy tried to lift the golf club out of the bag and hand it to Mr. Sumners, but somehow it slipped and fell to the ground. Mr. Sumners yelled at Jimmie and hastily examined the club for injury. "Tm sorry, sir," Jimmie said, biting his lip to make it stop trembling. "It's my hand." "You might have ruined it," Mr. Sumners sputtered indignantly. He paused; then, "What hand?" he demanded suddenly.. "Mine, sir," Jimmie said patiently. "It's?it's handicapped." That was what Mother had always said. "Every one," Mother said, "has a handicap. Perhaps it's a moral handicap, a tendency to steal or lie or swear. It may be a mental handicap, an inability to think and reason quickly and accurately. And again, it may be a physical handicap like yours. You may never be able to use your hand, Jimmie, so you must make the best of it. Don't ever let your handicap be your master. A handicap may really be an advantage, if it is thought of and managed properly. You probably can't understand that now, Jimmie-boy, but it's so." But Jimmie was sure that he did understand. That was why he had applied for a job as a caddy just like an ordinary boy might have done. Jimmie wasn't going to let his handicap master him and make him think he couldn't do things. "What's the matter with your hand?" Mr. Sumners asked. "I can't use it," Jimmie explained. Simply. "Well, now," Mr. Sumners said, with unexpected sympathy, "that's too bad, sonny." "Oh, no, sir," Jimmie objected hastily. "It's my handicap, you know, and I'm going to master it, and then I'll," Jimmie paused, a trifle abashed, "I'll be the better for it, sir," he finished. Jimmie knew Mother would have been proud of that answer. It showed he understood. But then, when a feller has a thing explained to him a lot of times, he can't help but realize what it means. Mr. Sumners looked surprised. "Well, now, that's a fine philosophy," he commented. "How old are you, sonny?" "Ten, sit,' Jimmie said. Mr. Sumners didn't say anything more; but several times during the game Jimmie caught Mr. Sumners eyeing him curiously, and once he heard him mutter something about an "intelligent boy". _ Mr. Sumners always had Jimmie caddy for him after that. Sometimes, however, he didn't play golf at all, but just asked Jimmie 'questions about his home life and other things. Jimmie told Mother about Mr. Sumners, and she was pleased. "Always make every one your friend, Jimmie," she said. "Life will be much easier and happier then." Mr. Sumners liked to ask Jimmie questions about current events and great people, and Jimmie's answers always seemed to please him. Once he asked Jimmie whether HANDICAPPED BOY he liked the sun or the moon the best. Jimmie said that the moon was very important because it was so dark at night. Mr. Sumners laughed and laughed for a long time. When he finished laughing, he patted Jimmie on the head and looked very serious and thoughtful fora minute. "You must take me to see your mother soon," he said, slowly and gravely. When Jimmie told his mother about that, she hugged him suddenly and looked frightened. HE next day, Mr. Sumners did come and see Mother. They talked for a long time. Once, Jimmie heard Mr. Sumners say, "Every boy needs a father. You'll have to admit that." Another time, he said something about the bad neighborhood. "Poverty-stricken people, cramped quarters! ? No boy can be reared properly in such an environment." Jimmie felt indignant, and Mother spoke up quickly. "Of course," she said, "some of the homes in this section are overcrowded and dirty; but we've always managed to keep ours neat and clean, and Jimmie hasn't picked up any of the bad habits of his associates." But Mr. Sumners kept on talking. He pointed about the room and out of the window. His voice kept getting loud and then soft. Jimmie's heart began beating very fast. Mother looked so?Surely, she wouldn't for a moment consider letting Mr. Sumners take Jimmy away! After Mr. Sumners left, Mother sat in the big chair and put her arms 2351 around Jimmy. She looked very pale and tired. "Jimmie," she said. Her voice didn't tremble now, but was smooth like glass. "We must weigh things, and then always accept the one that's best, mustn't we?", And Jimmie said, "Yes." "Handicaps," Mother said, "are very fine, but when we can eliminate some of them, we must. You have a lot of handicaps, Jimmie." "I have my hand," Jimmie said. "Yes," Mother said, "and you'll probably always have that, but you have a lot of other handicaps, Jimmie. Money is a nice thing to have, if it's used properly; we have very little of it." Mother went on and mentioned all the things Mr. Sumners had said yesterday and added a few more about college and advantages. "And, Jimmie," she ended, in a voice so soft and low that Jimmie could scarcely hear, "I want you to go with Mr. Sumners. You can see for yourself that it is best.. He can give you the chance and home you deserve." Go with Mr. Sumners! Jimmie had implicit faith in Mother. Why, Mother was everything, and knew everything, but? "Mother!" Jimmie cried. "Leave you?" "We must be strong, Jimmie," Mother said, from between white lips, "because we know it's for the best." A thousand pictures filled Jimmie's. Mind: Mother laughing, Mother doing the dishes, Mother in the blue-checked apron kneading bread, Mother sweeping the floor, Mother coming down the sidewalk 252 to meet him on his way home from school, Mother singing with the choir.... Why, Mother had it all wrong! It was all mixed up somehow. Jimmie in his earnestness gave a little gasp. "If I went with Mr. Sumners, Mother," Jimmie said, frowning in his struggle for words, "would it take away all my handicaps except my hand?" "Just about, and you wouldn't have to caddy any more." "Not caddy any more!" It was a cry of alarm. "Why, Mother, it would be an awfully big handicap if I didn't caddy any more. I'd forget how to fight and be strong. I'd be weak, because?because Mr. Sumners would keep me from trying to help myself." Mother caught her breath, half rose from the chair, and sat down again. "Lots of times on the course," Jimmie continued, steadily ? he knew what he wanted to say, now? "Mr. Sumners tries to take the bag away from me, so that I won't have to carry it. Lately, in spite of all I say, I can't stop him from carrying it, because he doesn't understand about handicaps and overcoming them like you do, Mother." Mother still said nothing. She just sat there with a strained expression on her face. "I like him, Mother," Jimmie said, "but he'd never let me do anything at all, and I couldn't stand that. He?I heard him say something the other day about, 'He'll never have to doa thing', and I know he meant me." Jimmie was only ten, and his eyes filled with tears. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940 "Why, Mother," he said earnestly, "we've always planned how hard we'd work together so that I could go to college, and I know we could do it. You've always said I'd enjoy college more if I worked for it, and Mr. Sumners wouldn't let me." Mother looked for a moment as if she were going to cry, but Jimmie couldn't stop talking. Something big inside of him made him go on. "Mr. Sumners would be an awfully big handicap, Mother. I like handicaps when you're here explaining things and helping me, but Mr. Sumners doesn't understand, and he's so big and everything, I'm afraid I couldn't overcome him." Jimmie started to cry in earnest, and Mother held him close. "Why, Jimmie," she said. You do understand. You understand better than I do." "I?I'll go if you want me to, Mother," Jimmie sobbed. "How could I have been so blind," Mother said in a surprised tone, and she hugged Jimmie so hard it hurt. "What was I trying to do to my boy?" It took a moment for Jimmie to realize that he was going to stay with Mother. Then, when he understood, he couldn't say a word. He just wiped his eyes and tried to stop crying, because Mother had once said that men never cried; but he was so happy it was difficult. He looked up into Mother's face. It looked all joyful and, well, glorious. Suddenly, Jimmie felt frightened at the love he saw there. It was funny that Mother hadn't mentioned one thing, but Jimmie hadn't forgotten. He knew that not having Mother would have been the biggest handicap of all.