Oliver Cowdery's Courtship By E. Cecil McGavin
IN the autumn of 1828, Oliver Cowdery was employed as a school teacher in the small school which accommodated the children from Fayette and Waterloo in western New York. A few other families scattered beyond those villages sent their children to the school where Oliver was the teacher. Many teachers in that day complained about the practice of "boarding round" with the families whose children they taught, but if this schoolmaster had any objection to the custom it was because he could not stay with the family of Peter Whitmer all of the time.
David Whitmer and Oliver were about the same age and soon became devoted friends. Among the many things they had in common was a deep interest in Joseph Smith's claim to a new revelation. Yet one of the strongest attractions in the Whitmer Home was David's sister, Elizabeth Ann.
There were eight children in the Whitmer family, several of whom attended Oliver's school. Elizabeth Ann, though nine years younger than her schoolmaster, soon was conscious of the fact that there was something about the teacher's kind face and gentle manner that won her fondest admiration. She looked forward to the time when he would spend a week at their home and, perhaps, even wished they had a larger family so his visits would be longer as he "boarded round" in the community.
Very little has been told of the devotion of the couple during the season that the schoolmaster taught in the little schoolhouse at Fayette, yet when Oliver left the state the following spring this was the home to which his wandering thoughts turned in moments of despair.
As soon as the school year was over, Oliver went to Harmony, Pennsylvania, in order to make a first-hand investigation of Joseph Smith's mission. He was positively convinced that the mission was divine and gladly became the Prophet's scribe. A wave of persecution endangered the plates. The Prophet and his scribe were denied the peace and tranquillity necessary for such a sacred assignment, so they began to think of other places they might go where they would be unmolested. Oliver naturally thought of the Whitmer family in Fayette. The Prophet had become acquainted with Peter Whitmer, and so when David Whitmer came to Harmony bringing with him a two-horse wagon for the purpose of having Joseph and Oliver accompany him to his father's place and there remain until the work of translation was finished, the invitation was gladly accepted.
A large, pleasant room upstairs, shaded by tall locust trees, was given to them as a "translation room". Day after day in this room the tedious task of translation continued. So anxious were they to finish the labor before persecution began that they spent no time working in the fields. Their time was dedicated to this sacred labor. When Oliver's hand was numbed from continuous writing, one of the Whitmer boys or Joseph's wife relieved him while he rested.
MEMBERS of that family have told that when Oliver left the upper room he usually found Elizabeth Ann waiting for him in the shadows of the locust trees. Many times she had a drink of cold water for him and a sandwich ready to revive him. No one has told us what their thoughts and conversation were, but Oliver realized by that time that his love for Elizabeth Ann was second only to his love for the sacred labor to which he had been called by revelation.
After the translation was finished, Joseph returned to Harmony, while Oliver continued to reside at the Whitmer home. In Joseph's absence he conducted meetings in the schoolhouse and in the large house where the Whitmer family lived. In all of these meetings Elizabeth Ann was an interested spectator. It is likely due to Oliver's friendship for this family and the loyal friends he and Joseph had in that family that the Whitmer home was chosen as the place where the Church would be organized. The new society was organized on Tuesday, April 6, 1830. The following Sunday, Oliver preached the first public discourse since its inception. This meeting was also held in the Whitmer home. It must have been a source of satisfaction to Oliver to have the privilege of baptizing several people at the close of the meeting. Among the number was the devoted Elizabeth Ann.
The months that followed were months of anxiety and persecution. The Whitmers later joined the caravans of converts who were migrating to Missouri. The romance which began in New York ripened in full fruition in Missouri. They were married in Kaw township, Jackson county, Missouri, December 18, 1832?the first marriage within the Church in Missouri. The bride was only seventeen years old at the time, while Oliver was twenty-six. This union proved a happy one, though tragedy and sorrow loomed on the horizon. Five girls and one boy were born to this union, all of whom died in early childhood except Mary Louise who lived to be fifty-seven years old. She married Dr. Charles Johnson, but left no children.
Oliver Cowdery, after returning to the Church, expressed a desire to go to Utah and thence to England as a missionary, but before doing so he visited the Whitmers in Missouri. He caught a severe cold during this journey and died March 3, 1850. His widow was only thirty-five years old at the time of his death, yet she never married again. Her devotion to Oliver was so great that no one else could take his place. Though he was spoken of in official circles as the "second Elder" in the Church, he was always first in her thoughts and memories. She lived to be seventy-seven years old, forty-two of which she spent as a widow. She passed away January 7, 1892, and her daughter died two days later. And thus was Oliver left without posterity.