By Annie Wells Cannon APRIL?Life is sweet, and hope rides high When through soft rain and sunlight There's a rainbow in the sky. PRINCESS MARIA GABRIELLA, third child of Crown Prince Umberto of Italy, when one day old was christened with six names with a promise of two more later?one for a patron saint, three for her mother's Belgian relatives, and the others for members of the ruling house of Savoy. ELEANOR PATTERSON, owner and publisher of Washington's "Times Herald" has a staff principally of women reporters, columnists and critics. DAPHNE du MAURIER, author of "Rebecca," is working under difficulties on her next novel, the theme of which is peace, because of. The chaotic condition of the world. Miss du Maurier, niece of the great dramatist and daughter of the famous actor Sir Gerald du Maurier, is the wife of a British soldier, F. A. M. Browning. VERA BRITTAIN'S new book, "Testament of Friendship," is a memoir of her friend Winifred Holtby, the brilliant novelist for whom literary England mourns. CLARA G. SIDWELL, of Utah, has written a book titled "Life Shrouded in Mystery", developing her theme along family lines and history. KATHARINE BUSH, popular novelist, has published her biography in magazine serial. It is snappy like her books. MME. CHANDON and Mme. Drhilon were awarded prizes by the French Academy of Sciences for research work. KATHLEEN BURKE HALE, known as "Angel of France" in World War days, and Anne Morgan, president of "American Friends of France", have both gone to Europe to again give service and means. These two American women will find changes in the status of women in the European countries, with the Councils disorganized, women of all classes enlisted and now engaged in different arms of service. "TRANQUILLA JORDAN, 94, Susanah E. Dunn, 92, Mary M. Chadwick, go, Esther J. Flynn, go, all Utah pioneers and women of remarkable experience, were feted and given gifts and honors on their recent birthdays. Such longevity speaks well for Utah and the pioneer life.