From Seed-Packets to Blossoming Flowers By Hazel D. Moyle
"EVERY person should have a garden," says Margaret E. Sangster, "even if that garden is only a window-box set on a sunny ledge, or a flat bowl of lily-bulbs on a table. Every person in the world should have the splendor and peace of a garden to fill the hours with living music and lyric verse... For a garden holds the essence of life and tells the story of life's loveliness." Yes, indeed, every one should have a garden in which to learn the intimate secrets and beauties of the teeming world of green-growing things. But what of the busy mother whose every hour is filled to the brim with the daily tasks of keeping her family in order? How can she find time to give the long hours necessary to the cultivation of flowers, or find the means for purchasing expensive plants, when every dollar is already needed in a dozen places? Yet it is the busy mother, most of all, who needs the respite and serenity that comes from. Close contact with the mysterious processes of nature in a garden; most of all, it is her children who will respond to its beauties and carry forever the precious and fragrant memory of "mother's flower garden" in their hearts. So this article will deal with the kind of garden that can be made by spending a few cents for a dozen packages of seeds?more or less?and will tell of flowers that will grow with a minimum of care. It will tell of a small garden that will supply bounteous summer-long beauty for adorning the home both inside and out-of-doors. Whoever plants such a garden may not carry off the highest prize for the rarest flower displayed at the Flower Show, but she will have quantities of time-tried flowers that have been loved and planted by so many past generations that their history is all tangled up in the history of civilization. She may even win a blue ribbon or two if she can purchase good varieties of seeds and bestow a little extra care upon them, for even judges at flower shows are susceptible to the charms of these well-loved flowers. BUT to begin: First, a suitable piece of ground must be selected. This should be one that has the sun most of the day and that is away from tall trees, so that their roots will not encroach upon the flowers. A plot facing south is ideal, although an eastern or western exposure is also good. Ground facing north is the least desirable, because some parts will not receive much sun; but even this can be made to yield good bloom. Do not undertake too large a piece of ground, but rather use a small plot and prepare this well, for then it will produce more bloom than a poorly prepared larger space. First, take up all stones and trash. Then, if possible, apply a generous layer of old barnyard manure that has stood for a year or more. This will do wonders in making the soil fertile, loose and friable, and will help to conserve water as well as produce larger and better flowers. Next, the ground must be well
NEW GIANT FLOWERED CALENDULA YELLOW COLOSSAL The biggest and most profuse blooming of all large flowered calendulas.
And deeply dug, incorporating the manure to a good depth. This will encourage the roots downward, thus producing stronger and better plants and flowers. Digging should be done as soon as possible in the spring while the ground is soft and easily worked, after which it must be raked fine and leveled. Then it is all ready for planting the seeds. We are choosing only seeds that are hardy enough to be planted right out in the ground, and two of these should be planted as soon as the ground is ready. Larkspur and Shirley Poppies grow best when planted while the weather is still cool, and these are two of our finest annuals. Sow each of these near the center of the bed, in long backward-slanting rifts. Mark the ground where they are planted with a deep indentation either with a hoe or with small sticks thrust into the ground about them, so that other seeds will not be planted in the same space. The larkspur has recently been so improved that it now rivals the perennial tall delphinium, and can be purchased in many lovely colors. Do not buy a mixed package of seeds, but choose one of the fine colors of the newly named types. Carmine King is a glowing coral, while Peach Blossom is a delicate pink of large branched habit. Others are lavender, blue, and white. The Shirley Poppy produces silken flowers, which appear as though spun from some fairy loom, with every enchanting shading and degree and combination of fluttering pink-and-white loveliness; these delightful annuals will also seed themselves all about for years to come. They should be planted in a narrow rift so that they can be pulled up when their bloom is over and other plants allowed to cover the space. Cover the seeds lightly with soil. Let us next provide a tall background by setting tall and strong stakes at the back of our plot, about 21% feet apart. These must be heavy enough to support the vines of the Heavenly Blue Morning Glories that we will train upon them. Stout twine must be strung for the vines to climb upon, and this can also be stretched between the stakes so that a curtain of this rare, lovely blue glory can form a beautiful back-drop for the flower bed. The seeds of the Morning glory can be planted right where they are to grow as soon as the weather has become really warm (usually the latter part of April). Several seeds should be planted by each stake after first clipping off a tiny piece from the pointed end of the seed to help germination. Place a glass fruit bottle over each planting to make a small greenhouse, for this morning glory is a native of Mexico and dislikes cold. Remove the glass when the plants are growing and all danger of frost is over. Now we must select an edging-plant from the many fine low-growing annuals. If we can succeed in developing a good front-line planting and a good background, considerably more than half the battle of making a beautiful planting is won. The
NEW GIANT IMPERIAL LARKSPUR GLITTERS
219 Dwarf French Marigolds make a free-flowering low border for those who love rich velvety orange and gold colors, while Ageratum will provide a ribbon of soft, pastel blue loveliness. Sweet Alyssum is also delightful, covering every inch of space with frothy white flowers that are sweetly fragrant until winter arrives. The seeds of any of these should be sown in rows about six inches from the edge, and covered with three times their thickness of fine soil. Immediately back of this low edging, we will sow the medium-tall flowers, such as the old-fashioned calendula (grandmother called it pot-marigold). But oh, how improved are these new hybrids of to-
 ?APRIL, 1940
NEW SEMI-TALL SCABIOSA?HEAVENLY BLUE
day! One named Yellow Colossal is claimed to be the biggest calendula in the world, with flowers of clear yellow measuring 41% inches across. Scabiosa, Heavenly Blue, would be a good choice to alternate with the calendula, for this also is medium height, and produces large round balls of soft, azure-blue flowers. The rest of the entire bed should be filled with zinnias and African Marigolds. Plant each in blocks of one color?never use a mixed color-package. Plant two or three seeds together so that when they are germinated all but the strongest can be pulled up or transplanted, and set 8 inches apart. THE ground must be kept moist after the seeds are planted until they are up, and some gardeners cover the ground with burlap sacks to help keep them from drying out. (Continued on page 284)