Mention Relief Society Magazine 284 From Seed Packets to Blossoming Slowers (Continued from page 220) These should be removed as soon as germination takes place?which will require from one to two weeks?for the young plants quickly grow tall and are weak if kept covered. The soil should be stirred and cultivated around each plant as soon as they begin to grow. This should continue until the plants spread out and cover the bare ground. Another mulch of the old fertilizer applied on the surface after the plants are growing will help to stimulate rapid growth as well as produce large, well-colored flowers, and will also be a factoi in conserving moisture. We might go on and on telling how this simple garden could be developed by the addition of a few permanent perennials and bulbs, but then it could not be classed as a garden made entirely from a few packets of seeds. As it is, the planting just described is guaranteed to produce enough color and beauty to repay a hundred fold the labor and expense involved, and to convert any family to an awareness of the joys of a garden of blossoming flowers. ?God made the flowers to beautify the earth, And cheer man?s careful mood; And he is happiest who has power To gather wisdom from a flower, And wake his heart in every hour To pleasant gratitude.? -Wordsworth White Rose (continued from page 274). Memories of a small, cuddly baby; a sturdy lad; a growing man, a man glad and happy to do God?s work. The fragrance of white roses swept around her like a soft, sweet cape. She reached out a small, fragile hand and gathered a perfect bud. Her small, white head was high as David and Connie passed going back to their drab, brown house. They spoke, gently, kindly, and though they smiled, Hester knew they were sorry for her. She carried the rose inside and closed the door. There, standing suddenly very still and quiet in the midst of plenty and luxury, Hester Dean knew, with a poignant pain in her heart, how poor she really was. Enjoy the Thrill & Flowers-Shrubs?Trees Get our acclimated Mountain Grown Tested Seeds and Planting Materials. Assortment for your choosing. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940

 A wonderful Free New 1940 Garden Book For Full Details Salt Lake City and Centerville, Utah Salt Lake City and Centreville, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SPECIAL VALUES For CONFERENCE VISITORS Outstanding values in L. D. S. Literature, general books, and high grade merchandise are offered at the Deseret Book Company during Conference Week. While you are attending Conference be sure to visit this friendly Book Store and take advantage of the many attractive bargains. Our Gift Shop is famous for its thousand and one delightful gifts and novelties. We also have Greeting Cards for every occasion. Also a full line of Moving Picture Equipment, Radios, Leather Goods, Fountain Pens, Pencils, Stationery, etc. We are headquarters for all Church Literature and carry the largest stock of Books in the Intermountain Region. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah "L. D. S. Training Pays!" THE L.D.S. BUSINESS COLLEGE is SECOND to NONE in Equipment Buildings Faculty Employment Service It's the Right School for Your Commercial Education Ask for our 'Bulletin of Information" L.D.S. Business College SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH Completely Wholesome ?and So Different! Take Home a Loaf Next Time You Shop! Fisher: DUTCH BREAD When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine LIFE INSURANCE Of course he's too young to figure it out for himself... But if he could, he'd probably wonder if his dad was protecting his future. He'd like to feel that no matter what happened ? his "bread and butter," his mother's time to "bring him up" BENEFICIAL INSURANCE Heber J.. Grent, Pres. ? properly, and his education, were all properly provided for through life insurance protection.... While it is fresh in your mind, consult a Beneficial Life Insurance agent. He can render valuable advice and assistance to your life insurance program. BENFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 THE COVER