RESIGNATION
By Irene R. Davis
I am weary when the night does fall;
My soul is oppressed when I see all
The tasks I have left undone.
A garment torn, a finger print
Where wee hands want to stray;
And though I yearn for careless ease,
My duties say me, "Nay."
My spirit would in fancy flit
Across the meadows clear.
My heart goes dancing with the breeze,
And fairy bells I hear.
But, I must stay at home to clean;
An upturned face I kiss,
A smudgy tear I wipe away,
But I should cherish this—
I have a neighbor 'cross the way,
And oh, she envies me!
She would give a world of joys to share
The little cares I see.
And so—
I am weary when the night does fall;
But I thank God I have them all—
My Cares!
4. What happened to the Saints there?
What differences existed between them and their neighbors?
5. How had the Saints treated g F
Note: Map used in July issue of the city of Zion. Tell about the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church
U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
PERMIT No. 690
THE THREE-PIECE WARDROBE SUIT
It?s America?s big fasion for 1940
The versatile: three-piece wardrobe suit that typifies the new feeling for common sense, simplicity and efficiency in fashion, sheer wearability will delight you
You'll have a complete costume for spring's first brisk days, an ultrasmart topper for wear with all your frocks, clever two-piece suit that's right the clock around, and a skirt to pair with blouses.
A change of accessories will change its whole aspect from "sports to dress.
The Relief Society MAGAZINE
Make It a Hobby to Sew and Save!
INTRODUCING
Miss Edna Mae Nye, who will conduct sewing classes ? free of charge ? on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.
Buy your materials at Auerbach's and receive free instruction, on the fourth floor.
Classes will be conducted Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday from 10:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., Miss Edna Mae Nye, well known professional seamstress, who will conduct Auerbach Sewing Classes.
VISIT AUERBACH'S FABRIC CENTER TOMORROW AND SEE THE LARGE, COMPLETE STOCKS OF NEW SPRING FABRICS.
4 You'll revel in the beauty of our fabric displays! You'll thrill to the
57% unlimited selection
Offered in a glorious array of fashionable
# fabrics! Silks! Woolens! Cottons! Novelty summer fabrics! Stripes and plains!
Be among the many who have learned the economy which sewing brings
Who know the smart clothes which can be fashioned to your own taste, at a wise, substantial saving.
Enroll for classes in our Fabric Department?Street Floor
AUERBACH'S
FOUNDED 1864 PHONE WAS.
