Items of Interest
To Relief Society
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE visitors are invited to visit the general offices of the Society, Bishop's Building, second floor, where they may arrange to meet friends, to rest, to telephone or write notes. An information desk will be located there for their convenience. The attendant will be pleased to direct visitors to the various departments of the Society where they may wish to transact business?subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine, obtain supplies, or order the new Relief Society Song Book. A special exhibit of temple and burial clothing, which will be open daily from 9 till 6 o'clock, will be arranged in Room 20, on the same floor. Visitors will also be welcomed at the Mormon Handicraft Shop at 21 West South Temple Street, where a variety of fine and unusual handiwork will await their inspection.
Children's Friend Souvenir Number
THE April, 1940, issue of the Children's Friend, published by the Primary Association, is a souvenir number. It is an enlarged edition honoring the retiring Primary Superintendency and General Board. A picture of Miss May Anderson, the former superintendent, is printed on the cover. The magazine contains biographical sketches of the retiring superintendency, revealing them as
Conference Visitors
"women who have looked for their rewards in the lives and characters of the boys and girls they have served". It also contains accounts of the growth and activities of the Primary Association. Interest is heightened throughout by beautiful and well chosen pictures. The entire magazine is superior. It is a delight to read and invaluable as a reference.
School of Social Work Gains National Recognition
THE following announcement made in The Social Work Commentator, published by the School of Social Work, University of Utah, is of interest to all organizations in the Intermountain region engaged in social welfare: "National recognition was accorded the University of Utah School of Social Work when it was given accredited standing by the American Association of Schools of Social Work at the organization's fifteenth annual meeting held in January at Washington, D. C. "Official announcement of this honor was made by Dr. Arthur L. Beeley, dean of the school, upon his return from the national sessions. He reported that the faculty and curriculum, the budget and the physical set-up of the school were all approved as meeting the requirements of the national association. "This event is of particular significance to the Intermountain region, where the need for an authoritative institution to instruct professional workers in the field of public welfare and social service has long been felt."
The Annual Reminder Of Tithing By The Presiding Bishopric
ONCE each year the General Authorities of the Church endeavor to direct the attention of every member of the Church to the law of tithing. This important principle is so vital to the success of the Church, so helpful to those who practice it, and so definitely a part of the fundamental doctrines of the Church, that it is essential that it frequently be brought to the attention of Latter-day Saints. Members of the Relief Society are so closely related to the practice of the principle of tithing in the average home that their cooperation is especially urged in the Church-wide educational campaign to be conducted during the month of May. The Prophet Joseph Smith charged the sisters with the duty of provoking their husbands to good works. In no way, probably, could a wife better serve the interests of her family than by encouraging her husband to pay tithing. Testimonies are numerous throughout the Church, and have been since the law of tithing was first introduced, that the beginning of the payment of a regular and full tithing was the beginning of the economic welfare of the family; that the accounting required to compute the exact amount due as tithing and the self-denial and strength needed to comply with this law, have been so definitely reflected in the improved affairs of the family that no question remains as to whether or not the promised blessings follow observance of the principle. Tithing should be paid in the spirit of giving rather than with the hope of reward. However the principle of reward is closely associated with the fulfillment of every spiritual law. The law of tithing is no exception. In fact, the rewards and blessings promised to honest and faithful tithepayers are among the most generous and bounteous promised in connection with any law. We are told that "the windows of heaven" shall be opened to those who tithe themselves for the purposes of the Lord, and that blessings shall be poured out upon them in rich abundance. In the days of financial stress through which the world has just passed, this promise has been fulfilled in so many cases, and in so many lands, that it should not be questioned by any Latter-day Saint. The Lord keeps his promises. If we desire a blessing, we must obey the law upon which the blessing we desire is predicated. In the law of tithing certain requirements are made, and if they are fulfilled the promises are sure to follow. Under the plan provided by the Presiding Bishopric, each Relief Society meeting during the month of May should be provided with a speaker assigned to present a particular phase of the law of tithing. It is recommended that the talks be five minutes in length and that ample time be provided for careful preparation. The same request is being made of each organization of the Church. In addition, the teaching of tithing is to be carried to every Latter-day Saint home through the ward Priesthood teachers. Some suggestions for talks in Relief Society meetings are given herewith:
TITHING IN EARLY TIMES
The payment of the tithe?the portion due God?is an ancient, wide-spread practice found among many people. The institution antedates the Mosaic dispensation, for Abraham paid tithes of the spoil to Melchizedek, king of Salem, and "priest of the most high God" (Gen. 14:18-20); and Jacob, at Bethel, vowed: "And this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give a tenth unto thee." (Gen. 28:22.)
CHILDREN OF ISRAEL TITHED
The children of Israel manifested their repentance by an immediate payment of tithes in the reformation inaugurated by Hezekiah (2 Chronicles 31:1-10), and temporal blessings from the Lord resulted. Hezekiah inquired as to the source of such plenty, and "Azariah, the chief priest of the house of Zodak, answered him and said, 'Since the people began to bring the offerings into the house of the Lord, we have had enough to eat, and have left plenty, for the Lord hath blessed His people; and that which is left is this great store." Hezekiah wrought that which was good and right and true before the Lord his God, "and in every work that he began in the service of the house of God, and in the law, and in the commandments, to seek his God, he did it with all his heart, and prospered."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940
PROMOTES UNSELFISHNESS
A recent writer advised all young men starting out for themselves to make a point of contributing regularly, monthly or weekly, to some charitable cause, in order to train themselves to lessen their selfishness?one of the most potent enemies of godliness, which naturally comes to people who exclusively regard their own interests and happiness. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints provision is made for the fulfilling of this duty in the law of tithing. Every young man should pay tithing from the day he becomes a member of the Church on all his increase in kind. The amount is immaterial, just so it is one-tenth?which is the meaning of tithing.
MUST GIVE OF OURSELVES IN TITHING
Payment of tithing should be made in spirit. Emerson says of gifts: "The only gift is a portion of thyself. Thou must bleed for me." Tithing is not a tax; it is a voluntary offering brought forth by the giver, actuated by no other motive than a pure love for his fellows, for the Church as God's organization on earth, and a desire in his heart to fulfill the commands of God.
PROMOTES SPIRITUAL GROWTH
There are four good reasons why the payment of tithing influences spiritual growth: It is a principle with promise; a protection against curses and evil; it casts away the fear of disobedience; it is a command of God, and the obedient continue to be the sons of God.