The response to suggestions of the Church committee to improve, beautify, and landscape the churches has
EDITORIAL
been very favorable. But are we not going faster forward with our churches than with our homes? A community can be no more beautiful than its homes and their surroundings. Neat home grounds with trees, flowers, shrubs, lawns, not only make beautiful cities but have an uplifting effect upon the members of the household. It is important to create and stimulate a sense of beauty and refinement in people. In no way can this be more easily done than by bringing people into contact with beauty in and about their homes. The ancient Greeks used to associate the good with the beautiful. Beautiful home surroundings help to make better people. A wholesome pride in home is essential to successful family life. One cannot be proud of a home that is untidy, run down, neglected and dilapidated. Often we become so accustomed to our surroundings that we fail to realize that our houses are crying for paint, that our fences and gates are hanging, that our paths are needlessly muddy or that our ditch banks are overgrown with weeds; we fail to notice the barrenness due to lack of growing things. Not so the visitor to our home or the stranger driving through our town. We are too often inclined to justify our neglect on the premise that we cannot afford to fix up. An interesting report made by Dr. A. L. Stark of the Utah Agricultural College revealed that in checking a large number of places it was found that in most instances money was not necessary to effect major improvements. Labor was the principle limiting factor. Then, too, it is a well-known fact that there is financial value in properly caring for homes. It is frugal and judicious to use a little money to keep things in repair and well renovated. The joy of living is half of life itself. Great joy may be found in life by cherishing beauty?beauty in our open places, beauty along our highways, beauty about our dwellings, beauty in our cities. A little effort on the part of every one should create by 1947 a state of which we may well be proud.