Notes from the Field" is so limited in relation to the number of stakes and missions that it must be reserved for teports on the work of the organization rather than of individuals. Pictures which are submitted for publication can be used only if they are clear and distinct and will make good cuts for Messages from Australian Mission HE annual report from this mission was accompanied by an interesting narrative summary from Maud M. Judd, mission president of Relief Societies. She reported that she had recently accompanied her husband, President James Judd, on a tour of the mission, and had "found all the organizations working in unity and harmony...." She continues: "The organizations have been behind me in every project that has been attempted. The Magazine drive received enthusiastic support in nearly every branch. Last February we donated both money and clothing to relieve Bush fire victims and received a letter of thanks from reproduction. Pictures must be accompanied by informative narrative accounts of the events or activities to which they pertain. Wards desiring to submit reports for publication in "Notes from the Field' are requested to send them through their respective stake Relief Societies. It often happens that one or two wards in a stake will send reports on special activities which are being conducted on a stake-wide basis, and in such instances it would be to the advantage of the stake to have the report cover the entire activity in the same issue of the Magazine with all participating wards represented. All narrative material should bear the date of submittal, and all references to certain seasons or special occasions should be identified by the correct dates. Similarly, all pictures should have both date and identification on the reverse. Material submitted for "Notes from the Field'' is to be addressed to the General SecretaryTreasurer. The Missions the Lord Mayor. To raise money this year, the organizations have held many fine musical teas which proved a success in every case." Spanish American Mission ARTHA W. WILLIAMS is president of Relief Societies in this mission, with headquarters at E] Paso, Texas. She wrote on January 20, 1940: "We are very happy over the results that have been accomplished in Relief Society work throughout the mission and are proud of the fact that they have progressed so much during the year. As you will notice from our report, we have increased our membership more than ENTRANCE TO SWISS MISSION HOME (Copy of painting by Fawn B. McKay) 100 per cent, and the activities accomplished during the year were much more extensive than those of 1938. We hope that during the coming year we will continue to increase our numbers and activities, that this society will accomplish much good among the people of this mission. We have all of the Relief Society lessons for the year translated and compiled into a book, and these lessons are being used throughout the mission." Swiss Mission THE accompanying artistic sketch of the entrance to the mission home, Leimenstrasse 49, Basel, was done by Sister Fawn B. McKay of Utah, recently released president of the Relief Societies in the Swiss Mission. This mission home was purchased by the Church in 1920, and many indeed are the missionaries, members, and friends of the Church who have passed through its friendly doors during the twenty years since its establishment. All L. D. S. Missionaries from the United States were recalled at the outbreak of the war in the fall of 1939, and President and Sister Thomas E. McKay of the Swiss Mission were the last to leave, sailing February, 1940. Also presented here is an interesting picture of Relief Society women in the Swiss Mission, taken at the mission conference in Berne at Easter time, 1939. Sister McKay wrote at that time: "The calmness RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN IN THE SWISS MISSION Front row, second from left, Fawn B. McKay, former president of the Swiss Mission Relief Societies; third from ieft, Evelyn N. Wood, former president of the West German Mission Relief Societies. And good judgment of the Swiss women in these rather hectic times is much to be admired." And early in January, 1940, she wrote: "The lull in war activity you are all quite aware of, but the spell of gloom and tension still predominates... I am happy to report that the organizations are holding up extremely well." Tahitian Mission ACCOMPANYING the annual report from this mission was the following summary written January 10, 1940, by Iona B. Stevens, who presides over the Tahitian Mission Relief Societies: "The year 1939 was an eventful one for the sisters of this mission. They were extremely grateful for the privilege of meeting President Rufus K. Hardy, of the First Council of Seventy, as he journeyed from island to island. The tour of the Tahitian Mission in company with President Hardy will always stand out as an important event in the lives of President Stevens and myself. "The Relief Society sisters on the various islands did much to make our brief sojourn there as comfortable and pleasant as possible. On the five representative islands we visited, I noted that the Relief Society presidents took the leadership in the preparation of our meals (or rather feasts). They saw that our clothes were laundered, that we had warm bath water, and also directed the sisters in performing many other services which helped to make our visit comfortable and pleasant. The executive ability of these presidents was a pleasant surprise. It was easily noted that the work of this Society plays a major role in the lives of the women of each branch. "Outstanding programs consisting of beautiful songs, interesting talks on the Gospel and scriptural readings, were presented for us on each island visited. The ability of the sisters to quote scripture is remarkable. They love their Bible and Book of Mormon, and quote countless passages from memory without an error." British Mission THE presidency of the Relief Society in Edinburgh, shown in the accompanying photograph, sent the following report, dated December 15, 1939, of the conduct of Relief Society work since the beginning of the war and consequent withdrawal of missionaries: "We decided to put away all the dainty work that was being done for a sale of work at Christmas to help our funds. As we did in the last war, we decided to work for the hospitals and for the Red Cross, which has given us much work and also a box for collections. We tried meeting in daylight, but as we all have to work it was not convenient, and we now meet at the hall at 6:30. The streets are very dark, shops shut at six, and cars trundle along dim and rather ghostly. Owing to the sandbags against the buildings, every sound seems to develop an echo. 'The cars sound like gunfire at certain points. The hoot of a ship at sea or a railway engine is often taken for the air raid warning, which by the way is a terrifying wail. "We in Edinburgh have many non-members in our work party, all very keen to help and willing to take part in our program on open night. We need your prayers that we along with all our members in other nations may keep the faith, and that our Father in his love may shorten these days." Tongan Mission HE following comments are from a letter dated February 6, 1940, from Evelyn H. Dunn who presides over the Tongan Mission Relief Societies: "I am happy to report that we RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY, EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND Left to right, Counselors H. Falconer and H. McCourt, and President A. Patterson. Have organized the Relief Society work in two new branches during the last year. One branch is in the Togatabu District, on the large island of the group where the mission headquarters is located. The other branch is located on a very small island far to the north. I have not had a chance to visit there, as the mission work was started there less than a year ago, and the island is very hard to reach. President Dunn had an opportunity to visit there early in the year, and he recommended that the Relief Society work be started. Misitana Vea, and his wife Mele Seini, who had been second counselor in the mission presidency of the Relief Society, were called as missionaries to go to the island. Mele Seini had instructions to organize the Relief Society there, and she reports that the sisters are very much interested. "The Tongan people are very poor at this time owing to the fact that the price of copra is so low. They have plenty of food, for they can raise it themselves, but it is very hard for them to get clothing. We feel that the little money which the Relief Society has on hand may be needed, so we are being very careful with it." Sister Dunn also reported the release of her two counselors in the RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS AT BAZAAR, MOWBRAY, SOUTH AFRICA Front row, third from left, Josephine H. Folland, president of South African Mission Relief Societies. Mission presidency of Relief Society. Because of conditions in this mission it was difficult for the Relief Society presidency to meet, and Sister Dunn feels that better results will be obtained by appointing district Relief Society presidents who can keep in personal touch with the work in the districts. South African Mission FOLLOWING are excerpts from a letter written December 6, 1939, by Josephine H. Folland, who presides over the South African Mission Relief Societies: "We have seven Relief Society organizations scattered throughout the mission. The members in each organization are also very scattered and many of them are employed during the day, making it possible to hold our meetings only in the evenings in connection with the Priesthood meetings. "We have just sent in fifty subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine, representing a very good percentage of the members. "At our headquarters in Mowbray we have an enrollment of thirty-one members, and our average attendance during the past year was twenty per meeting. Among the activities of this branch were two very fine Relief Society conferences, the presentation of the entire program at the Sunday evening meeting on March 18, a dinner for the old folks on March 17 with thirty-eight in attendance, a successful concert August 17, with over 300 paid admissions from which was realized a profit of over $80, and on November 5 a bazaar which was remarkably successful 'considering the unsettled condition during wartime. The bazaax was socially and financially of great benefit to us. Our receipts were approximately $250. We now have enough money to carry on our work and meet the rather heavy demands for charity for the coming year. We have also had some very fine lectures and demonstrations throughout the year. "One of our smallest branches, Eerste River, just outside of Cape Town, has four members, but all of them take the Relief Society Magazine. They carry on their work in a most faithful way. They contribute to the Mowbray Branch and also carry on their own charity work. One of the members has a flock of ducks to help with their finances."