?Lorine Lee
Some Literary Friends By Florence Ivins Hyde
ONE of the fondest recollections of my childhood is of my father reading to his children while we sat on our stools and cushions before the open fire. We were in a foreign land where we had to make new friends, where we had to be taught to remember our native land and to be inspired to want to return, some day, to the country of our birth. So stories were read to us, often with these things in mind. My patriotism was born and nurtured there. At times, his stories were for no other purpose, however, than for the mere pleasure they brought us by making for us new friends?friends of the characters in the stories, friends of animals and birds, and friends of the authors themselves.
The reading habit not only develops the appreciation for books, but it makes for us new friends?friends who know how to say in the right way the things that are in our hearts; friends who will let us agree or disagree with them with no break in the friendship. In every home there ought to be book friends, friends that we can turn to when we need to be buoyed up.
Statistics indicate that in the last fifty years the amount of reading material has increased far more than has the population of our country. This must mean only one thing?that we are becoming a nation of readers. Provided our literature is of the right sort, and is read intelligently, this fact may have a profoundly beneficial effect upon the social life of America. But from a study made a few years ago, it was learned that young people are reading more newspapers and magazines than books. This is a thing to be regretted, for the most vital things in life are preserved in books. People who have a broad interest in books as a rule have a broad interest in life. Great readers live in the world. People without reading habits live within the four corners of their communities.
With the millions of books that have been published, what to choose to read becomes a real problem. Libraries, schools and reviewers try to classify books so that we may choose wisely. We are justified, of course, in liking one thing and disliking another, for a thing that touches the experience of one may be foreign to another. Unless the story, essay or treatise is within our experience, it has no interest for us. But it is worth while to make an effort to appreciate the things that are rated as good, for literary taste has to be cultivated just as does a taste for music or art.
Professor William Matthew has said: "It is not the number of books which a person reads that makes him intelligent and well informed, but the number of well chosen ones that he has mastered so that every valuable thought in them is a familiar friend."
John Macy says that to be well read it is not necessary to have labored through all the classics, because if we spend our time over them we will undoubtedly miss many books which should be our companions but which are not great. It is of these little-known companions that we wish to speak in this series of articles.
One of the ends of reading is to develop individuality. Books largely make us what we are. Our spiritual life is fed by them. The Swedish composer, Hugo Alfven, says: "Reading Selma Lagerlof is like sitting in the dusk of a Spanish cathedral. Afterward, one does not know whether what he has seen is dream or reality, but certainly he has been on holy ground." It is unquestionably good if what we read does this for us.
FOR a program of fireside reading for all the family, let us begin with something short, leading up to things of greater length and finally to books which discuss personality, religion, philosophy or history. Reading aloud and discussing what is read does something for a family that nothing else can do. A program of family reading could well be begun by reading the old fables. In childhood, Aesop to us was merely a teller of amusing tales, but as we reach maturity his fables become filled with philosophy.
Nothing will give us more happiness in life than a love of poetry. Beauty, whether it be found in music, in art, or in literature, brings joy. Some of the most beautiful art is found in poetry. Literature began as poetry. We seem to be inherently poetical. We respond to it and remember it more easily than prose. In these days of ultra-sophistication and realism, it is helpful to repeat the rhythmic lines of our favorite poems. I think of the quotation with which King George VI of England ended his Christmas message to his people:
"I said to a man who stood at the gate of the year, 'Give me a light that I may tread softly into the unknown,' And he replied: 'Go out into the darkness And put your hand into the hand of God. That shall be to you better than a light, And safer than a known way.'"
Short stories with a wholesome life philosophy might well be considered for the fireside hour. We are told that the churches are losing young people because they have not been able to imbue them with ideals that will tide them over adolescent years. Adolescent boys and girls like to talk over the questions of right and wrong, and to discuss the philosophy of life. Preaching does not appeal to them, but I observe that they are not averse to having pointed out to them the truths behind a story. For example: When we tell the valuable story of General Pershing at the tomb of Lafayette, I believe that rather than to conclude with, "Lafayette, we are here," it is good teaching to point out the fact that this story should mean to every one of us a plea to stand by in time of crisis.
The following story by Henry Ward Beecher will not be spoiled by pointing out its philosophy:
THE ANXIOUS LEAF
"Once upon a time a little leaf was heard to sigh and cry, as leaves often do when the wind is about, and the twig said, 'What is the matter, little leaf?' And the little leaf said, 'The wind just told me that one day it would pull me off and throw me to die on the ground!'
"The twig told it to the branch upon which it grew, and the branch told it to the tree. And when the tree heard it, it rustled all over, and sent back word to the leaf: 'Do not be afraid; hold on tightly, and you shall not go till you want to.'
"So the leaf stopped sighing and went on nestling and singing. Every time the tree shook itself and stirred up all the leaves, the branches shook themselves and the little twig shook itself, and the little leaf danced up and down merrily, as if nothing could ever pull it off. So it grew all summer long till October.
"When the bright days of autumn came, the little leaf saw all the other leaves around it becoming very beautiful. Some were yellow, some were scarlet, and some were striped with both colors. Then it asked the tree what it all meant; and the tree said, 'All the leaves are getting ready to fly away, and they are putting on these beautiful colors because of joy.'
"Then the little leaf began to want to go, and grew very beautiful in thinking of it; and when it was very gay in color, it saw that the branches of the tree had no color at all in them. So the leaf said; 'Oh," branches, why are you lead color and we golden?' "And the branches said, "We must keep on our work clothes, for our life is not done; but your clothes are for holiday, for your tasks are over." "Just then a little puff of wind came, and the leaf let go without thinking. The wind took it up, and whirled it over and over, and tossed it like a spark of fire in the air, and then it fell gently down under the edge of the fence among hundreds of other leaves. It fell into a dream and never waked up to tell what it dreamed about." READ The Anxious Leaf many times merely as a beautiful nature story before I discovered it was Mr. Beecher's philosophy of life and death: The tree said to the little leaf, "Do not be afraid. Hold on tightly and you shall not go till you want to." So the little leaf went through the summer singing. But in the autumn when all the other leaves were getting ready to fly away, then the little leaf began to want to go. With Erasmus, a little before we go to sleep let us read something that is exquisite and worth remembering and contemplate upon it till we fall asleep.