CATHEDRAL OF PEACE
Bob, who was dressed and ready to leave, stopped short with his hand on the door knob. Never before could he remember seeing his mother look just like this. She had never, in his memory, had a complete outfit. Her hair had never had that particular sheen; her features had never seemed so delicate or her skin so smooth. And these things were not all. There was something more?a radiance, a poise, a self-worth. She was lifted from a fact to a presence, to a person. Catching her eye, he raised his hand in salute. It said, "Good going." The twins swooped upon her. She stooped and put out her hands to catch them. "U?um. What lovely kisses." "We want to go." "You can't go," Dennis told them in a misery-loves-company tone. "You have to stay here with me." Just then Carson came downstairs. His quick eyes lighted with incredulity, then approbation. "Whew! Are you stepping out, or are you! Here, you haven't your powder on right. Give me your puff?and the rouge," he added, as she turned to her room for the powder. "Where did you learn the art?" Dennis wanted to know, as he watched his older brother's deft movements. "You must have had practice. Better watch him, Mom." "Any one but a blind man would know how it is done," Carson answered, genially. "Now where is your lipstick?" "Lipstick!" Dennis gasped over the word. "Haven't you any?" "Yes. There was some came in the kit, but I don't think?" "Get it." When Carson was through, he stepped back to view his work. "You look a million," was his comment. "Be sure your shoes are comfortable. You are going to be danced off your feet." "I think I'll drive you, instead?," Bob began, but his brother cut him short. "No, you don't. Night." "Thanks, son." Something more than joy flooded over Carolyn. The moment, so perfect, carried her on wings of memory back ten, fifteen years; back beyond this harsh present to where parents and children were united in a seemingly unbreakable bond of sympathy and understanding. Where along the way had she lost touch? Wasn't there some way of holding this precious, precious moment to be used later when strong-willed, hot-headed Carson needed something to which to tie? She glanced at Turner. Through all of it he had continued to read assiduously. To her knowledge he had not even glanced her way. His brows were drawn together in a scowl. "You had better hurry, Bob." Carolyn turned her attention to Carson. "Finish what you are doing, but hurry. I must be there early. I must help prepare the lunch. Dennis, you might bring the car around and be loading up the freezer, if you can, and these dishes and things." Dennis sprang to obey. He snatched every chance to learn to drive. Never before had his mother suggested such a thing. "Give me the keys," he cried. Then Turner slowly lowered his book. With exasperating insouciance he faced the group. "Give you what?" he asked, mildly. "The keys to the car. Mother said I might bring it around to the gate." "Why?" With a bang Bob closed the door behind him. Outside he had a wild idea of taking the car and running it into the river. "Mother said I might back the car out and load up the freezer," Dennis explained, when the echo of the bang was stilled. "I'm through now," Carson was struggling with his coat. "I'll run down after Garden while Mother is finishing." "No, I am," Dennis began, but his father rose slowly. "Neither of you shall have them." Carolyn dropped into the nearest chair. She might have known. He was always a jump ahead. Carson's quick temper flared. "If you think for one moment you are keeping Mother home..." "Who said anything about keeping her home?" Carolyn expelled her breath with relief. He had decided to go after all. She looked hopefully at Carson. "In that case," the boy was saying, "let me go after Garden while you are getting ready." "What has Garden to do with us?" "I am supposed to be taking her to the dance," Carson explained elaborately. He was keeping a leash on his tongue, but his eyes were blazing. "Too bad," the father said indifferently, and turning his back he left the room. For a moment the boy stared at the closed door. His hands clinched. He took a step forward. "Carson," his mother warned. "He'll let you go for Garden later. Don't start anything." "Don't start anything. That's a laugh. I'll go horseback," he exploded. "Not in those clothes." "Who cares about clothes?" He, too, was gone. Dennis looked at his mother. She had wilted. All the buoyancy and expectancy had been replaced by hopeless despair. "Cheer up," he said bravely, trying to keep back his own tears. "You have just changed boy-friends, that's all." "I can't go." "You will have to," he explained, anxiously. "They are expecting you, and if you don't go, some one will be sure to ask questions." So young?so young to know?things. But it was true. There was an unspoken coalition between them. These scenes must never be known beyond the family circle. As it turned out, no excuses were needed.
"NO wonder you were late," Mrs. Sutton, the other counselor, cried, as Carolyn removed her coat. "We will forgive you for wasting time on yourself. The result justifies it." She looked up at Turner Evans who had come in with his arms full. "We should have arranged for a prize. For the best looking couple. I hope you will let her help us in the kitchen at least some of the time." Mrs. Straughn, who was superintending the placing of the food and dishes, spoke in her ear, "You are sweet tonight." "Where did you find her?" Bill Sutton asked Turner, waggishly, when the program was over and they were waiting for the floor to be cleared for dancing. Carolyn was helping Mrs. Sutton, but she caught Turner's reply. "I'll never tell." It was all happy nonsense, but somehow it thrilled. She wanted the Suttons to think she and Turner were as happy as they. What an absurd want, when they were all but separated. Her face flushed. Turner had to answer, of course, but there needn't be that happy lilt to his voice. "You are plain lucky," Mrs. Sutton added. Presently Bob came seeking her for a dance. "Those new clothes weren't bought to sell ice-cream in." "Why aren't you dancing with the girls?" she asked, when they were on the dance floor. "I am," he answered briefly. Then later, "Have you seen Carson?" She told him what had happened and ended with, "He and Garden must have gone some other place." "That is what I was afraid of." At first the dancing was difficult for Carolyn. It had been so long since she had been on a dance floor; but she had once been an easy, graceful dancer, and with Bob's help she was soon gliding about as if she had never had a recess from it. "Are you having a good time, Bob?" she asked at length, noticing his quiet manner. "Oh, sure." But his tone belied his words. She saw his glance stray toward June Straughn. She was a dream in an organdie formal. It was canary yellow at her throat but deepened downward until the last billowing ruffle was burnt orange. Her black hair was long, and she had a habit of tossing her head to throw it back. Joe was puffed with importance. He hung about her?an attention she received with apparent indifference. "You haven't danced with June, have you?" "That is so," he said, just as if he had not yet thought of it. "Don't be rude, Bob. After all she is?June. Why are you acting this way?" "When I am not afraid to take a girl to my home," he said bitterly, "I'll answer that question." She sighed and looked about for Turner. He was dancing with Pearl Grover. That meant he would likely dance with her next. And he did. When the next dance was well started, he found his way to where she was. "I thought you were helping in the kitchen," he said for the benefit of the listeners. As they circled the floor, she saw Bob. He was dancing with June, his strong arm holding her as if she were a bit of thistle down. Totally unaware of it, his face was aglow with that dream that comes only in youth. June's head was back, her eyes meeting his. They danced slowly, as if the world held but the two of them. "Fool." Turner's sharp voice brought Carolyn's attention quickly to him. "He is blind if he can't see the girl is in love with him." Carolyn's hopes quickened to new life. That lovely, lovely girl and her son! Life could hold no sweeter promise for him, but until his pride was satisfied he would never claim her. For a moment Carolyn toyed with the idea of changing the home, of improving it so he would be eager to bring her there. She supposed it could be done.
AS if Turner's dance had been a signal, other men danced with Carolyn. Steps, rhythm, long forgotten, came again to memory. It was not until the evening was nearly gone that Turner had another chance. "The new dress has made you popular," was his greeting when they were on the floor. "It might be that. Anyway, I like it." "Huh," was his comment, but there was a difference in this dance and the first. Bob and June were dancing again, and Lucile was flaunting her indifference by romping down the floor with Joe Colts. They came so close, Turner tightened his arm about Carolyn and whirled her away. They made several rounds of the floor before he remembered to release her, and for those brief moments life turned back. She could feel the thud of his heart, and the caressive pressure of his arms brought an ecstasy of memory. How sweet he had once been to her. His love then had encompassed her world. For the first time in a long while she sincerely wondered if she could overtake Time. She was afraid to try for fear that when she did there would be nothing waiting.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940
Later, while dancing with Kane, he said, "Turner is very proud of you tonight." "Nonsense." "Yes, he is. How could he help being? Perhaps it was this he needed." That was Kane. Always ready to give the other fellow a break. Yet Carolyn felt tears sting her eyes at the ache in his voice. She looked and saw Turner scowling at them. He had never liked Kane. "He is boasting about you to the men." Then he added, "You are so sweet." She flushed. What could Turner have said? He hadn't resented her rebellion. As a matter of fact, his attitude had been a revelation to her?or was he merely keeping up appearances? Kane sighed. She had not heard his last remark. Carson hadn't appeared, and as the dance progressed Carolyn had become more and more worried. He was so reckless, and so much like his father he would not be forced into a situation. Bob, too, had been watching. The sight of his parents evidently engrossed in each other did something to him. Where was Carson, and what was he up to? Slipping away, he was going down the steps of the building when June, beside him, spoke. "Are you leaving?" "June. Go back." "No. I am going with you. I could see by your face something was wrong. Please." For a moment he hesitated. He did not want her along, but he could not resist. "Come." He took her arm and guided her through the maze of cars to his father's. He had a key. Getting in he swung it about carefully, but once on the highway he drove it swiftly toward home. "May I ask where we are going?" "I am looking for Carson," he said simply. But Carson was not at home. Nor was he at Semple's. Nor was Garden home. They must have gone some place together. Before turning the car back toward the ward house, he stopped. June, watching his face anxiously, was worried. She touched his arm. "Can you tell me?" The words recalled him. He looked down, and everything left him except the fact of her presence. "You darl...," his arms were about her before he remembered. Then they dropped, lifelessly. He started the car.
DRIVING home Turner said, "It seems you had a good time. I?I liked your dress." "I did have a good time." Then, "You were lovely to me, Turner," came to her thoughts. She tried to voice it aloud, but the habit of restraint was too strong. Instead, she said, "I wish I knew why Carson wasn't there." "He needs some temper pounded out of him." For a mile she did not answer, then she began hesitantly, "You can't pound anything out of him. Counsel and advice might work better." She expected an angry retort. Instead, he said wearily, "That is true. If parents controlled themselves they would have no trouble with children." She looked up quickly, but his glance was on the road ahead. Time and again the words and the inflection of his voice came back to her in the days that were to come. When they went up the walk to the house, he opened the door and waited for her to enter. As she put away her things, she grew a little cold with anticipation; but without a good night he went to his own room and closed the door.