MUSIC DEPARTMENT How to Learn a New Song By Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff HE conductor must know every detail of a new piece and every movement necessary to conduct it before attempting to present it to the chorus. Some choristers carelessly attempt to teach without first having learned. Others try conscientiously to learn their new pieces thoroughly, and fail because they do not know how to study. Here is a procedure to help these: Begin the analysis of a new piece by studying the words. Determine the meter, and look in the dictionary for uncommon words.. Then read through the words many times, both silently and aloud. Finally, memorize them. As you memorize, begin to discover the emotional content. Determine and name the mood of each verse and note the changes in mood as the verse progresses. Mark the important words. At the same time, begin to learn the music. First, hear the general sound of the whole piece by playing it through many times; then learn individual parts so that you can teach them to the chorus. Notice where the melody of each part becomes prominent and where holds and changes of tempo occur. By applying methods outlined in former articles, it is now possible to set a tempo and determine the dynamics. It is best to write in expression marks as you work them out, to avoid forgetting. At this stage the conductor knows exactly how the perfomance should sound. The next step it to learn how to make it sound that way. Practise conducting before a mirror, checking to see that the movements you make are likely to produce the desired result. The size of the beat in general must agree with the speed and loudness you expect. Where changes in tempo or dynamics occur, the beat must be made to change smoothly but definitely. Left hand movements must be practised until they appear natural and can be done with ease. Every motion to be made must be decided upon beforehand and repeated until its execution requires no conscious effort. Then, when the music and the technique are so deeply imbedded in the memory that they can be trusted to take care of themselves, the conductor can concentrate upon the emotion that is called up by the words and the music. The mood induced in the conductor by so concentrating produces appropriate facial expressions, and the chorus, secing these, is inspired to sing in a manner that will convey to the listeners the mood the conductor feels. When a song is thus thoroughly learned, it is ready for presentation to the chorus. | Color in i (Continued from page 228) or yellow-greens-and-blue-greens are the combinations hardest to use. Avoid too many tones of the same color (one or two are best), or too many different color tones of the same intensity. Confine furnishings to medium tones and accessories to bright colors to avoid the disturbing effect of too strong or too many colors (3). Bright colors should be used in furnishings only when balance can be kept. Limit color in rooms to not more than three or four tones at the most. It is best to confine large spaces to off-white, pale tints, or "killed" colors (colors that have been grayed?hard to use without 'professional help). In selecting color combinations, there are two associated family groups that go very well together but that require some knowledge and experience to intermix successfully. Orange, yellow, and green together with the countless related tans, tusts, limes, olive, browns, and yellow-greens with white make one group; red, blue, and purple with pinks, wines, mauves, grays, and white make the other. In the first group such combinations as yellow, white, and chartreuse; brown, white, and yellow; pale green, gold, and rust are easy examples. In the second group, wine, pink and white; red and white, blue and white, or red, blue, and white; mauve, wine, and white are easily handled. Intermixture combinations such as pink and brown; powder blue and_ yellow; wine, yellow, and white; red, green (Coritinued on page 282) ASK for FREE FULLER Aids to BEAUTIFICATION See the Fuller Paint Dealer in your community for a wealth of printed and illustrated suggestions on beautifying the home with PAINTS and WALLPAPERS. The profusion of bright colors and designs for your walls are as lovely as the springtide! You get only the highest quality when you choose FULLER products. W. P. FULLER CO. Salt Lake and Ogden FULLER PAINTS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Color-Style Your Home Bennett's Property Life Insurance, Paints Bennett?s 66 exclusive shades and tints permit every desired effect in decoration without costly mixing. You get exactly the color you want. Ask for the FREE large color chips. BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. Salt Lake City Dealers throughout the Intermountain country ELECTRICITY IS Cheap COMBINATION OFFER! $17 ALUMINUM SET with purchase of new ELECTRIC RANGE SEE YOUR DEALER OR UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Color in the Home (Continued from page 281) and white; red, green, and yellow are more novel and modern but harder to handle. The lists of color combinations that are described didactically as good or bad dyads, triads, and tetrads have always seemed confusing to me. Should we say that yellow, pale green, and brown were a good triad, your first thought would be, "How pale is pale green? What yellow... What brown should I use?" Good judgment developed through study and keen observation or through professional help is needed to obtain better than average results. And since some professional advice is based on what they have to sell, which is usually what manufacturers feel will sell best and not always what is most artistic, the problem in the final analysis is a personal one of study and observation. Then your own individuality and personality are expressed, and your house becomes much more your home. ?The Relief Society Song Book is now ready The Price is 85c Per Copy?Post Paid Address Orders to GENERAL OFFICE 28 Bishops Building Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Milk?for Sound Teeth A child's teeth begin to develop before he is born. At birth these first teeth are fully formed in the jaw. Previous to birth the mother is the sole source of food for her baby. Her diet must protect her own teeth and build those of her child. A quart of milk every day, liberal amounts of fruits and vegetables, together with a supply of sunshine vitamin D, supply excellent tooth-building materials. Teeth are a living part of the body, and like all other parts they depend upon food for growth and strength. Contrary to former theories, there is now convincing evidence that an adult's teeth may be made and kept strong and sound by proper diet even though they have previously shown definite signs of deterioration. It is evident that tooth-building material is needed throughout the entire period from birth to mature life. Milk is richer than any other food in tooth-building materials, calcium and phosphorus. 'The sunshine vitamin D with which some milk is enriched enables the body to make better and mote complete use of those food substances supplied by milk. You'll enjoy the finer flavor of Cloverleaf Irradiated Vitamin D Milk. Everyone ees the benefit of its extra rich vitamin D which. Helps to build and maintain sound, even teeth and straight, strong bones. It costs no more than ordinary milk Cloverleaf Perfectly Pasteurized Grade A Irradiated Vitamin D Milk HOME OF FINE DAIRY PRODUCTS of Cornell University. Director. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SUMMER SESSION June 10?July 19?July 22?August 16 RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS: Your attention is called to courses by Howard W. Odum, Director, School of Public Welfare, University of North Carolina. An eminent authority on social problems; and to courses by Hazel Peterson and H. H. Frost. Jr. In the Department of Sociology and Social Work. Six weeks courses will also be offered by Henry Neumann in Social and Civic Education and Ethics and by Margaret S. Chaney in Nutrition. Courses may be taken with or without credit. Institute of Education for Family Life, June 17-21 inclusive. Flora M. Thurston of Cornell University Director. For a copy of the Bulletin, address: The President, University of Utah. When 'Buying