[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | July | Issue: 3 | Title: A SATIRE. | Author: RUBY LAMONT]

A SATIRE.

YES brother, she's a woman; see thou to it
That she keep faithfully along the track,
The beaten track of ages; be it narrow,
What doth it matter if it is beaten hard,
And clean and dustless—If she move an inch,
This way or that, then might she serve thee less;
For see, she might look upward to the stars,
And wonder at the greatness of the sky,
Perchance to shrink beneath the load of care,
That makes her field so narrow, wand'ring thus
She might grow dusty with a higher sense,
And thy wants be forgot! Instead of chords,
Of harmony, what harroweth now thine ears,
A harsh, discordant clamor! A shrill cry,
That soon the gates may open to the plan
And let the cushioned prisoner wander free,
To change her fashioned nature for the wild,
Aggressive temper of the wilderness!
Ah, poor, misguided woman! Keep her true!
True to the same old path that all the days,
Her sisters have beat hard and wet with tears,
Lest eyes as grand as thine be dimm'd with dust,
Or crushing whips I scorn might bruise her white-
ness;
True to the mark! Let not her skirts flaunt
round,
And pass the bounds of social creeds and customs;
Let not her curious mind unveil the tomes,
To read the secrets of God's universe;
For He who made them craveth not that she,
Should love or comprehend them to his glory,
Her sweet soft eyes, formed but for love or tears
Must never sparkle to triumphant truth,
Nor have they any need of widened vision,
Keep down the windows lest the sun-light's gold,
The verdant landscape or the gleaming stream,
The soft blue dome above, the flashing worlds
Allure her soul to happy, upward flight,
And she forget her duty, past the mark,
The dust would stain her spirit; she might think,
Without thine aid or guidance; e'en to Heaven
She would aspire without thy stronger hand,
Trusting, the jade! To Christ to lead her on
Safely and soft through labyrinths of time,
Nay this must never be! Thy part to rule
Would be forever slighted; love would die,
A long forgotten art; sweet childhood's smiles
Orphaned of mother love, would soon grow old;
An artist mother would forget the babe
That nestled, trusting, on her cold, hard breast
Then keep her in the good old trusted track
In which the faithful women of all time
Have walked so true before her, why should
change,


Come o’er her spirit? All have gifts alike—
All woman’s gifts; and if she dare to stray
Or long for other fields or wider skies,
Then whip her back with stinging, cruel words.
	RUBY LAMONT.
	(Republished by request.)


[Column 1]
