The Relief Society Magazine " MAY 1970 Mire THE STORYTELLER Running, laughing, the happy children came Up the paths and over little bridges To Anna's house. This was their story hour. Lifted on winds of legend they became River runners, Builders of canoes, Trail blazers Blanketed on boughs of forest pine, Marking the cushioned passing of a bear. High on a mountain, higher than timberline, In feathered soundlessness they watched An eagle build an aerie, twig on twig. Low in the marshes, under the swamp-grass plumes, They touched young avocets, a nest of reeds Carefully laid, blade on blade. Loving the earth as they would always love it, The children waved to Anna, then were gone. Knowing they would come again tomorrow, She, who never bore a child, Could bear her sorrow. —Peggy Tangren The Cover: J Wild Garden in the Mountains, Sanpete County, Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: § Valley in the Mountains Photograph by David Muench Art Layout: § Dick Scopes \Nustrations: I Mary Scopes 321 

I think it is wonderful to have the lessons right in the Magazine and to publish them in

such a way that those of us at a great distance from Salt Lake City have them in plenty

of time to prepare the lessons. . . . There is so much I would like to tell you about the

sweet humble sisters here in Fiji. In our newest branch, the Relief Society president is a

sweet Indian sister who also conducts the singing and translates the lessons into Hindustani.

Belle M. Oswald, Suva, Fiji

A note of appreciation for the Magazine— if there are women anywhere in the world who

feel the need to be devoted wives, loving mothers, true friends, seeking a guide— The

Relief Society Magazine is that ray— if it is read from cover to cover and the meetings

are attended by the sisters— then they are safe and all is well.

Iris Rosser, Selkirk, Manitoba, Canada

The Relief Society Magazine is always an anticipated pleasure for me. I enjoy the

wholesome stories and poems, along with the wonderful lessons. I am thankful that I

found the Church— or rather the missionaries found me ten years ago.

Edna M. Kent, Escondido, California

Thank you for your support of the missionary work. The little gems of thought that we

read in The Relief Society Magazine encourage and uplift us.

Elder Greg LaCheminant, Niteroi, R.J. Brazil

I really enjoyed the article on sourdough ("Make a New Start With Alaskan Sourdough"

by Edythe K. Watson, February 1970). While on Okinawa we were given a start of 1898

Alaska strain by our District President C. Wayne Jenkins. In June, just before we left

Okinawa, the start was accidentally thrown out. We missed our sourdough. Later,

after returning home, I was in a doctor's office and the subject of sourdough came up.

The doctor, a woman, then recounted how a Mormon friend and former missionary to

Alaska had given her a start of this 1898 strain when they were neighbors in Nashville,

Tennessee. To make a long story short, 10,000 miles from the place of our first start,

we were given a replacement of the same strain. It's a small world— I wonder where

else this former missionary's sourdough has been.

Judith L. Gaskin, Rockville, Maryland

As a member of the Church for the past eight years, and a steady subscriber to The

Relief Society Magazine, I express my appreciation for the great enlightenment I receive

from the Magazine. It always meets my need. The September 1969 issue was a special

joy for the visiting teacher message. It gave me a new understanding of what the gospel

means and what it takes to gain eternal life. I shall never part with my silent friend—

The Relief Society Magazine. Violet M. Tate, Pennsauken, New Jersey

I wish to express gratitude for the wonderful lessons for the Relief Society meetings. I

know the world over many are grateful for the help these lessons have given. There is a

world of education from the Magazine. Through the years it has helped me to be a better

mother, housekeeper, and has given me a desire to read better literature.

Sharon Haxton, Cheltenham, Victoria, Australia

Please send me The Relief Society Magazine. I am not of your faith, but I do enjoy the

stories, recipes, and the ideas each month. I have been reading Mary Beagley's Magazines,

so I a m sure I s hall enjoy the ones of my own subscription, and I w ill pass them

on to my neighbors. Mrs. Donald Fitch, Travis A.F.B., California

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ° 1970 by the Relief Society Genera!

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Homema king— The Art of Cooking from the Storage C) ===
Drain, reserving one cup of liquid, turn into 2-quart bean pot or casserole. Mix dry ingredients with hot liquid drained Lesson Department CANDLES FOR YOUR STORAGE PROGRAM Direct from our candle factory These are slightly imperfect candles at big discount. Also ideal for banquets, fund-raising projects, bazaars, etc. Send $1.00 for sample 3" x 6" candle and we will send prepaid. Request price list. CANDLE KITCHEN 2335 South West Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 487-3297 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _..55 Zone5.~___-_.75 Zone3.~___- 60 Zone6 _ -.85 Zone4 ____.-65 Zone7 ___...95 Zone 8_ _ _ -_ - 1.05 @. DESERET. FRPews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 

395 May 1970

 from beans, pour over beans, add additional water to cover. Place salt pork or ham on top, cover. Bake at 300 degrees F. For three hours, adding water if top seems dry. Uncover and bake another half hour. ('lo shorten soaking time of beans boil beans in 3 quarts water for two minutes, remove from heat, cover, soak one hour, cook as_ directed.) Creamed Lima Beans 2 cups dried lima beans Salt and pepper to taste 1 tbsp. Cooking oil or fat 1 cup milk or cream Soak beans for one hour and then simmer for two hours or until tender. Drain and add milk or cream If milk is used, add 1 tbsp. Butter. Season and serve. Soy Beans In areas where soy beans are grown they can be prepared as directed for baked beans. They must be tender before baking, otherwise they will not be good. They require soaking for twelve hours before cooking. Purée of Split Peas Cover 1 pound of split peas with boiling water and cook 2 minutes. Remove from heat and let stand one hour or more. Add a ham bone or piece of salt pork, cover, and cook slowly until the peas are soft. Drain and remove the bone or pork. Put the peas through a purée strainer. Season to taste. Add butter or cream. The King of Sweden's Soup 1 lb. Dried split peas 1 small onion, peeled 1 carrot, scraped 2 leeks or green onions 3 lettuce leaves ¥, lb. Salt pork 11, qts. Water 11%, tsp. Salt 11, tsp. Sugar Wash and drain peas. Cover with water and bring to a boil. Cook 5 minutes. Remove from heat and soak overnight in same water. Drain. Chop onion, carrot, leeks, and lettuce coarsely together. Cook 1 or 2 minutes with salt pork 396 until coated with hot fat. Remove pork and pour vegetables into drained peas. Add water, salt, and sugar. Cover and cook slowly 2 hours. If soup is too thick add a little hot water or broth. Serve hot. Never discard the water in which ham or soup bones have been cooked, but save to use as a base for dried pea or bean soup. It can be frozen and kept indefinitely. (See The Relief Society Magazine, January 1964, for additional bean recipes.) Rice is used almost universally in so many ways that there is no need for suggesting recipes. 2. Dry or powdered milk. This product can be used in any recipe where milk is called for. (Excellent articles on cooking with dry milk are printed in The Relief Society Magazine, February 1959 and August 1963.) 3. Peanut Butter. In addition to protein, peanut butter contains several essential vitamins—-thiamine, riboflavin, and niacin. Peanut butter lends itself to a variety of uses in the diet, particularly in cookies and as a filling in varioi combinations for sandwiches. (See The Relief Society Magazine, November 1963.) Any reliable cookbook will give instructions and recipes for the use of rice, dry or powdered milk, and peanut butter. 4. Canned Meats and Fish. Whether we process or can our own meats and fish or whether we purchase them from the markets for our storage, supply will be determined by our mode of living, the locality in which we live, and other varying conditions. The important thing is that we realize the need for some source of meat supply in our family storage plan. Many kinds of canned meats, fish, and poultry are available in the markets of almost all countries today. These are subject to the same rules of rotation and preservation methods as are other canned products. CONCLUSION In countries where storage problems are accentuated because of climactic conditions or be- cause of lack of facilities for proper storing and/or lack of storable foods, special procedures will need to be worked out by research experts and by those who can study these problems in their individual settings and environments.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$4.95 and choose any $3 Book Free!) OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS FREE (OR ANY OTHER $3 BOOK) 15. Comp. Hist. Of Ch. 6 vols. 4.50 ea. 16. Doc. Hist. Of Ch. —Smith 7vols 4.50 ea. 17 Discourses of J. Smith 4.95 18 Highlights in Life 20 MORMON CLASSICS: "'Books that continue to prove their lasting value!'' 1. Mission. Bible 15.50 2. Missionary Triple Combo.11.00 3. Marvelous Work & Wonder 1.95 4. Jesus the Christ— Talmage 2.50* 5. Articles of Faith —Talmage — 2.95* 6. House of the Lord —Talmage 2.95* VOL. 5 by Bruce B. Clark Robert K. Thomas 7. Teachings of Joseph Smith 3.95 8. Essentials in Church History 5.95 9. Answers to Gospel Quest. 5 vols. 3.25 ea* 10. D&C Commentary 4.95 11. Meet the Mormons—Green 2.95* 12. Discourses of Brigham Young 4.95 13. Gospel Doctrine J. F. Smith 4.95 14. Art of Home Making-Hoole 4.25 ofPres. McKav 4.95 19 Mormon Doctrine —McConkie 6.95 20 BofM Digest— Hawkes 4.50 OTHER SELECTIONS: 21. Out of Best Bks. Vol V Special 3.00* 22. "Vols.2,3 195ea* 23. Beginnings— Pearson 2 50" 24. Ancient Apostles 2.95* 25. Just a Minute— Landau 5.50 26. Prophecies & Prophetic Promises of D&C 4.95 *Ideal Free Choices. (Order Other Books!) "Bookclub 626 "'H'' St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 400 Please enroll me as a member and send mea free catalog. I agree to return the "Review Card" each month or else purchase the ''Feature Book" for joining. One per person! (For postage and handling add 25¢ per book ordered. In Utah add 4%% sales tax.) I have enclosed $_ -- a Rediscovered collection of early Mormon art in full color See the ''Mormon Panorama"' collection of C. C. A. Christensen. Twenty-two paintings of scenes depicting major events in early Mormon