[Vol1 | November 1914 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Remarks by President Emmeline B. Wells at Relief Society Conference]

The following beautiful and characteristic remarks were made by our President, Emmeline B. Wells, at the Relief Society conference, Oct. 3, 1914. That portion which dwelt upon the grain question will appear later in our Magazine

My beloved sisters and brethren, I think we can all say and feel that we have had a great deal of good in this conference, both in the way of speaking and of singing and music, vocal and instrumental.

And really it seems to me that we have had what we might call a genuine treat at this conference, because today we have had the President of the Church, the man above all others who stands at the head of this Church and kingdom here upon the earth, and we all, of course, love him, and love to hear him, and we are glad that he approves of some of our work any way, and he really cannot possibly have a conception of all that is done. That is impossible.

But some who have visited many of the Stakes of Zion and many of the conferences of the Relief Society, and heard our sisters testify and report in our general conferences from year to year, have a very good idea of the work and we don't know it all. Those in their own localities who call upon the sick and minister to them and who prepare them for burial, and who do all that beautiful work and it is the finest work in the world, the very best work, the best charity that can possibly be because they do both, they administer to their temporal wants, and they help to make them really what they ought to be made after death, personally clean and beautiful, beautiful in the robes that are given to the saints, and which we all prize so highly, I am quite sure.

You remember at our last conference, and also in the conferences that have been visited during the present year, and I think there have been 130 visited, some of them a very long way off, we have said that we wanted to know the number of certain things. I hope you will remember that still. We do want to get the number of quilts that have been made, the number of yards of yarn carded, and a number of other things that I wont mention today, but I think you have all heard it until you are well aware of it, we want that reported. We have not had an opportunity to do it at this conference, but we will, perhaps, next April.

And next April I think that we will be able to report a great deal of work, that has not been done yet, necessary work, essential work, in the several stakes and in the missions as well, because they are included also along with the Stakes of Zion, and we know that a great deal has been done abroad, and especially in Great Britain and in Scandinavian countries, Norway, Sweden and Denmark, a vast amount of work has been done by the organizations of the Relief Society that has never been reported, as well as the work of the Relief Society on the islands of the sea, and at one time we had Relief Society branches, you know, in Africa. I don't know that we have any now.

At any rate, we want to keep our organizations as perfect as we can. We want to accomplish all the temporal work that we can, that is necessary; but above all things in the world, we want faith and charity, and especially in the hearts of our children and of our young people and of each other faith and charity.

You remember the words that the Prophet Joseph gave us. You have all read them, I am sure. At any rate, the larger part of you have. The majority of you have read the minutes of the first organization, that have been published seven times in the Woman's Exponent, also distributed in leaflets, etc. The words of the Prophet Joseph, in the Relief Society, in the beginning, that charity was one of the things that we should be full of, full of compassion for each other. The word "compassion" was used. Full of meekness for each other.

And you know the scriptures say it. We should forgive each other, and not hold grudges against each other, but forgive even before forgiveness is asked, and then you would be ready when forgiveness is asked. But we can forgive. We are obliged, almost, to forgive our enemies we have to. It seems necessary because we pray for them, and if we pray for them we must forgive them.

Teach these things, faith, charity and mercy. The scriptures say mercy endureth forever, and you all know the little passages that we apply in our meetings to each other, and I am sure that it is not possible for any president who is here today, or any president of any ward in all the Stakes of Zion, to tell all the beautiful things that have been done and felt and realized.

Compassion is well for the sick, because they need it, those that are in want, and those that are weak in the faith, they need it. We need to remember them if they have been grieved, and if there is anything the matter, and visit them, and make them feel better, in the wards and in all the Stakes of Zion wherever they are, or the missions throughout the church.

Let us do all these little things, and while we are doing the great things, let us also remember the little things, and I do hope and pray that we may all be spared to meet again in our conference next April, and we shall know, next April, a great deal more than we know now concerning that which is abroad in the world, because I realize, and you realize, no doubt, that great things are taking place in the world, great changes.

There will be greater freedom, at any rate, in some of those countries after these wars for after the nations have been subdued by war, and they have to pursue peace and I hope that you will all pray that we may not have war in our own land, not even in Mexico, because that has been a grievous thing.

I pray the Lord will be with us all during the conference that is before us, that commences tomorrow morning, and that as many of us as possible will be present in the tabernacle at the opening of that conference, for that will be, perhaps, something that will give us an idea of what the conference throughout always is. The opening meeting gives the key-note of the conference, generally, and will in all probability tomorrow morning, and I hope that we will all be able to be there, and that nothing will prevent us, and that we shall all, and many more of us, come together again in our Relief Society conference next April, and have something wonderful, all of us, to tell each other there, and after we have had an opportunity of attending the conference here.

May the Lord be and abide with the Relief Society throughout the world as well as with all those that love the Lord and obey His commandments. Amen. And the others, too. Amen.
