[Vol1 | November 1914 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Home | Title: Home Gardening for Women]
HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN. "Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in .season thereof, all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving Doc. & Gov.
Sd, 11 also see Job 14:7, 8, 9. ; The spirit of thanksgiving is conducive to health and happiness.
Appoint one of the sisters to prepare a paper on Thanksgiving.
Tell when it was first observed in America, what its prime object was, and if, in her opinion, one still observes Thanksgiving in the same spirit as originally intended.  Native Currant Bushes.
Native currants, otherwise known as black, yellow or wild currants, should always be found in the farm or home garden space.
They should be given proper attention by not over-crowding.
Keep well preserved and cultivated; do not allow suckers to grow and divide the strength of the main or original plant.
In Lovell, Wyoming, the writer saw cultivated native currants, both black and yellow, almost as large as ordinary marbles, and the family producing them said that they were not able to supply the demand.
They sold at a very good price, too, thus proving again the assertion, that it pays to produce the best of anything we raise or make..
Native currants thrive in almost any climate where vegetation will grow.
Try planting a few bushes this fall.
If you do not like the fruit yourselves, you can dispose of it at a very profitable figure to your neighbor or at the market.
Rose Slips, Geranium Slips, etc., etc.
You may, if you Lave a fine rose bush, still have another by cutting off slips or the strong undergrowth of the bush.
Place it in moist sand, cover with a glass, put in a darkened place, and leave to germinate.
Just the tips should be planted; or, take a long limb, bury it in the ground, leaving it attached to the original rose tree, cover all but the tip of the limb deep in the ground.
In the spring, cut off and plant.
Geraniums that have been growing in the gardens all summer are too large to move into the house.
Just take slips, placing in pots or boxes of moist sand and keep in a cool, dark place.
They will soon put forth new leaves and bloom in early winter, and supply you with garden geraniums for the next spring and without extra cost.
Petunias, and many other varieties of flowers that are propagated by slips may be treated very successfully in the same manner as the rose and geranium.
Bulbs: Hyacinths, Narcissus, Tulips, Snow-Drops, etc.
November is the month in which to plant your bulbs.
Convert the children to the idea and have the boys assist you after school hours to spade up the ground.
Get old fertilizer from the barn yard, and mix with sand.
Use a spade and work over very thoroughly or, better still, get leaf mold or soil from the; mountains, work the soil until it is pulverized and free from lumps.
Drainage, too, must be considered in selecting the place for bulb planting, as too much standing water will cause 8 the bulbs to rot. and disappointment will greet you instead of flowers.
Bad drainage may be overcome by placing small cobble rocks about fifteen inches down in the bottom of the flower bed, which allows the water to seep between the rocks and thus prevents the rotting of any of the bulbs, which is so often the ease.
Select good, solid bulbs free from rot and avoid dry, inferior looking ones.
It is impossible to produce good healthy blooms unless good seed is used.
The soil may be properly prepared, and in the most thorough manner, the moisture may be ample, the season perfect, but with poor seed, you have corresponding results.
Osage Orange, or Mock Orange, is very fine for hedges, but does not grow as rapidly as some others.
It also has the disadvantage of producing the mock fruit, which, although children love to pluck, sometimes destroys, when they do so, the symmetry and shape of the hedges.
We recommend to our readers Farmers' Bulletin No. 183, TJ.
S.
Department of Agriculture.
By sending your name and address to the Department, or to Senator Reed Smoot or Congressman Joseph Howell, you will receive this bulletin, which contains valuable information.
