[Vol1 | November 1914 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Remarks Pres. Emmeline B. Wells.... 1]
The circular on the magazine was read.
It will be sent to all the stakes.
Remarks were made by President Emmeline B.
Wells, who asked the sisters to pray for peace, and for mothers and children who are bereft.
She invoked blessings on all present.
Closing session, Saturday afternoon.
The first address was "Attitude of Utah Woman to Peace," by Emily S.
Richards.
The points dwelt upon were: Women as a rule are for peace.
They bear the brunt of war.
All men and women should unite to prevent war, and to establish an international commission of peace.
Sister Richards was listened to with marked attention, and her words were timely and interesting.
The inspiring remarks by President Joseph F.
Smith will appear in our January Magazine.
President Wells' remarks appear in this Bulletin.
A few timely remarks were made by Sister Emma A.
Empey, explanatory of the nurse class work.
President Louisa Benson of Oneida Stake moved a vote of thanks to the musical director, Lizzie Thomas Edward, to the organist, Edna Coray, to the members of the choir and to all soloists, for the beautiful music furnished during the conference.
Counsellor Clarissa S.
Williams read affectionate sentiments from the members of the Relief Society choir, expressing their pleasure and gratitude for the work done by the choir leader.
Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward, from the members of the choir, and the organist.
Sister Edna Coray.
After which two exquisite bouquets of flowers were presented to these sisters.
 The music furnished throughout the whole conference was of a high character and pleased all with the lovely strains and sounds, both of instrument and voice.
The following is the program: Soprano Solo Lizzie T.
Edward Organ Solo Edna Coray Soprano Solo Pearl Larson Solo Willard Weihe, accompanied by John J.
McClellan Chorus L.
D.
S.
U.
Quartette Selection Schettler Trio Baritone Solo Alvin Keddington Tenor Solo Alfred Best Contralto Solo Evangeline Thomas Congregational hymns and special choral numbers, the most beautiful being the ''Bridal of the Birds." and the "Pilgrim's Chorus," were interspersed throughout the meetings.
Three genealogical classes were held at 4:30 p. m.
Friday and Saturday, and Monday, at which there was a large and appreciative attendance.
These classes were taught by Elder Nephi Anderson, assisted by Sisters Susa Young Gates and Lillian Cameron.
The subject matter was a Review of Family Group Forms.
Numbering, Heirship and Relationship.
There was a general feeling that the lessons for the coming year should cover the same ground taken in the past year, in a slower and more detailed manner.
A few stakes, notably Ogden and Utah, have completely finished the outline already given, and are ready for new material.
But the rest of the stakes desire more time and more careful consideration of the lessons already given.
A meeting of stake officers was held on Tuesday at noon to discuss our new insurance work.
It was decided to send out a qualified agent from this board to assist the stakes in getting this work started.
It was urged upon all the stakes to appoint insurance agents at once in every town, at least, so that they may be prepared to go to work at once.
If our agent is desired Stake Presidents should acquaint the General Secretary with that fact.
The usual noon luncheon was served and the same fellowship, and sweet comradeship that marks all Relief Society work, attended every meeting and parting of this splendid conference of October, 1914.
President Emmeline B.
Wells was in her happiest mood, and she was ably assisted and sustained by her counsellors and the members of the board.
We had the President of the Church with us. and he was filled with the spirit of inspiration and encouragement.
All in all, it was a conference long to be remembered.
AMY BROWN LYMAN, General Secretary.
14 NOTICE.
All Presidents of Stakes are urged to take up the subscriptions to our new magazine at once. "We have the full subscriptions of only two states as yet, and it is vitally important that we should have every Stake fully represented and in our office as soon as possible.
Please take up this work, dear fellow workers, in the genuine whole-hearted manner that all our Relief Society work is done.
.
All communications relating to the general business of the Relief Society should be addressed to the General Secretary, Mrs.
Amy Bro'wn Lyman,
28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
All communications containing membership dues or general funds should be sent to the General Treasure^, Mrs.
Emma A.
Empey,
28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
All communications containing subscriptions to or relating in any way to the business of the Magazine should be addressed to Mrs.
Janette A.
Hyde, Business Manager ,
28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
All literary contributions should be addressed to Mrs.
Susa Young Gates, Editor, room. 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
