A CHRISTMAS ROMANCE.
	The streets of the city were filled with
light and gaiety, bright colors predomi-
nated everywhere, and the shop windows
were full of toys, beautiful pictures and
dolls of every variety; and crowds of peo-
ple upon the street jostled against each
other, hurrying to and fro with their arms
full of packages and bundles. It was a
scene to delight the most fastidious artist
that ever reveled in human nature in its
simplicity and freedom at holiday time.
Children were overflowing with delightful
anticipations and laughter, songs and
music floated on the crisp December air.
	Three little girls were on tiptoe in a bay
window, watching the street scene; every
now and then exclaiming, “How pretty!
mamma, do come and see the trees and
things! Where’s our tree? We always
have one. Santa Claus is sure to come;
tomorrow’s Christmas.”
	The mother, full to bursting with anx-
iety trying to get work ready for the
eager patron she expected, had scarcely
heeded the children’s prattle until now,
and turning her sweet face smiling but
sad, said, “Wait a minute, dearies, mam-
ma has almost finished this picture, its
for Santa Claus to take away.’’
	“O, yes, but that’s not his, its for the
lady that comes so often to see you, she
isn’t Santa Claus.”
	“O, mamma here’s more trees com-
ing.”
	“Never mlnd, little ones, your’s will
come when you’re in bed. I’ll tell you a
story soon, when I’ve finished. Now do
be quiet, I must work.”
	Thus reproved, they continued to gaze
into the street and talk to each other.
	The pale, restless woman went on using
her brush, for the finishing touches of the
picture, and the room grew dim as night
approached and she seemed to see the
shadows of the past more and more vivid-
ly until she was almost blinded by the
mental panorama.
	She spoke half aloud. "I can’t do any
more tonight, not even if the worst
comes.”
	Little Jennie, turned as she heard her
mother sigh, and quickly ran to call the
maid.
	“Mamma is ill, Bettie;” but when Bettie
came the mother was composed again—
the scene had passed.
	“What was it, Mrs. Brandon?” Bettie
asked,
	“Only a fancy, Bettie. I thought I saw
a dream come true that I had long ago,
bring in the children’s supper, I must put
them to bed.”
	The simple repast was soon over, the
children had their pretty story told them
in truly mother style of the beautiful
“babe of Bethlehem,” and the mother
with her face buried in her hands sat
pondering over the situation, how to econ-
mize in spending the few shillings that
remained of her slender income. “I must
give the children something, and Lady
Maynard will not be here tonight, I thought
perhaps she would come early and would


[Column 1]
bring some Christmas trifles for the girls, I
am weary, so weary, but I must not give up,
I must finish the painting now; it is fairly
well done, yet I could improve it very
materially if I had the heart to work; if
only my strength would not fail,” and she
rocked herself to and fro in her agony,
clinching her hands, and again she saw
the shadowy panorama. “I must not sit
thinking,” she murmured, I will call Bet-
tie and tell her to watch for Lady May-
nard, I’ll be back soon.”
	Bettie answered the summons and Mrs.
Brandon threw on a warm wrap and a
scarf over her heavy mass of bright brown
hair, and in a flash she was sailing swiftly
along the street, mingling in the hurrying
throng, a figure so graceful and willowy
that one might readily fancy she was con-
scious of her own superior charms, she
carried herself so queenly, and her whole
appearance was most captivating. She
hesitated before a shop filled with toys,
and sweetmeats, made a few purchases,
and glancing around shyly, the light snow
falling on her giving her indeed the look
of a fairy, she heard some one call her
name. Turning from where the sound
came like a frightened bird she fled.
	“Geraldine! Geraldine!” repeated
again.
	She recognized the voice as of one long
since dead, but it was not he, she knew,
but some one very much alive, yet so like
his it was, she knew not what to do.
Terrified beyond expression she could not
think; almost night in the streets of a
a great city she could scarce move, and
yet she inevitably must. Motioning a
cab she jumped in it, the stranger still
watching, though she knew it not. At
her own door Bettie met her with, “Lady
Maynard is here waiting, furious that the
picture is not finished.”
	Pride came to her relief, and she
choked back the tears that were ready to
flow, she saw the carriage with its gilded
trappings, the driver on the box in livery,
the footman behind. She did not hesi-
tate a moment, but entered the small
apartment like a princess, carrying her
tiny packages; she saluted Lady Maynard
and told her simple story. The lady rose
with an imperious air scarcely deigning to
reply to the courteous apology, ‘‘I beg to
assure your Ladyship of my desire to
keep my promise to complete the work
tonight, but I was overcome with fatigue,
and was obliged to put down the brush.”
	“You left it to go out. The maid could
have made the Christmas purchases, they
were not so particular, I fancy.”
	Mrs. Brandon could not answer, it was
too humiliating. “I have explained, I
will do my best tomorrow. Christmas
cannot be a holiday to me,” and
from sheer exhaustion she sank down
upon the chair nearest the door.
	Lady Maynard was gone, but her maid
inquired in passionate tones, “What mes-
sage can I take to her Ladyship?”
	"I have told you all, there is no more
to say.”
	Bettie opening the street door for the
lady and her maid saw a hansom drawn
up near, but without thinking, so enraged
was she at this insolence of the lady’s
maid that it did not occur to her to men-
tion the matter to her mistress; before
Mrs. Brandon had time to recover her
composure the door bell rang, and she
heard a strange voice in the hallway, and
yet there was something familiar in the

[Column 2]
tone, reminding her of days gone by, of
voices she had listened to, and her heart
beat fast; she had forgotten the episode
in the street. It had been driven out of
her mind. Bettie entered with a card,
“The gentleman waits outside the door,
he is a grand one, it must be some one
you know,”
	Mrs. Brandon’s heart was thumping,
there was a singing in her ears. She
could not read the name for a few minu-
tes. Bettie was alarmed, ‘‘you are sure-
ly going to faint, madame,” and Bettie
caught her or she would have fallen.
The sudden arrival of one mourned as
dead had been too much for this delicate
woman, and just on the verge of serious
collapse, it was some time before she ral-
lied. Bettie ushered the stranger into the
hallway, where he paced to and fro,
impatient of the delay, not knowing the
cause. It was late to be calling and he
was not aware how he would be received.
He had not expected to find so easily the
woman he had come from afar in search
of, and if possible to effect a reconciliation
and make recompense for wasted years.
	Bettie the maid had tact if not knowl-
edge, she knew instinctively that her mis-
tress had a greater sorrow than the death
of her husband, she was not versed in
book knowledge, but in love affairs in her
own sphere she was up to date.
	She could interpret the stranger’s visit
after her own fashion, and was not at all
inclined to bid him begone.
	Mrs. Brandon recovered in part her
composure, but her nerves were so un
strung that she was scarcely able to recall
what had occurred in the street or how
she had been followed. The faithful Bet-
tie waited in suspense, not knowing what
would be best to do, but finally resolved
to urge her mistress to speak to the stran-
ger; she reluctantly consented to Bettie’s
urgent solicitations, saying, “Bettie, say
to the gentleman, if his business is very
important, I will speak to him for a few
minutes, though I am overcome with fa-
tigue and need rest and quiet.”
	All excitement, the maid hurried into
the hall, to do her mistress’ bidding. “If
you please, my lady says you may come
in if your business is very important.”
	Mr. Brandon brooked no delay, but
followed, almost rushing through the
doorway without making any reply to the
maid, Mrs. Brandon could not rise; the
figure, the voice, the manner, recalled to
her vividly one she had known in the
past, but who had died long ago, and she
could not utter a word, she was so terri-
fied. He came forward and grasped her
hand. She shrieked with fright; the
maid, too, was almost paralyzed with fear
lest her mistress should swoon again; but
the awakening of latent forces, the rousing
of memories hidden away in some corner
of her brain, came over her and prevented
faintness, though every pulse thrilled with
excitement. She gave way to tears and
sobs that were most pathetic; poor Bettie
tried all her restoratives, and a realization
of her position became apparent to Mrs.
Brandon.
	The stranger seized his opportunity.
Calling her by name softly, he said, “I
have returned from the East Indies, alive
and well—perhaps you thought I was
dead. Why do I find you in these poor
lodgings? And where is my brother?”
	Mrs. Brandon, her voice sounding far

[Column 3]
away, exclaimed, “Do you not know the
truth?”
	“How could I know? I have been five
years in foreign lands. After leaving Aus-
tralia I wended my way to India, and
only tonight I reached London, and be-
gan inquiry for my brother, when I saw
you most unexpectedly, and called to you,
but you fled like a wild deer. I followed,
to find you in these miserable apartments,
obliged to work, and was a most unwilling
listener to Lady Maynard’s offensive re-
marks, and the insolent language of her
companion. I am most unhappy because
of your distress. Tell me, is my brother
dead?”
	Getting no reply, save an almost inau-
ble “Yes,” he looked compassionately at
the fragile form of the woman before
him,whom he had left in her bridal dress
—the girl with whom he had been madly
in love, and whose picture he had carried
near his heart during his prolonged ab-
sence in a foreign country, and now he
gazed upon her clad in the deepest
mourning, and yet he recalled that on
the street she wore no widow’s weeds—
he was wild with suspense.
	“Tell me, Geraldine,” he implored,
“how long has my brother been dead?
Can you not believe that I have returned
and will care for you—that there must be
no more drudgery, no more insults from
society women of fashion, who flaunt
their ill manners in the homes of honest
people?”
	Geraldine still sobbed half unconscious
answering not a word, The stranger
turned to the maid and asked, “There are
children—how many?”
	Bettie was only too glad to break the
awkwardness of the situation—the miser-
able suspense, “Three little girls; the
youngest a baby, and they are expecting
Santa Claus, and my mistress has prom-
sed them a tree.”
	Without waiting, Mr. Brandon hurried
from the house. It was growing late, the
street singers were merrily caroling about
to catch the pennies being thrown to
them, and the streets were still crowded
with pedestrians; he made his way to the
nearest shops and returned loaded with
bundles; the small tree he had sent on be-
fore was taken by Bettie into the living
room and was already in place, when
he arrived with the gifts and ornaments,
Bettie was clever at decorating, for she
had been nursery maid before this great
sorrow had fallen upon the family, and
she longed to tell the stranger how his
brother had been brought home by his
comrades at dead of night, and all the
terrible scenes which followed. She knew,
however, her mistress would not approve
of her betraying her wretchedness, or tell-
ing to anyone how lonely and penniless
she had been left to struggle with fate for
these little ones.
	The first words were, “How js your
mistress—is she resting?” Bettie was
glad to talk of her. ‘‘She is still moan-
ing and sobbing. I gave her some tea—
she sipped a little. She cannot credit
your not knowing of your brother’s death.
She once told a strange lady who came to
ask after the children, that she had heard
of her husband’s only brother’s death in
Australia.”
	“Who was the lady?” he inquired.
	“An actress, I think,” said Bettie “all
powder and perfume. She offered my
mistress money, and left her card. Mrs.


[Column 1]
Brandon burned it, and gave me orders
never to admit her again if she should
call. She would not let her touch the
children. I took them away the moment
she came, but once in the park we saw
her in a carriage, and she threw kisses to
them. I believe she would steal Jennie
away if she could.”
	“Tell me their names, please, Bettie.”
	“Jennie, Rosie and Lily the baby.”
	Mr. Brandon wrote the names upon
a card and pinned one to each of the
beautiful dolls he had selected, and hav-
ing arranged all the elegant toys and or-
naments, sat down, pondering what he
could do to make her willing to listen to
him and accept his care and protection
for herself and the children dependent
now upon her earnings as an artist—an
accomplishment she had acquired for
pleasure; but her only resource when left
with little ones, after the sale of her jew-
elry and expensive olothing. She knew
if she failed she could go to some distant
relatives in the north of England, but she
dreaded rehearsing her affairs to those
who looked upon her marriage as a great
triumph, and it had only proved a mis-
erable failure from first to last; and had
ended in a tragic death, the story of
which she shuddered to think, and shrank
from all those who knew aught of the cir-
cumstances.
	Mrs. Brandon had taken lodgings where
she felt she would never be discovered
by any former acquaintances, and with
her faithful Bettie and an occasional
char-woman she had borne up almost
cheerfully for the sake of the children.
She had the true mother-heart that could
endure pain and sacrifice uncomplaingly
because of her unbounded maternal love.
	Horace Brandon seemed intuitively to
comprehend the struggles she had been
passing through. He had heard Lady
Maynard’s complaint and the reply of a
promise to finish the work tomorrow. It
was growing late, and would soon be mid-
night; the chimes on all the churches
would soon begin. If he could only rouse
her—was there no way, he wondered, to
make her believe in him. While he pon-
dered, a gentle knock came to the outer
door. Bettie, alert at every sound, ran,
he could hear soft, timid voices in the
hall; opening the door gently, he saw two
beautiful sisters of charity, in the garb of
their order. He had been familiar with
these ministering angels more or less all
his life, and quickly the thought came,
here is my opportunity. He spoke rever-
ently to them, and in a few words gave
them the pith of the delicate position in
which he found himself. The sisters
grasped the situation at once, and in a
few moments had taken the citadel, not
by storm, but by diplomacy.
	They were sisters of mercy, and knew
how to deal with all sorts of ailments.
They saw a heautiful young woman pros-
trated with trouble and overcome with
what seemed to her occult mystery—un-
able to account for the appearance of
one whose death had been strongly veri-
fied to his near relatives. They roused
her from apathy and gave her a soothing
cordial to drink, which caused reaction of
the heart almost instantaneously, and she
listened to the explanations made by
these tender-souled women, whose lives
were devoted to deeds of kindness. Thus
fortified, Mrs. Brandon consented to see
and converse with her husband’s brother,

[Column 2]
in the presence of the sisters, who re-
mained long beyond the usual visiting
time, realizing her extreme ideas of pro-
priety, even though he was a relative and
an old acquaintance. The coin Mr. Bran-
don slipped into the hands of these visit-
ors was adequate for the invaluable ser-
vice rendered to him. His mind was at
rest, he could sleep, even though a thou-
sand bells were pealing in his ears.
	Mrs. Brandon was not easily quieted,
many conflicting emotions wrought her
soul, gratitude for present needs for the
little ones, the charm of Santa Claus and
the Christmas tree would bring joy to
Jennie and Rosie, and baby Lily, though
so young, would feel the effect of the
Christmas joyousness.
	Of herself Geraldine knew not what to
think, she saw that Horace though grown
older, had in his heart kept the tender re-
membrance of what had once been his
fondest dream, his hope in life, and she,
though true to her marriage vows in every
sacred obligation, knew now, what she
had never acknowledged even to herself,
that Horace Brandon was the one man in
all the world that she could both love
and trust.
	The Sisters of Mercy returning late to
the convent asked audience with Father
Mathew, and when ushered into his pres-
ence, showed him the golden coin and
told him of the wonderful adventure; and
Father Mathew, listening with rapt at-
tention said, “My old student, Horace
Brandon. I must send for him here to-
morrow. Bless my Stars, Mother Mary
be praised! he has returned safely from
his travels, he went away in sorrow be-
cause his brother had wed the girl whom
he had hoped to win, for he was not
aware of her engagement to his older
brother Roger, a dashing, young, high-spir-
ted fellow, over-fond of sports and gay soci-
ety. I knew of the marriage and lost
sight of them afterwards; I learned of
the tragedy that caused his death, but
was not informed of the details; and you
say his widow is in destitute circumstan-
ces, he must have squandered two or
three fortunes, and she earning hardly a
subsistence, with such talents, the tale
is very pitiable, and most romantic, if I
may use such a term.”
	The Sisters of Mercy with downcast
eyes nodded assent to his outspoken
praise of Mrs. Brandon’s independence
and in the solitude of their own little
rooms commented upon Father Mathew’s
seeming approval of the romantic epi-
sode.
	“Strange how things come about when
two people love intensely,” said the
younger of the two Sisters; “was it the
strong love they had nurtured unseen
that over-ruled circumstances,and brought
them together after years of waitiug?”
	“Thee must put away all such idle fan-
cies and count thy beads and ask forgive-
ness for thy waywardness,” said the old-
er sister reprovingly.
	“Yes, sister, thee knows best, never-
theless Father Mathew had queer
thoughts when we told the story to him,
I know, I saw it in his countenance, and
he will see them both tomorrow, rest as-
sured.”
	“True love finds a way e’en through
locks and bars they say.”
	Christmas morn dawned joyfully in the
great city of London, the streets thronged
with children and carriages of all kinds

[Column 3]
rolled over the roads, and street singers
were heard everywhere. In the shabby
dilapidated lodgings of Mrs. Brandon
there was great commotion, Bettie had
risen early and the little ones in night-
clothes surrounded the tree with wonder
and surprise, calling “Mamma, mamma,
I knew Santa Claus would come!” and
they patted their hands and screamed
with delight and gaiety, dolls were soon
in their arms, and their mamma must 
tell them over and over how Santa Claus
clambered down the chimney. “My
dears, I know no more than you do how
he comes in or how he knows what is
wanted, but last night two of the Sisters
of Mercy came here late, perhaps they
told him how he could come in and what
to bring, for I told them I had three
sweet little girls with golden curls, and I
fancy they almost knew what good little
girls you were to go to bed so early.”
	Mrs. Brandon could scarcely talk so
affected was she with all Bettie had to
tell her of Horace Brandon’s devotion
and patience, waiting as he did to speak
to her and decorating the tree so daintily.
She praised Bettie for her fidelity, and
trustworthiness, while Bettie railed in
her most severe tones about Lady May-
nard and her stuck up maid, “who was
no better than other common people,”
she declared vehemently. “All’s well
that ends well,” Bettie quoted, “and this
Christmas will end with a big dinner and
a long journey.”
	“O, Bettie, how dare you say such
absurd things,” said her mistress.
	“I dreamed it.” the girl replied frankly,
“and I hope her Ladyship’s picture gets
sent home to her for a Christmas box.”
Mrs. Brandon protested against any
more such rash sayings, for the children’s
sake, and added, “Bettie, you must not
tell dreams and vagaries that come into
your head when you are oyerworked and
tired.”
	Bettie kept her own counsel, but left
the room muttering, “I know what’s go-
ing to happen, and you’ll see.”
	Horace Brandon sought out the Sisters
of Mercy and learned that his old precep-
tor, Father Mathew, was at the convent
in old Friars Street and in the early morn-
ing he repaired thither with good intent
to ask advice. In his long colloquoy with
the good, kind Father he unbosomed his
inmost theughts and feelings concerning
his brother’s wife. “I was convinced
when I first beheld her that she was to
be the ruling star of my destiny, I knew
nothing of her antecedents, nor of her
circumstances or position in society, ex-
cept that she had a charm about her that
fascinated me irrisistibly, and that she
filled my heart and soul to overflowing
with joy inexpressible. This is the rare
power and virtue of true purity and ex-
cellence in woman. Is it not so, Father
Mathew?” Horace Brandon looked ap-
pealingly to his advisor for an answer to
his question, but when there was no re-
sponse he plied him with another more
difficult still, as children often will.
Have you never been in love yourself,
Father Mathew? Don’t you know what
it is?”
	Father Mathew buried his head in his
hands and in a quivering voice said,
“Horace, my boy, no one has ever put
such a question to me, but I’ll be honest
with you now you have spoken; I loyed a
	(Continued on page 47.)


[Column 1]
	A CHRISTMAS ROMANCE.
	(Continued from page 43.)
girl too, beautiful and true, and like your
Geraldine, she was betrothed to another,
a dear friend, a college chum of mine,
they were wed, and she died soon after;
and shall I tell you that is why I entered
the Holy Order in the Church, and
strange indeed it is that you should come
to me, the girl I loved and would have
wed was Geraldine Wesley’s mother.”
	Before the young man had left the con-
vent, he had told the good Father,
who now seemed nearer to him than be-
fore, the offer he intended to make to
Geraldine, his brother’s widow. “I shall
urge her to marry me straightway, and
take her away to the old home in Lincoln-
shire, if it is not too much encumbered
with mortgages. I have some idea of the
place and its surroundings and what will
be needed. and I have a strong attach-
ment to the forests and parks, as I re-
member them in my boyhood, the house
in London if I could purchase it would
bring up too many sad memories for Ger-
aldine, it was there the first years of her
married life were passed. I go now to
meet my fate, confident I shall win, and
if I am fortunate in my hasty wooing, we
will drive here for you, dear Father
Mathew, to solemnize the marriage.
Au Revoir.” And so they parted after
clasping each other’s hands at the convent
gate.
	Horace Brandon hastened to the Banks
to make hurried preparations for depart-
ure, and after taking a plain dinner
wended his way to the abode of his
sister-in-law. Bettie, as though anticipat-
ing his coming, beamed with smiles
when she admitted him, and he was soon
in the presence of the one beloved and
her little flock of children, to whom he
was “the rich uncle from far away,” of
whom they had been told. They climbed
about him joyously, telling him of the
beautiful presents that Santa Claus had
brought, not forgetting the stories their
mamma had told them of the “Babe of
Bethlehem.”
	“My little girls, would you like me to
tell your mamma a beautiful fairy tale?”
said their uncle.
	“Yes, O yes!” the little ones shouted.
“Do, do! Mamma tells us fairy stories
wheu she is not too tired, pretty ones,
too.”
	“Now you run away and tell Bettie to

[Column 2]
give your mamma some tea, and while
she is taking it I’ll tell her the best
Christmas story that ever was told.”
	The tea was forthcoming and Horace
prefaced his love story by saying “it was
as old as time itself, and always new in
every individual case, he had always
loved the beautiful in nature, art, poetry,
music and women; he had only seen one
woman above all others that had been
enshrined in his heart since he met her,
seven years before; he had begged her
picture from a friend of her’s and taken
it with him when he left home, and car-
ried it next his heart in all his wander-
ings, his visions of her when alone at
night time, or when in the far-off, lonely
places, wherever he might be, he could
always see the face of this fairy creature,
it was more to him than all the world;
now, little girls, would you like to see the
picture?”
	All at once cried “Yes, yes, show us
the picture!”
	He drew from his inside pocket a velvet
case enclosing a small medalion of Ger-
aldine Wesley, and Jennie cried, “My
mamma, my pretty mamma? Where did
you get it?”
	Embarrassed beyond speech, Mrs. Bran-
don rose to leave the room, but with a
courage born of his heroic love, deter-
mined to stake all “at one fell stroke,”
he took her in his arms, and there, in the
presence of the three little witnesses car-
essed her as he would a child. There
was no mistaking his meaning, as he
plead for an immediate marriage, and as-
sured her every preparation had been
made. She did not make any pretence
of mistaking his avowal of love, but felt it
was too hasty, yet there were none to criti-
cise, and his plea to get away from Lon-
don, and breathe the country air, not
only for himself but for the little ones,
overcame all her scruples.
	The picture you were painting must be
dispatched to Lady Maynard with a mes-
sage; and the household goods packed off
to the nearest dealer in second hand arti-
cles.”
	Geraldine had no valuables to speak of,
so a few short hours sufficed to complete
the arrangements; the landlady was paid
a month’s rent in advance, and by five
o’clock all was done, the carriage was at
the door and a trap for Bettie and the
man-servant, Horace had brought over
from India, with the few packages, boxes,
etc., trunks were strapped to the four-
wheeler and Geraldine, without one iota
of regret, left the miserable lodgings in
Putney Row. They drove to the convent
and when admitted Father Mathew man-
ifested not the least surprise. In the
simple little chapel of the convent the
ceremony was performed with a few
priests for witnesses, and the two Sisters
of Mercy who had called on Mrs. Bran-
don on that memorable Christmas Eve
the day before.
	All this time Bettie was in a state of
great exaltation, for her dream had come
true and proud she was to know that her
mistress had consented to leave dirty
London. These were the days of slow
travel and poor accomodations at wayside
inns and hostelries, comparatively speak-
ing, and the journey that could now be
taken in a day or so occupied weeks. To
the newly married, little annoyances are
but trifles, and the travelers reached the
old Manor in Lincolnshire where Horace

[Column 3]
and his brother were born, and his father
and grandfather and other members of
the family before him, and found less in-
convenience of mortgages than he had
anticipated. An uncle of his was in
possession, not a Brandon, but married
to one. He was eager to get rid of the
obligations and see the old place repaired
and restored to one of the family name.
Pride of inheritance is a strong character-
stic in these old landowners, and their
descendants on this side of the water are
equally tenacious in this respect.
	To make a long story short, Horace in
the long winter evenings related to his
bride the story of Father Mathew’s at-
tachment to her mother, and she explained
something of her own early life when her
father was the Vicar of St. Budolph in
Lincolnshire, and how happy she had
been in that more simple life before her
aunt had brought her out in society and
she had been betrothed and afterwards
the wife of his elder brother. “We shall
be happy here, I know, it is not so far
from my old home, and I love the woods
and fields of Lincolnshire.	E. B.W.


