THE CHRIST OF BETHLEHEM.
O, Bethlehem, thou fair and favored one,
	Close nestling ’neath Judea’s towering hills,
How quaint, how picturesque thy storied scenes—
	Because of thee my heart with rapture thrills.
’Twas here the angels sang sweet heavenly strains,
	And here the shepherds watched their flocks by
		night;
Shone here the star, whose brilliance filled the
		world
	Its dazzling sheen—an awe-inspiring sight.
A low, faint cry—a hush—a smothered moan—
	A babe was born; ’twas signaled by the star;
The sleeping world knew not a prince had come—
	The Prince of Peace, whose advent meaneth
		war.
A manger cradled this distinguished One;
	His parents late had come—their city far—
Perfor[-]e they must accept this lowly place,
	Where lowing of the cattle doth the quiet mar.
No birth of earthly king like this proclaimed, 
	By blazing star and angels’ song divine;
And though he wore no purple robes or grand,
	Immortalized, his name lives through all time.
Had He ne’er come, what would the world have
		been,
	Bereft of rosy hope—of gladness—love?
Communion now between the earth and heaven,
	For one had come e’en from the worlds above.
And heaven seems not far away, e’er more
	’Twill be a trysting place among the stars;
For He, the King, the Prince of love divine,
	Has come to earth through those bright, shining
		bars.
A wealth of love this babe brought to the world,
	Not only to His mother—modest, fair—
But to the lowliest creature ’mong all men.
	It lights th’ abodes of mis’[-]y everywhere.
A race condemned by Righteousness to die,
	To sleep forever in their native dust;
The grave, abode once of the Sinless One,
	Must yield the treasure it but holds in trust.
Christ’s mission: who may learn its heights, its
		depths,
	Or feel the weight of guilt he bore for all,
Or understand the glory, heirship given Him,
	When He redeemed earth’s millions from the
		“Fall?”
Earth’s vict’ry, too, must come; no longer shall
	It be degraded—moved to a lower sphere,
The Christ of Bethlehem shall loose its bands,
	Resplendent ’mong celestial orbs it shall ap-
		pear.
Thou Babe of Bethlehem! to Thee we bring
	Our glad hosannas on this Christmas morn.
Rejoice, O earth, lend thou a list’ning ear,
	The song from sea to sea, “Lo, Christ the Lord
		is born!”
