RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		PIONEER STARE.
	The Pioneer Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held Saturday, Deeember 8,
1906, President Annie Wells Cannon pre-
siding. After the preliminary exercises,
some of the wards were called on for
brief reports, which were given that our
visiting sisters. E. B. Wells, General Sec-
retary, and Counselor Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry, of the General Society, might know
what we were doing.
	Sister Wells was the first speaker. Sis-
ter Cannon then presented Sister Dusen-
berry to the congregation, who gave us a
most interesting address on “Child Cul-
ture.” Mothers were exhorted to lead
lives of truthfulness, as every act has
more or less influence on the child. The
speaker touchingly pictured the child life
at home, and the purity and simplicity of
her mother. The necessity of correcting
the early tendency of children to acts of
dishonesty was imperative, and the effects
in after life were plainly demonstrated.
We are dishonest if we idle our time

[Column 2]
away, and a simple little kindergarten
story told how the child was impressed to
take care of the minutes. Eternal right
should stand out in our efforts to train
and correct our children. Let the ration-
al punishment come to them—they re-
quire it. Teach them and show what there
is to be grateful for, and to give thanks to
our Father in heaven. A beautiful little
poem was an appropriate ending to the
address.
	The time having expired, we adjourned
until 2 o’clock by singing and benediction.
Luncheon was served during the noon
hour in the Relief Society hall in the stake
building.
	Afternoon session commenced at 2
o’clock with the usual opening exercises
of singing and prayer.
	Sister Cannon greeted the sisters and
reported a number of matters of busi-
ness that were to be attended to. She
had in mind for some time the need of
a Relief Society library, and wished to
found a Stake Relief Society library to-
day. and presented several volumes, most-
ly lives and histories of great women who
had done philanthropic and charitable or-
ganized work. She realized these books
would be useful in the outline of the year.
Three more officers were needed in the
stake work, and the names of Lily Foster
Sperry recording secretary, and Sister
Eva Robinson organist, and Lilian Lam-
bert Woodbury librarian, were presented
and sustained. Sisters Rosina Lambert,
Sarah A. Davey and Jeanette Littley were
sustained as stake missionaries.
	Sister Cannon presented the outline for
the coming year to the congregation and
instructed the sisters to prepare the first
lecture for their first meeting in January,
1907. “The noted women of our day
is the subject; great interest was mani-
fested by the officers, and a highly in-
structive and most enjoyable year is
promised through this line of work. Great
praise is due President Cannon for the
able manner in which the outline is por-
trayed—it met with the hearty approval
of the General Board when presented to
them.
	Before hearing from our visitors, a solo
was most beautifully rendered by Sister
Mabel Poulton Kirk accompanied by Sis-
ter Eva Richardson.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon expressed
her pleasure at meeting with us and bore
a faithful testimony to the truthfulness of
this work.
	Elder Junius F. Wells said he came at
the request of his sister, President Annie
Wells Cannon, and while he couldn’t re-
call the time when he had addressed a
meeting of the sisters, he was always in-
terested in their work, and desired to
sustain and uphold our president in her
position, for he knew she was trying to
do her duty in this line. In going about
the world instances presented themselves
that strengthened his testimony. In 1886
he was priviliged while on a mission, to
meet the first Relief Society President—
Sister Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet
Joseph. During this interview the con-
versation drifted to early times, and many
incidents took on added interest when
related by her. She was in meagre cir-
cumstances, and the man who was then
her husband was very inferior and caused
the speaker in his mind to compare him
with the husband of early days. It plainly
illustrated what could come into a life


when the Spirit of the Lord had gone.
Allusion was made to the lives of the
children of the Prophet, and where the
mother did not entirely approve of what
they had done, she did not endorse the
re-organite movement. Elder Wells
urged her to consider coming to Utah,
where, he told her, many would be ready
to welcome her. His earnestness seemed
to impress her, but at the mention of
President Brigham Young’s name, all her
old-time animosity asserted itself, and she
positively declined to consider the mat-
ter. “The great work the Relief Society
is doing,” said Brother Wells, “has sus-
tained me many times, and very often I
have spoken of this organization with
pride. You are a great power, greater
perhaps than you know and when I look
upon the sisters who have grown old in
this work, I always admire them. May
the blessings of the Lord be and abide
with you is my prayer. Amen.”
	Pres. Sylvester Q.Cannon expressed the
pleasure he enjoyed whenever he met
with the sisters in Relief Society confer-
ences. It is the desire of the stake presi-
dency that the young sisters join this or-
ganization, and he believed the carrying
out of our outlines that had been pre-
sented this afternoon would create an in-
terest in this work, whereby many would
be induced to join us. Words of encour-
agement were given us,and a supplication
to our Father in heaven for His blessing
to ever be with us was earnestly sought.
	Pres. McLachlan hoped the Spirit of
the Lord would be with him in the few
moments he might address us. The sub-
ject of suffrage and of the franchise that
was given to us was discussed at some
length. To those who had come here
from foreign lands who desired to make
this their home, should not fail to be nat-
uralized. Would suggest that the sisters
when visiting upon their blocks urge this
upon those who had failed to take out
their papers. The time will come when
we will need to be citizens and American
voters. This is a privilege, and we should
use it. It is desirous that our schools
should be under good management, and
if our girls fit themselves as teachers, then
they can get an appointment. If the
Latter-day Saints live their religion they
will know in and of themselves what to
do, and there will be no need to be told.
We must be humble and live obediently
to the commands the Lord has given us,
and He will bless us everlastingly. Amen.
	Sister Cannon heartily endorsed all
that had been said, and announced that
conference would adjourn until June,1907.
The cougregation sang, benediction by
Counselor Lucy S. Acomb.
			CLAIRE L. CLAWSON,
							Cor. Sec.
	After the meeting the sisters were set
apart for their respective offices:
	Sister Rosina C. Lambert, missionary,
by Pres. Wm. McLachlan; Sister Sarah
A. Davey, missionary, Pres. Sylvester Q.
Cannon; Sister Lillian L. Woodbury,
stake Relief Society, librarian, Pres. Wm.
McLachlan.


