UTAH WOMEN ELECTED NOV., 1906.
	Miss Mary Ann Gunn, Parowan, coun-
ty recorder, Iron County. Miss Sadie
Foss, Farmington, county recorder, Davis
County. Miss Rachel C. Farley, Morgan,
county superintendent of public schools,
Morgan County. Miss Sarah Merrill,
Logan, county recorder, Cache County,
Rebecca Eames held the office previous
term. Miss Christina Madsen, Willard
City, county recorder, to succeed herself,
Boxelder County. Mrs. Lydia Cowley,
Richfield, county recorder, Sevier Coun-
ty. Mrs. Ida M. Wells, Moab, superin-
tendent of schools, Grand County. Mrs.
Lavinia Murdock, Heber City, county
treasurer, Wasatch County. Mrs. Jennie
Ashby, Holden, county recorder, Millard
County. Mrs. Minerva Johnson, county
recorder, Uintah County. Dem. (Have


had one woman superintendent of schools
elected by Democrats who gave excellent
satisfaction).
	Weber county has a woman auditor,
Florence O. Stanford, Ogden, elected at
the recent city election; also official court
reporter, Second Judicial District Court.
Miss Eva C. Erb, appointed by the dis-
trict judge; also the office of deputy coun-
ty clerk is held by Miss Jeannette Bing-
ham and Miss Edith Bird, and the office
of deputy county recorders, Miss Annie B.
Brown and Miss Eveline B. West. Depu-
ty city recorder, Miss Lois Wilcox. Miss
Annie Carr holds the office of assistant to
the city engineer. Miss Eleanor Hender-
shot and Miss Agnes B. Maguire are clerks
in the county assessor’s office of Weber
County.
	There are many girls employed in the
offices of both city and county during the
time when assessment rolls are made.
	Mrs. Emily Bertelson, superintendent
of schools, Piute County, and Miss Susa
J. Searle, Junction, county recorder of
Piute County., Marysvale.
	Mrs. S. J. Bryerson, Monticello, clerk
and recorder, San Juan County, has been
re-elected after having held office six
years; she was first elected in 1900 to the
office of county treasurer, and this will be
her third term as county clerk and re-
corder. Mrs. Lucinda Redd, county
treasurer, and Miss Lenna Butt, county
superintendent of schools, San Juan
County. Miss Dorothy Wilson. Ran-
dolph, county recorder of Rich County.
Mrs. Elizabeth Wilson, Beaver City,
county recorder, Beaver County.


