WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTE.
	On account of our having so many articles
that seemed imperative, and having this time
the Christmas Story which takes so much of
the space, therefore we have been obliged to
leave over Sister M. A. Winter’s article to the
“Sisters of the Relief Society,” and the con-
tinuation of the “Trip to England, R. S. re-
port of Box Elder Stake and “Sketch of
Lucretia Mott.” We trust the sisters will ex-
cuse the delay in issuing the paper which was
positively unavoidable for several reasons,
that we cannot very well explain in public
print.

	The assembling of the Legislators of Utah
this year is of considerable significance to the
women of this state, and as there are bills and
measures pending of vital interest to the wel-
fare of women citizens, they should study some
of these questions and if possible exert
an influence with members on the Com-
mittees that have these important matters
in hand. It is greatly Io be regrett d that in
a state where women have equal privileges
with men, there was no woman nominated for
the present Legislature, nor has there been so
far as we are aware, any courtesy extended to
the ladies of the city. 
	“All Aboard for Vermont” was the un-
ique heading of an invitation to attend a
gathering in the Lion House on January
1, 1907. Snow had fallen heavily but the
guests came and the festivities began on
time. The pairing of guests by means of
cards cut in a peculiar shape to fit into
each other was the curious method by
which the partner was found, and the
process of hunting was very amusing, at
last however all were paired off and were
summoned to the banqueting hall up
stairs. where tables were arranged and
when the guests were seated; the blessing
was asked by President F. M. Lyman.
To give the elaborate menu would be next
to impossible, but there was chicken pie,
pumpkin and mince pie, and many dain-
ties, as well as fruits, nuts, and candies.
In the parlor of the dear old Lion House
after the feast, there were games and
conversation and then the guests were
called up stairs again where there was a
Xmas tree and presents on it for all the
Vermont party; and Sister Susa Y. Gates
made a bright little speech as each one’s
name was called, and there were remarks
by seyeral of the distinguished party who
had been the guests of President Jos. F.
Smith on that memorable trip to Vermont.
The committee to whom the thanks of
the guests are due for this delightful en-

[Column 2]
tertainment were Susa Young Gates, Ida
B. Smith, Ina C. Smith, Edith A. Smith,
Alice A. Richards. It was certainly one
of the most enjoyable gatherings we have
ever attended.
	The Daughters of the Pioneers have
been doing such extraordinary things in
the way of unique entertainments, that
one cannot keep up with all their achieve-
ments especially of late during the holi-
days. The Pioneer Reunion to celebrate
laying of the new rag carpet on the
the floor of the relic room was made
quite a festive occasion, after five min-
utes speeches by Sisters B. W. Smith,
E. B. Wells, L. W. Smith and Alice K.
Smith, on old customs and what the
pioneer mothers had to do in earlier days
and spoke of the Daughters and Grand-
daughters. Elder O. F. Whitney made a
very interesting speech on historical
items and instances, and the First Presi-
dency having come in were urged to
speak each one in turn giving a few facts
of unique history, President J. R.
Winder’s remark’s being rather pathetic,
his life so unlike that of most of the fore-
most men in the Church standing
as it were alone, and yet firm as the tow-
ering mountains about our beautiful
vales, his kindred having none of them
embraced the faith for which he has
stood as as a valiant example. President
A. H. Lund spoke briefly, and in a most
entertaining way of his native land and
early life, and President Joseph F. Smith
gave us in his graphic style some of his
early boyhood experiences that never fail
to elicit the admiration of all who listen.
Afterwards the supper of doughnuts,
pumpkin pie, brown bread and butter,
salt rising bread too, and composition
tea were served by the Daughters and
all enjoyed these plain, simple, old-time
delicacies. A genial spirit of fraternity
pervaded the party, one and all and the
wish was expressed that others entitled
might come and enjoy the freedom and
listen to the reminiscences of early days
and learn how the fathers and mothers
endured the struggles encountered in set-
tling these barren wastes.


