RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
			to the memory of
	SISTER FRANCES MCKAY SMITH,
Unanimously adopted at a meeting of the Relief
Society of the Third Ward, Liberty Stake, Salt
	Lake City, held December 6th, 1906.

	WHEREAS it has pleased our Heavenly Father
to summon our dearly beloved sister from this
sphere to a more exalted one; and as her labors in
the Relief Society as Teacher, Counselor and Pre-
sident have been such as to win the love and re-
spect of all the members of the same—
	THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that we, her sisters
of the Third Ward Re ief Society hereby express
our appreciation of her example, her labors and
her faithfulness to every trust reposed in her dur-
ing the many years of her connec[-]ion with the So-
ciety; and that we recognize in her death the de-
parture from our midst of an able, efficient and
devoted Saint, and a faithful friend, whose me-
mory will ever be cherished by us, and whose
many virtues we hope to imitate; also that we con-
dole and deeply sympathize with the bereaved
husband and children and grandchildren in the
loss of her loving ministrations as wife and mother.
	We further resolve to present the bereaved fa-
mily with these resolutions; also that they may be
made a part of the Relief Society record, and that
a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publi-
cation in that paper.
	Rest in peace, thy work is done.
	Thou hast satisfied thy friends on earth,
	Beloved si[--]er of this earthly sphere—
	Equal to thy task on all occasions,
	Rest, thy work is done.
						MARY E. IRVINE,
						MARY E. HODGSON,
						SARAH H. GIBSON.
								Commitee.


[Column 1]
	REBECCA ATWOOD WAREHAM.
	Biographical sketch of Rebecca Atwood Ware-
ham, who departed this life on Nov. 25. 1906, at
the home of her daughter in Manti, Utah. De-
ceased was born in Mansfield, Tolland County,
Connecticut, Oct 23. 1825 She came of good old
Puritan stock and possessed all the sterling quali-
ties of the typical New England woman. Intel-
ligence, thrift, industry, and rare executive abili-
ty, being prominent traits. Mrs. Wareham was
naturally spiritual minded and possessed strong
religious convictions, and when the Elders bearing
the glad message of a restored Gospel, came to
her father’s house in the Spring of 1840, she, al-
though but a child in her fifteenth year was ready
and willing to receive it. Especially so after the
miraculous healing of her elder sister who had
been afflicted with spinal disease for three years
and had been pronounced incurable by a council
of the best physicians. On the day previous to
the visit of the Elders, who told the afflicted girl,
and her family that the gifts and blessings of the
former day Gospel had been restored and that the
signs would follow those who believed, which pro-
mise was virtually verified in her case, as immedi-
ately after receiving the administration of the

[Column 2]
Elders she arose and walked out into the garden,
and the following Sabbath walked one and one
half miles to attend meeting.
	Naturally after such a wonderful manifestation
of God’s Providence the whole family received
the Gospel and began to prepare for their depar-
ture for Nauvoo. But as soon as it became known
that they had espoused the new and unpopular
faith, persecution became rife, and life-long friends,
and neighbors brought all manner of false accusa-
tions against the father of the subject of this
sketch, who was known to be a man of faultless
integrity, and strict honesty. They tried in every
way possible to defeat his efforts to dispose of his
home and other effects to obtain means for the
journey; and were so far successful in their efforts
that he only obtained a fraction of their value, the
proceeds barely sufficing for the expenses of the
journey which was accomplished in the fall of
1840; Rebecca having preceded the family to Nau-
voo several months previous. On their arrival her
parents found her dangerously ill with chills and
fever combined with black canker. Her extreme
youth (being only fourteen years of age) her lone-
liness and homesickness caused by the separation,
and, generally unhealthy conditions prevailing in
Nauvoo, together with a lack of nourishing food
all combined to bring about her illness which was
rendering her condition very critical, she being
unable to take any nourishment whatever. The
parents however having mighty faith in the Power
which had restored their first-born at once sought
the administration of the Elders in behalf of their
suffering child, and as before their prayers were
answered, and she was instantly healed and re-
ceived a testimony of the truth of the Gospel which
never left her.
	The record of her life in Nauvoo with all its
trials and privations is a matter of history differ-
ing only in minor details from the experience of
the Saints in general. After two years residence
in their new home the elder sister, who had been
so miraculously healed succumbed to an attack of
fever, superinduced by privation and over-exertion
and passed away at the age of 21 years still retain-
ing her unfaltering faith in the restored Gospel.
	In 1843 the subject of this sketch was married
in the order of Celestial marriage to Joseph W.
Cooledge who was an intimate friend of the Pro-
phet Joseph.
	In 1846 in company with her husband and his
family she left Nauvoo and after a trying journey
located in Winter Quarters where in the winter of
1848 her first child a daughter was born In
the Spring of the same year she returned to Iowa,
where she lived about five years in the vicinity of
Council Bluffs where in the fall of 1850 her son
was born.
	It was a matter of great sorrow to her, that her,
husband, absorbed in business cares, manifest-
ed no disposition to gather with the Saints. The
intervening years between 1851 and 1864 were
spent with her father’s family in Western Iowa.
	After the death of her father, her mother and
two sons, accompanied by her daughter and her
children emigrated to Utah in the Summer of
1864, locating in Manti where she has since resided.
Her mother died 26 years ago and both brothers
within the last five years. Mrs. Wareham being
the last of her father’s family. At the time of her
death she was 81 years 1 month and 2 days old.
	In February 1868 she was married to James
Wareham who was a man of mighty faith and un-
faltering zeal in the ministry of the Gospel.
	On May 11, 1868, the Relief Society was reor-
ganized in Manti, and Mrs. Wareham was chosen
to act as secretary which position she held till
1871 —Jan. 25, 1875, she was chosen President of
the Relief Society of Manti which office she re-
tained till Feb. 2, 1883, when Manti was divided
in two wards she being reappointed as president
of the North Ward.
	When the Manti Temple was opened in the
Spring of 1888 she was called as a worker and
labored in that capacity continously with the ex-
ception of about four months in the winter and
spring of 1890 when she was disabled with a brok-
en limb. She was a Temple worker at the time of
her death although during the last three years of
her life the infirmities of age prevented her from
taking an active part. In 1899 she resigned her
office as president of the Relief Society but was
retained as Honorary President. She was also
President of the Sanpete County Silk Asociation
and was an enthusiastic advocate of Sericulture,
and was thorougly familiar with every phase of
that industry.
	Mrs. Wareham was a woman of rare executive
ability and exceptional housewifely skill which
enabled her to perform her public duties in a most
exemplary manner and also attend to her household
duties in a way that left nothing to be desired.
	Mrs. Wareham s home during her husband’s
life and also when a widow, was hospitable after


the most generous fashion, and nearly all the
greatest men and women of the L. D. S. Church
have been entertained in her home, where the
Spirit of God always seemed to abide.
	She also had the courage of her convictions, and
no adverse influence which could be brought to
bear would cause her to deviate from what she
considered her duty. She was an exemplary wife 
and mother, a consistent Latter-day Saint, and
had an abiding faith in the Gospel, and in the
Divine mission of the Prophet Joseph with whom
she was intimately acquainted, and for whom she
entertained the greatest love, respect and venera-
tion.
	She is survived by her daughter Mrs. Alvira
L. Cox in whose home the closing years of her life
were spent, and Mr. O. H. Cooledge of La-
Grande Oregon. She also leaves nine grandchil-
dren and five great-grandchildren.
	Funeral services were held in the Manti Taber-
nacle on Tuesday, Nov 27. The speakers all
paid glowing tributes to her blameless useful life
and sterling qualities of head and heart. She was
laid to rest in the beautiful cemetery beside her 
husband who passed away some years ago.
	Blessed are they who die in the Lord,—Com.


