WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s[-]con

Salt Lake City, Utah, 		-		JANUARY, 1907


[Column 1]
		HOLIDAY TIME.
	The Holiday season this year was in
many respects a very joyous one to the
people in these mountain vales; affairs in
general were never at any time more
prosperous; an almost universal feeling of
good will prevailed, and a sort of fellow-
ship, generous and kindly, and the liberali-
ty of presents, gifts and entertainments,
was unprecedented. Perhaps there was
in some ways an extravagance, but on the
whole presumably moderation, if not
economy.
	The little folks at any rate have been
made very happy with Santa Claus, who
scarce misses a home in these days, where
there are children, and indeed he seldom
passes by the older grown. There seems
no end, to the variety he carries about
and distributes in his wanderings up and
down the country, in an almost marvelous
way.
	Not only did Santa Claus go about with
his trees, and dolls, and all sorts of toys,
but all the fathers and mothers, aunts
uncles and cousins were alert and active
in the like pursuits, so that every home
seemed more like a play house, then a
modern sober dwelling place; feasting
music and dancing for all who could,
or would participate, visiting and making
merry.
	Now we have come again to the soberer
days and settled down to serious work,
yet very soon St. Valentine will come
frolicing along and turning the heads of
the young folks to thoughts of love and
mating, scattering his messages here and
there; and next will be Washington’s
birthday and more flying of flags and
bunting and decorating and feasting and
so forth.
	Meantime there is much work to be
done, and it is barely possible to have too
many holidays; and there are some people
who must do a lot of hard work even in
the holiday season.
	All the feasts and gatherings of families
and neighborhoods require work, and as
Br. Heber C. Kimball used to say, “holi-
days are hollow days” and to those who
cannot enter into sports and pastimes
and recreations freely, they are hollow
too; but that is the serious side of the
subject, and there are after all so many
terrible things in this age of the fulfill-
ment of prophecy, that it may be well to
have a counteracting influence acting as
a sort of balance, just to equalize and
carry us safely through the trying scenes

[Column 2]
of the events transpiring, and about to
take place.
	At any rate we of this age can say we
do not do all the silly things they used to
do in “ye olden time,” when the misletoe
was hung up in all the houses at Christ-
mas and the young men had the privilege
of kissing the girls under it, plucking each
time a berry from the bush and not until
the berries were all gone, did the privilege
cease.
	The Christmas feasting in which all
share is one of the real blessings of that
special season; an old rhyme gives the
true spirit in brief.

	“At Christmas be merry and thankful withal,
	And feast thy poor neighbors, the great with
		the small.”

	But indeed there were many ridiculous
customs at Christmas in the olden days.
One of the ancient customs that of serv-
ing up the boar’s head on Christmas day
is still observed in the hall of Queen’s
College, Oxford. A carol is sung by the
company when it is brought in,

	Bedeck’d with bays and rosemary;
	And I pray you my masters be merry.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	“The boar’s head as I understand
	Is the rarest dish in all this land
	Which is thus bedeck’d with a gay garland.”

	Then follows a pie magnificiently de-
corated with peacock’s feathers in imita-
tion of the tail of that bird covering a
large portion of the table; the pie made
of pheasants, though authoritatively it
should be made of peacock’s. This used
to be in great demand for stately enter-
tainments. Sometimes the head appeared
above the crust and the beak richly gilt;
at the other end displaying the long tail
feathers. Such pies were served at solemn
banquets of chivalry when knights-errant
pledged themselves to undertake any
perilous enterprise, whence came the an-
cient oath, “by cock and pie.”
	The peacock in these ancient days
was an important dish for the Christmas
feast and the extravagance with which this
and other dishes were prepared for the
gorgeous revels of the olden times are
scarcely creditable.
	This is only one item of the menu served
in those days of old English chivalry; but
the Puritans of New England went to the
other extreme and would not keep Christ-
mas at all. In a way they substituted
Thanksgiving although no presents were
made either then or now.


