R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


Mrs. Ida H. Harper is in New York
this winter, doing research work for one
of the large magazines.


[Column 1]
THE N. W. R. S. CONVENTION.
	The convention convened Nov, 18, 1906,
and held two sessions, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.
m., at Flamm’s Hall, Rexburg, Idaho.
	On the stand—Of the presidency of the
stake, Presidents Thomas E. Bassett, Al-
bert Heath, President Matilda Flamm,
Counselors Sarah A. Barnes and Tamar
Ricks, Dr. R. B. Penrose, of the General
Board of the Relief Society, Pres. Jane
Osborne, of the Y. L. M. I. A., and Pres,
Winters, of the stake Primaries, and a
number of presidents of the Relief Society,
also Pres. Ezra Christensen of the Ricks
Academy.
	At the morning session, Pres. Flamm
gave an address of welcome in a few
choice words of encouragement, and giv-
ing a short report of the Relief Society
work for the last year. All the wards had
been visited twice, except one, a very dis-
tant one,which had been visited but once.
They found nearly all in a most flourish-
ing condition, and the workers diligent
and energetic.
	Pres. Barrett spoke in a most encour-
aging manner, commending the work of
the society and their diligence, and
blessed them in all their efforts to do good.
	Excellent papers were read by Coun-
selors Sarah A. Barnes and Tamar Ricks.
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose spoke a few
words in appreciation of the excellent
work the society was doing.
	Afternoon session. At 2 p.m., though
the weather was intensely cold, and some
of the sisters had walked two miles before
daylight to catch a chance fo ride to Rex-
burg a large assembly convened,  The
afternoon services were dispensed with to
give opportunity to all to attend the con-
vention.
	After the opening exercises, Pres. Al-
bert Heath spoke some time in a most
praiseworthy manner of the work done
in the Relief Society, and reported to
their great diligence and energy in visit-
ing the branches. Said they had done
better than the brethren in this line.
	Papers of special interest were read,
notably the one by Mrs. Stevens, who was
selected as second counselor, Mrs. Ricks
resigning.
	Brother Christensen, president of Ricks
Academy, spoke many words of commen-
dation and encouragement of the work
done by the sisters In their Relef Society
labors.
	The Presidency of the Stake felt so
well pleased with the work of the Society
that they set aside the 18th of November
as a permanent date for the convention
to be held annually. Beautiul music was
rendered by the academy choir, and two
solos of fine voices were rendered during
the convention. The benediction was
given by Brother Henry Flamm. R. B. P.

