[Vol5 | September 1918 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Dept Patriotic Department Clarissa Smith William]

The "Patriotic Department" can be illustrated with a suitable tableau, and the entertainment for a successful "home evening" can represent suggestions division. Let some good reader give the editorial and current events, and a group of workers could demonstrate the various lessons and activities. Close with invitation to join the Society and subscribe for its Magazine. A small orchestra would add to the success of the social, or the ward organist could "play" the various pictures, and be sure and include some rousing musical numbers and community songs. For a delightful out of doors frolic, a watermelon party is suggested. If the object is to make money, an admission fee of 25c may be charged. The invitation: "A monster melon am going to be opened at (place), on Sept. de at 8 o'clock. Come and eat all you can hold and enjoy yourself. Only twenty-five cents to get in." A pleasant plan for the entertainment would be: Guests received and feasted with melon, games and athletic sports. Small green melons afford a funny race game where the fruit is pushed over the course with the toe of one's shoe. Award a ripe melon for prize. Conclude with a program of old Southern melodies or "darkey" songs, accompanied by mandolins and banjos. A "peach" party might prove popular, and peaches and cream, peach pie and shortcake with ice cream, lemonade or grape, could be served and sold. STAKE OFFICERS' PARTY. A very unique stake officers' party was recently held in one of the nearby stakes, where the program was so different, and the fun so genuine. The first half hour was spent in social converse, this was followed by a singing contest, participated in by the various bishoprics of the stake. Each group chose their own selection and the honor fell to a group who sang a funny nursery rhyme. Next a tug of war between presidencies of Seventies, and Elders quorums. A comical spelling bee followed between the members of the High Council and the ward clerks. Next a dancing contest, where the Young Men's Mutual officers paired off with the Relief Society Board, Patriarchs with Primary, Religion Class with Y. L. M. I. A.  this event, a prize step-dance, being won by a Patriarch of the old school. A suit case race between the stake presidency and their wives caused much fun. Instrumental and vocal music was interspersed between the various "stunts," and the punch bowl was very heavily patronized. The social concluded with dancing.