In the Kitchen Laboratory. Hazel Love Dunford. FOOD FOR THE SICK. Diet in the large hospital is divided into three classes, namely: liquid, soft solid, and solid diet. In the first class are all liquids, including milk, gruels, beef extract, beef tea, egg nog, cream soups, cocoa, etc. The second class is made up of eggs, creamed toast, creamed sweet-breads, baked custards, junkets, jellies, etc., while in the solid diet, such foods as meat, fish, cereals, vegetables, and fruits are included. In considering food for the sick, there is no one food that is of so much importance, as is milk, for it contains all the five food principles. It is inexpensive in most localities, and easily taken. It agrees with most people. It can be cooked and combined with many other foods; and it is non-irritant. There are, however, a few disadvantages, most of which can be overcome to a certain degree. First,, as to bulk, such a large quantity must be taken by an adult, especially in order to get the required food value. Often times, the taste of milk is objected to. This can be overcome by adding salt or a little spice, such as nutmeg, cinnamon, or ginger, chocolate, or lime water. These are all very good to use, to alter the taste of milk. Some times, it causes nausea, probably due to the fat. It causes constipation with many individuals. This can be overcome by the use of magnesia. When milk is heated, a scum rises to the top; this contains coagulated albumen, a small quantity of coagulated casein, and some fat. If this is removed, of course some of the nutritive value is lost. If the scalded milk is beaten with a Dover egg-beater, the scum, which is so unsightly, will be so intermingled with the mass as not to be noticed. Milk should always be heated in a double boiler, so as not to overheat or burn it. If it is cooled immediately, some of the taste so peculiar to cooked milk will be overcome. Milk is one of the most easily contaminated foods we have. It should, therefore, be kept extremely clean and in covered vessels (not tightly). It should never be left standing in the sick room. Tvlilk can be combined with well-cooked cereals, to make gruels of great food value. For instance — graham flour, cream of wheat, oat meal, corn meal, and many others. In serving food to sick people, first make them as comfortable as possible. Make the tray just as attractive as means will permit: use artistic china: and be sure the tray is not too crowded. IN THE KITCHEN LABORATORY. 363 A fresh flower always shows thoughtfulness, and adds to the beauty of the tray. If there is no bed-side table, two blocks of wood can be placed on either side of the patient to hold the tray; or books or magazines may be stacked so as to serve the purpose. They must be high enough, so the tray will be off the individual. RECIPES. Asparagus Soup. 10 stalks of asparagus. Yolk 1 egg, / ^ cup chicken or veal stock 1 tb. cream, t. salt. Boil asparagus until tender y%; rub through seive, add stock and seasoning, then lastly, the beaten yolk. (Note. — Egg may be omitted, and flour used to thicken a little.) Orange Jelly. -)4 t. gelatine, . % c. orange juice, y2 t. cold water, 1 t. lemon juice, 1 tb. boiling water, 1^/^ tb. sugar. Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling water, and stir until dissolved; add remaining ingredients, and set in a cool place until firm. Serve with whipped cream. TO MY SON. Do you know that your soul is of my soul such a part That you seem to be fibre and core of my heart? None other can pain me as you, dear, can do,, None other can please me or praise me as you. Remember the world will be quick with its blame. If shadow or stain ever darken your name, "Like mother like son" is a saying so true The world will judge largely of mother by you. Be yours, then, the task, if task it should be, To force the proud world to do homage to me. Be sure it will say when its verdict you've won. She reaped as she sowed. Lo! this is her son. Margaret Johnstone Graflin. Home Department. Janette A. Hyde. KITCHEN HELPS. In this wonderful inventive age, the shops are supplied with almost every conceivable contrivance used to make house-keeping more pleasant and easy. But in the selection of new handy articles, one must take into consideration whether or not those articles will be useful in one's own individual kitchen, for oftentimes a convenience for one proves a burden to another, on account of the difference in space accomodation. Most conveniences are usually luxuries, and are often too expensive. We here offer a few inexpensive suggestions which can be made at home: The kitchen, where mother and daughters spend so much time, should by all means have first consideration, as to conveniences and means of making work easy. As to the size of the kitchen there is a great difference of opinion; some prefer the roomy and somewhat spacious room, feeling free in the execution of labor, while the majority of housewives prefer the small and compact compartment, as all its contents are brought close together and many steps are saved in the preparation of meals, or the thing latest keeping of the kitchen in order. The buffet kitchen is the in houses. Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe of Logan has published in the A. C. Bulletin an example of real kitchen convenience, as well a.^ compactness in the arrangement of the same: a table (home made, if necessary) at the left of the kitchen sink, and as large as the space will admit is indispensable in saving steps in the kitchen; have this overlap the sink and cover with zinc, which will not rust. Turn up the zinc over a molding around the side 'of the table, so that the water will drain back from it into the latter; above the table have two or three enclosed shelves to hold the most used articles in the preparation of the meals; thus they are always in sight and ready for use. It is advisable to transfer all foods purchased loose, or in bags, to glass or tin jars labeled and kept for this special purpose, such as rice, cornmeal, salt, pepper, sugar, etc. Insert hooks on the under side of lower shelf to hold measuring cups, spoons, meat fork, and in fact articles used in preparing the meals. Above the sink have a dish rack made of hard wood, cut into strips about 1½ inches thick and 1 inch wide. Make four braces of same material, about six inches