Current Topics. Denmark has granted the elective franchise to women. Thus the disenfranchisement of humankind, female as well as male, go on in governmental affairs. The United States is not likely to become involved in war with any other nation at the present time; but the constantly recurring internal disturbances in various states do not augur so well for the safety of the nation generally. In Utah, the month of June has become quite as notable for its June festivals in honor of the "Old Folks," or those persons above seventy years of age, as it is for weddings the civilized world over; and these festivals are not less the harbingers of joy and love among the people, young and old. It is officially announced that the Swiss army of 250,000 men was mobilized in one week after the European war began, which was better than either France or Great Britain did. This incident is one among many which go to show that neither France nor Great Britain were prepared for the war, hence did not inaugurate it. California has had another severe earthquake, this one expending its central force in the Imperial Valley, a rich agricultural section of Southern California which is being opened up by an extensive government irrigation project. Several lives and hundreds of thousands of dollars in property were lost, the irrigation works marvelously escaping destruction. Whatever else the M. I. A. contests connected with the June conferences of the young people among the Latter-day Saints may develop, they portray beyond dispute a high order of educational and intellectual development that augurs well for the Mutual Improvement cause in the years to come. The Zionist movement that is, to repopulate Palestine with the Jews, in the United States, has received marked impetus the past two months, owing to the European war. It is urged that at the close of the war there will be a keen competition for Palestine, and that the logical disposition of that country would be to assign it to the Jews. Thus do coming events cast their shadows before. The Associated Press dispatches carried to all parts of the United States the astonishing news that Baby Sayre, President 
 Woodrow Wilson's youngest grandchild, had cried several times in one night in the same house where "Grandpa" slept, but had not disturbed him seriously. Why should he be hurt with one baby's crying, one night only? Hasn't he reared three girls, each of whom out-figured Baby Sayre up to date with "echoes of the night?" More than a million women in Great Britain have petitioned the government to intern the thousands of Germans now at liberty in that country. It is not unlikely that the women will have their request granted, since Great Britain, being the most democratic of the European powers, is the only one of the belligerent nations which has not interned or expelled most of the citizens of hostile countries within its borders. By an elaborate system of referendum, the United States Chamber of Commerce at Washington has ascertained that the country at large is overwhelmingly opposed to the ship-purchase plan proposed by the administration during the last Congress. It thus appears that Utah's congressional delegation, which unitedly opposed the bill, was in harmony with the general American sentiment, and not opposed to it, as many of their political opponents would have had the people believe when the bill was being voted on. Japan has ordered that the teaching of religion in the schools of Korea be estopped, and gives as an argument in favor of its new method that the United States and France have found success in general education by "separating wisdom and religion." It may be made to appear so to the Japanese mind, but the cleaner and more enlightened sentiment of this country discerns dismal failure to the social fabric in "separating wisdom and religion" in the training of the youth. The exhibition of the Liberty Bell to the children of Salt Lake City and vicinity at the only convenient time, namely, on Sunday morning, July 11, aroused a protest from some ministers because, forsooth, it interfered with the sessions of the Sabbath schools. By the way, wasn't the heaven-inspired institution of this great government for the religious as well as the political freedom of millions of people the basis of a valuable Sunday lesson, instead of a protest? Rightly applied by Sabbath school teachers, the notable presence of the historic relic which more than all others of its class is a reminder of that heaven-inspired event, and which impresses the child-mind with the thought conveyed in the quotation from the Bible inscribed on the bell itself: "Proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof" — is a theme for more than one effective Sunday school lesson to Christian children.