Notes from the Field. The stake conferences this year have been a real joy to all concerned. The General Board has been able to send representatives to all the stakes so far scheduled, notwithstanding the fact that on some of the dates there have been as many as six conferences held simultaneously, ranging in distance from Canada to Arizona. The response from the stakes has been whole-souled in every way, great interest being manifested in all lines of Relief Society work, and especially along spiritual lines, including the testimony meetings. The officers' meetings have been better attended than ever before, and this is most gratifying. Certainly no wide-awake officer will ever feel that she can possibly afford to miss these important meetings. In many of the stakes, splendid class work is being done. Teachers have been selected, who are thoroughly qualified to direct the study, and their efforts are bringing gratifying results. The following new stakes have been organized within the last three months: Curlew, Raft River, North Davis, and South Davis. Curlew Stake was made up of portions of Malad and Box Elder Stakes; and Raft River is taken from Cassia Stake; and the old Davis Stake was divided into two parts forming the northern and southern divisions. The President of the Curlew Stake is Mrs. Mary E. Bennett of Malad, Idaho, while that of Raft River is Mrs. Lucy Eames, Almo, Idaho. Reports of the new officers of the Davis Stakes have not yet been received. A reorganization of the stake Relief Society in Star Valley took place at the recent quarterly conference, held in Afton, Wyoming, on June 26th and 27th. The visitors at this conference were Elder Rudger Clawson, President Rulon S. Wells, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. Because of continued illness in her family, and because of her inability, therefore, to attend to the work of the Society properly, Mrs. Sarah Ann Burton asked to be released from the office of stake president. Her excellent service and pure devotion have left a lasting impress on that stake Relief Society. The new stake officers were sustained as follows: President, Martha E. Roberts; Counselors, Susan Cazier, Kitty Burton; Secretary, Artemesia D. Call; Treasurer, Sedonia Roberts; Chorister, Allison M. Hale; Organist, Mary R. Yeaman. Stake Board: Johanna Cook, Elizabeth Linford, Sarah A. Hurd, Lena Jenkins, Helen Wilson, Elizabeth Turner, Sarah Isabel Call, Ruth Raney, Elizabeth Moser, Christena Holling, Martha Barrus, Angela Rich, Clary Harrison, Artemesia D. Call, and Florence Lee. 
 The General Board of the Relief Society is arranging for a new set of books for record work. These books will be ready for distribution before the end of the year, and by January 1, 1916, we shall hope to see them adopted and in use in every ward in the Church. These books will be arranged to take care of all the information required for our yearly report, and will obviate much of the trouble experienced last year by Secretaries, in compiling these yearly reports. Meanwhile the secretaries should preserve their present records in permanent books, as there will be no place in the new books for back minutes.