[WomansExponent | Vol12 | 1883 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: TO THE EDITOR OF THE ÆGIS: | Author: Unknown]

TO THE EDITOR OF THE ÆGIS:

	You wish to know how, and in what way I
know that Plural Marriage is right. By revela-
tion. I know by the same way that Peter knew
that Jesus was the Christ. "Jesus asked His
disciples whom do men say that I am, and they
answered and said, some say that Thou art John
the Baptist; some Elias; others Jeremiah or
one of the Prophets. He saith unto them, whom
do ye say that I am, and Simon Peter answered
and said Thou art the Christ, the Son of the
living God; and Jesus answered and said unto
him, blessed art thou Simon Barjona; for flesh
and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but
my Father which is in Heaven. I say unto
thee thou art Peter, and upon this rock will
I build my Church, and the gates of hell shall
not prevail against it." Matthew, from the
13th to 18th verse, 16th chap.
	What rock was that? Was it Peter? No.
It was the rock of revelation. God revealed
it unto Peter by the Holy Ghost, the Comforter.
In the same way God has revealed it unto me
that Plural Marriage is right.
	You ask me how I got my faith, or religion,
and further ask, "was it not given to you or
established for an authority over you by men."
I say most emphatically that it was not. Faith
and true religion can not be given by man.
Man himself is dependent upon God for those
gifts, and can not bestow them upon others.
	"Faith is a gift of God. Without faith it is
impossible to please God. Even so faith if it
hath not works is dead, being alone. But
wilt thou know, vain man, that faith without
works is dead." James, 3d chap.
	I said in my last article I was born in this
Church, and will now add, in the valleys of
these mountains, and am a free born American
citizen, though now disfranchised for obeying
the laws of God. From my earliest recollection
I had been taught to believe that the Bible
meant what it said, and that God could see and
hear me and that if I would pray He would an-
swer my prayers. I used to hear these passages
of Scripture quoted by our Elders: "If any of
you lack wisdom let him ask of God, who giveth
unto all men liberally and upbraideth not, and
it shall be given him." James 1, 5. "Ask
and it shall be given you; seek and ye shall
find; knock and it shall be opened unto you;
for every one that asketh, receiveth, and he
that seeketh findeth, and to him that knock-
eth it shall be opened." Matt. 7, 7. I wanted
to prove if those passages were true, if God could
really answer my prayers. I asked in childish
simplicity for a temporal gift and I received it;
this strengthened my faith and gave me con-
fidence to ask for things of more worth than
earthly gifts. I wanted to know for myself if
the principles taught me were true. I was
earnest. I went to God in humility and asked
for a testimony of the truth of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ. My prayer was heard. I was
answered. The Holy Ghost, the Spirit of God,
filled me with joy and gave me a testimony
that man can neither give nor take away.

[Column 2]
	I have not lived very long upon the earth,
but I have lived long enough to know the value
of prayer. I have made God my friend while
I am young by living near to Him, pleading
daily for strength and wisdom for the fellowship
of His Holy Spirit to enable me to perform the
duties required of me. I praise His name and
thank Him that He has answered my prayers.
You say that I am blind to my own rights and
God given privileges and am under the "mystic
shadows of priestcraft." It is not true. I
enjoy light and intelligence that God has given
me, that I am afraid you know nothing about.
You are certainly under the "shadows of priest-
craft" and are blind to the things of God and
His Kingdom or you would not talk about a
people and their religion as you do about the
"Mormons." What do you know about "a
Mormon woman's only hope or guarantee of
Heaven?" or what is publicity "sanctioned" in the
Mormon Church. You haven't enough of the
Spirit of truth to discern it when placed before
you, but there are none so blind as those who
"do not want to see."
	If you read the WOMAN'S EXPONENT you are
constantly reading the testimonies of Latter-
day Saint women, that are true. You not
only reject their testimonies, in defense of their
religion, but you misrepresent them, for which
you will have to give an account in the great
"hereafter."
	We are not such meek, submissive creatures
as you imagine we are. What we do, we do
because we know by the Spirit that we possess,
is right. We do it intelligently because we love
to do right. We do not believe we can be
saved in ignorance. God has provided the way
wherin we can obain "hidden treasures of
knowledge," that is, in "doing the will of the
Father." "If any man will do His will he shall
know of the doctrine whether it be of God or
whether I speak of myself." John 17, 17.
	We have the moral courage to live the prin-
ciples of our religion in spite of all the derision,
sneers and opposition of the whole world. Mr.
Edmunds, Mr. Cullom and "fifty millions of
people," can not take from us our faith and
confidence in God, nor the testimony He has
given us concerning His Church that He has
established never more to be "thrown down."
They are in the hands of God and can do no
more than He will permit them to do. It is
our business to do the will of God. He revealed
the principle of plural marriage and com-
manded us to obey it.
	We can not give it up; we must work the
works of Abraham or we can not go where he
is. God walked and talked with Abraham
after he had taken a second wife, and told him
that he would make a covenant with him and
multiply him exceedingly and make him a
father of many nations. The son of his plural
wife also received a great promise from God:
"I will make him fruitful and will multiply
him exceedingly; twelve princes shall he beget
and I will make him a great nation. " Gen.
17, 20.
	That didn't look as though God thought he
was illegitimate. Jacob, who had four wives,
was a man whom the Lord loved; the twelve
tribes of Israel descended from those polygamic
wives. Moses, the great lawgiver of Israel,
who talked with the Lord and saw many marvel-
ous manifestations of His power, made special
provisions for the children of polygamous mar-
riages, and he himself practiced it.
	The Prophet Samuel was the son of a polyg-
amist, yet he lived in the temple and was an
object of God's favor. Many more names might
be mentioned to show that God blessed and
prospered ancient Israel, who practiced the
patriarchal order of marriage, but we do not
practice it because they did; we do not say that
because they were justified, we are justified.
We do these things because we have been
commanded to do them. We worship the same

[Column 3]
God that walked and talked with them. This
is the same Gospel, with all its gifts and bless-
ings, that they enjoyed.
	In this Church men and women are equal,
they are one, their interest is one; one is not
complete without the other. "Neither is the
man without the woman, nor the woman with-
out the man in the Lord." 1 Cor. 11, 11. Mar-
raige is honorable in all and the bed undefiled,
but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.
Heb. 13, 4. There is no law of public sanction
or custom for men to break their marriage vows
in "Mormonism." Divorce is very rare. God
delights in the chastity of His daughters; so do
His servants, and adultery is ranked next in
crime to murder among the "Mormons." Those
who practice such things are severed from the
Church. They are not connected with the Latter-
day Saints; they cut themselves off from the
Priesthood. A man makes solemn covenants
to be faithful to his wives, he does not deceive
one and betray another, but each one knows
that he has other wives whom he loves and who
love him. You ask "how can a woman gratify
her love on a creature that shares his with more
than one woman, that is, if he has any love or
knows what it is?"
	Let me ask you a question, if you are married
do you not love your husband, and does he not
love his mother and sisters, and if you are a
mother, does he not love your children? How
then can you gratify your love upon him, when
his is shared with so many? Does not a woman
love all her children equally? Does she lavish
all her affections on one child, and neglect
the others?
	It is your tradition that a man can only love
one woman; but what a poor "creature" a man
would be, with a soul so small, whose affection
was so limited he could only love one woman.
	We are told in the Bible that "God is love,"
well, then, if we have His Spirit we are filled
with love. This Spirit enables us to live in
this order, and to bear and forbear with each
other's imperfections.
	It makes us generous, kind and obliging.
We think it a blessing to have a good husband;
then why is it not equally a blessing for our
fellow sisters to have good husbands, and as
there are not good husbands enough for each
woman to have one alone, why not share with
each other in lawful marriage. We have the
Priesthood of God in our midst, not priestcraft,
who have the authority to marry for time and
all eternity, having the Apostleship or power
to seal on earth. We are the only people on
the earth who have this power and authority.
	You are married by man, "until death doth
you part." We are married by the power of
the Priesthood, to enjoy endless lives and asso-
ciations in the presence of God, if we keep the
faith and endure to the end.
	"But as it is written, eye hath not seen, nor
ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart
of man, the things which God hath prepared
for them that love Him. But God hath re-
vealed them unto us by His Spirit; for the
Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep thing
of God. For what man knoweth the things of
a man save by the spirit of man which is in
him? Even so the things of God knoweth no
man but by the Spirit of God. But the natural
man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of
God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither
can he know them because they are spiritually
discerned." 1 Cor. 11.
	In the absence of this Spirit we can not ex-
pect you, or any one else, to comprehend the
difference between Priesthood, which we share
with our husbands and enjoy that equality you
would like to see established, and priestcraft,
which has governed the world for ages.
	"For except a man be born of water and of
the Spirit he can not enter the kingdom of
God."				M. E. TEASDALE.
	Nephi, Jan. 19th, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
MISSISSIPPI.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Horace mentions Bro. William Cahoon with
part of the band being encamped within a
short distance of us, also speaks of Bro's John
Taylor and Spencer having gone ahead.
"Here," he says, "it commenced raining soon
after our arrival, which, however, did not last
long. Bro Perry left us also to-day and went
back to Nauvoo."
	Next day Bro. Markham come back from
his camp, which was three miles ahead, with
fifteen or sixteen yoke of oxen to assist them
along, which was very acceptable, as during
the last night four of my father's horses had
strayed away, and a number of the boys had
gone out in pursuit of them—we went on to
Bro. Markham's camp and stopped. The
horses were found at the place where the boys
had last bought corn, some fifteen miles distant
from camp; probably they remembered it and
went back for another feast.
	The same day Horace wrote: "Brother Dal-
ton's horse was bitten to-day by a rattlesnake.
We have a civilized Indian of the ancient Del-
aware tribe with us, who is of great use to us
in such cases. Also this morning noticed a
heifer, belonging to Bro. John Pack, which
had been bitten. These reptiles are getting so
plenty as to be quite dangerous for those travel-
ing on foot, though I believe, as yet, no person
has been bitten. The other day one of Bro.
Kimball's horses being bitten he laid his hands
on the part effected, and rebuked the sickness
occasioned by the poison, in the name of the
Lord, which prayer was almost immediately
answered. Bro. Kimball says it is just as prop-
er to lay hands on a horse or an ox and admin-
ister to them in the name of the Lord, and of
as much utility, as it is to a humun being, both
being creatures of His creation, both, conse-
quently, having a claim to His attention.
	"Saturday, 25th. Traveled about seven
miles and encamped on quite a large creek, the
name unknown—called it Mt. Pleasant. This
day, by the advise of Bro. Kimball, Helen and
myself commenced "keeping house," or tent
rather, by ourselves; taking Hosea Cushing,
Wm. King, Jeannette Murray, Bro. Francis
Whitney and little Heber, thus, by this means,
more equalizing the number for the other tents
—rained a little during the night	*	*
To-day news came from Brigham that he was
five miles ahead on one of the forks of Grand
River, and that the calculation was to com-
mence splitting rails, etc., in order to inclose
some farms, also to lay out a town plat etc."
	"Sunday, 26th. This morning, notwithstand-
ing our beautiful location, we were forced to go
ahead, in consequence of there being no good
range for our cattle to feed.	*	* Before start-
ing heard Bro. Scott telling a circumstance
that happened about fifteen miles from here in
the Welder Settlement—this man, Welder, be-
ing notorious for his mobocratic principles. A
portion of the artillery had gone there and
taken jobs of work—they had earned about
$26—when they were visited by a committee,
professing to be a deputation of the people,
who told them they must leave immediately.
The man who owed them $26 seemed disposed
to pay them, but on manifesting a disposition
to do so he was told by his neighbors that he
should "pack his duds and leave;" accordingly
he paid them nothing—traveled five miles and
overtook the remainder of Zion's camp. At
this place the fitting out of those who intend
going over the mountains will take place.
Bro. S. Roundy came from Nauvoo that day,
bringing the mail. Bishop Whitney received
a letter from Thos. Burdick, dated April 22nd,
at Nauvoo, stating that he had just received a
letter from Reuben McBride, in Kirtland, an-

[Column 2]
nouncing the death of Grandfather Whitney.
The same day, by the kindness of one of the
artillery, our company were provided with
some fresh pork, some of the company having
killed a wild hog in that vicinity, of which
they saw quite a drove.
	"Monday; 27th" continues Horace, "on wak-
ing this morning found it raining, which con-
tinued through the day and night, a cold,
drizzly rain; consequently the brethren could
not do much at splitting rails etc. There are a
hundred men assigned to this business, ten lay-
ing up rails, forty-eight to building houses,
twelve to each house; ten herding cattle, twelve
digging wells, ten building a bridge across the
river for us to pass on our journey west; ten or
twelve stocking ploughs and making drags,
five or six blacksmith shops, the remainder to
attend to the business of farming, etc."
	It seems that for two days there was not
much done on account of the rains, which con-
tinued incessantly day and night till Wednes-
day evening, when it cleared off pleasant. By
the last mail father had received a letter from
Bro. Joseph L. Heywood, at Nauvoo, announc
ing the sale of our place there for thirty-five
yoke of oxen, to which Horace wrote an an-
swer on the 28th.
	The next day he wrote: "A meeting was
called about noon in order to do some business,
necessary to fitting out an expedition over the
mountains. Bro. O. Pratt made an estimate
of the number of wagons, grain, implements
of farming, such as hoes, shovels, etc., that
would be necessary for one hundred men on
this expedition."
	"The first of May," Horace wrote, "we are
now engaged repairing the wagons that we in-
tend taking with us when we shall start again.
The weather has been so inclement since our
arrival that our stay here will necessarily be
prolonged beyond the time originally intend-
ed."
	He also speaks of his father and mother,
Prest. young and wife Mary Ann, and my
father and mother going to Lorenzo Young's
tent that same day to dine, where they had
quite a family meeting. While stopping there
there was not more than one or two days till
about the 13th that we did not have a shower;
some of the time hail and rain, and on the
night of the 5th had a heavy thunder storm,
and there was some sickness in consequence,
but we had very few deaths in our camp dur-
ing that part of our journey, for which we had
great cause to be thankful. Numbers of the
brethren, who had come that far with teams and
to drive, returned to Nauvoo.
	"Tuesday, 4th," Horace says, "one of father's
horses, on being driven up to-night, was dis-
covered to be very badly bitten in two or three
places on the head. We immediately resorted
to our family horse physician, the Delaware,
who has been veyr sucessful hitherto," but
on the 7th, it seems, the horse died, contrary to
their expectations. "This," Horace wrote, "was
owing to the inattention on the part of the
boys, who neglected to take care of him.
Father considers it quite a loss as it breaks up
one of his teams."
	"Friday, 8th.	*	*	Jacob Fra-
zier came in with five yoke of Bro. Kimball's
ozen and went to drawing rails this afternoon.
The brethren finished their fencing to-day,
having enclosed 300 acres, leaving a surplus of
10,000 rails; they have besides a sufficient
number of house logs cut to build 30 or 40
buildings. This afternoon Andrew Cahoon
came in from Nauvoo-brought the mail, the
5th number of the Eagle for Brigham, and the
news that Porter was arrested, while asleep, by
Backentos in Nauvoo for the murder of Wor-
rel—that he was taken to Carthage, stood trial
on the charge and was acquitted. He was no
sooner liberated, however, than he was taken
up on another accusation—that of threatening

[Column 3]
a man's life, and committed to Quincy Jail
there to await his trial."
	"The wife of Bro. Green, captain of a com-
pany of pioneers, died, and was buried here
yesterday."
	"Saturday, 9th. Beautiful day— about noon
I started out and got the cattle— put four yoke
on my wagon, three on Bro. Smither's and
horses to the carriage, and went out three or
four miles and encamped where our cattle have
been kept—took the little tent with us. Wm.
Kimball and King went with us and helped
us drive the teams. We got here about sun-
set. We are in a short distance of a hut
which the boys built the other day, where John
Forsgreen and Jacob Frazier stay nights.
There is a wolf's den about a quarter of a mile
from here, which Wm. found the other day—
the boys chased a wolf into it and put fire at
the entrance, but could not scare the wolf out,
and on repairing there the next day discovered
the sticks they had made it of carefully laid
aside. Beside Helen and myself there are six
of us, John, Jacob, Jeannette, Sister Smither
and her two children."
	"Sunday, 10th.		*	*	There were
some resolutions passed at the meeting—one
was, that the land which had been enclosed,
and all that pertains thereto, should be consid-
ered as belonging to the Church or Church
property, each man or family is allowed a cer-
tain portion of land to till, and if he neglects
it, it is to be taken from him and given to an-
other. Father Burt is to be left as president
of this Stake of Zion, assisted by two counsel-
ors. Jedediah Grant preached in the Gospel."
	This day the sky was cloudless and beauti-
ful, and I was happy because the few days
spent there were so quiet and peaceful, and I
looked forward with a feeling of dread to the
time that it must be broken in upon and again
be forced to mingle with the crowd and una-
voidable noise and bustle of a large camp. Our
tent was pitched on a gentle slope, and below
some distance away, was a crystal stream of
water babbling over the rocks down through a
little grove of trees and willows, where I ac-
companied Horace the next day, Sunday, to
fish, taking along our books to read. This
was his favorite pastime, and in which he in-
dulged every opportunity. This was the most
delightful spot we had seen, the whole land-
scape around us was lovely, they called it roll-
ing praierie, and it had such a variety of hills
and dales, all dressed anew in their bright vel-
vety robes of spring.
	the first morning I took an early stroll to
enjoy the scene, and I was almost enchanted as
I stood there alone gazing at the glorious sight
as the sun was peeping over the hills—and to
lend still more to the scene of enchantment
here came a beautiful fawn and also an aute-
lope, skipping fearlessly over hill and dale and
out of sight, with naught to disturb them nor
the peace and tranquility of my thoughts, but
the knowledge that the spell was so soon to be
broken.
	I was a romantic girl, not yet eighteen, and
naturally an admirer of the beauties of God's
handiwork, and I thought, like the "Minstrel,"
	"O nature, how in every charm supreme!
		Whose votaries feast on raptures ever new!
	O, for the voice and fire of seraphim,
		To sing thy glories with devotion due!"
	Next day another fishing excursion was tak-
en, where Horace caught a dozen or more.
These substantials were very acceptable, as we
had had no meat, except a little that had been
given to us and some we had borrowed a few
days previous, for a number of weeks, but had
subsisted principally on sea biscuits and that
sort of fare. When the sun did shine the heat
was intense, and the reasons for my remember-
ing it was that we were compelled to walk all
that was possible to favor the teams as they


were fast giving out, and the most aggravating
part was the slow progress that we made, it
taking us over three months to accomplish
what would have been a week's journey under
ordinary circumstances.
	Sometimes our camping place would be in
sight of the one that we had started from in
the morning, being on the prairie and having
to follow the crooked ravines, there being no
roads or bridges unless we stopt to build them.
The most trying part of the journey, at least to
me, was when we had to walk, and the scorch-
ing sun at times beating down upon us, until
my little strength and patience would be quick-
ly exhausted. There were times when we girls
would drop down by the roadside and vow that
we would not rise again till we saw the tents
pitched, then we would take a straight line to
the camp. I had not yet obtained sufficient
religion to assist me and as my strength failed
me so did my faith, but when the teams were
ahead our only alternative was to get up and
travel on. But after they decided to peddle off
such things as they could not take with them
over the mountains and we got more teams and
provisions, we were much more comfortable. I
shall never forget how I feasted at Garden
Grove upon my mother's first white bread and
fresh churned butter. I had been famishing
for a fortnight or more for the want of nour-
ishment, or the lack of appetite to eat such as
was set before us. At Garden Grove we had
our first trial at eating cakes made of parched
corn meal, one meal of which sufficed me.
At the beginning of our journey the crack-
ers went very well for lunch, but after laying
in the boxes, as they did through that long
siege of wet weather, they became more or less
mouldy and tainted with the pine wood, so that
the greater part were fit only to be thrown
away.
	I remember one evening at our pleasant
camping place, after leaving the main camp,
when our little circle had knelt for prayers, I
happened to bow by the bag of parched meal,
and the effect was so unpleasant I could not
centre my thoughts upon worship, so I arose
quietly and moved to the opposite end of the
tent. Some were considerably reduced in flesh
by this time. But at this place Bishop Miller
and a number of the brethren went out ped-
dling. The quadrille band, Bro. James
Smithers among the number, had gone on the
same business in order to make exchanges for
teams, flour, bacon, and other provisions,
which the camp stood in great need of.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


