(Continued from page 85) kinds of vegetables are canned. Considering the obstacles the early pioneers encountered and the struggles they had in order to get along during the first few years, they did remarkably well and proved themselves to be strong souls. "The tendency to preserve, to persist in spite of hindrances, discouragements, and impossibilities: it is this that in all things distinguishes the strong soul from the weak." In the final analysis it does not make much difference where we live, but how we live; it is this that determines our success in life. Therefore, I would say to all people "Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life" (John 6:27). "And let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not" (Gal. 6:9). Historical dates included in this article are from the book by Charles A. Welch, History of the Big Horn, Deseret News Press, 1940. Early-day pictures used in the article are from the same book used by courtesy of Louise Welch Taggart. NOTES TO THE FIELD Lunch at Relief Society Work Meeting 
THE question of serving lunch at noon in connection with Relief Society work meetings, is fairly general throughout the organization, and has the approval of the General Board although not instituted nor required by the Board. Various plans are in effect for providing this lunch. For example, in some wards, groups of members are assigned to supply the lunch for the entire group once a year, in others, each member brings her own lunch and is supplied with a supplementary drink or dessert by the Society; and, in other instances, the Society meets the entire expense, assigning committee members to prepare the food. The
matter of meeting the expense of such lunches was considered at a meeting of the General Board, November 29, 1944, when it was decided that all Relief Societies should be authorized to use funds of the Society for this purpose, leaving it optional with local Relief Societies as to whether they meet this expense entirely, or whether they supplement lunches brought by members individually, or in assigned groups.
Although approving the custom of providing lunches at work meetings which extend over the lunch period, the General Board urges that such lunches be very simple.
Suggestive Program For Sunday Evening, March 4, 1945
IN accordance with the plan announced by the First Presidency in 1942, designating the evening meeting of Fast Sundays for use by the auxiliaries, the Relief Society was assigned the Fast Sunday evening meetings of March and November. The November meeting constitutes the annual ward Relief Society conference, but the March meeting is open for any type of program dating to Relief Society, coming as it does on the first Sunday of the month in which the Relief Society was organized.
Fast Sunday in March occurs this year, March 4, 1945. Ward Relief Society presidents may, therefore, consult their respective bishops and ask for permission to arrange for a Relief Society meeting on this evening. The General Board submits the following suggestive program for this occasion. Supplementary suggestions for the talks and copy for the dialogue "The Unseen Basket" have been mailed to stake and mission Relief Society presidents for distribution to local Relief Societies. Page 90
Program I. Musical Selection... Relief Society Singing Mothers (where such choruses are available) II. Invocation II. Musical Selection... Relief Society Singing Mothers (if available) IV. Felicitations on 103rd Relief Society Anniversary... Ward Bishop V. Dialogue: 'The Unseen Basket"... Relief Society Mother and Daughter VI. Musical Selection... Relief Society Singing Mothers (if available) VII. Talk: "Home?A Place of Encouragement"... Relief Society Officer or Member 1. Renewal of spiritual strength through prayer 2. Courage through love and understanding 3. Sustenance through sharing and co-operating VUI. Musical Selection... Relief Society Singing Mothers (if available"> IX. Poem... To Be Read Slowly as Relief Society Singing Mothers Hum X. Benediction
THE BIG HORN BASIN
Pliny A. Wiley The sun burst on the mountains? The Rocky western wall Where Yellowstone's great fountains Forevermore enthrall. The sun set on the eastern range The Big Horn's matchless steeps Where alpenglows in beauties change, And grandeur vigil keeps. In the Big Horn Basin's glory Beside its canyon grand, I read creation's story Writ by the Master's hand. I viewed the towering works of time; With aeons and ages I trod. I read his narrative sublime; The manuscript of God. Mother-in-Law Edith Lovell GRACE found the timetable on a rainy Sunday afternoon.
Beth had put on her coat and tied a scarf around her bright hair, and Grace had almost said, "Don't go out in the rain, Beth; you'll catch cold!" Almost. She remembered in time that it would sound mother-in-lawish, and held her tongue.
Beth went out in the rain and turned south toward the path over the slope at the end of the street.
Grace picked up the book Beth had been reading and a folder fell out of it. It was a railroad timetable.
Grace stared at it silently and realized what it meant. It meant Beth was going to leave her and go back to her aunt in Texas. It meant that Beth couldn't stand it here any longer. It meant that Grace had failed as a mother-in-law. She had tried so hard! She had come to love Beth deeply.
Where had she failed?
What had she done?
Grace could remember every detail of that crisp fall day when Beth had arrived. Ae ?? "Well, all dressed up to impress your new daughter-in-law!" Bill Johnson teased Grace, as she hurried into the little station.
Grace smiled nervously and smoothed her new gloves. "How soon will the train be in?" she asked. "Any minute now," said Bill. "Yep, here she comes."
Grace looked quickly to see if her stocking seams were straight. She hoped she looked all right. How Page 92 should a mother-in-law act? Mother-in-Jaw is such an alien word! She did want Tommy's wife to like her.
Tommy had written, "... $0 I'm sending Beth to you. There's no use of you both living alone. You'll be less lonesome together, and Beth hasn't any folks at all except her aunt and uncle here in Texas. She'll be the daughter you've always wanted.
Take good care of her for me, will you, Mom?" The train wheezed to a stop.
Watching the steps, Grace thought, Let's see, I musn't be bossy, or prying, or critical. Then Beth stepped off the train. She was tall. Poised. She wore a brown suit and a brown felt hat. She looked around an instant and then walked quickly to Grace. "You're Tommy's mother," she said. "Hello, my dear," said Grace. She put her arms around the girl and kissed her. Beth's skin was fresh and sweet; Grace felt a surge of warmth in her heart.
They smiled at each other, and then, because there was so much to say, Grace couldn't think of a thing. "The car is out this way," she said, feebly, and picked up one of the suitcases.
Beth picked up the other and they went to the car. "You must be hungry," said Grace. "It's almost noon." She drove downtown to Weston's best cafe. At the cafe, Grace's shyness subsided.
They ordered. MOTHER-IN-LAW 93 "Now tell me about Tommy" Grace said. "He's fine/' said Beth. "Or he was when he left. He doesn't know where he's going, of course, but I guess it'll be overseas." She looked steadily at Grace. "I have expected that/' said Grace quietly. "He's a grand guy/' Beth's voice was husky. "We?I?" she stopped and then tried again. "You must be proud of him." "I am/" said Grace. She felt that she must say something to make Beth know she was welcome. "I want you to know how glad I am you came here to stay with me" she said. It sounded like a speech, and Grace hadn't meant it that way at all. "Thank you? said Beth.
When they were in the car again, Grace said suddenly, "Oh, your trunk. I forgot about it.
Shall we go back and pick it up? If it isn't too big, I think it would go on the luggage rack." ?I? there isn't any trunk," said Beth. "Just my suitcases." "Oh," said Grace. She wished she hadn't mentioned it. She didn't care whether Beth had one piece of luggage or twenty; she was only trying to be thoughtful. I'll be more careful, she vowed mentally. I won't pry. So at home she showed Beth to Tommy's room, which was to be hers, and then left her. She fussed around making a chocolate cake, fixing the roast which she had bought for the occasion. Her mind raced ahead to the days when she and Beth would not be strangers.
Beth was a lovely girl?exactly the way you would want a daughter to be. Oh, they could make quilts and linens for her, against the day when Tommy would come back and they would want a home of their own.
Grace was clever with a needle; she had often thought how much she would enjoy teaching a daughter to sew. She was glad Beth had no hope-chest. Judiciously, Grace decided not to mention sewing until they knew each other better.
Grace set the table with her best cloth, a linen one with cutwork embroidery. She used her silver candlesticks with fat red candles in them, and the flames danced on the surface of the shining dishes. The dinner was perfect.
Beth fingered the lovely linen cloth in appreciation.
They talked of Tommy.
Beth told of his training hours at the airbase, of the other couples who were their friends, and of their picnics and Saturday night dances.
Grace listened hungrily, for Tommy had not been home for over a year.
After supper, Beth insisted on washing the dishes.
Wiping them, Grace blessed the bond that bound her to Beth. THEY fell into a pleasant routine.
Grace would cook breakfast and they would eat together. Then Grace would go to her job at the library, while Beth did the housework. She kept the house spic and span. She always had supper ready when Grace came home; her cooking was plain, but tasty.
Grace found herself wondering about Beth's childhood, and how she had been brought up.
Beth never mentioned her home in Texas..
When a letter came for her, Beth said, "From my aunt, where I lived."
That was all.  
Grace scrupulously avoided all mention of Beth's former life; she didn't want to pry.
Beth was neat, and quiet; she had an undefinable air of gentle breeding about her.
Grace tried to be careful about pressing her clothes; she had her hair set every Saturday morning?she didn't want Beth to think she was slovenly. But there was a wall of reserve between them.
They were too polite, Grace thought. Yet, being a mother-in-law, how could she be otherwise?
There were nights when Grace could hear Beth move restlessly about her room, and mornings when Beth's eyes would be swollen and red from crying.
Several times when Grace had heard Beth's restless footsteps, she had gotten out of bed to go to her.
Then she would look down at her old-fashioned outing flannel nightgown and decide against it. Maybe Beth would think she was nosey. Besides, her nightgown looked so backcountry. And then there was the baby that was coming.
Grace had guessed it almost at once. She said nothing, and waited expectantly for the time when Beth would tell her. Oh, it would be such fun to make baby things, and to take care of a baby again! But Beth said nothing, even when her condition became apparent.
Grace knew that Beth should go to a doctor, but how could she suggest it?
That would be interfering!
Grace remembered how she and her own mother had planned for Tommy, and how close was the bond between them as they sat together and made tiny nightgowns. But Beth was remote, and Grace dared not intrude into her silence. GRACE looked again at the timetable. If Beth left now, there would never again be an opportunity for Grace to win her friendship.
That precious grandbaby would be born in Texas, and Grace wouldn't see it for years. A feeling of urgency shook her. She thrust on her galoshes and coat and hat, and hurried out of the house into the rain.
Walking toward the hilly path at the end of the street, Grace's thoughts cleared.
Beth had walked this way alone many times.
Maybe she liked to be alone.
Maybe she didn't like living in the same house with her mother-in-law.
Maybe she would like a little apartment. Humbly, Grace decided she would ask Beth why she didn't like it in Weston, and what could be done to make her happier.
More picture shows?
Some new books?
Invite more young people in? An apartment? At first the path was steep, and then it veered off into a gully where aspen trees grew thick. It was there that Grace found Beth, crumpled up beside a fallen tree. Her clothes were soaked with rain, and she was crying. "Beth," Grace cried sharply. "Beth, are you hurt?" "N-no," said Beth. "I slipped and fell.
Twisted my ankle a little, but I'm all right. It's nothing." But sobs shook her shoulders. Her tears mingled with the rain streaking down her cheeks, and the eyes that she raised to Grace's showed a stark aloneness that clutched at Grace's heart.
Relief that Beth was not hurt flooded her, and anger, too, that the girl had gone walking in the rain. "Beth, get up!
Your clothes are soaked, and you'll have pneumonia. Why, you ought to know better, in your eagerness to take such chances!"
Aglaia, Grace heard her own voice, scolding. Hot tears blinded her. She put her arms around Beth to help her to her feet.
"Oh, you'll get muddy," Beth protested. Shocked, Grace thought, Why she thinks I care more for my clothes than I do for her!"
Grace's voice trembled with horror, not emotion.
"Muddy? Beth, I'd die if anything happened to you. I love you as much as I do Timmy. You?you're my daughter!"
Beth raised her head in surprise. "Oh," she said brokenly. "You do care, don't you!"
She began to cry again. Grace put her arm around her and helped her limp home.
Grace put Beth to bed in one of the big outing flannel nightgowns. She put a hot-water bottle at her feet and brought her a glass of hot milk. They both cried a while, and their tears washed away the wall between them.
After a while Beth began to talk. "I wanted to tell you about the babe, but I was afraid maybe you'd think I was?just someone for you
to wait on." She drew a deep breath. "Your clothes, and your house, and everything is so?so perfect?and I don't know how to sew, or anything."
Her eyes pleaded for understanding. Grace was appalled. All those months when she had been so careful of outside appearances, she had been driving Beth farther from her. Because she had kept herself from asking questions and making suggestions, Beth had thought that she wasn't interested?that she preferred to remain a stranger! Oh, she hadn't been a mother-in-law, but she hadn't been a mother either! Grace had made a discovery. Mothers-in-law are meddlesome because they do care, not because they don't.
Beth was talking again. "Aunt Lydia was good to me, but she was always so busy. I helped with the housework, and she did all the sewing. Then we ran so short of money, so after high school, I worked at the laundry to help out. Then I met Tommy. It didn't seem possible for him to love me; he's so wonderful, and I'm so?ordinary."
"You suit me exactly," said Grace firmly.
After a while Grace went out and found the timetable and put it in the kitchen fire.
LAST NIGHT THEY PLAYED HIS SONGS
Anna Prince Redd
He left? Without saying goodbye? Just, "Hey, Mom!" as he pedaled away? His little-boy voice, consumed by space, Eludes my heart,
No sound comes back to me.
Aeons ago he left?
Without saying goodbye? But that melody, all his songs? And he sat close to me. Work Meeting COMBINATION APRON AND SEWING BAG ANY woman who sews, darns, mends, or does fine needlework, crocheting or knitting will appreciate an apron with pockets to hold her thimble, scissors, and tape measure, and keep her sewing clean, too.
This combination apron and utility bag* is very convenient and practical.
Materials required?1 1/6 yds. Fabric, preferably heavy, washable print or solid color, "Yi yards cord or ribbon for draw string and to tie envelope accessory holder, bias binding, two wooden rings, beads or buttons. To make?Cut two pieces of material 16 3/4 inches by 22 inches for bag (A) (Illus. 1).
Seam the bottom and sides.
Turn down 1 3/4 inches at top for hem.
Stitch hem, then stitch 3/4 inch from edge of hem to make a Ya inch casing to enclose draw string.
Leave seam on outside of casing open for draw string. Cut one piece 10 1/2 inches long by 22 1/2 inches wide for apron part (B) (Illus. 2). Make 1/4 inch hem on each side. Sew lower edge to inside of back of bag, stitching Y inch below (C) hem stitching.
Make a second stitching over hem stitching (E) and through apron to hold apron in place and to cover raw seam.
Make pocket (D) 4 1/2 inches by 13 1/2 inches finished with 3/4 inch hem at top.
Stitch to back of bag and over lower edge of apron, allowing top of pocket to come to stitching (E). A small, envelope-style folder may be made (Illus. 4), the pocket to hold small scissors, skeins of floss, buttons, thimble, etc., the strip of outing flannel to hold needle and pins.
When the apron is pinned and C and tied with ribbon or cord attached at point H, a very compact sewing equipment case results (Illus. 5).
This may be kept in small pocket in apron.
Band for top of apron and tie strings may be cut from remaining material.
When one stops sewing, the apron top may be folded down into the bag, the draw strings pulled, and presto, one has a utility bag to hang on one's arm to take places, or to hang by the draw string in a convenient place ready for future use.
Further suggestions on aprons will appear in the March issue of the Magazine. *This apron design was originated by Ruth T. Oscarson, first counselor in charge of sewing, Granite Stake Relief Society Board, Salt Lake City, Utah. ILLUS. APRON BAG Inside View-Front of Bag Removed APRON BAG Shown as Bag SEWING EQUIPMENT CASE ILLUS. 5 Se | SEWING EQUIPMENT CASE Folded Page
96 SONG FOR A KITCHEN Miranda Snow Walton There are homes without a bedroom, where davenettes suffice, There are homes where parlors play no leading part; There are homes that have no dining room, no pantry, nor a bath, But the home without a kitchen is a home without a heart. It's a sort of filling station for a boy of nine or ten; It's the family trysting place with apple pie; And the smell of hot, brown gingerbread upon a frosty night Is a memory you'll cherish 'till you die. It's the room where you'll find mother, where little folks can come To tell their troubles, and have broken hearts made whole; Oh, a house can be most anything, a mansion or a shack, But the home without a kitchen is a home Without a soul. Forward, Without Fear Dorothy Chpp Robinson CHAPTER 7 AGAIN Ann Kristin was out following the trail of the sheep. She was a long way from camp, and alone, and because of that the sack she carried was nearly full. She was glad to get away from the others.
There were so many new people in camp, and so much happiness.
Newcomers were hunting relatives and friends.
Letters were being read and discussed. Women, the more fortunate ones, were bargaining eagerly for new foods to relieve the monotony of their diets. Patty Lou was still going around in a daze trying to be with Jake and her family at the same time.
There had been a happy gathering in the Mortensen dooryard the evening before.
Around the campfire, while the Turners ate, a story had been told and retold. "How did you come? How did you know where to come? Who told you where to find me?" "Jake did," Jinny, a younger sister, had answered, "and you-all are even prettier than he said." Her letter had been months reaching them.
After his first unreasoning anger at the thing that had taken his daughter away, Mr.
Turner had fallen to wondering. He suspected she had no intention of returning home. It had taken him some time to arrange the transfer of money to her, then he had begun to investigate. He was curious about Page 98 the power that could keep a girl like her among strangers. "So," the story had ended, "we came on to Nauvoo.
Everything we own is in these three wagons. Brother Matthew Lewis baptized us the same time he did Jake." Patty Lou turned slowly to face Jake who sat beside her. Her eyes filled with tears of happiness. Jake, frightened by them and the solemnity, tried to grin. "You-all ready to quit being cagey and marry me?" "Jake Nichols. You are blind as a badger. I've been counting on it right along." "Will you-all mind?" "I love doing what pleases you." "Make her give a definite promise," Mr.
Turner advised, and the others smiled their agreement with him. "I am not inferring this time," the girl turned serious. "I am so happy with the way the Lord has blessed me, I will do anything to show him."
Forgetting the presence of the others, Jake answered, "Oh, Patty Lou, you good-for-nothing Honey Chile. I been waiting for this moment all my life, and that's a right smart spell."
Nestling one hand in his, the girl gave her father the other.
Looking about to include them all she said simply, "You are my family." Niels' eyes had said the same thing to Helga. Little Anna had awakened, and she passed from her father FORWARD, WITHOUT FEAR 99 to Helga and back again many times.

Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story contest The Bureau Vesta Pierce Crawford VESTA PIERCE CRAWFORD YOU remember your Grandma Watts, don't you? Bertha Carlson, she was, before she married me. You remember when she died, but that was a long time ago and you were living in California. I suppose Bertha was very much like other women, only better. But when we were young I thought there was one particular thing about her that was peculiar. She set her heart on a piece of furniture. Page 72 I remember the first time Bertha mentioned wanting a bureau. We called them bureaus then, although I hear your wife referring to them as chests of drawers. We needed bureaus badly because the houses had no built-in cabinets. We had just moved into our first home one room.
There sat Bertha on the floor with a heap of bundles around her, all her wedding finery. She held some lacey things in her pretty hands and she looked at me with coaxing blue eyes.
John,  she said,  I do wish I had a bureau.  I bent down and put my arms around her and kissed her auburn hair, and I said, "Don't you worry, Bertha. I'm the one that's going to get you a bureau and everything else you want." I didn't know then what I've learned since or I wouldn't have made promises. I never would have made promises. It takes a long time to learn things, and sometimes you don't learn until it is too late.
Bertha must have thought of that bureau a lot after she first mentioned it.
Just before our first baby came she asked about it again. She had all the clothes about done, stacks of them, but where she got the cloth from I don't know, for I wasn't making much. Dry farming, you know depends on the weather. You don't have a regular income. So, as I said before, I don't know where Bertha got the cloth for the baby clothes.
Maybe her folks gave her some or she might have cut up some of her wedding things.
I can't forget that evening. It was November and the wind rattled the door. Bertha was sitting by the kitchen range with her crochet hook flying, and there, piled on the table were the baby things. She said she felt pretty good and she laid down the crocheting and started to fix my supper. She began to move the things off the table. Then she stopped and said, "John, dear, I do wish I had a bureau. It would be nice if I had some drawers to put these things in."
I put my arm on her shoulder and I asked, "How much do they cost?"
"Maybe fifteen dollars," she said, "or twenty-five for a big solid-oak one."
But I didn't have a five in my pocket.
The next day I went to the store and got a big empty dry-goods box, and together we lined it with cloth and put the baby clothes in it, and Bertha seemed contented.
Queer about women, though. She had her heart set on the bureau. Never asked for much else, and I made up my mind I'd get the bureau for her as soon as ever I could. That wasn't easy to do, for we always needed something else worse a new cook stove, a carpet, some tools or machinery. Then we had to build on to the house and make it larger, as you see it now, with this fancy porch and the bedrooms and all. We had five children and we needed the extra rooms.
When I saw Bertha getting old and frail looking, I was worried. She never mentioned the bureau any more. I did manage to buy some furniture, a sofa, and a leather chair, and a desk for the parlor. We got along and we tried to be kind to each other. But even when I was alone, her voice seemed to be ringing in my ears. This was strange, for Bertha was a quiet woman by nature and she was never one to nag about anything. Once when I was sitting at sundown on a ledge above the river a light wind was blowing. Then, all at once, I thought I could see Bertha coming up the cliff, and I thought I heard her say, "John, I do need a bureau."
I was terribly ashamed of myself and I made up my mind to get the bureau at once. Our youngest daughter, Emily, was going to get married. Her mother kept sewing and sewing, and there were patterns and goods and thread scattered all about and stacks of new things around. One afternoon I came in early from the field, and there sat Bertha at the sewing machine, treadling fast. She stopped suddenly and looked up at me. In a minute tears were streaming down her face. She turned away and treadled again. Emily went over and touched Bertha's gray hair and asked, "What's the matter, Mother?"
I knew what it was. She wanted that bureau so that Emily's wedding things could be put away and kept in good shape until she was ready for them.
This time I was surely going to get the bureau. I told Emily my plans. I was going to surprise her mother by bringing home a bureau. On the way to town I met Bart Sanders. He asked me if I wanted to buy his mowing machine.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1945 He was moving away and the machine was a good buy. I needed it the worst kind for my own mower was broken down, and was always at the blacksmith shop just when I needed it most. A good machine would be an investment. I told Bart I would take it and pay cash down. I hated to do it, but I thought that sometime later I could buy a better bureau for Bertha and she would be that much more pleased. She could afford to wait a while longer since she wasn't expecting the bureau anyway. I went home with the mowing machine and showed it to Bertha and Emily, but I didn't say anything about having intended to spend the money in another way. SIX months later our Emily got married.
Bertha and I were alone in the house. Alone. I tell you I never heard so much silence.
Then one night after supper when I was sitting at one side of the table and Bertha across from me, she said quietly,  You didn't get it, did you?" I shifted around in the chair. "Get what. Bertha?" Her voice was level. The bureau.
Emily told me you were going to get a bureau to keep her wedding things in. I believed you really would. But it doesn't matter any more. Now the children have come and gone there isn't anything left to use a bureau for." Her face was gray and she didn't say anything more.
After a while she went into the bedroom and closed the door quietly. I don't remember how long I sat at the table. She wouldn't need a bureau now, she had said, but a woman can always use a bureau.
Five years after Emily was married the lucern seed crop was good. I had some extra money in my pocket. I hitched up and drove the wagon fifteen miles over to Mayfield and tied up at the Emporium.
They had lots of bureaus, big high solid-oak ones, and wider ones made of white maple, and polished walnut bureaus with six drawers.
Then all at once I saw the one 1 wanted. It was a beauty.
Painted green, and over that, for trimming, big pink roses. It had golden looking handles and carved legs with shining casters. I bought it.
Fifty dollars, but it was worth twice that. I loaded it on the wagon, covered it with an old quilt, and drove home. I remember, yet, how anxious I was to get there.
Bertha had gone out somewhere. I set the bureau by the bed in our room and then I went into the kitchen to wait.
What would she say?
What would she think of the green paint and the pink roses? It was fall, and when Bertha came in she was wearing her coat, a gray coat buttoned up tight. "Well, John," she said, "when did you get home?" "Just now." "Where have you been?" "Nowhere." She took off her coat and started for the bedroom. I held my breath. She stood in the doorway. She kept standing there.  "Bertha," I said, "don't you like it?"
Finally she turned around. Her face was as gray as ashes and she was
THE BUREAU 75 " trembling. She tried to smile and I had a queer idea that she was trying to make the years drop off I had queer idea that she was trying to make the years drop off her. She walked toward me slowly and put her hand on my shoulder.
John,  she said,  You got the burequ after all.
But she didn t put a thing in the drawers.
Time after time I looked, but there was never the least trinket put in the bureau. One day I asked,  Bertha, don t you like the bureau?
You didn t look at me  Sure,  she said,  I like it fine. It s the handsomest bureau I ever saw.
But I wasn t satisfied and I wasn t pleased with myself. I went to the window and watched the rain beating down and there was no comfort in it. The room was too quiet. I knew it would always quiet. I AM PEACE Ivy Houtz Woolley Drenched with blood are my robes of white, My eyes have wept out all their light; Bruised are my feet with broken steel, Sad is my heart; my senses reel  For I am Peace. I have been crushed and wounded sore.
Unheard is my voice in cannons' roar, Unfelt my touch, save by dying ones As they clasp their hands 'round smoking guns-But I am Peace. The mother alone with her empty chairs Can hear my voice, yet she hardly dares To hope that I am still on earth To spare the ones that she gave birth Still I am Peace. I must spur forth, fling wide my door. To bring my countries back once more, And turn their darkness into light; They shall live through this dreadful night  For I am Peace. A Pioneer Story The Big Horn Basin Pauline Taggart Pingree Member of Relief Society General Board GRANDMOTHER Janet McNiven was left a widow with two small children, a son, James, and a daughter, Jessie, when she was a young woman. She lived in Edinburgh, Scotland, until 1863, when she heard the gospel preached by the Mormon missionaries and became convinced of its truthfulness, and was baptized.
As did most people during the early days of the Church, she desired to come to Zion, so she sold her business and all her household belongings, said goodbye to her kindred and friends, and started out with her two children for a new world and a new life.
They crossed the Atlantic Ocean in the good ship Underwriter, leaving Scotland the middle of March and arriving in New York on May 22, 1861. These saints, with others, were presided over by Charles W. Penrose, Milo Andrus, and Homer Duncan. The six weeks' voyage was very rough; many were ill, and one man died and was buried at sea. A weary trek across the plains followed their arrival in America. Imagine the heartache of grandmother with no companion to help her share her responsibilities! She had supreme faith, however, that she would reach her destination and be able to make a home for herself and children in Zion. She was a woman of very thrifty. She had a natural talent for nursing, and she always seemed to know what to do in an emergency and there were many emergencies on the plains. Fortune seems to smile upon those women who roll up their sleeves and put their shoulders to the wheel; upon women who are not afraid of dreary, dirty, irksome drudgery, who do not turn aside for obstacles, whether great or small. "He alone is great who by a life heroic conquers fate."
Grandmother and her two children did arrive safely in Salt Lake, and after a time she was married to Robert Hogg. Her joy at being in Salt Lake with the saints was shortlived, however. Brigham Young was calling men to go north, east, south, and west to start new communities. Grandmother, her husband, and children were sent to the little valley of Morgan where they settled in the town which is now known as Milton, about five miles from Morgan City. Here they built the first house in that locality. The first winter they had only one sack of flour and a very few necessities, and the winter was very severe.
Jessie (my mother) was now nine years of age. There were no schools of any kind in Morgan County and very few books. Mother learned to read and spell from the songbooks in Church. She was a beautiful singer, and she loved to memorize hymns as well as to sing them. In Page
76 THE BIG HORN BASIN 77 A. O. WOODRUFF AND JESSE W. CROSLEY, JR., ON WAY TO BIG HORN In time, she became a fluent reader and a lover of good literature. Mother was married in the Endowment House in Salt Lake City to George H. Taggart when she was only sixteen years of age. The ceremony was performed by President Joseph F. Smith. Father had been sent with his father to Morgan to build a flour mill which was the first one in that part of the State. Mother's first child was born when she was seventeen years of age, and from then on her children came about every two years. The family was very poor, and she was tried in many, many ways; but she was naturally of a cheerful, determined disposition, with a good sense of humor, and she made the best of every situation. There were no doctors in the community, so grandmother decided to be an obstetrician. She was the only one in Morgan for many years, and she did most of her work without monetary compensation. She must have been a good midwife, for she cared for my mother through sixteen, completely successful confinements. There was no chloroform in those days and child bearing was not the relatively easy matter it is today. I can see grandmother now with a little black lace bonnet on her head, a shoulder shawl, and a satchel, about which we were very curious as children. She would come every day for ten days, then, with the help of the older children, mother would again assume her responsibilities. As Christmas time approaches, my thoughts always revert to my childhood. Our Christmas presents were few and simple. Among the presents I shall always remember were the silver rings father made for us out of silver coins. Dimes were used in making those for the smaller children, and quarters were used for the larger ones. He made our doll cradles, beds, sheet-iron stoves, with an oven and stovepipe, for mud pies. Mother always knitted new stockings for us; I was quite a young lady when I had my first "store stocking."
As the family increased in number and the boys grew older (there were ten of them), father began to wonder what to do with us all. Being a tradesman, he had no land excepting the acre on which our home was built. For young people to leave home in those days to find work in the cities was considered a dangerous thing. About this time, the year 1900, Governor DeForest Richards, and Secretary of State Fentemore Chatterton visited President Lorenzo Snow and counselors asking for a colony of Mormons to be sent to the Big Horn Basin in Wyoming. President Snow appointed Owen Woodruff, of the Council of the Twelve, to take charge of the project, as he had been out to Burlington, Wyoming, and had organized a ward there. He had been shown the Greybull Valley and had seen the crops produced there, samples of which he had brought back to Salt Lake. He found that a permit had been issued August 10, 1896, to the Cincinnati Canal Company to build a canal that would irrigate a large tract of land on the north side of the Shoshone River. This company had sent the Honorable Frank Mondell, who at that time was United States senator from Wyoming, to make a report on the feasibility of building the canal. He had reported that it was impossible to accomplish such a project, so it had been abandoned and the permit had expired and had been advertised for bids by November 14, 1898.
Elder Woodruff filed an application for this same tract of land on January 11, 1900, before the Land Board of Wyoming. On February 2, 1900, Elder Woodruff requested the following gentlemen to meet him in Ogden, Utah, for the purpose of making a trip to the Big Horn Basin with a view to establishing a colony there: Byron Sessions of Woodruff, Rich County; H. K. North, Salt Lake County; George H. Taggart, Morgan County; John and William Simmons, Charles A. Welch, and John Croft of Morgan County; Brigham L. Tippets and William B. Graham of Bennington, Idaho; John Stephens and S. P. Sorenson of Montpelier, Idaho; Bishop N. P. Larsen and Mr. Gumsey of Thomas Fork, Bear Lake County. Most of these men had been farmers in their own communities, but none of them had had any scientific training of any kind. However, after going over the tract of land, the party decided there was a future for the country, that it was good cattle land, and that the opportunity for home building in many places was good.
Elder Woodruff made a report to the General Authorities of the Church. It was favorably received, and he was appointed to take charge of the colonization. Franklin S. Richards drew up articles of incorporation for the Big Horn Basin Colonization Company. The organization of this company was effected in Salt Lake City, April 9, 1900, but the company was organized under the laws of the State of Wyoming.
THE first settlers left their homes in Salt Lake City and began their journey to the Big Horn on April 13, 1900.
They started in the Year, in order to avoid high water season, as many streams had to be forded, there being no bridges over most of them.
THE BIG HORN BASIN 79 MORMON PATHFINDERS TO THE BIG HORN BASIN, WYOMING Front row: George H. Taggart, Byron Sessions, Abraham O. Woodruff, William B. Graham, Brigham L. Tippetts, S. P. Sorenson.
Back row: Charles A. Welch, Hyrum K. North, John Stevens, William G. Simmons, John J. Simmons. The people were organized into companies similar to the way in which the early Mormon pioneers had been organized. My father was captain of one of these companies. My two brothers, John Robert and Bruce, and two sisters, Rebecca and Nettie, were in this company. (Mother and the other members of the family remained at home until later.) They traveled one whole month before they reached their destination. The same distance and practically the same route is now traveled in eighteen hours by automobile.
They encountered many difficulties.
There were no roads, just trails; and the weather was bad all the way.
During the heavy storms the horses were without food except for the oats the men had taken with them. The men would tie quilts about the horses to keep them from freezing to death, while they, in turn, would sit around a campfire to keep themselves warm.
There was considerable sickness, one little child dying of pneumonia.
Father made a coffin for her from the end gates of wagons, and she was sent back to Utah for burial. The broken-hearted parents had to carry on. The group arrived in the Basin May 24, 1900.
Tents were pitched as there was not a house within a radius of fifty miles.
Just three days later the first ecclesiastical organization was effected with 127 persons present.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1945 PIONEER COMPANIES NUMBERS 2 AND 3 AT HAMS FORK A Sunday School, Mutual Improvement Association, and Relief Society were organized. Lucy F. Grant, sister-in-law of President Heber J.
Grant and wife of Morgan Grant, was the first Relief Society president.
This was a new country in very deed. The people were faced with many obstacles and trials of all kinds.
There were no roads, no towns within fifty miles, no doctors within a hundred miles.
Some of the people lived in tents, some in sheep wagons, and all realized it would be months and perhaps years before they would enjoy the real comforts of life.
There was no mail service, and letters had to be taken to some roadside ranch many miles away, where the stagecoach would pick them up. Rattlesnakes, lizards, - spiders, et cetera, were plentiful, and everyone had to be on the alert for them at all times.
There was no feed for animals, except salt sage and a little grass.
There was scarcely any grain in the country.
Food had to be freighted in, and everything was very expensive. On May 28, 1900, these good people knelt in prayer on the spot that was to be the head of the canal, and they asked for God's blessings upon them. Elder Woodruff officiated.
Then the work on the canal began in earnest, and very hard work it was, lasting for weeks and months, with the wind constantly blowing and the dry sand flying. It was decided that each morning and evening while work was going forward on the canal a bugle would call the camp members together to sing praises to God, and to ask for his aid. Elder Woodruff, in outlining the task that was before them, admonished the people to be united, not to profane the name of Deity, to keep the Word of Wisdom, pay tithing, and keep the Sabbath Day holy. He promised the people that if they would do these things the Lord would be a kind of Zion unto them and their children. He said, "And that you may be united, I view, as an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, call each and everyone of you upon a mission to help build up this country, and if you will do this, the Lord will bless you forever."
Men who had only gone to see the country were so impressed they decided to remain. To enable a people to perform any work, whatsoever, requires that they have faith in the ultimate result. No farmer would plant unless he expected to reap; no builder would build unless he expected to complete the structure; no man or woman would act unless there existed a faith that the destination would be reached. So, likewise, the commandments of God are obeyed because there exists a faith that certain blessings will follow obedience. Through faith our ancestors accepted the gospel, and by that same faith they left their homes in the Old World and came to a new land feeling sure they would be able to make a better future for themselves and their children, no doubt without fully realizing the many trials that awaited them. This was true of the people who went to the Big Horn Basin in April 1900. They went with faith because the Church Authorities advised it and provided them with a mission. They had great hope in the future of themselves and their children. However, they did not fully realize the trials and hardships that lay ahead.
The great canal took four long years to build and, when completed, it was 37 miles long, 24 feet wide on the bed, 16 feet wide at the bottom. It was built at a cost of $150,000. It
was never bonded, and when completed there was a credit balance of $3,000.
The people who worked on the ditch were given stock with the understanding that their land would cost them $6 per acre. It was later discovered it would cost them $7.50 per acre or $240 for 40 acres. Work had to be discontinued for a short period after the first six months, as there was no money with which to continue. A special fast meeting was held and everyone was asked to fast all day, and to implore the Lord to send some work whereby money could be earned to see the project through. Not many days passed before work was resumed in the following manner: The chief engineer of the Burlington Railroad Company, Mr. S. P. Weeks, came to Elder Woodruff and told him he would like our people to build twenty miles of railroad. He said his company had heard that the Mormons were colonizing in the Basin, so had decided to build a line into the country. This was indeed good news, and contracts were signed for twenty miles of grading. Thus the prayers of the people were answered. While doing this work our people held devotional exercises night and morning, and no job was undertaken without calling upon the Lord for his help.
IT was October of 1900 that mother and the rest of the family joined father and the four children who were with him. The stark had made a camp on what is known as Sage Creek. I was about halfway between the head of the canal and the end of the project. It was here that mother and the family first located. The wind blew constantly in this country and it was a very common thing to see tents tagged-el and household belongings carried away, and what was left would be filled with sand. The water in Sage Creek was very bad and had to be boiled before it could be used. Mother would take the wood ashes and put them into a large barrel which she would have the boys fill with water. The ashes would clarify the water so it was somewhat better for laundering.
While we were living at Sage Creek an epidemic of smallpox broke out. There were no doctors to be had, so my mother, relying upon her own knowledge and wisdom and the help of her Heavenly Father, nursed not only seven members of her own family back to normal health, with no complications or bad after effects, but she aided others who were stricken. It was marvelous how nearly everyone survived this epidemic.
After a few months, father moved us down to the banks of the Shoshone River where the water was better and where there was some shade from the broiling sun. When we would get discouraged, we were reminded of the faith of our grandparents, their trials in crossing the plains and establishing homes in desert country in the early days. Did not Grandfather Taggart leave his wife and two little children at Winter Quarters and go with the Mormon Battalion to Mexico? We were reminded of his bleeding feet, with shoes gone when he arrived in California; of grandmother having to work to support herself and children while he was away. Father would
Church as a boy of seventeen, making three trips across the plains without pay. Boys and men had been asked to volunteer for this work. No, there was no turning back. We had to live up to their example and carry on.
In the late fall of 1901 mother and the younger children moved to the Cowley Flat where the town of Cowley is now located, while father and the older children worked on the railroad. Here the families lived in tents until spring when the men folk began building their homes. That was a terrible winter. Typhoid fever paid the community a visit. Mother nursed the afflicted day and night. Her anxiety for the members of her family who were working on the railroad, especially for the girls who did the cooking for the men, was very great. I shall always know within my own heart that God was watching over us while mother was assisting others, and that because of the faith and prayers might and morning by the whole group, consisting of more than 150 men bearing the holy Priesthood of God, and because of the private supplication of each individual, we were indeed blessed by the Lord and protected from evil.
When the work on the railroad was completed, the men went back to work on the canal, which was completed in 1904. Crops were then planted and home building progressed. All the houses were built of logs. Father built us a very comfortable but humble home which surely seemed like a castle to us at the time. Of course, there were no electric lights, washing machines, irons, heating pads, vacuum cleaners, etc. in these homes. The joy of such things was not known until long afterward. THE BIG HORN BASIN 83
New School LOG HOUSE WHERE FIRST SCHOOL WAS HELD IN COWLEY Coal-oil lamps were used exclusively. (Lanterns were carried at night so one would not get lost on the prairie.) Baths had to be taken in the wash tub, which was no small task for us as we had a large family and water had to be hauled from the river a distance of four miles, and it had to be used sparingly. I am reminded of Alice Morrill's poem "The Pioneer Mother" which is so applicable here: A limitless expanse of wilderness surrounds her cabin home. The sun glares hot and pitiless by day, by night, the weird winds moan. Deep in her heart she makes a grave; lays there her hope of luxury, And gives her life, a ransom for the generations yet to be. In summer, the children went barefoot to save their shoes for winter. Clothing was handed down from one child to another until it was worn"*out. Sewing bees by the women were the social gatherings. At these gatherings or bees, quilts were made, rags were sewn for carpets, and burial clothing was made. There were no undertakers and when death came the women had to take complete charge. During the first few years, my father made all the caskets, and we girls used to help him line and trim them. My father made violins for the boys and guitars for the girls. They were beautifully made with wonderful tone quality. There was always music in our home as we were all blessed with musical talent a talent also possessed by father and mother. Our home was open to all, and there were many happy gatherings there. Young people are pretty much the same in any locality. They like to dance, to play ball, have concerts, shows, etc. This was true of the young people in this settlement. The meeting house, which consisted of one large room with a stage at one end and which was heated by a large stove, was used for all community recreation, such as dancing, shows, basketball, etc. It was rather difficult to get the spirit of worship in the building on Sunday where the night before a heated basketball game had been played.
The people of this pioneer community believed in education. The first schoolhouse consisted of two large rooms built of logs and heated by a large stove. The settlers yearned for higher education in all its phases. In a new country the people have to provide all such things for themselves; and while they may not always provide that which is most satisfying, they meet the needs to a certain extent.
Much trouble was encountered by the people the first time the water was turned into the great canal. The ground was terribly dry (in fact, I don't believe it had had a good soaking since the time of Noah), and much of it was so sandy that it simply could not hold the water; so repair work on the canal had to begin immediately and go on constantly. Senator Mondell stated at one time that the Sidon Canal project would never have been successful except for the rare courage of the Mormon people.
The first year the crops were fairly good, then alkali came upon the land. This was like a plague to the people. Nothing would grow where alkali prevailed. So a drainage system had to be worked out; large trenches were built at great expense to the people who were not prepared to meet such a problem. In time, however, the land was drained and crops were again planted.
When the Government decided to open a road into the eastern part of Yellowstone Park beginning at Cody, Wyoming, our people contracted to build sixteen miles of it. When this road was completed
the people once more. While building this road into the Yellowstone the same procedure was followed as on the railroad work morning and evening devotional exercises were held daily, with Church services on Sunday. Some of the best meetings I have ever attended were held out under the pine trees, and many times God seemed very close to us. One whole summer was spent on the Yellowstone Road project and this road is now the east entrance to Yellowstone Park. Many tourists prefer this entrance. It is very scenic and people are curious to see Buffalo Bill's town of Cody. Buffalo Bill (William F. Cody) was a very interesting character and he was very friendly to our people. He paid them a great tribute. He had secured a permit to irrigate all the land on the north side of the Shoshone River from Eagles Nest to the Big Horn River, but he said, "If the Mormons want to build a canal and irrigate the land lower down the River I will relinquish both land and water to them, for if they say they will do this I know they will; they are the kind of people who do what they agree to do." He did what he said he would do, without compensation, much to the disgust of his partner who wanted $25,000 for the transfer. When the transfer was completed Buffalo Bill said, "Now my dream will be realized for I have wanted to live to see this country developed into a great agricultural region, and the Mormons will fulfill my dream."
Father passed away in August 1924, age 76, and mother six years later, at age 77, leaving a large posterity. Mother was a Relief Society THE BIG HORN BASIN 85
Courtesy Bishop James Harston - COWLEY WARD CHAPEL AND AMUSEMENT HALL, COWLEY, WYOMING of the Cowley Ward Relief Society for eight years. (The desire of their hearts was granted in that they were privileged to live to see the members of their family grow up and establish homes of their own. All the children were married in the Church but one, which, according to the Mormon philosophy of life, is very important. Their descendants love and respect them and appreciate the wonderful influence they have exercised over them.) Father and mother were faithful members of the Church all the days of their lives. Mother's last advice to her children was for them to continue to live the gospel and be faithful and true to God. As I write of my mother, I am thinking of many more wonderful women like her who worked with her for the benefit of the Big Horn community. They were good neighbors and wonderful souls. Many of them are still torch bearers in the Big Horn Basin. THE final chapter of this great country is yet to be written. I have not pretended to write a complete history. Many of those first pioneers have become very prosperous, some became discouraged and left the country, others have comfortable homes and good farms. Some have failed, materially speaking, but have gained spiritually; others have not progressed at all. However, we find these things to be true in every locality. Wonderful highways now connect the various communities, and with the automobile it is now possible to keep in close touch with the outside world. The railroad passes through these communities assuring mail twice each day. The three towns of Lovell, Byron, and Cowley all now have good chapels, school-houses and amusement halls. The Holly Sugar Company built a large sugar factory in Lovell which has been in operation for many years. Lovell, in the year 1900, boasted four families, two of which were bachelors. The 1942 census showed it to have 3,500 souls. There is also a canning factory in Cowley where all (Continued on page 89) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponents, February 1, and February 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations"
Editorial: Marvelous Times Who can say that these are not marvelous times and big with wonderful events?
Every day some startling development is made that makes one conscious of the fact that these are the times that try men's souls to the very centre.
With all the accidents of the nineteenth century nothing is so effectually calculated to prove a destructive agency for the wicked and ungodly as the invention and manufacture of dynamite.
What may not be accomplished by this terrible agent of destruction when manipulated by cruel, designing and unscrupulous men or women, though we instinctively shrink from the acknowledgement, yet women have been proven equally cruel with men when occasion required urgent action.... The recent explosion in London has opened the ey" of many who sat in darkness on this subject, and that was no doubt only an experiment, and ere long the nations will awaken to the consciousness of the astounding fact that when there was seeming security, they were treading upon dangerous ground that might at any moment explode and swallow them up.
Secret societies, combinations and organizations are banding themselves together for certain purposes, and it would seem the time is fast approaching when every man's hand will be against his neighbor, and he who will not take up his sword must needs flee to Zion  Editorial Notes: Mrs. John T.
Caine and Mrs. Franklin S.
Richards attended the recent Convention of the National Woman's Suffrage Association in Washington. A very pleasant ladies' tea party was given at the Devereux House on Thursday, January 29, by Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, who is a most entertaining and hospitable hostess.
There were between thirty and forty ladies present, most of them widows and missionaries' wives. The supper was very handsomely served, the table being very beautifully decorated with fragrant flowers. Mr. And Mrs.
Jennings as host and hostess cannot be excelled. The afternoon and evening were spent by the ladies in social conversation, and every one seemed to intensely enjoy the visit. Devereux House is a beautiful modern mansion, and with its large and elegant parlors, commodious dining apartments, and handsome and complete library, conservatory and other luxuries, possesses all the advantages of a refined and luxurious home. We heartily wish its inmates long life and health to enjoy the blessings with which they are surrounded. Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith's birthday passed off very quietly. She received those who called to congratulate her in her parlor at the Lion House. The honored lady has now reached the advanced age of 81 years. Her health is excellent, her faculties unimpaired; indeed her memory seems as bright and perfect as ever, and her mind as clear and active as it ever has been; she still continues to write and works more hours in the day than most young people.... Correspondence: Snowville, Box Elder County, Utah, Editor Exponent  As I have never read anything in your valuable columns about Snowville (which I will state for explanation is named in honor of our beloved Apostle Lorenzo Snow, and not because we have any more snow than you do in Salt Lake City), I thought I would drop you a few lines concerning our ward. We are, the most of us, striving to be Latter-day Saints. Our Relief Society is in full force, with Sister Mary Goodliffe as Prest.
They look after the poor in purse and spirit, and the sick also; they have lots of wheat on hand, in fact the Bishop says they are the richest people in the ward, and if you want anything done without fail, call on the Relief Society, and it is done....
Your paper is a welcome guest in our homes and we say long life to "Aunt Em" and her able staff and God bless you. Secretary. Page 86
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon VIT'AR has greatly revolutionized snobbish and unsociable attitudes in Great Britain. From duchesses down, women between the ages of eighteen and fifty are drafted for work; and many, too highborn for this privilege before the war, like work and wish to continue doing it. They also like the other women they meet. Three-fourths of the young people formerly rather lonely are now affiliated with youth groups, and juvenile delinquency has greatly decreased since these movements were organized. Nursery schools are excellent and numerous. Postwar planning embraces many civic centers for youths and adults with a complete range of cultural projects. Caroline Haslett, wartime adviser on women's training to the British ministry of labor, believes that, in the future, women will take a more important part in Parliament. HANNA KISTER, a Polish refugee, fled to America with her husband. They had been internationally known publishers in Warsaw. They have started the Roy Publishing Company in New York, and a book which Mrs. Kister discovered and had translated into English as "Blessed Are the Meek" has become a best seller. This beautifully written work is based on the life of St. Francis of Assisi, who gave up all his wealth to follow the Savior's pattern. What became of the book's author, Mrs. Zofia Kossak, in the tragedy of Poland, is unknown. EUROPE'S first woman commentator, Lisa Sergio, is now a resident of the United States, and is heard over the air on a national radio network. Her comments are intelligent and her English almost entire-Iv without accent. EDITH RUSSELL, a young British missionary with distinct writing ability, has been associate editor of the British Mission magazine, the Millennia] Star, for a year, the only woman to be on its staff during its 105 years of publication. AMERICAN-born Nancy Langhorne, now Lady Astor, was the first woman in Great Britain to be elected to the House of Commons. This is her twenty-fifth year in that position. She has decided not to stand again for Parliament. Page
87 EDITORIAL 


VOL. 32 FEBRUARY 1945 NO. 2
Honesty IN considering life as it must be met today, one is forced to recognize the need for straight thinking, courage, steadiness of purpose, stability of character, and a firm belief that God is at the helm. We must acknowledge the need for mankind to accept in practice, as well as in theory, the great moral principles of the ages, a desertion of which has always brought sorrow or destruction. We must realize that character building is in reality "the most important business of life," and that character is built through the adoption of moral virtues such as simple honesty, truthfulness, and love. Dr. Harold T. Christensen in a Relief Society social science lesson declares honesty to be the "core of character." He says, "It would be impossible to conceive of character without honesty, for any structure founded upon deceit and falsehood is founded upon sand rather than rock, and must inevitably fall." Yet, mankind throughout the ages has deserted this fundamental virtue. Strange as it may seem, he has done this in an attempt at self-benefit. But always in the end it has rebounded to his injury. The Bible furnishes us a good example of this. A certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession. Instead of turning it all to the apostles, as was the plan, they held Page 88 back part of the price, being dishonest with both man and God. Peter severely rebuked Ananias. Upon hearing the words of Peter, Ananias fell down dead, and his wife likewise. Examples of dishonesty are all too plentiful. Every day we hear or read of dishonest behavior or we encounter it in some form or other. An item in a local paper, issued immediately following Christmas, reported that the Christmas season of 1944 closed with one of the worst shoplifting periods in history. At one drugstore losses from larcenists were estimated as high as $500 a week, and a special office had to be set up to "reprimand" shoplifters. Shoplifting, store managers agreed, was not confined to needy persons as several influential citizens were caught with stolen goods. One store manager declared, "The number of adults guilty of shoplifting would put any juvenile delinquency campaign to shame." He estimated his losses would run into thousands of dollars for the month of December. Dishonesty takes many forms. It appears as lying, cheating, stealing, deceiving. It asserts itself in thinking and in motives. It may be expressed by word, by deed, and by implication. It may be directed against man and God, and there are many who are dishonest with self.
EDITORIAL No matter what its form or against whom it is directed, dishonesty is destructive and demoralizing. It injures the one who practices it. And wrongs the one against whom it is directed. It in no way builds nor strengthens nor benefits. Honesty, or any other moral virtue for that matter, cannot be established in a day. Moral instruction to take root must be started early and it must be continuous. Morality cannot be taught merely by precept; precept must constantly be supported by example. Parents, mothers in particular, must realize their tremendous responsibility in this respect. Knowing how desperately the world is in need of a return to the absolute moral principles which have always served mankind, recognizing how urgent is the world's need for honest men and women-men and women of character?we should give full attention to the building of such men and women. If we would conscientiously begin iK)w to train our youth to be strictly honest and virtuous, if we would teach them to put principle above immediate personal gain, the next generation would have a world fit to live in. BSS. A Pioneer Story?The Big Horn Basin