[Vol2 | December 1915 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL

.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor Susa Young Gates
Business Manager Janette A. Hyde
Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman

Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. II. DECEMBER, 1915. No. 12.

THE END OF THIS YEAR'S TODAYS.

Over the sun-bright face of yesterday falls the dawn-lit veil of today. The twilight of tonight forms the mysterious womb of tomorrow. Yesterdays, todays, and tomorrows come and go, and lo the year is over! Into the past fade the todays, while tomorrow creeps silently to our knees.

They are our children ? ye mothers of today ? these yesterdays of ours. Born of our travail and struggle, those yesterdays came into life, throbbed and accomplished for a brief hour, and faded into the tomb of forgetfulness. Oh, those yesterdays! Lovely they were in their dawning youth, bright with promise, vigorous with hope. The sweating noon-tide found them at their prime, and vanquished or was vanquished by their mature powers. The effulgent afternoons completed struggles or prolonged hope ? modified failure or dulled despair. The long twilight floating slowly over, calmed all tempests, stilled all enterprise. And the nights took our child-yesterdays in their bosoms as Mother Earth absorbs her children's dust, closing the eyes of hope and folding effort into the silence of death's repose.

But they were good yesterdays ? very good. We loved them, every one. Even when their sad faces were scarred with defeat, and their broken hearts were cankered with disappointments ? for they were ours; all we had. They were our possibilities and our opportunities. It matters little how they treated us, in their short lives; it matters much how we treated them. For out of every defeat they brought us, we could, if we would, press a vial of perfumed triumph. We may have suffered much, but in that suffering, we may have conquered more.

Treat them tenderly, old Time, our beloved yesterdays. Fold them sweetly to rest, till we shall meet them gladly or shamefacedly at the bar of justice in the divine tomorrow. We have loved them or scorned them, according to our measure, and now ? at this fading of this year's today into the next year's tomorrow, we mothers of our yesterdays lay them softly by, wrapped in the tissues of our love, while we water their graves with the tears of memory.

Ah, my precious today of this year, linger near me with your twilight thoughts, until some stern resolve takes conception within me to make of my beloved tomorrows of the coming year the brave, true, sympathetic todays that shine before my eyes of faith with promise of fulfillment.

GENEALOGICAL CLASSES.

The bishop of the Tenth ward in this city presented the Relief Society with enough of our genealogical blanks for every person in the ward, so that the genealogical data could be secured at once. Duplicates are prepared, both the individual and the ward being thus supplied. These ward records will be preserved. We commend this example to other generous and progressive bishops.

Classes in Genealogy have been opened in the Bishop's Building for Salt Lake City and county stakes. The Monday afternoon class deals with the history of surnames, is an advanced course, and is under the charge of the Genealogical Committee of the General Board ? instructors, Mesdames Susa Young Gates, Amy Brown Lyman, and Janette A. Hyde. The Wednesday evening class is a beginners' class for men principally, and will present the six lesson course given in stake classes. The instructor is Elder Nephi Anderson. There is no charge for either class, and all interested are invited to attend.