[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | October | Issue: 9 | Title: LINES. | Author: EMILY H. WOODMANSEE]

LINES.

	Addressed to Sister S. J Cannon and to a mumber of
Friends assembled in honor of her fiftieth Birthday Anni-
versary. 
	Refreshing ’tis, to meet with those who love us,
		To find amid life's shadows, pure delight,
	Cheering, as when the starry orhs above us
		Shine out in splendor, and illume the night.

	Pure social influences cheer the soul;
		True friendships’ voice is like a soothing strain,
	Sweet sympathy, oft makes the spirit whole;
		Nor is Love's willing labor lost or vain.

	Christ's Law commends itself to generous hearts,
		"Each other's burthens," so called Saints should
			bear,
	Trouble and grief of many kinds and sorts
		Or more or less, we all are bound to share.


To day our friends are scatter'd far and wide
	Our "fireside circles," ruthlessly are riven;
Drifting on persecution's heaving tide
	From sweet home comforts dearest ones are driven. 

The true and just are counted lawful prey,
	Denounced as aliens or as traitors bold,
Are robb'd of Freeman's rights in open day
	A shameful sight for Freemen to behold. 

Yet, as the noted worthies heretofore,
	Who served as targets for the clamorous crowd
Counted as gain, the scorn and shame they bore;
	And in the midst of pain rejoiced aloud,

So Zion's children are and must be brave,
	Hopeful and humble, patient in distress,
Must trust in Him alone, whose power can save;
	Who surely will, His children's wrongs redress

God's own "peculiar people" tried yet choice,
	Can bid despondency to Hope give place
God's own "peculiar people" can rejoice
	Above all other's on the Earth's broad face.

In sacred circles, or at social feasts,
	God gives the pure of heart his peace profound
This natal Jubilee is proof at least
	Despite our troubles, cheerful souls abound.

From purest friendliness, convene we here
	And cordially as one we all unite
To pay respect to One beloved and near
	To honor this important festive night.

Dear Sister Cannon! needless 'tis to tell
	Your bark has breasted oft an adverse tide;
Yet, hosts of friends are yours, who wish you well,
	Who trust o'er smoother waters, yet you'll glide.

O may your days and years be lengthen'd out,
	To whatso'e'er extent you may desire;
And may, true love, encircle you about;
	And living Faith and Hope your soul inspire.
					Your Friend
						EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City, Sept. 11. 1889.


[Column 1]
