[Vol56 | October 1969 | Page 732 | Special Feature | Testimony Hugh | B. Brown]
[Testimony Hugh B. Brown]
testimony of the gospel will meet the demands of home building with poise and dignity. Motherhood is the _inscription on the gate through which the spirits pass to enter the realm of mortal men, and it will be woman's password for admittance into the highest realms of glory. The Son of God hallowed and glorified that inscription when he bowed through that gate and called a mortal woman, "Mother." How important it is that every mother have a testimony of him and cooperate with him in the continuing work of redemption. President McKay said: Motherhood is the one thing in all the world which most truly exemplifies the God-given virtues of creating and sacrificing. Though it carries the woman close to the brink of death, motherhood also leads her into the very realm of the fountains of life and makes her co-partner with the Creator in bestowing upon eternal spirits mortal life. Artists may make new visions real; poets express thoughts never known before or dress old ones in a more becoming garb; engineers may transform deserts into bounteous fields and fill them with prosperous towns and thriving villages; scientists may discover new elements, and by various combinations thereof create means contributive either to progress or destruction—all these are in a measure revealers of unknown things: but the mother who, in compliance with eternal law, brings into the world an immortal spirit occupies first rank in the realm of creation. (Gospel Ideals, page 656.) All who have received a testimony of the gospel through revelation are authorized, commissioned—required—to teach the gospel under the inspiration of that spirit through which it came. I quote and commend the appeal made by Sister Zina Y. C. Brown in her prose poem, "Woman Exalted:" Daughters of Zion, ye mothers of men, hold fast these gifts of thy calling great, Yesterday is gone, WITH THESE HANDS The canvas of my day is yet empty. And the pallet is clean. My beloveds still slumber— And God awaits my prayer. I offer my hands this day unto their Creator, To fashion a thing of beauty From these virgin hours awaiting color and form. Strike away the temptation to blotch and blurr, Testimony Lest they be lost—these priceless pearls of purity and purpose holy. Know ye not that thy place is at the side, and not below, This companion to whom thou art given of the Lord? Thou woman exalted, thou first to forgive and last to forsake, Thou pniestess, queen, Thank thy God who made thee thus, That thou was born A woman. That the canvas may be vibrant and clean With the work of loving hands. Hands that will comfort, protect and perpetuate. Hands that will discipline and adhere, That the work may form in order and beauty. Hands that will build, give, and guide, Strengthening each fiber of importance, And shunning the rest. When the canvas is completed In detail and deed, May I hopefully seek my Lord again. Then, in humility and with thankfulness, May I ask for his refreshment And begin anew with these hands he has given me. —Mary Jo McEwan 731 fiayoila R.
