[Vol56 | October 1969 | Page 5 | Fiction | Heart Room for Home— Chapter | ]
[Heart Room for Home— Chapter]

OCTOBER 1969 AUTUMN SEASON The aspen leaves fall to the fallow ground, I Rustling on the air, soft as a sigh; The red of maples form a contrast, bright As some flamenco dancer's eager cry. The hills in petit-point of varied hues, From mauve to umber, to a lavish grape, Make backdrop for an earth richly endowed With new-found shades and sounds, a richer shape. This is a scene for briefer, cooler days, - For scents of harvest... Apples, pungent, sweet; For pumpkins ready for the harvesting, And for the song of summer birds' retreat.: This is as beautiful a time, and season As ever comes, although it breathes of sorrow. Its bounty is enough. Enjoy it now. Skies brood; leaves fall, snow comes tomorrow. - Christie Lund Coles The Cover: § Gold Poplars and Blue Mountains, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: I Meadow in the Mountains, Near Steamboat Springs, Colorado Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: § Dick Scopes lustrations: J} Mary Scopes What a thrill it was to see my story "Missionaries to Dinner," in the July Magazine, and special thanks to Mary Scopes for her appropriate illustrations. I have read and enjoyed the Magazine for nearly seventeen years and am truly grateful for the literary contests that give the sisters an opportunity to develop their writing ability. Joan N, M\\rmn, Huntington Beach, California I wish to express my appreciation for such a fine Magazine. All of us sisters in the Servicemen's Branch in Giessen find the messages enjoyable to read. The Magazine helps to keep us from getting lonely and depressed. Virlee Baker, Butzbacli, West Germany The article "Keys to Child Guidance" in the July Magazine seems so helpful to wives and mothers and I would like to see other similar articles. Beverly Robinson, Soda Springs, Idaho I thank you very much for the Magazines. There are many good things to learn from them. They are a part of our living. Harriet Fish, Portland, Oregon Hare in Scotland we enjoy the Magazine— all the lovely stories, poems, pictures, lessons, and particularly the editorials. Many times I find that the editorials seem to be written especially for me. I have had the privilege of going to the temple and being sealed to my husband, having also done some work for my kindred dead. Now it is up to me to build for a better and sweeter life. I enjoy my work as Relief Society secretarytreasurer and am also working in Primary. Mary Graham, Overton Mains, Kirkcaldy, Fife, Scotland I take this opportunity to express my enjoyment of The Relief Society Magazine. The subscription was a gift from my mother and I really needed the uplifting stories and spiritual lessons. It is a perfect gift. JoAnn Meadows, San Antonio, Puerto Rico What a wonderful Magazine! When it arrives my wife gets nothing done until she has gone through it. Also, I enjoy the Magazine very much. I have other reading material but would rather read the Magazine. Paul L. Hardy, Provo, Utah I would like to thank you for publishing such a wonderful Magazine, but more especially wI ant to thank the Logan Square Relief Society in Chicago for sending me this great Magazine. I am a missionary in the extreme northern outpost of the Western Canadian Mission. Every time I receive a new issue I read it from cover to cover before I lend it to our investigators. I am thrilled with the wonderful stories in the Magazine, and our investigators enjoy them also. Elder Bob Miller, High Level, Alberta, Canada Only those who live so far away from the center of the Church can know the great hunger and thirst for the spiritual food that comes to us each month in the Magazine. It is truly a feast for us, and we thank you from the bottom of our hearts for the care and the love that you put into this beautiful Magazine. Though English is our mother tongue, we teach the lessons in Spanish and appreciate both issues so much. It would be almost impossible to have our Relief Society functioning here without both copies. Helen Q. Milligan, President of Relief Society Colomho-Venezolana Mission, Merida, Venezuela It is a blessing for me to have the Magazine, for usually I am a long way from our home ward. We move so often— so I especially enjoy the Magazine and all the Relief Society organizations I visit, for I never feel alone or as a stranger. Leah Hancock Standiford, Taylor, Arizona The Relief Society Magazine volume 56 October 1969 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford  728 G President Hugh B. Brown Of the First Presidency I ~~ Bye Ry = ie" a a @ When one gives evidence as a witness in court, he may either make a solemn declaration or affirmation, or give evidence under oath. In the latter case, if he does not tell the truth he may be charged with perjury. When one bears testimony to the truth of the gospel he also makes a solemn declaration or affirmation, but the source of his knowledge is not the same as that upon which he depends as a witness in court. It may have little or nothing to do with the five senses. In fact, a real testimony of the gospel, a testimony that God is real and personal and that Jesus of Nazareth is his Son, results from revelation and is a serious and sacred matter. In a court of law, hearsay, or secondhand evidence is not admissable regardless of the integrity of the witness submitting it. He must confine his evidence to what he personally knows to be true. While all members of the Church should respect, support, and heed the teachings of the Authorities of the Church, no one should accept a statement and base his testimony upon it, no matter who makes it, until he _ has, under mature examination, found it to be true and worth- 724 ee a " w > Cor 3e wy 7) © gy ns ae er [6 ae ee ee ee eee ( (2 ( (é w while; then his logical deductions may be confirmed by the spirit of revelation to his spirit because real conversion must come from within. By the same token, members of the Church should not become disillusioned and throw the Church overboard because they have not satisfied themselves concerning' every principle of the gospel. All blessings from God come as a result of obedience to the laws upon which they are predicated. This rule, or law, applies to the acquisition of a testimony of the gospel or any related subject. Any accountable person can gain a testimony if he will obey the laws upon which the receipt of such knowledge is predicated. But here, as elsewhere, there are certain prerequisites, which may be listed roughly as follows: 1. The seeker must desire to know the truth of the gospel or whatever is involved in his quest. 2. He must study and learn everything possible with relation to the matter involved. In John 5:39 we read: "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life." And we are directed in the Doctrine and Covenants 1:37 to "Search these commandments." 3. The applicant must practice the principles and truths which he learns and bring his life into harmony with them. The Savior said: '""My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." (John 7:16, 17.) 4. He must constantly pray to the Father and exercise faith that the truth will be manifested by revelation through the Holy Ghost. Moroni tells us that by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things. (Moroni 10:3-5.) When the Apostle Paul answered Christ's question as to who he, the Savior, was, he had the spirit of revelation, and Jesus said to him: "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 16:17.) This bears out the claim that direct and personal revelation is available to men if they will learn the necessary prerequisites and conform their lives thereto. In speaking or writing to memTestimony bers of the Relief Society one is addressing. The builders of the homes of our communities and of the Church. Every home has a spirit and that spirit will depend in large measure upon the testimony which the mother has of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. This emphasizes the importance of her gaining a testimony and under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit guide and direct the affairs of the home and the lives of her children, having in mind always the relationship which exists between the Lord and his children. In other words, the mother must have great faith—faith in God, faith in herself and in her companion, and faith in the ultimate triumph of righteousness —a faith which ventures beyond knowledge and by which she may be able to meet the tests of practical life and_ religious experience. She will be guided by intellectual as well as moral imperatives. A mother who has a testimony will, therefore, live a righteous life—one which the children can emulate with safety; the kind of life which is inspired and directed by the Holy Ghost, whose companionship she will constantly seek. Of course the knowledge which the mother gains in her search for a testimony will be most helpful in her presiding over her home. But that knowledge must be observed and _ incorporated into the daily life of those concerned. He who knows the precepts and neglects to obey them is like one who lights a candle in the darkness and then closes his eyes. 

75 October 1969

 A house is not a home unless it contains food and fire for the mind and spirit as well as for the body. In order to supply that food and fire the maker of the home must have the ingredients which include and depend upon the strength of the testimony of both father and mother. The Apostle Peter gave us a list of virtues in II Peter 1: 5-7: And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue; And to virtue knowledge; and to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness; and to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity. Alma _ bears follows: testimony as And this is not all. Do ye not suppose that I know of these things myself? Behold, I testify unto you that I do know that these things whereof I have spoken are true. And how do ye suppose that I know of their surety? Behold, I say unto you they are made known unto me by the Holy Spirit of God. Behold, I have fasted and prayed many days that I might know these things of myself. And now I do know of myself that they are true; for the Lord God hath made them manifest unto me by his Holy Spirit; and this is the spirit of revelation which is in me. (Alma 5:45-46.) In this age when there are so many broken homes, it is about time to stop building mere houses and begin rebuilding broken homes, and laying foundations upon which future enduring homes may be established. When grandfather and grandmother took each other for better or for worse, when things got worse, as they usually did, the two of them worked it out for the better. Their marriage lasted sixty years or longer be- 726 cause they knew the darkest hour would be only sixty minutes long. Too many today enter marriage with the door of escape wide open and that door leads to the divorce court. The extended freedom which is enjoyed today requires a stabilizing self-control and _ constancy just as branches demand roots. In this complicated age of restlessness and speed we are all oppressed at times with tension and strain. Tension needs tenacity, and _ strain requires steadfastness. A testimony of the gospel supplies _ spiritual underpinning without which human life leads but to shipwreck. The most effective and lasting impressions of life are made in the home where it is presided over by parents who know and bear testimony that God is real and personal, that Jesus is the Christ and that the gospel has been restored. Testimony is like an arrow shot from a long bow. The force of it depends upon the strength of the hand that draws it. (Bacon.) The Apostle Paul, writing to the Hebrew saints, said: For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it. (Hebrews 4:2.) It was said of the Master, when he returned from Nazareth, that he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief. All the hopes, the horizons, the motives that have been given to men depend upon faith in God.: Our convictions are more important than our lives, if those convictions result from revealed testimonies. We need the type of courage, a product of faith, which will enable us to turn triumphantly toward the east at nightfall, with the calm assurance that dawn will surely follow dusk. We must regain and retain that rugged self-confident faith of our pioneer fathers. A torch is given to each of us as we seek to see the road ahead that we might light the lamps of others. This excerpt from the pen of one whose name I do not know is an appeal to all to keep the light of their faith still shining. THE LIGHT OF FAITH When the dark days come and the clouds grow gray All men must brave them as best they may: With never too much repining; And bravest is he, when the shadows fall, Who sees in the gloom of his darkened hall The light of his faith still shining. All great enterprise begins with and takes its first forward step in faith. Our job must be done with faith in the future, because very little of the fruit of one's work shows above the ground during a lifetime. We constantly need the warmth and glow and power of faith which will support and be supported by our testimonies of the gospel. Tennyson said: Faith sees the best that glimmers through the worst; she feels the sun is hid but for a night; she spies the summer through the winter bud; she tastes the fruit before the blossoms fall; she hears the lark within the songless egg; she finds the fountain where they wail "mirage!"' Testimony And again: Think not the faith by which the just shall live is a dead creed, a map correct of heaven. Far less a feeling fond and fugitive, a thoughtless gift withdrawn as soon as given. It is an affirmation and an act that bids eternal truth to present fact. Faith is holding reasonable convictions in realms beyond the reach of final demonstration and thrusting out one's life upon those convictions as though they were really true. A testimony of the gospel develops and sustains such faith. Robert Louis Stevenson said: "T believe in the ultimate decency of things and if I woke in hell I should still believe in it." There are plenty of people to do the possible. You can _ hire them at one hundred dollars a month. The prizes are for those who perform the impossible. If the thing can be done, experience and skill can do it—if it cannot be done, only faith can do it. Both science and religion rely on faith to inspire each forward step. All divine help depends on the presence of man's faith. Words like these were continually on the lips of the Savior: Be of good comfort, thy faith hath made thee whole. According to your faith be done unto thee as thou wilt. Thy faith hath saved thee. Man's life interpreted and motivated by religious faith is glorious, but shorn of faith's interpretation, life loses its highest meaning and its noblest hopes. Let us have faith that right makes might, and in that faith let us to the end dare to do our duty. (Abraham Lincoln) 

727 October 1969

 Whether on the first of January or on the thirty-first of December, faith is a good word to end on. (Robert Louis Stevenson) Poetry is faith, faith that the converging sides of the pyramid slope to a summit whether we can see it or not. (Ralph Waldo Emerson) With all our science we must face each day as Paul faced his journey to Rome, "not knowing the things that shall befall me there." Paul's continuing and sustaining faith was supported and buttressed by his inspiring testimony. Every member of the Relief Society, every mother in Israel, needs and may obtain a testimony that God lives and that she is a member of a _ living Church, a_ growing, forwardlooking Church, where new ideas and new ways of doing things predominate their lives and leave no room for littleness of living nor for the paralysis of skeptical doubts in thinking. The testimony of Peter is inspiring as he responds to Christ's question "... Whom say ye that I am?" He said, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." This testimony welled up from an overflowing heart, made humble by his recent denial and made more glorious by his own indomitable spirit. It is this stirring desire to do the will of our Father which caused the pioneers to endure the contumely and reproach of their fellow men and associate themselves voluntarily with the people denominated Latter-day Saints" or Mormons. The Savior was pleased with Peter's testimony which was revealed to him, not by flesh and blood, but by our Heavenly 728 Father and was evidence of his love and of his unfolding mind as he comprehended the gospel plan. We also pass -through valleys of weakness and _ hills of doubt as we attempt to climb the mountains of faith and get a testimony of truth. An abiding and oft repeated testimony of the truth of the gospel, borne by the mothers in the home, is a bulwark not alone to them personally but to their families and to all whose lives they touch. Because of the testimonies of the officers and members of the _ Relief Society that God is real and personal and their understanding of the relationship of God and man, this world-wide women's organization adopted charity (love) as a slogan. (See 1 Cor. 13.) Said Frank Crane: Conventional charity drops pennies in the beggar's cup, carries bread to the starving, distributes clothing to the naked; real charity, which is another name for love, sets about removing the conditions that make beggary, starvation, and nakedness. Conventional charity plays ''Lady Bountiful;" love tries to establish such laws as shall give employment to all so that they need no bounty. Conventional charity piously accepts things as they are, and helps the unfortunate; active love goes to the legislature and changes things. Charity may swat the fly; love impels us to remove the dung-heaps that breed flies. Charity gives quinine in the malarial tropics; love drains the swamps.

Charity sendssurgeons and ambulances and trained nurses to the war; brotherly love struggles to secure that internationalism that will prevent war. Charity assumes evil institutions and customs to be a part of Divine Providence, and tearfully works away at taking care of the wreckage; love regards injustice everywhere, custom-buttressed and re- spectable or not, as the work of the devil, and vigorously attacks it. The best part of the human race does not want help, nor favor, nor charity; it wants a fair chance and a square deal. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow said: The little I have seen of the world teaches me to look upon the errors of others in sorrow, not in anger. When I take the history of one poor heart that has sinned and suffered, and think of the struggles and temptations it has passed through, the brief pulsations of joy, the feverish inquietude of hope and _ fear, the pressure of want, the desertion of friends, I would fain leave the erring soul of my fellow man with him from whose hands it came. Some of us have sometimes, when in presiding positions in the Church, executive positions in business, while practicing law, or commanding men in the army, found it necessary to hold trials, make investigations, and pass judgments on our fellow men. Often in such cases when associates or counselors have insisted on microscopic examination of the lives and faults of the accused, I, myself, have been deterred from hasty judgment by imagining a slide film of my own life had been slipped beneath the glass. How often at such times has the "beam" eclipsed the "mote" and the "first stone" been withheld because I could not qualify to cast it. S. E. Kiser imagined that one day in paradise two angels, beaming, strolled along the amber walk that hes beside the streets of gold. They met and gazed into each other's eyes, then dropped their harps, amazed, and stood in mute surprise. Testimony And other angels came, and as they lingered near, heard both exclaim at once, "Say, how did you get here?" Dr. Benjamin Johnson adds, "God, himself, sir, does not propose to judge man until the end of his days, why should we?" And Dante queries, "Oh, mortal men, be wary how you judge." WATCH YOURSELF GO BY Just stand aside and watch yourself go by; Think of yourself as 'he' instead of "T". Note closely, as inother men you note, The bag-kneed trousers and the seedy coat. Pick flaws; find fault; forget the man is you, And strive to make your estimate ring true. Confront yourself and look you in the eye, Just stand aside and watch yourself go by. And then, with eyes unveiled to what you loath— To. Sins that with sweet charity you clothe— Back to your self-walled tenement you'll go With tolerance for all who dwell below. The faults of others then will dwarf and shrink. Love's chain grows stronger by one mighty hnk— When you with "he" as substitute for "y" Have stood aside and watched yourself go by. Relief Society workers should be unwilling to choose between flaming fanaticism and_ sentimental surrender. Let personal conviction and generous tolerance meet and merge. The spirit of testimony makes one tolerant of the weaknesses and mistakes 

729 October 1969

 of others as it emphasizes the brotherhood of man. A book on tolerance by Phillips Brooks, mentions six brands of tolerance: First, the tolerance of pure indifference. We may be tolerant because we do not care, because the issue at stake does not concern us. Second, the tolerance of policy. We may be tolerant because we think we would lose more than we gain by fighting the man or the measure. Third, the tolerance of helplessness. We may be tolerant because we realize that the enemy holds the field and that resistance will be futile. Fourth, the tolerance of pure respect for man. We may be tolerant because we respect even a man's right to think wrong, because we agree with Voltaire when he wrote to Helvétius, "I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say 1 Fifth, the tolerance of spiritual sympathy. We may be tolerant because we feel a spiritual comradeship with the man whose purpose is fine even if his proposition is false. Sixth, the tolerance of an enlarged view of truth. We may be tolerant because we have come to realize that truth is larger than any one man's concept of it, even if we are the one man in question. The first three kinds of tolerance are mean; the last three are magnificent. "True tolerance," says Brooks, "consists in the love of truth and the love of man, each brought to its perfection and living in perfect harmony with one another." But this is no easy achievement. In this age of selfishness and greed, of birth control and barrenness, of easy divorce and broken homes and juveni