Womans Sphere: Ramona W. Cannon THE United States is to be congratulated upon the character of her women military leaders. Oveta Culp Hobby, WAAC (Women's Army Auxiliary Corps) commander, has.
Been a state parliamentarian, lawyer, newspaper executive, bank director, author, and political worker. She is the charming wife of a former governor of Texas, and mother of two children. Dr. Mildred McAfee, lieutenant commander of more than 10,000 WAVE'S (Navy's Women Appointed for Volunteer Emergency Service), was president of Wellesley College, and has been a beloved teacher, church worker, and dean of women. Mrs. Nancy Harkness Love, 28, commander of the WAFS (Women's Auxiliary Ferrying Squadron), has practiced many types of flying, with 1200 hours to her credit.
Possibly the 500 or 600 qualifying as WAFS will pilot army bombers into war zones.
Lieutenant commander Dorothy Stratton of the SPARS ("Semper paratus'""Always Ready,' Women's Coast Guard Reserve), is also an exceptional woman. Julia Flikke, motherly 63-year-old widow, has directed nurses since she took 100 of them to France in World War I. First American woman to rank as colonel, she now commands 31,000 nurses, some of whom are serving in Iceland, Alaska, England, Australia, Africa, India and the Solomons. IDEAS of notable women on how to win the peace. Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands: Nations must conquer their desire for revenge and aim at justice for all. Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt: Women of many nations have earned the tight to representation at the peace table and should be preparing themselves for such responsibility. Dorothy Thompson: United States' genius for production should be directed toward the abolishment of slums, the creation of a network of high grade hospitals that would leave no community unprovided for, and other social betterment. Pearl Buck: We must truly cooperate with the Eastern races, but, in order to do so, we must study and understand them. Helen Keller: We are responsible for other lives, for gentleness, for culture and progress.