Picture Presented Jo General Board Elder George Albert Smith honored the General Board of Relief Society at its meeting on January 13, 1943, by personally presenting to the General Board a copy of a colored drawing, in size about fifteen by twenty-four inches, of Lucy Mack Smith, which he and Elder Preston Nibley had discovered recently while on a visit to Illinois. In making the presentation, Elder Smith recited a few of the major events in the life of Lucy Mack Smith, revered mother of the Prophet Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and also spoke some words of encouragement and commendation, as well as counsel to the General Board which were greatly appreciated.. The picture, a photograph of which serves as a frontispiece to this issue of the Magazine, is highly prized by the General Board, and will be hung in ene of the General Board rooms. Woted. TO THE FIELD Food
Production and Processing Program Featured 
By Public Schools HE "Production and Processing of Food for Farm Family Use," is the title of the course in the Rural War Production Training Program which is now under way in 10,000 rural high schools of America. The program is sponsored by the United States Office of Education in cooperation with State Boards for Vocational Education and rural high schools.
Persons over seventeen years of age are eligible to enroll in the courses which are offered free to the public.
Competent instructors and leaders are employed to carry on the instruction and supervision of the program. Ten or more meetings constitute the formal instruction; and supervision and follow up by vocational teachers is a feature. The course on the production and processing of food is aimed at helping the heads of farm families to plan the family food budget and produce, Anniversary MARCH 17, 1943, Relief Society will be 101 years of age.
Anniversary day this year, as always, will be recognized by the local Societies throughout the Church. The General Board is issuing no special suggestions for programs for this day, leaving entirely with the local Societies the planning of appropriate observances.; However, the General Board still has on hand some of the mimeographed material which was listed in Page 114 process, and conserve the necessary food to meet their needs. Skills, abilities, and information incident to the growing of the Victory Garden, home poultry flock, home milk supply, canning and caring of meat, preserving fruit and vegetables will. Be featured in the course.
Every farm family can perform a fine patriotic service to our country and the whole cause of freedom by producing and preserving the food it needs from the resources on the home farm. The primary purpose of the course is to help American citizens to do this, so that food produced in commercial quantities can be shipped to our armed forces and our Allies. All persons interested in the course are urged to contact their local high school principal, vocational agricultural or homemaking teacher. Day Program bulletin No. 21, issued November 12, 1941, suitable for a commemorative Relief Society program either on or near March 17, or for the Sunday evening meeting on March 7.
This may be had upon request as long as the supply lasts. It is suggested also that the recently issued A Centenary of Relief Society contains valuable historical material which migh be helpful in planning anniversary programs.