0, at Nauvoo, Illinois, in the seventieth year of his life, the good father died, "worn out by the exposures he had suffered in Missouri." Lucy Smith was now left without the companionship of "a tender and loving husband." Yet further misfortunes were to come to her. In the summer of 1841, her youngest son, Don Carlos, died after a brief illness.
Three years later, there occurred at Carthage, Illinois, the tragic murder of her sons Joseph and Hyrum. Her poignant grief and sorrow at this time are well expressed in her own words: "I was swallowed up in the depth of my afflictions," she writes, "and though my soul was filled with sorrow past imagination, yet I was dumb, until I arose again to contemplate the spectacle before me. Oh! At that moment how my mind flew through every scene of sorrow and distress which we had passed together, in which they had shown the innocence and sympathy which filled their guileless hearts. As I looked upon their peaceful, smiling countenances, I seemed almost to hear them say, 'Mother, weep not for us, we have overcome the world by love; we carried to them the Gospel, that their souls might be saved; they slew us for our testimony and thus placed us beyond their power; their ascendency is for a moment, ours is an eternal triumph.'" (Smith, Lucy, Joseph Smith the Prophet, p. 278) Joseph the Prophet and Hyrum the Patriarch will never have a more sincere and inspiring tribute than this, given to them by their dear old mother as she stood beside their coffins in the Mansion House at Nauvoo that June day in 1844. As if she had not suffered sufficiently in the loss of her husband and three grown sons in the short space of four years, Mrs.
Smith was called upon to part with another son, Samuel Harrison, less than five weeks after the death of Joseph and Hyrum. In fleeing from the mob at Carthage he had overexerted himself. In a few weeks he fell ill and died. Of the six sons Mrs.
Smith had reared to maturity, only one now remained, William, who had shown himself to be the least capable of rendering aid and assistance to her.
Such was the fate of this good woman. At the last General Conference of the Church held in Nauvoo, in October 1845, after President Brigham Young and the members of the Quorum of the Twelve had decided to lead the Latter-day Saints to a new home in the West, Mrs.
Smith asked the privilege of addressing one of the meetings. I find the following in the Journal History: "Mother Lucy Smith, the aged and honored parent of Joseph Smith, having expressed a wish to say a few words to the congregation, she was invited upon the stand. She spoke at considerable length, and in an audible manner, so as to be heard by a large portion of the vast assembly. She commenced by saying that she was truly glad that the Lord had let her see so large a congregation. She had a great deal of advice to give, but Brother Brigham Young had done the errand; he had fixed it completely.
There were comparatively few in the assembly who were acquainted with her family. She was the mother of ten children, seven of whom were boys. She raised them in the fear and love of God, and never was there a more obedient family. She warned parents that they were accountable for their children's conduct; advised them to give them books and work to keep them from idleness; warned all to be full of love, goodness and kindness, and never to do in secret, what they would not do in the presence of millions. She wished to know of the congregation whether they considered her a mother in Israel? (upon which President Brigham Young said, 'All who consider mother Smith as a mother in Israel, signify it by saying "yes."' One universal 'yes' rang throughout.) She remarked that it was just eighteen years since Joseph Smith the Prophet had become acquainted with the contents of the plates; and then in a concise manner related over the most prominent points in the early history of her family; their hardships, trials, privations, persecutions, sufferings, etc., some parts of which melted those who heard her to tears...."
Regarding the migration of the Saints westward, she continued: "I feel the Lord will let Brother Brigham take the people away.
Here in this city lie my dead, my husband and children; and if it so be the rest of my children go with youand I would to God they may all gothey will not go without me; and if I go, I want my bones brought back in case I die away, and deposited with my husband and children." Here President Young interrupted to say:
 FEBRUARY 1943