[Vol30 | February 1943 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Pohlman]

FEBRUARY 1943 FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field'"' appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420.
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL OBSERVANCES
Southern States Mission THE Augusta Branch, of which Bessie Palmer is Relief Society president, sent a brief report of its centennial observance, as follows: "Our celebration was a huge success. It started on March 15 beginning with sacrament meeting. Our chapel, which we think is one of the prettiest in the Church, was one big flower garden. A reception committee consisting of the branch Relief Society presidency welcomed the guests and gave them programs as they entered. The play 'Relief Society Why?' was presented, and the song 'A Hundred Thousand Strong' was sung. The attendance was the largest we have had in years. "Ou Tuesday, March 17, 1942, we had a real birthday party, honoring two of our members who themselves had birthdays in March. We thoroughly enjoyed the phonograph record which you were so kind to send. We used it Sunday, March 15, and Tuesday, March 17. It thrilled us through and through to hear the Prophet of God speak." Laura M. Smith, president of the Azalea Branch Relief Society ( South Alabama District), sent an interest CENTENNIAL TREE-PLANTING, AZALEA BRANCH, SOUTH ALABAMA DISTRICT, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION President Laura M.
Smith stands with hand on the tree; on each side of her are her counselors. Page
121 CENTENNIAL BANQUET Trona Branch, California Mission ing account of events in commemoration of the centennial in this branch: "On December 22, 1942, during a heavy rain storm, members of our branch held a tree-planting ceremony on the Church grounds.
Moying pictures of this ceremony were taken by Mr. And Mrs. Lewis M. Founds. In addition, a cement vault near the tree marker was filled with a box containing a history of the Relief Society organization from its beginning to the present, with pictures of all presidents and the dates and years of their service, a list of all Relief Society members of the year 1942, and a copy of the dedicatory prayer given by Lewis M. Founds, Sunday School superintendent.
Another event of the day was a Christmas party held in 'The Hall.' "We are proud of our branch, for we now have twenty members entolled, with twenty-one subscriptions to the Magazine. Due to gas rationing nd scattered living conditions, only a few members are able to attend meetings all the time, but we feel that if they have the Magazine they are still in touch with Relief Society and receive much needed and beautiful messages each month." The accompanying picture shows the centennial tree. California Mission RUTH BELL, president of the Trona Branch Relief Society, sent the following short report of the celebration held in this branch: "Our Relief Society, which was organized last October (1941) near Death Valley, celebrated the centennial, March 17, 1942, with a banquet for the entire Trona Branch. Our centennial queen, Mrs. Carrie Benson, oldest member of our Society, lighted the candle for our cake. The accompanying picture shows the representation of our branch in attendance at the Banquet." Northwestern States Mission PPRANCES D. REES, secretary of the Dillon Branch Relief Society, sent the following note, along with 

 FEBRUARY 1943 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 123 CENTENNIAL BANQUET North and South Butte Branches, Northwestern States Mission the accompanying picture, concerning the centennial observance of this branch: "The picture of the group shows those who attended our centennial dinner on March 17. Our birthday cake was the most beautiful cake creation that I have ever seen. The frosting looked like beautiful lace and was made entirely of sugar and CENTENNIAL DINNER Dillon Branch, Northwestern States Mission water. There were no toothpicks, no wire, nor anything to make it stand. Emma Mast made the cake, and Ruth Packer frosted it." Ada Dieterle is the president of this branch Relief Society. Eastern States Mission EDNA L. FRASER, secretary of the Albany Branch Relief Society, reports that the centennial was recognized by an extensive announcement in The Knickerbocker News of Albany, New York. This writeup gave a summary of the origin, purpose, and history of Relief Society, and featured the branch of Albany and the accomplishments of this branch in the Church Welfare Program. Included with the announcement was a group picture of the officers of this branch. They are: Almira Heeney Klein, president; Joan Cooley Leigh and Olga Butler Hopper, counselors; and Edna Fraser, secretary. Utah Stake (Provo, Utah) MERICA PERRY, president of Pioneer Ward Relief Society, reports its centennial program in these words: "The Pioneer Ward Relief Society held its centennial program March 17, 1942. This program was in the form of a 'Dr. Quiz' broadcast. Each of the general presidents of Relief Society was represented, dressed in the style of her time, and each gave a short explanation of the work accomplished in Relief Society while she was president, in answer to questions asked her by "Dr. Quiz. Then each former president of the ward organization was honored, and some of her accomplishments were mentioned. Nine of our eleven presidents were present, the other two being CENTENNIAL LUNCHEON Pioneer Ward, Utah Stake. 
 FEBRUARY 1943 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125 CENTENNIAL TREE-PLANTING Milton Ward, Morgan Stake ceased. Luncheon was served in the amusement hall at long tables. The president's table was centered with a beautifully decorated, tiered birthday cake trimmed in blue and gold, with 100 blue and gold candles on it. Over the top was an arch on which were inscribed the words 'Charity Never Faileth." Our tree-planting ceremony consisted of talks and musical numbers, the dedication being made by our ward bishop. A spirit of companionship and sisterly love prevailed throughout the observance, and all who participated in this occasion will long remember: Morgan Stake (Morgan, Utah) MARGARET WHITTIER, former president of the Milton Ward Relief Society, reviewed this ward's centennial activities as follows: "We observed the one-hundredth birthday of the Relief Society in the Milton Ward Chapel, Tuesday, March 17, 1942. The program commenced at two o'clock and consisted of song, music, and Relief Society history. Margaret Whittier gave the opening address of welcome. Two of the outstanding features of the occasion were the participation on the program of elderly members of our Society, and the playing of the recorded messages from President Heber J. Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman. After the program, a banquet was held in the recreation hall. The table was centered with a beautifully decorated birthday cake iced in Relief Society colors, topped with the number 100 in gold. Cynthia Criddle, oldest past Relief Society president in the ward, cut the cake. Due to weather conditions, our centennial treea flowering crabwas not planted until a month later, when a special program was presented. This program included a tribute to Relief Society by W. E. Criddle, a poem "I Planted a Tree," and a violin solo, "Trees." Joseph F. Spendlove offered the dedicatory prayer."
North Sanpete Stake (Mount Pleasant, Utah)
"TALULA F. NELSON and Johanna O. Peel, presidents, respectively, of the Mount Pleasant North and South Ward Relief Societies, sent the following account of a joint celebration held March 17, 1942: "The two Mt. Pleasant Wards of the North Sanpete Stake Relief Society, with Ruby S. Jensen, stake president, celebrated the centennial birthday of Relief Society on March 17 in the South Ward chapel. The radio broadcast from the Relief Society General Board over KSL the morning of March 17 was an inspirational setting for the day for all those who listened. All members and eligible members of the Relief Society and their partners, were invited to assemble at eleven o'clock in the morning. As the guests entered, each wrote his name on a sheet of paper. This list of names, along with a description of the activities of the day, notes about present world conditions, and some relics were sealed up in a tin can to be opened in fifty years. "At twelve o'clock our program started in the recreation room by singing 'A Hundred Thousand Strong.' Prayer was offered by Patriarch Arthur O. Neilson. Following this, an old-fashioned hot dinner of beef stew with vegetables, and rice pudding was served in cafeteria style from three long tables. The serving was done by twelve menhusbands and sons of Relief Society membersdressed in white shirts, long white aprons, and white caps trimmed in blue. They looked handsome and were applauded as they came in to serve. "The program was varied and made interesting by touches of humor. Talks were given highlighting points in ward Relief Society history. Other features were a candle-lighting ceremony, the presentation of 100 birthday pennies to each ward Primary organization with responses from Primary children, the singing of 'Happy Birthday,' modern and old-time dancing in costume, and the unveiling of centennial quilts. The program included a short pageant. Since quilting is a typical Relief Society activity, each ward made a special quilt for this occasion. The North Ward quilt was a beautiful creationred and blue on a white background. The South Ward quilt was blue and gold, with the names of all present ward Relief Society members embroidered in blue in a triangle on a gold background, and the border was quilted in a sego lily design. It is intended that this quilt be preserved for a century. "After a short intermission, the sacred part of our program was presented in the chapel. The Singing Mothers sang two new songs composed for the occasion, and the transcribed messages of President Grant and President Lyman were played. In addition, a short history of the life of Margaret F. Cruckshank Morrison, who served forty years as first president of the Mt. Pleasant Relief Society, was told in combination radio and pageant form, with Alice J. Stewart representing Mrs. Morrison. The benediction was pronounced by Myranda S. P. Oman, eighty-five years of age. A dance with old-time music and refreshments furnished
 FEBRUARY 1943
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 127
CENTENNIAL LUNCHEON Pocatello First Ward, Pocatello Stake
the evening's entertainment. Many expressions of appreciation came to us that this had been a perfect day."
Pocatello Stake (Pocatello, Idaho)
ANNA HAWKES, secretary of the Pocatello First Ward Relief Society, reports its centennial observance as follows: "Our centennial celebration was very successful. The day was lovely, and as members entered the chapel they heard the strains of organ music, and were greeted by our Relief Society officers. Our chorus, under the direction of Lola Sebiess, chorister, and Sue Bowen, organist, gave a fine rendition of 'Spirit of God,' 'My Heart is a Silent Violin,' and 'Peace I Leave With You.' Our play, "The Organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo,' was taken from the March 1932 issue of the Magazine, and was directed by Lucile Pack, with Helen West as the reader. The play was very well acted, and all who took part in it deserve our praise. The candle-lighting ceremony was very impressive. The reader, Melvina Sutton, gave a tribute to each of the eight general presidents of Relief Society while the candles were being lighted." A luncheon, served to 176 guests, was also part of the festivities (see accompanying picture). "All in all, the whole program was praiseworthy, and everyone enjoyed it. Members were given a memento of the occasion as they left." Bessie Capell is president of this ward Relief Society.
CENTENNIAL LUNCHEON Maywood Ward, South Los Angeles Stake
South Los Angeles Stake (Huntington Park, California)
THE accompanying picture shows the members of the Maywood Ward Relief Society, of which Florence Kuffer is president, who participated in a centennial party on March 17. Approximately 140 members attended. The party included a program and a lunch at which a large birthday cake was ceremoniously cut. Relief Society officers dressed in costumes typical of those worn in 1842.
Seattle Stake (Seattle, Washington)
"THE centennial observance of the Bellingham Ward Relief Society was recognized in the Bellingham Herald of March 15, 1942, according to a newspaper clipping sent us by E. C. Petrie, ward clerk of this ward. This writeup gave a summary of the origin and purpose of Relief Society, and announced the proposed program to be held in the Bellingham Ward on the evening of March 17. It was stated that the program was to include a tree-planting ceremony at 10:30
Tuesday morning, and that the evening program would include a pageant portraying the eight general presidents of Relief Society posed in a large picture frame. Berneice Quakenbush was president of this ward at the time of the centennial, Ella M. Petrie being the present president. We appreciate the thoughtfulness of Brother Petrie in sending us this clipping.
 FEBRUARY 1943