Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Seventy-fifth Birthday Year Rosannah Cannon Irvine 651
Utah Entertains the Governors Edith S. Elliott 656
Vesta P. Crawford Appointed Associate Editor of The Relief Society Magazine Marianne C. Sharp 664
The Gift Drawer Ivie H. Jones 675
Cooperative Dinners Emily H. Bennett 686
Vanity Stool and Hamper Eva Willes Wangsgaard 690

FICTION
The Kidnaping Fay Tarlock 665
Where Trails Run Out Chapter 9 Anna Prince Redd 676

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 670
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 671
Editorial: Diamond Jubilee of Women's Periodical Marianne C. Sharp 672
Isabel B. Callister Resigns from General Board 673
In Memoriam: Edith Grant Young Passes 673
Notes From the Field General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 695

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: Gabriel's Annunciation of John and Jesus: The Babe of Bethlehem Elder Don B. Colton 702
Visiting Teachers' Messages: Social Activities President Amy Brown Lyman 706
Work Meeting: Sewing Altering the Pattern to Suit the Figure Type Jean Ridges Jennings 707
Literature: Epistles of the Doctrine and Covenants Elder H. Wayne Driggs 708
Social Science: Chastity Elder Joseph Jacobs 712

POETRY
Prayer of a Pipe Organ Frontispiece Julia Nelson 649
Vignette of October Ruby Baird Andersen 655
Discovery Margery S. Stewart 674
The Shallow Streams Dorothy J. Roberts 685
Storm and Calm Beatrice K. Ekman 685
Autumn Day Christie Lund Coles 685
The Joy of Doing Caroline Eyring Miner 689
Dusk on the Beach Melba S. Payne 694
To Find To Lose Evelyn Fjeldsted 718

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28
Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. 
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 34, NO. 10 - OCTOBER 1947 PRAYER OF A PIPE ORGAN Julia Nelson Lord, I have breathed into still, tapered gloom, And light, unmasking muffled, weak despair, Has touched a wordless thought, a mute desire That soared, in purest harmony, to prayer; And I have rung white bells of sound to some Who walked in joy, perfecting their rich peace With music's benediction; through the years, An echoing comfort stayed, when rapture ceased. My chords are vibrant underneath the roll Of surging voices; when a thousand sing, I bear their last and holiest amen To thee.... An organ's reverent whispering. Lord, I am but an instrument, a frame, Cold hollow veins, mere wood and bone and steel; In all thy gifts to man, save yet for me This glorious power to show what others feel. The Cover: "The Manti Temple," Photograph by Grace T. Kirton.
Photograph by Willard Luce CENTER PIPES OF THE TABERNACLE ORGAN L. D. S. Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah Seventy-fifth Birthday Year Rosannah Cannon Irvine Iormer Member, Relief Society General Board (On June 1, 1947, the woman's periodical of the Church marked its seventy-fifth birthday, known as The Woman's Exponent until 1914 and thereafter called The Relief Society Magazine. Ed.) 66 HO can find a virtuous: \  woman? For her price is far above rubies... She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy....
Strength and honour are her clothing....
Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain; but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised.
Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates." It is probable that the Prophet Joseph Smith was familiar with these passages from Proverbs. And it is more than likely that he had listened to the quietly insistent voices of the wives and mothers in the Church seeking an opportunity to share, in greater measure, the burdens and responsibilities of the organization of which they were members.
Whatever the cause may have been, no one has ever doubted the.
Wisdom and inspiration of the founding of the "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo" as a potent, working auxiliary to the Priesthood. In time this name was changed to the "Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints."
Thirty years later, the need of this organization for an official medium to transmit instructions, news, and other matters of interest to the women of the Church became apparent. In this, as in