[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 790 | General Feature | Social Relations— Women Are | People Too]
[Social Relations— Women Are People Too]

In looking for the causes of frustrations, it is apparent that disturbed feelings and frustrations can usually be traced to some basic need of the individual which is not being satisfied. Each woman, no matter where she lives, no matter whether she is rich or poor, beautiful or plain, married, widowed, or unmarried, educated or uneducated, has basic needs. They are there whether one wants them to be or not. They are legitimate needs of which one must be aware and of which one must not be ashamed. They are related to one's identity and importance as an individual. If these needs are recognized and one learns to understand and deal with them satisfactorily, they can greatly increase one's sensitivity and capabilities. If one tries to deny or supress them, frustrations and unhappiness often result, and one becomes ineffective in carrying out responsibilities, and the achievement of life goals becomes much more difficult. RESULTS OF UNFULFILLED NEEDS Many disturbing feelings can result when a need is not satisfied. A woman may feel such things as anger, resentment, depression, hopelessness, unhappiness, fear, nervousness, restlessness, or apathy. When she feels these things she either tries to suppress or deny them. If she is Lesson Department successful in suppressing them, they may find expression in such illnesses as we have already mentioned. If she cannot suppress them, they usually manifest themselves in behavior which is still unacceptable and upsetting to her. She may have problems with her friends, may nag at her husband or children, deal harshly with her children, or may do all sorts of things which make her feel guilty and lose respect for herself. Once she loses respect for herself, a woman truly becomes an instrument of misery to herself as well as to all of those around her. WHAT ARE WOMAN'S NEEDS? In a very practical way we can identify a few of the needs a woman has that require satisfaction to make her happy and to make her a productive individual. 1. A Woman Needs to Love and Be Loved. From birth to old age one needs to love and be loved. Throughout life, health and happiness will depend, to a large extent, on the ability to love and be loved. Only to give love or only to allow oneself to be loved, is not enough. One must do both. Life's situations change, requiring one to learn and relearn ways to fill this need for love under different conditions and _ stresses. For example, when a young couple is first married and there are only two, it is not difficult to find satisfaction of this need for love, but a common situation occurs when a couple is older and has several children. The man is actively engaged in trying to attain success in his occupation. In addition, he often has many civic 

791 October 1970

 and Church responsibilities which take him both physically and emotionally away from the home. This is also the time when a woman is engaged in all the complicated aspects of child rearing and homemaking. At this time of life, both husband and wife need much mutual love and understanding. Very often each gives a great deal of love and attention to the children but spends less time with each other; hence there is very little opportunity for them to communicate their feelings to one another. It is very easy under these circumstances for their need for love to go unfulfilled. Feelings of resentment, anxieties, and depression begin to appear. If the cause of these feelings is not realized, the couple will grow apart and the harmony of the home will be disrupted. By being aware of this situation and by having an understanding of how it can work insidiously to block one's needsatisfaction, one can find ways to deal with this problem or to prevent it from occurring. A woman can make sure that time is set aside periodically when she and her husband can be completely alone, away from the family, so that there is the opportunity of keeping the lines of communication open and they can better understand and support each other. After a couple is married, the need for a physical expression of love with one's companion may be realized. The expression of this God-given urge is necessary to fulfill God's plan of life. One should not be ashamed of admitting this need to oneself and should seek to find as satisfactory 792 and compatible a_ relationship with one's husband as possible. A woman is often afraid to discuss this part of her relationship with her husband. Since sexual compatibility can contribute a great deal to the happiness of a marriage, it is therefore very necessary for husband and wife to communicate their feelings to each other. If this is done, most problems that exist in this relationship may be worked out. If a woman Is not married, this need for love can be fulfilled very satisfactorily, even though a sexual expression of love is not morally possible. It can be fulfilled by sharing love with children, friends, and relatives, or by helping someone who is in need of loving service. The Relief Society, Primary, Sunday School, and YWMIA provide many opportunities for a woman to express love through service and participation in the Church programs. It becomes very apparent, in dealing with an unmarried woman who has tried to satisfy her need for affection in an immoral fashion, that this method only results in more anxiety, guilt, and frustration, and, in addition, it creates serious problems not only for herself but for her friends and relatives. Class Discussion Give some specific ways in which a widow or unmarried woman can fulfill her need to receive love and to give love. © 2. A Woman Has a Need to Feel That She Is Worthwhile to Herself and Others. It is important for a woman to discover her own talents and have an opportunity to develop them. Her individuality and her personal growth are of prime significance. If she does not seek to broaden her horizons by developing some interest of her own, both she and her family will suffer. By being alert, inquisitive, and interested in many things, she will add a new and exciting dimension to her life and the lives of all those with whom she associates. She will also continue to grow and progress as an individual. No matter how tied down with responsibilities she may feel, she can always find a way to spend a few hours each week to do something for herself: to learn to paint, sew, take a class, or engage in some sport or other activity. It is a matter of setting priorities and realizing the great importance of this type of activity in her life. She cannot wait until her children are grown to begin these activities; she must develop a habit pattern early so that when the children are gone, she can still have a full, meaningful life. It is particularly important for a married woman to maintain an interest in many facets of life so that her husband will continue to find her an interesting and stimulating companion. Anything she can do to develop her own talents or improve herself will help satisfy her own need to feel worthwhile, and, in addition, will increase her ability to deal with the complex world in which she lives. Discussion Question How can a young mother with several small children keep pace with her husband's expanding horizons as he pursues his education and career? Although a woman very often knows she is performing a service Lesson Department for others that is worthwhile to her husband and family, she also likes to hear expressions of appreciation from them. A man often has difficulty expressing his appreciation verbally, but she can see it manifest by his gentleness, loyalty, consideration, and willingness to work hard to support her and the family. If the lines of communication are kept open between husband and wife, this need is usually satisfied. If, however, there is marital discord in the home and the woman's need for recognition is not met, she may drift away from her home and family. A woman should be very much aware of the need for recognition, because it can lead her into the acceptance of more social, Church, or civic activities than she can handle and still administer satisfactorily to the needs of her family. She should be aware of the fact that one job done well and with enthusiasm can result in more recognition than the performance of several jobs poorly done. A woman can often rationalize herself into thinking that her philanthropic activities outside the home justify her absences from it, but most women deep in their hearts realize when they are being neglectful of their children and suffer feelings of uneasiness or guilt. If a woman is reasonable about her involvement outside of the home, she will be able to find time for projects of selfdevelopment and will be able to take care of her most important responsibility—which is_ her family. Discussion Question How can young mothers with several 

793 October 1970

 small children and very little money satisfy their needs for self-development and self-expression? 3. A Woman Needs to Feel Secure. A woman's need to feel economically secure is a very real and important one to her. She must realize, however, that ultimate security is a personal feeling and rests with being in tune with God's purposes. Money and what it will do, do not make a woman secure. In Timothy we read, "For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows." (1 Tim. 6:10.) Though it is not preferable, a woman must at times work outside the home for economic security, for such reasons as divorce, illness, or death. Though it is difficult, a working mother can administer satisfactorily to the needs of her family. She can only do this, however, if her family means more to her than her work. If she must work, and exercises wisdom and judgment in her decisions, she can take good care of her family and be in tune with the Lord's purposes. When children are young it is best for the mother to be home with them, because it is during this time that basic traits of personality are formed. Infants and young children are very dependent and have a great need for love and attention to make them feel secure. If it is impossible for a mother to remain at home, she must be very sure that her children are cared for by someone who can give them this individual attention and love. When a child 794 returns from a hard day at school he needs a snack and a warm reception from his mother. If he returns to an empty, littered house he feels desolate and unloved. Children left in this situation often want to leave the home to spend time with other children who are likewise unsupervised. 4. A Woman Has a Need for Religious Expression. A woman is truly blessed if she and her husband have been married in the temple and are one in activity and belief in the Church. There are many ways in which the Church strengthens the marital union. If the husband is not active, partially active, or only active in body but not in spirit, then the wife has a most difficult problem but one which must be dealt with if she is to help create a happy home. Husband and wife should make every effort to communicate their separate views to one another. If there is love and consideration between them, then most often the wife will be able to satisfy her need for activity in the Church in a reasonable fashion without causing marital discord. It will often, however, be more difficult for her to understand her husband's views than for him to understand hers. She should not attribute her husband's inactivity in the Church to a lack of love for her or a disregard for the family, because this is usually not so. A man often feels very strongly that his actions must reflect true conviction and commitment, so no matter how much he loves his wife, he will not feign a belief he does not feel. Neither should she feel guilty about her husband's inactivity. Religion is a very per- sonal thing and must be dealt with in this way. If a wife has a fine husband whois a good father, it is surprising what love, patience, tolerance, faith, and prayers can do. The best way to solve the problems which come from differences in religious beliefs is to try to prevent them from occurring by marrying someone who shares the same beliefs. But if a woman has married someone who does not believe as she, or someone who has changed in his views and she does find herself with problems, let her remember that divorce can be devastating to every member of the family, and that very seldom can divorce be Lesson Department justified solely on the basis of a difference in religious beliefs. Discussion Question List ways in which the Latter-day Saint Church organizations can provide opportunities for a woman to satisfy her needs. SUMMARY A woman must come to know her own needs, and must learn how to understand them and how to deal with them if she is to be an emotionally well-balanced, happy woman. If she will do this, not only will she grow and progress as an individual, but she will be able to create a happy and healthy atmosphere for all those with whom she associates.