[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 722 | Special Feature | Church Magazine | Conversion Rules]
[Church Magazine Conversion Rules]
Church Magazine Conversion Rules
The following are rules the Church Magazine Office is using to apply The Era,
Instructor, and Relief Society credits toward the Adult Magazine.
The subscriber's name and address as it appears on The Era file will be used
for the Adult Magazine. The Era file is being used as the base for the Adult file.
The months remaining on an Instructor subscription and a Relief Society Magazine
subscription will be added to The Era subscription.
The number of Adult Magazines a subscriber receives will be determined by
the number of Eras being received. If a person is not receiving an Era, the number
of Adult Magazines he receives will be determined by the number of Instructors
being received. If a person is not receiving The Era or Instructor, the number of
Adult Magazines he receives will be determined by the number of Relief Society
Magazines being received. In the case of institutional subscribers such as seminaries,
institutes, and ward libraries, the number of Adult Magazines they will receive
will be determined by the largest number they are receiving of either The Era or
The Instructor.
Samples of typical situations encountered in the combining of Era and Relief
Society subscriptions are printed on the following pages. The rule being followed
in each case is stipulated. While it is realized on occasion these may not be the
actions subscribers desire, rules have to be adopted that would seem to apply in most
cases. Where a particular example fits your situation and the action taken isn't what
is desired, write and tell the Church Magazine Office at 79 South State Street, Salt
Lake City, Utah 84111, and they will attempt to follow your wishes.
1. If the complete name and address are exactly the same on the Relief Society Magazine
and Era list, the remaining months of the Relief Society Magazine beyond
December will be added to The Era.
SAMPLE
Era Subscription List Relief Society Magazine Subscription List
84302HUME-216E017 0CT71
OLIVE A HUME
216 E 3RD S
BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302
722
MRS. OLIVE A HUME
216 E 3RD S
BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 JAN72
BRIG C-B C 17