[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 759 | Fiction | The Secret of Blueberry Hill— Chapter 4 Rosa | Lee Lloyd]
aster. At last, and not one moment too soon, he swung onto Clover Street, slowed the car and they tumbled out into the house and down the cellar stairs. There wasn't time to catch their breath before the tornado struck. The old frame house trembled and cracked under its terrific force; even the ceiling of the cellar creaked and moaned. Johnny said: "If that ceiling doesn't hold, we're done for!" "I think it will hold," Steven assured him as the _ tornado swooped over them leaving a wild black wave of destruction 760 in its path. "Our house!" Lila sobbed. "Our house is gone. Blown away!" She was so terrified she reached out to Elizabeth, who held her tenderly. "We're safe down here," she said. "Aunt Lucinda said this old cellar was one of the best in Skylark." "Yes," Steven agreed. "It's deep enough to hold." "But look at the ceiling!" Johnny yelled. "It's sagging!" Lila straightened up. "Get the lumber beams," she told them. ""They're far back on the cement ledge. They will brace the ceiling. Aunt Lucinda had them made—a long time ago." Steven and Johnny hauled them out and put them in place. "That did it," Johnny said. "It won't tumble in for a while anyway." "There isn't anything left up there to tumble in," Elizabeth said with a wry smile. "The McIntyre home has literally gone with the wind." "We're just' waifs," Lila moaned. "No home. No Aunt Lucinda." Johnny said fiercely, "I'm glad she isn't here to see everything she owned and treasured blown to bits." Lila's head came up with a little jerk. "The letter," she said, over a little sob. "The letter she left for us—where has it gone? We don't know what she wanted us to do." Elizabeth lifted her shoulders the way Aunt Lucinda had done when there was a difficult job to be done. "She would want us to act bravely," she said. "We're not the only people in this neighborhood whose house was hit. We should thank Heavenly Father right this minute that we're alive and not hurt. We're able to go out there and help others who didn't reach their cellars or didn't have one to go to. A tornado is the craziest, most perverse thing in the world. It will skip some things and rip others wide apart and leave nothing but rubble in its path. This time, after all these years, we are part of the rubble." Her voice tightened: "But we still have each other—and a cellar." "You're right, Sis," Steven said in his quiet way. "We still have each other. Let's have family prayers." They placed the wooden chairs around the old table and knelt together as they had always done before they went to bed. Steven asked Heavenly Father for strength and wisdom in helping others and thanked him for their present blessings. "Dear Lord," he added, "I know I am asking for a little miracle, but help us find the letter our dear Aunt Lucinda left for us so that we can fulfill any request she made." Even as they prayed the howl and roar of the tornado faded into the distance. "It's gone where the bad winds go," Johnny said. "Boy! That was the wildest one I ever listened to. And the only time I have ever really been in one." A grin tipped his mouth. "My red beauty brought us through. What speed! What a car!" Steven's mouth was a grim line. He put his hands on Johnny's shoulders.

The Secret of Blueberry Hill "Little Brother, that was an emergency. We had to go that fast to beat the tornado. But don't try it again. I mean it. Believe me I have seen the results of speeding. I don't want that to happen to you. Don't do it again, Johnny." There was a tone in Steven's voice that Johnny didn't argue with. He turned his head and smiled at Lila. "Anything to eat down here?" he asked. "A fried doorknob would taste good to me." "Aunt Lucinda was always prepared," Lila answered. "I'll find something while the three of you go outside. I'm worried about the Wilkins'. They don't have a cellar." "You'll be okay here, Lila." Steven told her. "I want to see upstairs," she insisted. "Then [ll come back while you go out to look." Steven was the first one to venture up the stairway. The others followed, one at a time because the steps trembled and creaked with each pound of weight put on them. Lila cried out when she saw the jumbled mass of lumber and plaster; only the old upright piano stood in its usual place like a forgotten sentinel. The roof was gone, the walls were tumbled and everything else was blown away. The marble mantel where she had put the letter behind the clock was under the debris of plaster and wood and bricks from the fireplace. "Maybe the letter is under this pile of stuff," Lila said. So they lifted each piece of lumber and sifted the rubble with their 

761 October 1970

 fingers, searching each pile but finding nothing. "Go easy," Steven cautioned them. "There are weak spots in the floor. I can feel it shake when I walk on it. We don't want to break through. We have to use that cellar until we find out what happened to the town." "It hit the North River Clubhouse," Johnny reminded them. "That's not far from Main Street. Maybe the bank went, too." Lila noticed Elizabeth wet her lips. No doubt she was wondering what had happened to Scott. He had been on the road home from the funeral, but he had not gone to the airport, so he would have been ahead of the tornado. "Norman was the lucky one," Johnny said. "He got up there out of it." Steven frowned. "I hope so," he said. "There would be a crackup if the tornado caught a wing." Lila's heart beat up into her throat. Norman could be hurt somewhere and they wouldn't even hear about it. Telephone wires were down, electricity was off. Radio and television were dead. "We mustn't think his plane is down, Steven. Don't say that!" Her voice was brittle. "Facts are facts, Lila. You have to learn to face reality. We hope he didn't crash, but we won't know for awhile." Lila tugged at Steven's arm. "But I can't bear it, Steven. What will this world be for me without Norman? He has always been here when I needed him. Now he might be alone and hurt— even dying. Find him for me, Steven." 762 She stood pale and trembling before them. They looked at her in amazement, but they did not speak. "I have to know what's happened to Norman," she repeated. "Find out for me, Johnny. Someone uptown will know if his plane crashed. Oh, Elizabeth—" Her hands went out toward her sister. "Why didn't I know what he means to me? Why! Why didn't I know?" E lizabeth put her arms around her and let her cry against her shoulder. "I don't know the answer, Baby," she crooned. "Sometimes we look for happiness in faraway places when it's right in our own backyard. But the tornado was quite low. I watched it from the car window. It seemed to skim the ground. So let's hope his plane got above it. It would have been destroyed if they hadn't taken off. In the meantime we have to remember something Aunt Lucinda told us a long time ago. No matter what happens you have to go on. So be a good girl. Go back downstairs and fix us something to eat. We'll be back after we search the neighborhood." At that moment Johnny called from the front yard. "My car! My car is gone!" They hurried out to him. There was no trace of Johnny's new car. "Sucked up in the funnel," Steven said. "I hope you have insurance, Johnny." "Of course I do. But I want that car. It was the best car I ever had. I'll find it piece by piece and have it put together." " "Oh, Johnny," Lila called out. "Look over there where the Wilkins' lived. Their whole house is gone! Where are those dear people? They didn't have a cellar. Their house was only a shell!" They ran across the yard to the Wilkins' place. The sunflowers were whipped to the ground, and lay like naked stalks. "IT saw Casey on his bicycle after the funeral," Johnny said. "Little Pearl and Mrs. Wilkins got in the Bryson's car," Elizabeth added. "Let's hope they took the upper road—maybe stayed with friends." "They got home," Steven said. He had gone ahead and was stooping over the silent forms of Little Pearl clasped in her mother's arms. A heavy beam had struck them, killing them both. "The car that brought them home must have got away," Elizabeth whispered. "Casey—" Lila breathed. "Where is Casey? He _ hasn't anyone but a distant relative— Australia, I think. What can we do?" "We can take him in," Steven said. "We can be his family." "Oh, let's do that," Lila said. "He will need courage." "Look—over there!" Johnny pointed toward the McIntyre front yard. "That old oak tree is our symbol of courage. Its leaves are gone, its branches are twisted and broken, but its roots are still down deep and solid." Steven nodded. "It's ready to send up whatever it needs to make branches and leaves grow again." A gleam of memory sparked Lila's heart. "Casey told me only a day ago that the oak tree made The Secret of Blueberry Hill him think of Aunt Lucinda and what she stood for. Something to cling to." SL Steven's eyes gentled as he looked down the highway. "I think that is a boy on a bicycle," he observed as his eyes narrowed. He took off his coat and put it gently over Mrs. Wilkins and Little Pearl. Johnny did the same thing. "Now we'll go together to meet the boy," he said. "He will need our love and our help." Lila was alone in the cellar. She sat on the edge of the old brass bed wondering where to find enough food for five people. Casey belonged to them now. With one accord they had reached out their arms of love to a stricken boy and soothed him until the shock lessened. Now he had gone uptown on his bicycle to inform the mortuary of the tragedy of his mother and Little Pearl. Johnny had gone with him riding the handle bars of Casey's 

763 October 1970

 bicycle. Lila had to smile remembering how ridiculous he looked. "We'll take turns pedaling," he told Casey. "Let's just hope this bike can take the load." "It's a good bike," Casey said firmly. "Miss Lucinda gave it to me. She bought the best." Lila watched them ride away, then she turned back to what was left of the McIntyre house. Elizabeth was standing by the old upright piano talking to Steven. "That tornado was plain crazy," she told him. "It whirled away Johnny's new Dardenella and left this old piano without a scratch. You tell me why, Dr. McIntyre?" "No comment," Steven answered dryly. '"Now, let's search the nearby houses. Someone might need help." Lila had gone back to the cellar alone. It was late afternoon and the faint light coming through the windows would be gone before long. She must find candles and matches. They had an old lantern somewhere down here. She began the search. Everything was covered in a heavy dust either shaken down from the ceiling or blown in through cracks. The matches were in cans on the cupboard shelf, candles were in a larger can, and in the tall space underneath the cupboard she found the lantern full of oil. Aunt Lucinda had thought of everything. As Lila dusted the table and -hung the lighted lantern on a post nearby she thought about Johnny's words before he rode away. "I'll find out about Nor- 764 man's plane," he had promised. "Maybe telephone wires aren't down on the upper road. Keep hoping, Lila Bob. No time to mope." Lila lifted her chin. Johnny was right, this was no time to mope. There was work to do. She found a can of ham, cans of pineapple and peaches and a big cellophane sack of potatoes ready for frying. A crock of sweet pickles was beside the cupboard and inside on the upper shelves there were boxes of crackers, canned milk, and a large can of sweet potatoes. How did sweet potatoes taste when they were cold, she wondered as she fumbled through the cupboard drawer looking for a can opener. Then on the lower shelf far back she saw some canned heat. It was old and probably dried up by now, she thought. Aunt Lucinda had said only a few weeks ago that everything down here needed to be _ replaced. Lila winced as she remembered what an effort it had been for Aunt Lucinda to come down the cellar steps on account of her knee. She should have taken over the task and she had really meant to do so, but like everyone else she had put other duties first, she thought reproachfully. But, anyway, she decided, she would do the best she could with what she had. There were plenty of dishes and stainless steel cutlery stored in a barrel near the window; towels and cloths of all sizes were neatly folded. Lila draped a large white cloth over the table and placed the stainless at each place and put the white china plates at Steven's place. He would serve what they had to eat from the head of the table. He liked to do that when he was home. She cut the ham into slices and carefully rinsed out the old iron skillet with the emergency water. Then she opened three cans of canned heat and struck a match. A grateful sigh parted her lips when a blue flame sparked up from two cans. The third was dried out so_ she opened another can. The ham was fried, the potatoes heated, pickles and fruit and crackers spread with cheese heaped on platters, when she heard steps on the stairway. They hadn't been gone very long and Lila hoped that meant they hadn't found anyone in distress. But no one offered to explain. "Smells good down here!" Steven beamed at her. "Lila Bob, you are a miracle worker. Look at this banquet. Fit for a king, I'd say!" "Everything is ready but the milk gravy," she said as she added some of the emergency water to the canned milk. "How much water do we have?" he asked. "Could we spare a drop to wash our hands in?" I "There's plenty." She handed him a bottle. "No doubt folks who weren't hit will bring supplies soon. You know how we did when we were the lucky ones." "We are the lucky ones," Elizabeth corrected her. She covered her eyes with her hands. "Were there—many—hurt?" Lila questioned. "They were gone!" Steven answered. "Simply gone. Why The Secret of Blueberry Hill did they permit people out here to build houses without safety cellars? They were frame boxes carried away. Everything gone that was on top of the ground." "Everything but our old piano," Elizabeth reminded them. "I'll always keep that piano as a momento. It has some sort of magic endurance power." "Aunt Lucinda gave it to you when you took your music lessons," Lila said, as she made the milk gravy from the ham juice. An automobile horn honked out in front. In a moment Casey and Johnny came down the stairway. Scott Harrington followed them. "Come in. Come in." Steven went to meet him. Lila hurriedly set another place and Johnny pulled up an extra chair. Then he reached over to pick up a cracker, but Lila slapped his hand. "No, Johnny MclIntyre! You wait for the blessing," she I scolded him. "This food is manna from heaven." "It is!" Steven agreed as they took their seats and bowed their heads. Lila noticed that Casey scarcely tasted his food. His eyes were stricken with grief and his young body sagged wearily. He is so young, she thought, to have lived through so many heartaches. He must have food, he hasn't eaten all day. "Casey—" she smiled across the table at him. "I wish you would try my gravy. I remember how you like bread and gravy. We haven't any bread but crackers are good." Scott got to his feet. '""We do have bread," he said. "Out in 

765 October 1970

 the car. Bread, cake, eggs, butter, everything I could think of. I need you to help me, Casey." Casey unwound his long legs and stood up. "Sure, Mr. Harrington," he said and followed Scott up the stairs. After they were gone Elizabeth looked around the table at her brothers and sister. Her eyes had little sparks in them. "He does have a heart," she said. "People here in this town think he's a sort of Shylock because he's a banker who has to say no at times. But he is kind. He knew that Casey has to make an effort. He made him respond." "That's not all, Elizabeth," Steven said in his wise way. "We should all make Casey think that we need him. He's been the man of the house since his father was. Killed. And now." Steven shrugged. Lila said, quickly: "Scott can give him a job at the bank—errand boy or something where he is needed." "We must all need him," EKlizabeth said. "We must make him help us." "That's so right, Elizabeth," Steven agreed. "I've been thinking," he went on. "Do you realize that if we hadn't had this old cellar we would have been carried out there in Johnny's car and scattered around. That's /, why I want to build a hospital Nt with an emergency cellar where people could come if they needed to." "We'll need a pile for that sort of thing," Johnny inter, rupted. "But Tl put up what I've saved and pledge' whatever you say, Steven." \ \X. "Tll ask Scott for a loan— 766 right today," Elizabeth offered. Lila drew in her breath for courage before she spoke. "Elizabeth—Scott doesn't own the bank or its money. He is the president, but every loan has to go before the board of directors and there must be security before they will grant a loan of such a large amount. We'll have to make it a civic project—a pledge from every citizen. We'll have to ask the Woman's Guild and the North River Club—" "Blown to bits,' Johnny interrupted again. "There's nothing left there but a ghost house like ours." "But the wealthy men who built it still have their money," Elizabeth argued. "We're going to build a hospital here if I have to canvas the town in my bare feet." "Who's going where in her bare feet?" Scott asked from the doorway as he and Casey came in loaded with bags and parcels of all sizes. "Put them on the bed," Johnny said. "That's the only place. Say, Lila, can we heat up that gravy again?" "Sure we can," Lila said. "Casey, will you open another can of heat? I'll add some of that butter. Thank you, Scott. You thought of everything." He stood there tall and dignified with his arms full of groceries. "Your Aunt Lucinda taught me what to bring in an emergency," he said. There was a tone in his voice that made them all listen. "I was only twelve years old when the tornado struck our house on Center Street. We had a cellar with a few supplies— about enough for one meal. Then your Aunt Lucinda came in with supplies. Everything we needed. She did that for everybody who was caught in the path that day. Each of us thinks it will keep on missing us. Then bam! We're right in the middle of that awful roar and whirling. I know what it's like." His voice softened. "I lost my mother in that one." The cellar was quiet as a church. Casey's back was toward them as he put the parcels on the bed. Lila had lightet the last of the canned heat. She watched the flame flicker then turn steady and blue. "It's going to burn okay, Miss Lila," she heard Casey say beside her. "Are you ready for the butter?" "Yes, Casey, will you bring it to me?" Lila was sure that never in her life would she forget Scott Harrington eating bread and milk gravy with Casey and Johnny. And she would remember, too, the glow in Elizabeth's eyes when she cut each of them a piece of cake.

At last Scott left them with a The Secret of Blueberry Hill promise that he would come back to tell them as soon as the trailers he had sent for arrived in Skylark. "Maybe by tomorrow. Every place in town is crammed full of people with no homes to go to. We'll get as many trailers as possible and put them in the park. I'll see you are taken care of. Good night, now." They heard his footsteps across the ceiling. A little spray of plaster sprinkled down on them with each step. "Those trailers had _ better come by tomorrow," Steven commented. "Lila, you and Elizabeth can share the old bed. Johnny and I saw two cots and Johnny's old sleeping bag back there on the ledge. Casey can use the sleeping bag." After Lila was in bed Johnny came to her side of the bed and sat down beside her. His eyes had told her earlier there was no news of Norman. "Norman?" she questioned. "Oh, Johnny, isn't there one word?" "Not a word," he repeated. "That plane just went off into space. But nobody in town knows anything for sure. Some folks have been found blocks away still alive and not badly hurt. I think Norman will come back to us. He's one of those people, Lila Bob, who can come down a mountain on his head." "IT know..." she whispered. "He has to come back, Johnny. So I can tell him—I care." "Go to sleep now," Johnny said. "But don't forget to say your prayers.." This time, Lila thought, Johnny wasn't teasing her. 

767 October 1970

 Lila stared up into the darkness. Ever since she could remember Norman had been in the background of her life. She had taken him for granted, she thought brokenly; she squeezed her eyes shut and felt the wet tears on her cheeks. If his plane had crashed he might be out there alone in need of help. He might be dying. Dear Heavenly Father, she prayed, give me a chance to let him know how much I want to take care of him. Her eyes closed wearily and she drifted off to sleep. The sound of someone moaning awakened her. She sat up, instantly alert. Elizabeth had heard the sound, too. "Steven!" she called out. "Johnny! Casey!" Lila lit the candle she had put on the table beside the bed. _ "Johnny's gone!" Steven started toward the stairway. Casey followed, then Elizabeth and Lila with the candle. Johnny was on the floor near the mantel. He must have been searching through the rubble for the letter when the chimney bricks toppled over him. He was unconscious. "Look—his hand!" Elizabeth was frightened. "Steven, that old beam he fell on had a nail in it. An old rusty nail. It's gone through his right hand!" "Get me some water and a clean cloth," Steven ordered. "Casey, get dressed. Ride your bike to Scott Harrington's apartment. He'll be able to contact the druggist. We must sterilize this at once. His hand is swelling. Elizabeth—hold him. Put both arms around him while I pull this nail out. He's still unconscious but it might wake him up. Lila, put the candle here on the floor while you get the water." By the time Lila returned with the water and cloths Steven was examining the nail in the dim candle light. "Not much blood," he commented. "The wound should bleed to cleanse itself. Has Casey left yet?" "He's on his way," Lila answered. "It's so dark out there. No street lights. No moonlight." "He's a good boy," Steven said. "He'll find his way. Aunt Lucinda gave him that bike. Ill bet it has a battery light on it." He bathed Johnny's swollen hand. It looked dark and ugly. "That's his drawing hand," Elizabeth said in a low voice. "Nothing must happen to that hand—here let me draw out the blood—it's poison." Lila turned away. She felt sick all over. "Tl get the bed ready," she said A few minutes later Steven and Elizabeth carried Johnny down the narrow stairway, feet first. They put him on the bed. His hand was bandaged but Steven watched it carefully. Johnny's eyes flickered open. Closed, then opened again. It was dawn outside. The sun was a pink mist against the cellar windows. Lila blew out the candle. "We haven't many left,' she explained. "I hope we get out of here today," Steven said, grimly. "I don't trust that ceiling:"" Johnny groaned and moved his arm. "Stay quiet, Johnny," Steven said close to his ear. The Secret of Blueberry Hill ""W hat—happened?" asked. "The chimney tumbled on you. A rusty nail went through your hand." "Rusty!" Johnny "Is it bad, Steven?" "Your sister took care of that. I think it's all right." Johnny repeated. UJ ohnny looked at each of them, then his eyes came back to Elizabeth. He grinned at her. "Remind me to kiss you when I can get up Elizabeth gave him a kiss and a tight little hug. "I should give you a big kick for prowling around up there in the middle of the night," she scolded. "Now listen," he protested. "We need that letter. It was Aunt Lucinda's last word to us. We've got to find it." "It's like looking for the proverbial needle in a _ haystack," Steven muttered. "Maybe Orson Ketchum knows what she wrote. We'll contact him as soon as possible." "I don't think he knows," Lila said. "He told me not to lose it, to put it in a safe place." "You did!" Elizabeth agreed. "No one is to blame because a tornado struck the house." She got to her feet, pacing back and forth. "Steven and I should be out there searching— someone might need us." "We've been needed here," Steven cut in. "We'll go later, after Lila gets our breakfast." Elizabeth helped her. Everything had to be served cold. Lila had used the last of the canned heat for the milk gravy the night before. 99 

769 October 1970

 "What's wrong with cheese for breakfast?" Elizabeth laughed. "And the milk is still sweet." "And strawberries!" Lila exclaimed, lifting two boxes from one of the sacks Scott had brought in. "He didn't mention strawberries last night." "He was looking at our sister,' Johnny teased. "Don't be silly, Johnny," Elizabeth scoffed. But Lila noticed that her eyes were very bright. "T hey ate their breakfast, each occupied with his own thoughts. Johnny went to sleep again and Steven bathed his swollen hand several times. Lila noticed the swelling was subsiding but there were still angry red marks around the wound. "This whole thing is a lesson in patience," Steven said, walking toward the window. "We are accustomed to telephones, giving orders, pushing buttons. Getting what we need on the spot!" Elizabeth shrugged. "Think of the pioneers. This gives us a faint idea of what other people have gone through to survive. We take all our comfort and luxury for granted." "YT wish they would bring that medicine," Steven demanded. "Then I would feel better." Elizabeth unwound the bandage and looked carefully at Johnny's hand. "No worse," she told them. "There comes a car,' Steven called. "Wait a minute. It's not Scott's. Hey, Lila Bob! Here's your tall lanky Norman. He has his arm in a sling and he looks § all scooped out, but he's on both feet!" 770 Lila ran to the stairs. "It is Norman," she breathed. He was standing beside the car, surveying the ruins of the old house. His face was drawn and pale and his eyes were haggard. But he was able to stride toward them with that familiar swing in his walk. Norman had come back to her! She went up the stairs, walking on air. He was already halfway across the floor. "Norman—oh, Norman," she breathed his name and held his free hand in both of her own. "You're hurt," she murmured. "Only a broken arm," he told her. "And a few bruises. We were lucky. We got out of the way of the tornado at take-off but the pilot lost his way up there. We landed ina wheat field in the middle of the night. When we got back to town and _ heard where the tornado had struck, I was half crazy. You might have been blown away forever!" "IT know." Her voice was a caress. "Norman, I prayed you would come back. You mean the world to me. I know tat now." A little muscle jerked in his jaw and his strong mouth curved into a wondrous smile. "Say that again!" he whispered, holding her hands against his breast. "Tell me I mean something special to you. Tell me again." "Oh, you do, Norman, you do!"' she whispered back. "There never has been anyone else, Lila Bob. I'd walk on nails to get to you." "Don't you dare!" she said fiercely. "Speaking of nails—"' her voice grew serious—"Johnny had an accident." Quickly she explained about the rusty nail and that they were waiting for medicine. "Tl go for it," he offered. "Johnny's hand means his life work. I'll say hello downstairs first." Scott arrived while Norman was greeting the others. He had brought a package of medical supplies. "''m late—but I had to go to the mortuary with Casey. The Relief Society sisters are with him." His eyes went to Steven and Elizabeth taking care of Johnny's hand. "As soon as you can leave Johnny with Lila and Norman Ill take you to some people who are in desperate need of your attention. Old Dr. Hartford is almost worn out." The Secret of Blueberry Hill Elizabeth lifted her head and looked directly at Scott. Her eyes challenged him. "We need a hospital in this town, Scott," she said in a firm, steady voice. "We need a good one with a safety cellar full of medical supplies ready for emergencies. It will cost money. Steven and I will give what we have saved to start the project. What can your bank do to help us?" His steel gray eyes met the challenge in her own. They are a match for each other, Lila thought. No other woman that she knew of had ever demanded anything of Scott Harrington. "I am only the president of the bank," he told her. His voice tightened. "But I promise you I will do everything I can to help. I'll even give of my own money. You have my word, Elizabeth." "That's all I ask," she said as her eyes went back to Johnny. "You have my word, too," Johnny teased her. "And the thirty bucks I've saved." "He's all mght now," Steven said. "We can leave him here with Norman and Lila. Keep the bandage wet with this solu; tion." "The trailers will be here today," Scott told Lila. "Electricians -are on the job. So we'll be back for you when they get here. Tonight you'll all sleep and eat in style." "In two-by-four style," Johnny smiled. "Get us a couple of trailers, Scott. There are six of us now Norman is back." Scott turned at the stairway. His hair was still neatly combed, his clothes were immaculately clean, but there was a smudge of dark soot across his_ cheek. 771 Elizabeth lifted her and an like a dainty Pink °sebud byt Wiped j; off with a Clean Cloth She's 4 Orkhorse When the "Make it Seven," aid and 80ing get tough. I Tather like his mouth quirked, «p> like to the kiq." be asked to dinner." "A pink Tosebud," Orman re. Lila Walked up the Cellar Stairs peated, Ooking at Lila. Their and Watched them rive a eyes held 4 moment A little in Scott's Car. Sh Ted back Sigh Parted ila's Those © Norman d J MNY with a two were Wonderfy] YS. The little tre I her voice "Steven ha la Uage al] heir Own. And Elizah th so nderfy]. Nny lay 5 ck o the pilThey neve Say they are too low. The he gs ddenly bolted red—they never Complain— Oo uprigh 4nd point d toward the JOb is tog rd for them, I celling. «7, ok! There! On't could be in their Places," tell me dream 8. Isn't that "You've Bot a Couple of hite aper Sticking out of the oun EN Sight here," Johan" Plaster th Ip of an envelope told her. "No and J Only hay t's the letter! Where IS the WO good h S between us. And ladder ila?" listen, little Sister," he sat up Norma and a Stared Up at "while we' Passing oyt bouquets he ceilin The aw the white on't forget a ew flowe for P of pape It Might be e let Cott. That Man ally came through When the Chips were Norman Said in his quiet Way. Down. He took care of Case at "Coo down, John y. We ight the Mortuary, he's been at Our pul] the ceiling Oose if we tug beck and cal] and other People's, at it. Let's take jt easy," too. Who brought the milk and 'TH get the ladder yself," the Strawberries and the Cheese?" Jo NNY called out stubbornly as "And the Medicine," Norman Swung hi legs over the side added. "He's €en up all night," the bed "Wow! Izzy!" "I thought he was Stuffed "Let's alt for Steven." Lila Shirt," Johnny Said. "H W Wrong Said. "N Man has 9 Y One hand I was." use. He can't hold Pa ceiling "Me, 00," Orman agreed jt It start t Contritely "It goes to show ¢ at We don't ally kn e 4 Crisis " ten- € looked Ster, Nor l. § Care of everybody Own here in the prj glints blue yes, ai bet jt fTlme an Tubwas blown nder the Piano and ble. Fix; & Meals, Washing Ishe Something Nagged it and held it IN cold Water, Worrying about there. Eve thing else us." out into ohnny reac Wouldn't bu air. Thing. Wait li Goldie Locks."