[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 789 | General Feature | Homemaking— Exercise, Posture, and Grooming | ]
—Beulah Huish Sadleir HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 4—Exercise, Posture, and Grooming Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, June 1971 { OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that proper exercise, posture, and grooming improve appearance, health, and self-confidence. INTRODUCTION Women have great potential power and unrealized possibilities if they maintain their vitality and energy. One great hindrance to reaching our full potential in life is poor health. We should make an effort 'to eliminate illness and fatigue when it is possible. For maximum physical fitness, the importance of exercise, deep breathing, correct eating, and relaxation cannot be overemphasized. GOOD POSTURE Exercise is important because it tones the muscles and encourages good posture and deep breathing. Good posture and also erect carriage add distinction to our appearance. It is desirable to have good posture because it gives an appearance of confidence and it builds good health by allowing the inner organs to function properly. Discussion Questions 1. What are some poor posture habits? 2. How can we improve our posture? 3. Name some causes of poor posture. PROPER EXERCISE AND EATING Daily exercise and balanced eating are two "musts" if we are to obtain maximum bodily health. If you have checked with your doctor and have no serious health problem, then you are free to embark on a regular exercise program to improve both health and posture. As we grow older we sometimes resort to becoming melancholy and moody. We try to escape by succumbing to watching television, when walking in the fresh air can be far more beneficial. Gardening is a wonderful exercise for the body as well as uplifting to the soul. Working with the soil in fresh air and in the sunshine contributes greatly to relieving tension and to developIng peace of mind. Walking, gardening, and swimming are some of the best exercises for women of all ages, if started in moderation and gradually increased. These exercises help tone muscles and thereby give better control to the body. A strong body promotes courage and self-confidence. It enables us to sit and arise from a chair with more grace and ease. Exer- 

789 October 1970

 cises will help us to be more agile and better able to take care of ourselves. IMPORTANCE OF GOOD GROOMING Your appearance reveals at a glance the general state of your health and mind. If you are neatly groomed, it indicates you care about yourself. It also indicates that you care about others by showing them the courtesy of looking your best for them. Clean and attractively arranged hair is a beauty asset. Observance of the rules of good dental hygiene will enhance your appearance. It is important to keep your skin clean and conditioned, using creams to counteract dryness when necessary. We can protect our hands with gloves when we're doing heavy work. We should give attention to our feet so that we wear properly fitting hose and shoes. No woman can look beautiful and relaxed when her feet hurt. If it is painful to walk, it affects her posture, her disposition, her facial expression, and makes it difficult for her to be pleasant and congenial with her family. CONCLUSION The human body is the handwork of God, marvelous and sacred. If we treat it with care, it will serve us well. As mothers, let us emphasize to our young people that a body that is clean and strong, agile, and well groomed, is a source of joy. Keeping our bodies vigorous and healthy helps us maintain enthusiasm for life, and as long as we have enthusiasm we have youth. 'A woman looks years younger when she smiles, when she walks with head held high, shoulders back, and a brisk gait which indicates maximum body health. Regular exercise clears the mind, relieves nervous tension, and tones the muscles, thereby creating a happier and lovelier you. SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 4—Women Are People Too Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, June 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman be able to identify, understand, and satisfy her own basic needs in order to enrich her life, her family, and society. INTRODUCTION The challenges, responsibilities, and problems associated with being a woman, friend, wife, 790 mother, citizen, Church member, and sometimes a job holder, seem almost overwhelming at times. To many women they do become overwhelming. As a physician, the author has seen this inability to deal with the complexities of life expressed by women in many different ways: stomach ulcers, obesity, chronic headaches, mental depression, loss of self-respect, immoral behavior. In looking for the causes of frustrations, it is apparent that disturbed feelings and frustrations can usually be traced to some basic need of the individual which is not being satisfied. Each woman, no matter where she lives, no matter whether she is rich or poor, beautiful or plain, married, widowed, or unmarried, educated or uneducated, has basic needs. They are there whether one wants them to be or not. They are legitimate needs of which one must be aware and of which one must not be ashamed. They are related to one's identity and importance as an individual. If these needs are recognized and one learns to understand and deal with them satisfactorily, they can greatly increase one's sensitivity and capabilities. If one tries to deny or supress them, frustrations and unhappiness often result, and one becomes ineffective in carrying out responsibilities, and the achievement of life goals becomes much more difficult. RESULTS OF UNFULFILLED NEEDS Many disturbing feelings can result when a need is not satisfied. A woman may feel such things as anger, resentment, depression, hopelessness, unhappiness, fear, nervousness, restlessness, or apathy. When she feels these things she either tries to suppress or deny them. If she is Lesson Department successful in suppressing them, they may find expression in such illnesses as we have already mentioned. If she cannot suppress them, they usually manifest themselves in behavior which is still unacceptable and upsetting to her. She may have problems with her friends, may nag at her husband or children, deal harshly with her children, or may do all sorts of things which make her feel guilty and lose respect for herself. Once she loses respect for herself, a woman truly becomes an instrument of misery to herself as well as to all of those around her. WHAT ARE WOMAN'S NEEDS? In a very practical way we can identify a few of the needs a woman has that require satisfaction to make her happy and to make her a productive individual. 1. A Woman Needs to Love and Be Loved. From birth to old age one needs to love and be loved. Throughout life, health and happiness will depend, to a large extent, on the ability to love and be loved. Only to give love or only to allow oneself to be loved, is not enough. One must do both. Life's situations change, requiring one to learn and relearn ways to fill this need for love under different conditions and _ stresses. For example, when a young couple is first married and there are only two, it is not difficult to find satisfaction of this need for love, but a common situation occurs when a couple is older and has several children. The man is actively engaged in trying to attain success in his occupation. In addition, he often has many civic 

791 October 1970

 and Church responsibilities which take him both physically and emotionally away from the home. This is also the time when a woman is engaged in all the complicated aspects of child rearing and homemaking. At this time of life, both husband and wife need much mutual love and understanding. Very often each gives a great deal of love and attention to the children but spends less time with each other; hence there is very little opportunity for them to communicate their feelings to one another. It is very easy under these circumstances for their need for love to go unfulfilled. Feelings of resentment, anxieties, and depression begin to appear. If the cause of these feelings is not realized, the couple will grow apart and the harmony of the home will be disrupted. By being aware of this situation and by having an understanding of how it can work insidiously to block one's needsatisfaction, one can find ways to deal with this problem or to prevent it from occurring. A woman can make sure that time is set aside periodically when she and her husband can be completely alone, away from the family, so that there is the opportunity of keeping the lines of communication open and they can better understand and support each other. After a couple is married, the need for a physical expression of love with one's companion may be realized. The expression of this God-given urge is necessary to fulfill God's plan of life. One should not be ashamed of admitting this need to oneself and should seek to find as satisfactory 792 and compatible a_ relationship with one's husband as possible. A woman is often afraid to discuss this part of her relationship with her husband. Since sexual compatibility can contribute a great deal to the happiness of a marriage, it is therefore very necessary for husband and wife to communicate their feelings to each other. If this is done, most problems that exist in this relationship may be worked out. If a woman Is not married, this need for love can be fulfilled very satisfactorily, even though a sexual expression of love is not morally possible. It can be fulfilled by sharing love with children, friends, and relatives, or by helping someone who is in need of loving service. The Relief Society, Primary, Sunday School, and YWMIA provide many opportunities for a woman to express love through service and participation in the Church programs. It becomes very apparent, in dealing with an unmarried woman who has tried to satisfy her need for affection in an immoral fashion, that this method only results in more anxiety, guilt, and frustration, and, in addition, it creates serious problems not only for herself but for her friends and relatives. Class Discussion Give some specific ways in which a widow or unmarried woman can fulfill her need to receive love and to give love. © 2. A Woman Has a Need to Feel That She Is Worthwhile to Herself and Others. It is important for a woman to discover her own talents and have an opportunity to develop them. Her individuality and her personal growth are of prime significance. If she does not seek to broaden her horizons by developing some interest of her own, both she and her family will suffer. By being alert, inquisitive, and interested in many things, she will add a new and exciting dimension to her life and the lives of all those with whom she associates.