[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 773 | General Feature | Notes From the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
he he Winked at Norm Relief Society Activities Since The Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue, stake Relief Society presidents and mission Relief Society supervisors are advised to make no further submissions of ''Notes From the Field,"' inasmuch as a sufficient number of Notes are already on hand for the remaining issues of the Magazine. Weber Heights Stake (Utah) Presents "Our Beautiful Lady in Blue,'' March 20, 1970 Seated, Anna Critchlow, widow of Elder William J. Critchlow. Standing on stage: Bob and Clarene Critchlow; Peggy and Bill Critchlow; twelve grandchildren. (Daughter Patricia Maughan was ill and unable to attend.) Standing at microphone: Ilene C. Jeppson, President, Weber Heights Stake Relief Society. Sister Jeppson reports: ''At our annual Relief Society Birthday Party we paid special honor to the sisters who serve Relief Society on the stake and ward basis, and to Anna T. Critchlow, our 'Special Lady in Blue.' "The stake board members and ward presidencies were dressed in blue satin skirts and white blouses. A copy of the book History of Relief Society was presented to Sister Critchlow. A short history of her life was presented and an original song written by Elizabeth Stewart, stake organist, was sung to her. "Her family and our stake presidency, high council, and bishoprics were our special guests. Over 500 enjoyed the wonderful meal Planned and prepared by the ten wards." PI October 1970 Winder Stake (Utah), Winder Ninth Ward Presents "The Time of Your Life," April 11, 1970 Louise W. Free, President, Winder Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Ninth Ward of our stake involved entire families in a program sponsored by Relief Society. The program was a musical variety show entitled 'The Time of Your Life.' It consisted of thirteen musical numbers depicting the humorous side of a woman's life. It was directed by Pat Johnson and written by Jerry McMillan. "The cast contained sixty-eight people and five accompanists. More than 350 attended the presentation. Renee P. Workman is Relief Society president in the Ninth Ward." —— Brazil South Mission Relief Society Holds Annual Conference, February 13-14, 1970 Sherma Jensen, Supervisor, Brazilian South Mission Relief Society, reports: "Our annual conference was themed 'My Cup Overflows With Blessings,' and was enjoyed by eight-five sisters. The conference was under the direction of the mission Relief Society presidency consisting of Teresinha Leal, Aracy Duarte, Doli Daeal Boyer, and Secretary Claude Bortolotto. "With much care, 4 program was presented with detailed instructions, orientations, and well-organized, informed speakers. Mission President Thomas F. Jensen presided over the conference." —— Swiss Mission, Adana Branch (Turkey) Presents "Spring in Turkey," April 15, 1970 Left to right: Faye Brady; Sharron Guthrie; Norma Pierce; Shauna Johnson, Secretary; Jean Anderson, First Counselor, Adana Branch Relief Society; Barbara Bethany, Second Counselor, Dean Feniello; Sherilyn Weaver, President. Melba Christensen, Supervisor, Swiss Mission Relief Society, reports: 'The Adana Branch held a luncheon inviting the sisters to bring a friend to acquaint her with the Relief Society program. The theme for the event was 'Spring in Turkey,' and the menu consisted of Turkish foods, and Turkish water vases and Dervish Dancers were used as decorations." 774 "ANGRESSO 

4 October 1970

 Tulsa Stake (Oklahoma) Relief Society Presents "Wonderful World of Women," May 16, 1970 Depicting the "Era of the Future," left to right: Maria McClure; Dawn Maria Hassell; Dianna Hassell; Linda Westcott; Sondra Hine. Virginia L. Jacobson, President, Tulsa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Each ward in our stake, and each branch, assumed the responsibility for preparing a number on the program representing the era of each of the nine sisters who have served as General President of Relief Society, and one ward prepared for the era of the future. "The program was written by Pat Hunt and Hannah Fanning, and narrated by Sister Fanning. It was a most wonderful and enjoyable program and informed the sisters about the work of Relief Society. Refreshments were served and homemaking displays were enjoyed by everyone." Sacramento Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present 'Kaleidoscope of Song," April 24, 1970 Standing in front row at extreme right of picture: Onita Davis, accompanist and Caroline J. Ewing, director of Sacramento Stake Singing Mothers. Annabelle G. Nosler, President, Sacramento Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Over 300 enjoyed our 'Kaleidoscope of Song' presented by our Singing Mothers. Following the concert, refreshments of homemade cookies and fruit punch were served. We are most appreciative of the efforts of the sisters in our stake." ee Sharon East Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present "Singing Through the Years," March 31, 1970 Left to right: Florence Rogers, chorister, Sharon East Stake Relief Society; Virginia Larson, organist; Mary Olson, First Counselor; Sarah Grow, President; Norma Gardner, SecretaryTreasurer. Sister Grow reports: "'In commemoration of the birthday of Relief Society, the Singing Mothers presented an hour of beautiful choral and instrumental music. The script for the occasion was written by Arta Ballif. "Following the program, refreshments were served from four banquet tables decorated in Relief Society colors. In the center of the room was a round table draped in blue satin upon which was placed a gold five-tier birthday cake made by Sister Cherrie Lyon. The Relief Society symbol was placed atop the cake. All seventeen wards participated."' 

776 October 1970

 Albuquerque Stake (New Mexico) Relief Society Presents ''Come Unto Me," May 22, 1970 First, tenth, and eleventh in front row from left: Maxine T. Seymour, President, Albuquerque Stake Relief Society; Georgia M. Jones, Homemaking Counselor, Marilyn D. Ellison, pianist. First and second in second row: R. Glen Humphries, narrator; Marilyn S. Humphries, chorister. Tenth in third row: Gylynn B. Hudiburg, Education Counselor. Seated at organ: Floyle P. Merrill, organist. Sister Seymour reports: ''The Singing Mothers of our stake presented 'Come Unto Me,' by Alberta H. Christensen. An enjoyable evening was spent by all who attended. Refreshments were served by stake board members."' os Cleveland Stake (Ohio) Pays Honor To Visiting Teachers, May 16, 1970 Front row, left to right: Gertrude Guynip; Pearl Huston; Velma Enkeman. Back row, left to right: Katherine Edwards; Doris Conley; Vivian Silliman; Irene Adams; Charlotte Beeler. Helen E. Noble, President, Cleveland Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'We honored our visiting teachers with a special luncheon and program which ninety-five sisters attended. Inspirational talks were given, and the Singing Mothers provided lovely music. "One sister from each ward was specially honored for outstanding service. Each I was presented with a folder of a color poloroid photograph of herself receiving the award. These sisters will treasure them always." ee Franco-Belgian Mission, Brussels-Liege District Presents "'Fancy-Fair," April 11, 1970 Sheila Ann Brown, Supervisor, Franco-Belgian Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The theme for the annual 'Fancy-Fair' held in the Brussels-Liége District was 'If All the People in the World Wished to Extend Their Hands in Friendship.' The six participating branches chose to represent Belgium, the United States, the Far East, Holland, Hungary, and Italy. "The entire evening was planned harmoniously around these countries with people dressed in colorful costumes, programs, foods, decorations, songs, and dances from the various countries. For one evening, at least, the guests knew the charm and delight of a world as it would be if all the people would extend their hands in friendship. "The picture is of the participants from the Verviers Branch who chose to represent Hungary and were taught songs and dances by a Hungarian couple." 

778 October 1970

 Rigby Stake (Idaho) Pre sent: onvention, April 18, ed for lon 8 service as Visi g teachers. Ame Smith, fifty-sj e Ellis; Mary Mart fifty years; M Ow, left to right: Ruth all who have Served fifty years. Ox, Preside t We Presenteg Our Outstanding Visiting I Chorus to Provide On effective Visiting 4 delightfy Presentations 780 Reading Assigy Cnapters 2 and 3: Northern Hemisphere: First Southern Hemi OBJECTiy; i t Meeting January 197] SPhere: First m eeting June 197] int woma eo th rderliness of God's " sphere of activity, Were crea ted. In the reation of Specific in vegetation [ absence of format; » things that are, Ings that amounts of things that are e ' In the earth, and upon ' the €arth, and In hea ven. (D&C ]: hd Materja] ©en used to SUCCessfy] ans bring Wers, Although this €Sson js about the creation, there e attempt to answer OW the earth w October 1970 with various theories concerning creation, he should remember that what is postulated by science today is not necessarily true, else why would the Lord say he is going to reveal the truth during the great millennium, yet future? Apparently, information about the specifics of creation was given to the saints in a former dispensation—at the time the brother of Jared was enlightened by the premortal Jesus Christ. (Eth. 3:20-28.) Moroni, writing at the end of the Nephite dispensation, said that things would be withheld from the people in the latter days until they repent of their iniquity. (Eth. 4:5-7.) The sealed portion of the Book of Mormon plates containing this information will not be revealed "until the own due time of the Lord." (2 Ne. 27:7-11.) Class Discussion Though one may want to know the scientific theories of creation for academic purposes, what position would a Latterday Saint take toward them? MAN STANDS IN AWE One need only look into the heavens on a clear night and see the multitudinous heavenly orbs to stand in awe at the wonder of all these creations. It is then that man may receive a sense of his own littleness. The Latterday Saint is reminded of the Lord's words to his' servant Joseph Smith in a modern revelation: And again, verily I say unto you, he hath given a law unto all things, by which they move in their times and their seasons; And their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets. 782 And they, give light to each other in their times and in their seasons, in their minutes, in their hours, in their days, in their weeks, in their months, in their years—all these are one year with God, but not with man. The earth rolls upon her wings, and the sun giveth his light by day, and the moon giveth her light by night, and the stars also give their light, as they roll upon their wings in their glory, in the midst of the power of God. Unto what shallI liken these kingdoms, that ye may understand? Behold, all these are kingdoms, and any man who hath seen any or the least of these hath seen God moving in his majesty and power. (D&C 88:42-47.) The vastness of the seen and the unseen heavenly bodies is a matter of constant wonderment. One astronomer suggests that on a clear night one may probably, without benefit of a telescope, see only about 3,000 stars. To imagine the total number of stars in the sky we must think of a huge library of at least half a million books, each like this. All the letters of type on all the pages of all the books of this library will be about equal in number to the stars in the sky. If we read at the - rate of a page every minute for eight hours a day, it will take us 700 years to read through this library. In the same way, if we count the stars at the rate of 1500 a minute—25 a second—it will take us 700 years to count them all. Our earth is a tiny appendage to one, and a rather inconspicuous one, of this vast multitude of stars. It is less—very much less—than the dot of an "i" in our library of half a million volumes; it ought rather to be compared to a microscopic speck of dust imprisoned between two pages. (Sir James Jeans, The Stars in Their Courses [New York: Macmillan Co.; Cambridge: University Press, 1931], p. 107. Reprinted by permission. ) Astronomers inform us that by great telescopes man is able to fathom only partially the tremendous formations of stars, dust, and gas, called nebulae, or galaxies, each being more or less similar to our own galaxy, which is one of the largest. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in calling attention to the fact that our galaxy, shaped like a wheel, is over 100,000 light years in diameter and is revolving about a group of stars that seem to be in the hub, reminded his hearers of the following verses from the Book of Abraham: And I saw the stars, that they were very great and that one of them was nearest unto the throne of God; and there were many great ones which were near unto it; And the Lord said unto me: These are the governing ones; and the name of the great one is Kolob, because it is near unto me, for I am the Lord thy God: I have set this one to govern all those which belong to the same order as that upon which thou standest. (Abr. 3:2-3.) (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "Who Was This Jesus?" Speeches of the Year 1951- 1959, pp. 4-5.) The Lord said to Moses that he had created "worlds without number": There are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power. And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man, but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them. (Moses 1:35.) In the great vision received by Abraham through the Urim and Thummim, hesaw God's creations "which were many; and they multiplied before mine eyes, and I could not see the end thereof." (Abr. 3:12.) JESUS CHRIST AS CREATOR One of the ways in which Jesus is the "Father" is by his being the Creator of worlds. (James E. Talmage, "The Father and The Son: A Doctrinal ExposiLesson Department tion by The First Presidency and the Twelve," Articles of Faith [Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1924], pp. 465-67.) To the Prophet Joseph Smith he said that he was the one who created the heavens and the earth. (D&C 14:9; 76:24.) He testified to the Nephites that he was the Creator of all things. (3 Ne. 9:15.) Unto Moses it was revealed that the Father "by the word of [his] power... Which is [his] Only Begotten Son," Jesus Christ (Moses 1:32), created worlds, and thus our Savior was the executive through whom the will of the Father was put into effect. These creative powers belong to the Gods, who, as the Prophet Joseph Smith said, constituted a council which planned and created the world and its inhabitants, information which was also revealed to Abraham. (Joseph Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1938], p. 349 [hereafter referred to as Teachings]; Abr. 5:1-3.) Included in this council were Adam and probably many others—as President Joseph Fielding Smith says, perhaps Enoch, Noah, and others of the prophets. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, comp. Bruce R. McConkie [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1954], vol. 1, pp. 74-75 [hereafter referred to as Smith, Doctrines of Salvation ].) Class Discussion Inasmuch as Jesus Christ was the Creator of worlds before he was born -on the earth, what understanding should a Latter-day Saint have regarding the miracles Christ performed during his mortal ministry? 

783 October 1970

 THE MEANING OF CREATE Abraham recorded that God said to those who were with him: "We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth." (Abr. 3:24.) The materials out of which the earth was made already existed, for they are eternal. (Teachings, p. 181.) In the words of Elder John A. Widtsoe: Further, Latter-day Saints believe that the Lord formed or organized the earth from existing universal materials. That it is impossible to create something from nothing is a spiritual as well as a scientific axiom. It is an _ established doctrine of the Church that the ultimate elements which constitute the universe are eternal, indestructible, everlasting. Whether these ultimate realities be, in the language of present-day science, molecules, atoms, electrons, or pure energy is of little concern. Whatever is the ultimate reality is eternal. Matter as we know it, and which forms the earth, is made from eternal elements. In that sense the formation of the earth was an organization rather than a creation (D&C 93:33; Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:38). (John A. Widtsoe, Evidences and Reconciliations [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1943], p. 140.) The Prophet Joseph Smith protested vigorously against those who, in his day, believed that the earth was created out of nothing, by using the Hebrew language of the Book of Genesis to teach that the word create means to organize. He taught that element was eternal and might be organized but not created. (Teachings, pp. 350-52; D&C 93: 33.) Class Discussion What value do you see in the concept that the earth was organized out of 784 already existing materials, which are eternal? STAGES OF CREATIVE ACTS The scriptures reveal that several stages of creative acts were involved in the formation of the earth and life as we now have them. First, the spirit creation; second, the planning by the Council of the Gods in preparation for the next creative act; third, the physical creation of living things, including the earth, and the temporal condition brought about by the fall of Adam and Eve. SPIRIT CREATION Basic to Latter-day Saint belief is the fact of premortality as studied last month. Briefly, God created animals, vegetation, and man before they were placed upon the earth. In the words of the First Presidency: "... Man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents... All men existed in the spirit before any man existed in the flesh." (The First Presidency of The Church, "The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, vol. 13 [November 1909], p. 80.) Concerning the earth and all living things, they also said: By His almighty power He organized the earth, and all that it contains, from spirit and element, which exist co-eternally with Himself. He formed every plant that grows, and every animal that breathes, each after its own kind, spiritually and temporally— "that which is spiritual being in the likeness of that which is temporal, and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual." [D&C 77:2.] He made the tadpole and the ape, the lion and the elephant; but He did not make them in His own image, nor endow them with Godlike reason and intelligence. Nevertheless, the whole animal creation will be perfected and perpetuated in the Hereafter, each class in its "distinct order or sphere," and will enjoy "eternal felicity." That fact has been made plain in this dispensation. (Doctrine and Covenants, 77:3). (Ibid., p. 81.) In a discussion of the creation, the Book of Moses and Abraham refer to this spirit creation. (Gen. 2:4-5; Moses 3:4-5; Abr. 3:18-22.) THE PLANNING OF THE PHYSICAL CREATION President Joseph Fielding Smith considers that the account in the Book of Abraham is the determination of the Council of Gods as to what shall be done before the actual building process. (Abr. 4:1-31; 5:1-21.) He refers to this account as "The Lord's Blueprint of Creation." (Smith, Doctrines of Salvation 1:74-75.) This planning council is indicated by such expressions as: "And the Gods said: Let us prepare "; "And the Gods organized them..."; "And the Gods saw that they would be obeyed, and that their plan was good"; "And the Gods concluded -.. On the seventh time they would rest." (Abr. 4:11, 12a, 21; 5:3.) PHYSICAL CREATION After the spiritual creation, the time came for the physical creation. President Joseph Fielding Smith has said:... The account of the creation of the earth as given in Genesis, and the Book of Moses, and as given in the temple, is the creation of the physical earth, and of physical animals and plants These physical creations were made out of the natural elements. (Smith, Doctrines of Salvation 1:75.) Lesson Department TEMPORAL CONDITION In the words of President Smith: -. » Now I repeat, the account in Genesis one and two [Moses 2 and 3], is the account of the physical creation of the earth and all upon it, but the creation was not subject to mortal law until after the fall. It was, therefore, a Spiritual creation and so remained until the fall when it became temporal, or mortal. (Ibid., 1:77; D&C 77:6.) As one reads the creation accounts in Genesis and Moses, he is aware that God is giving Moses the account of the physical —flesh and bones—creation. This expression is found: "and I, God, saw that all things which I had made were good." (Moses 2:18.)