[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 755 | General Feature | Hobby Features— Lettie Stoker and Gladys | K. Richins]
[Hobby Features— Lettie Stoker and Gladys K. Richins]

All who know her are warmed by her friendly spirit and sweet attitude. Her interest in genealogy has been transferred to other family members as she has compiled a book for each of her children to carry on. Lettie Stoker, Roy First Ward, Lake View Stake, Roy, Utah, has spent more than fifty years working on genealogy. She has traced ten lines, one as far back as seven generations. In addition to her genealogy work, she pays regular visits to the temple, bakes her own bread, which she shares with others, sews, and embroiders lovely sets of pillowcases. Her family of eleven children, fifty-four grandchildren, 171 great-grandchildren, and nine great-great-grandchildren have benefitted very much from her work. Her life has been an inspiration to all who know her. _ I, y SS — Part II Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society LOIS'S RICE WITH MUSHROOM ALMOND SAUCE 2 c. Cooked rice (keep hot) 1 c. Chicken stock or 2 chicken bouillon cubes 2 tbsp. Chopped onion dissolved in 1 cup hot water 2 tbsp. Butter Yc. Sliced mushrooms 2 tbsp. Flour 2 tbsp. Butter Y2 tsp. Salt ¥% c. Sliced, toasted almonds dash pepper Sauté onion in butter. Add flour, salt, and pepper and cook until brown. Add stock. Stir constantly. Cook until thickened. Sauté mushrooms in butter and add to sauce. Add almonds. Serve hot sauce over hot rice. Ea NORMA'S SPINACH CASSEROLE 1 10-0z. Pkg. Frozen spinach, ¥ac. Milk cooked and drained. 2 tbsp. Chopped onion 1 c. Cooked rice Y% tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 c. Shredded sharp cheese 1 tsp. Salt 2 slightly beaten eggs Y tsp. Rosemary, crushed 1 tbsp. Butter Mix all ingredients together and bake at 350 degrees for 20 to 25 minutes. Do not brown. All ingredients except milk and eggs may be prepared in advance and refrigerated until time to bake. ETHEL'S MACARONI MOUSSE 1 c. Elbow macaroni 1 c. Dry bread crumbs 1 green pepper 1 c. Grated nippy cheese.1 small can pimiento 1 c. Hot milk 1 large onion Ya c. Butter or substitute 3 eggs separated Cook macaroni until tender, drain, and grind with medium blade along with green pepper, pimento, and onion. Combine with crumbs and cheese. Add hot milk, melted butter, and slightly beaten egg yolks. Beat egg whites stiff and fold into macaroni mixture. Bake in large greased dripper pan or 3-quart casserole at 350° for 45 minutes. Cut in squares and serve with mushroom sauce. Serves 8 to 10. Sauce: 4 tbsp. Butter or substitute 2 cans cream of mushroom soup 2 tbsp. Flour 1 4-0z. Can button mushrooms, drained % c. Milk 1 tsp. Lemon juice Melt butter and blend in flour. Remove from heat and stir in milk until smooth. Return to heat and cook, stirring constantly until thick and smooth. In separate bowl stir mushroom soup thoroughly with wooden spoon and add to white sauce. Blend, Add mushrooms and heat thoroughly.