[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 787 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message— Appreciation of Excellence | ]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) ' Message 4—Appreciation of Excellence Northern Hemisphere: First week, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First week, June 1971 OBJECTIVE: To kindle anew our pursuit and appreciation of excellence. God created a universe of surpassing beauty. Man is heir to its exquisite sounds, its goldstreaked sunsets, and refreshing dawns, to the awe of thunderstorms and hurricanes at sea, to the scent of flowers, of newmown hay, and of wet earth after rain, to the touch of cool water, the petal of a flower, and grass damp with dew. Each day, regardless of season or latitude, has its special beauty. This may be of the mind or the senses. "The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork." (Ps. 19:1.) The scriptures tell of the thought and careful workmanship that were lavished on the earth at its creation. Does God expect less effort on our part in what we do? With the words, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect," (Matt. 5:48) the Christ set the goal for us all. God, our Father, is to be our 

787 October 1970

 example, the one we seek to emulate. To us mortals, limited, bound to earth in spite of moon voyages, subject to physical, mental, emotional, and_ spiritual ills, perfection seems an impossible dream. The Lord in our time teaches us the way, "for he will give unto the faithful line upon line, precept upon precept." (D&C 98:12.) The gradual process of learning to live perfectly, however, should not divert us from the goal expected of all saints. We are to seek only the best—the best in books, the great in music, the praiseworthy in art, and the best way of life, one of compassion, love, tolerance, empathy, and loving service to both friends and enemies. Part of the way to perfection is the seeking of excellence. Paul understood this when he said, "the God of peace shall be with you" (Phil. 4:9) if you seek and do "whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things." (Phil. 4:8.) Our world often settles for the mediocre or worse. Why? Is it because excellence is difficult to attain, or that we anticipate possible failure, or that we are overwhelmed with our ignorance and our lack of knowledge, understanding, and ability? Years ago in a small town a group of great musicians gathered together to give free concerts. This they did out of their love of great music and the town. Here was surely something that was of good report and praiseworthy. _Every week no more than three hundred and fifty out of the community of thirty-five thousand turned out. How are we helping our children and ourselves to avoid the unfortunate choice that most of that community made? How are we helping them to recognize excellence and seek it from their childhood on? How do we help them to choose only the best movies, music, books, and that which is honest, just, pure, lovely, virtuous, and worthy of praise? Paul]'s advice and the Lord's, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Matt. 5:48), should give us fresh courage and strength to seek only excellence.