[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 732 | Special Feature | Relief Society | Song Contest]
Name of Contest; The contest is known as THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG CONTEST. Dates This year's contest (1970-71) opens with this announcement and closes March 1, 1971. All entries must be postmarked before midnight, March 1, 1971. Prizes Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize: $100 Second prize: $ 75 If two individuals collaborate on the words and the music, the prize will be awarded as follows: Sixty percent to the composer and forty percent to the author. If the services of an arranger are used, the composer may wish to give credit to her by listing the name. The division of any money award with the arranger will be left to the option of the composer. Decision of the judges will be final. Winners will be notified by the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to withhold the awarding of prizes if no compositions of sufficient merit are submitted. Rules 1. The contest will be open to all Latter-day Saint women, except members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Each contestant may submit one composition only. Duplicate copies of all submissions should be retained by the contestants to insure against loss. 3. Thecomposition is to be submitted in a sealed envelope. No explanatory or pictorial supplementary material should accompany the composition and the sheet(s) upon which the song is written should have no identifying marks upon it (them). Address to: SONG CONTEST Relief Society Building 76 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 732 Relief Society Song Contest 4. It will not be possible for the General Board to correspond with the contestants regarding individual works. 5. No nom de plumes are to be used. 6. A signed statement is to accompany the ''work'' certifying: a. Thecomposer is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The composition is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or another person with view to publication. E. That it will not be submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 7. Contestants should submit a bibliography of 150 words or less, giving essential data regarding themselves and citizenship (for copyright purposes). 8. The music should be unpublished. The Relief Society reserves the right to publish the same and assign the copyright to a publisher on a royalty basis. The royalty will be divided on a fifty-fifty basis between the composer and the Relief Society for two years after publication. Thereafter, the Relief Society will waive its royalty and the fifty percent royalty shall accrue to the composer. Such royalty shall be ten percent of the marked selling price. If an author or arranger or both collaborate with a composer a division of the royalties should be made agreeable to them. 9. The songs most preferred will express spiritual values. The texts need not be original but must not be subject to copyright. Texts most preferred will sing with natural-flow with a comfortable placement of vowels for ease of delivery. Tricky effects should be avoided. 10. Manuscripts should be written in ink. Manuscript paper may vary to suit the composer. Generally the size preferred is octavo or 9'' by 12". 11. Music is to be submitted in clearly written manuscript, in SSA (first soprano, second soprano, and alto) setting. Occasional two or four parts may be used for special effects, as may unison. The accompaniment should be suitable for piano or organ. Each of three parts should be written on separate staves as is generally the case in octavo publication. The writing style and complexity should approximate the type of selections that have been sung by the Singing Mothers at Relief Society General Conferences. Highly contrapuntal and dissonant musical settings are generally too difficult and, except for special effects and contrast, should be avoided. Eloquent phrasing will be considered highly desirable. 12. The recommended performance length is approximately three to five minutes. I 13. The winning works will be published and programmed for performance by Singing Mothers choruses. 14. The winning of one Relief Society contest in no way prohibits the contestant from entering and winning another contest in another year, but a contestant who has received first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again. Judges Manuscripts will be reviewed by a competent team of judges composed as follows: A representative of the publishing business, a member of the Relief Society General Board Music Committee, two competant directors of choruses, and a recognized composer. Aos 733 K LH arta G oes Vil¢8 iting Hazel K. Todd w How Elberta came to stay with us was because Mother fell in the dog-trap hole Jimmy and I had made in the back yard to catch Horace, Bachelor Brewster's old lame dog that was always sniffing around. Jimmy was eight, two years younger than I, but he could think up things as good as I could. We had dug a big hole behind the currant bushes where Horace liked to lie and sleep and covered it with sticks and weeds. Since Horace was blind in one eye, we were sure he would fall in. Dad didn't like us to tease Horace because Mr. Brewster's was one of the places he went 734 home teaching to, and he had been trying ever since we could remember to get him active in the Church. Dad said he grew up with Lorenzo and that Lorenzo used to go to Church all the time. But now he wouldn't. Mother said he was disappointed in love because his sweetheart up and married the bishop's son, and we should be real kind to Mr. Brewster because he had come to be lonely inside and didn't want any friends. But it was easy to forget about Mother and Dad when we saw Horace limping around and sticking his nose into things when we had grudges. For one thing Mr. Brewster wouldn't let us make sand towns in the gulch that ran through his farm. He smashed our houses and everything to Ww Orace because he didn' lattering In the hole j n fit to kill, Instead of Mother. "Let's Sit here and nt home throw crabapples When he Comes along," me back With immy Said. Sober face, H Was then Mother Went ut we knew for sure On, jit Wasn't Hora, Brewster doesn't have any d he Isn't y October 1970 curling around her face. "Now, suppose you get down out of that tree and say what you mean throwing apples at me when I've done nothing to you. That's no way to do unto others as you would have them do unto you." So Jimmy climbed down out of the tree and stood there looking sheepish. "We thought you was a dog!" Jimmy blurted out in self-defense. Her mouth flew open, and her arms went down by her sides. "A dog? Well, that's a new one." And then she added like she was stating a problem in arithmetic or something, "I always knew I was no raving beauty, but I wasn't aware I resembled a dog." "Horace," I hurried to explain, "Bachelor Brewster's old lame dog. We thought it was him coming around the barn." "Well," she said, thinking it over and picking up her suitcase, "there's nothing so bad but what some good comes of it. I guess I saved Horace a good pelting." And she started to the house. Then she turned and looked us over with kind of little goodnatured crinkles around her eyes. "IT suppose you belong here?" she asked. We nodded our heads without saying anything. "Well, I came to take care of things for awhile," she said. "I understand your mother has a broken arm." I was afraid Jimmy would blurt out something about the dog trap, so I nudged him to keep still. But she just went on like she wasn't mad at us for throwing apples at her. "Just please don't throw anything more unless I bark so you know I'm a dog." 736 And then she went on up to the house. We got along fine with Elberta. She could even make good cookies and stuff, and she loved baby Janie. Mother said she was heaven sent, and it was the first time she'd had a rest since I was born. Dad said maybe it was a good thing she broke her arm. Then we caught' Elberta looking into the trap hole one day. Dad had made us fill it up, but old Horace had been digging in it because it was loose, and he had nearly cleaned it out. And we kept hoping there would be some sticks fall over the top, and he would still fall in head first. "What's this?" Elberta asked. "It's dangerous under this bush where you can't see it." So Jimmy up and told her all about the dog-trap hole and Mr. Brewster and everything because we were such good friends. "If this is the Brewster family I think it is, and I aim to find out," Elberta said when Jimmy had finished, 'Lorenzo Brewster's grandfather and my grandfather pushed handcarts across. The plains together. He has no business pushing the Church out of his life." "But Dad keeps trying to get him to come to Church," I said. Elberta looked at one of us and then the other so close we started to squirm. "Seems to me you boys ought to be working with your father instead of against him. Don't you know that love is a better weapon than hate?" So Elberta asked Mother if it was all right if she made a pie for Mr. Brewster. Of course Mother smiled happily and said anything she could do to help out with him was all right with her. A. U Dad who had stopped a minute to play with Janie having crackers and milk in her high chair, said he thought Elberta had a good idea. The first thing we knew Jimmy and I were going down the lane with a big smiling apple pie to give to Lorenzo. And we were supposed to tell him we were sorry for all the times we had teased Horace and beg his forgiveness for calling him names like Rooster. "It wouldn't be so bad," I said, "Sf we hadn't made the picture of the rooster on the can we tied on Horace. I don't think he'll forgive that." When we got nearly to his house, Jimmy stopped. "What if he grabs the pie and tells us to get out?" "Yeah," I said. "It sure would make me mad if he took the pie and didn't forgive us." "Let's hide the pie," Jimmy said, "until we see if he'll forgive us first." So we set the pie behind a rabbit bush. I told Jimmy he'd better do the knocking because he was the littlest, and Lorenzo wouldn't be so apt to pick on him. "But I'm the one that called him Rooster first," Jimmy said. So I had to knock. Mr. Brewster opened the door and looked at us. ""What you been up to this time?" he demanded. "Go on home!" And he shut the door in our faces. "Let's go eat the pie," Jimmy said. But when we got to the rabbit bush, Horace was just slurping up the last luscious morsel. That did it!