[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 754 | General Feature | A Walk in the Woods Lillian | L. Woolley]
Lillian Livingston Woolley I held his small hand in mine as we walked through the woods, just the two of us. It was going on toward evening and the cooling air carried a lovely, woodsy fragrance. The sun had almost given up its striving to send shafts of light through the upthrust branches of the tall pines. Except for an occasional bird call, it was quiet, a kind of intense quiet that caused us to cease our chatter and to walk softly. Suddenly his hand tightened in mine. I looked down to see his eyes, wide with excitement and a little fear. His other hand pointed as he came to an abrupt stop. My eyes followed the line of direction indicated and came to rest upon a clump of thick underbrush. And then I saw it, a small, furry head with large, velvety eyes and large pointed ears laid flat, was showing just above the grasses. Through the bushes we could see a little of the light brown body covered with small white spots. The tiny fawn remained motionless with only his eyes showing a sparkle of interest, curiosity, or perhaps it was fear; we could not tell. I smiled down reassuringly as we stood as motionless as the baby deer. There was a faint, rustling sound nearby. I saw the eyes of the tiny animal shift and felt the slight motion of the small body next to me as we all glanced to identify the sound. Very near on a small rise of ground, stood what I knew was the mother deer. Then several things happened almost at once. The doe made a stamping sound with her front hoofs and the baby's ears rose immediately to attention and, with an abrupt spring, the fawn was at his mother's side. They stood together looking at us, the mother's concern for the safety of her young evident in the trembling of her taut body and the watchfulness of her eyes. For a space of time we stood there, she with her son, I with mine. Then, with a rustle and a crackling of branches, they were gone. We didn't speak, my small son and I. We simply smiled as we continued our walk through the woods.