[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 758 | General Feature | A Lesson Learned Cora H. Arnold | Lesson Department]
[A Lesson Learned Cora H. Arnold Lesson Department]

Roberts 757 SOL TCOmMmon Verda F. Welch I have seen the tamarisk bush in a field, unimpressive and unneeded, uprooted because it grew in the way of the plow. I have seen it cut into stove lengths to give quick heat to cook a meal and bake loaves of fragrant bread. In the summer I have seen it show its gratitude for deep draughts of water by bursting forth into a mass of beautiful, feathery pinkness. Even between blossomings, its dainty branches may be used as a filler for bouquets, its soft gray-green harmonizing with any color decor. It could be called a poor man's fern. On a crisp morning, especially after a fog-enshrouded night, I have seen the tamarisk adorned in king winter's richest mantle of silver and crystal, its boughs needled to catch and hold the frost, slender and supple to arch gracefully with the treasured weight. This beauty is mine outside my window. A Cora Hill Arnold "Mama, please lie by me a little while." He was three and ready for his afternoon nap. I decided the housework could wait a few minutes more. He snuggled up to me at first and then rolled a little away to get more comfortable. I reached over and took his soft, little hand in mine, and as I thought of how much I loved him, I held it more tightly. He immediately tugged to ge his hand loose. The tighter I held it, the harder he pulled. So I opened my hanc and he snatched his away. I left mine open close to him and soon I felt him carefully place his in mine again. This time I closed my hand very gently, so he could remove his any time he so desired. But he left it there until by his quiet breathing I knew he had fallen asleep. This day I have learned a lesson, I said to myself. I must not hold too tightly as my children grow towards adulthood. If I do, they will always be trying to get away and I will lose them. But if I hold just enough so they know I love them and am always there to listen when they need to talk, if I just let them know I trust them when they do leave—then it may be they will always return. Oy ae CH HOPE Snow, deep snow everywhere, But high on a limb, a robin's there.