Emily Young Clawson A PIONEER FAVORITE OF THE STAGE Lula Greene Richards  In the early days of the Salt Lake theatre, to the masses of people who frequented that famous place of amusement, it was a source of delight to find in the cast of characters the pleasing name of "Miss Emily Young." Even if that engaging young lady appeared only as a serving maid, with little or nothing to say, her graceful form and beautiful face were so good to look at that happy inspirational thoughts were awakened by simply beholding her.. Emily was not in any sense or at any time a great talker. In fact one remembered stage speech of hers (in a certain role where the unpretentious sentiment expressed was singularly appropriate) was considered so remarkably characteristic of the girl's truly modest and retiring nature that it could not easily be forgotten. That line was the old familiar quotation?'Speech is silver, but silence is gold." The quality of reticence which Emily inherited 'was from her excellent mother Emily Partridge Young. It is too well: known to need demonstration here that her father could talk. Emily Young played in the Salt Lake theatre when Julia Dean Haine was starring here, and was a great favorite with that renowned actress. Asenath Adams, the mother of Maud, was a stage companion and great admirer of the beautiful Emily. President Brigham Young, in various ways gave evidence of his ap- -preciation of and commendable pride in the gifts and accomplishments of this his almost faultless daughter.. That Bishop Hyrum B. Clawson, a man of sterling qualities, 'who was for many years stage manager of the Salt Lake Theatre, courted and won Emily Young for his wife, was not at all sur-. Prizing. They were married in the old Endowment House, January 4, 1868, and became the happy parents of ten children, four "sons and six daughters. This: pioneer theatrical performer was not only blest with  ability, and the fine appearance which enabled her to personate the ideal lady to perfection, but it was her nature to live the truly noble life of a conscientious, faithful woman as daughter, sister, wife, mother, grandmother, mother-in-law and friend. Perhaps "this phase of her character could not be better illustrated than by the introduction of sentiments expressed in a recent letter by one of her missionary grandsons, Stewart Clawson Campbell, away in ' EMILY YOUNG CLAWSON 359 far off Dresden, Germany. The young man's letter was written just after news had reached him of his grandmother's death, and it is through the courtesy of his mother that we publish a few sentences from the letter. "I feel grandmother's loss deeply, and am very sad to know that her work on this side is finished, and that she has passed on to the great beyond. She has always meant a great deal to me, was an inspiration to me in my childhood, and a help to me in my MRS. EMILY YOUNG CLAWSON youth. Many happy hours I have spent at her home with my cousins?she always had something in the kitchen for us to eat, always greeted us with a smile in her own congenial, helpful way. Then, when I was a little older, what happy visits I had with her. And last of all when I said good-bye to her just before leaving for my mission?her tender kiss and wise words! I have always been proud of my grandmother, and have held her up to my friends as an example. We may forget her exact words, but the influence of her life we can never get away from. All 
 the beautiful qualities, the parts of character that go together and make up and round out the person into the angel and God one is to become, were not just a Sunday dress with grandmother, but were born with her and strengthened and developed by right living in service to her fellows and God. And although she lives no longer in the flesh, she still lives in her influence and in her children and grandchildren. That is why I am proud of my grandmother." Strict obedience and due respect and reverence for legitimate authority were prominent among the high principles Emily held to in the training of her children and herself. See served faithfully as a visiting Relief Society teacher in her ward. After the dedication of the Salt Lake temple much of Sister Clawson's time was there devoted to the redemption of the dead. She was a real Latter-day Saint. During two or three years just previous to her death she passed through much physical suffering, but with it all her calm endurance, sweet patience and angelic resignation and cheerfulness made it a comfort instead of a trial to her loved ones to be near her. Emily Young Clawson was born in Salt Lake City in "the log row" on the property where the Church Office building now stands. She lived to the good age of seventy-seven years, her birth occurring March 1, 1849, and her death March 19, 1926. "A long and bright career on earth, almost 'devoid of strife? Her exit, but a joyous passing into higher life." i We St '