Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman ProGRAM FOR AUXILIARY GRQUP CONVENTIONS FoR 1926 (To be held in connection with the regular quarterly conferences) DATES July 24-25?Curlew, Lethbridge, Lost River. July 27-28?Alberta. July 31-August 1?Taylor, Twin Falls. August 7-8?Big Horn, Blaine, Wayne, Teton. August 14-15?Bannock, Blackfoot, Idaho Falls, Oneida. August 21-22?Bear River, Idaho, Kanab, Portneuf, So. Sanpete. August 28-29?Bear Lake, Garfield, Gunnison, Millard, Panguitch. September 11-12?Boise, Juab, Minidoka, Montpelier, Parowan, Raft River, No. Sanpete, San Juan. September 15-16?Young. September 18-19?Duchesne, Roosevelt, San Luis, Star Valley, Union, St. George. September 25-26?Carbon, Deseret, Fremont, Hyrum, Morgan, - Sevier, Uintah. October 16-17?Benson, Cassia, No. Sevier, Shelley, Tintit,; Woodruff, Yellowstone. October 23-24?So. Sevier, Summit, Snowflake. October 30-31?Beaver, Emery, Malad, St. Johns. November 6-7?Burley, Maricopa. November 13-14?Juarez. November 20-21?Pocatello, Rigby, St. Joseph, "Moapa. November 27-28?Franklin, Wasatch, Los Angeles. Conventions separate from the quarterly conferences are to be held in the following stakes, the dates to be given later in a separate program: (Alpine, Box Elder, Cache, Cottonwood, Ensign, Granite, Grant, Jordan, Kolob, Liberty, Logan, Mt: Ogden, Nebo, North Davis, North Weber, Ogden, Oquirrh, Palmyra, Pioneer, Salt Lake, South Davis, Tooele, Utah, Weber. SCHEDULE OF RELIEF Society MEETINGS AND GENERAL SESSIONS AND PROGRAM OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS Saturday, 10:00 to 11:30 a. M.,?General Session. Saturday, 11:30 a. M. To 12:30 p. M Executive Officers Meeting. (Interview with General Board member and Relief Society stake presidency and secretary-treasurer. ) 1. Questionnaire. 2. Round Table Discussion, 
 Saturday, 2:00 to 4:00 p. M.?Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers' Meeting. (Held simultaneously with general session of conference. All stake and. Ward officers should be in attendance, also visiting teachers and class leaders. High Councilman representative and all bishops are especially invited. If any of the brethren of the stake are county commissioners, we would be pleased to have them invited to this meeting. ) 1. Report of Stake Conditions (15 minutes) Relief Society Stake President 2. Social Problems (60 minutes)... General Board Member 3. Teacher-Training (10 minutes).... Stake Board Member 4. Address, "Application of the Ten Commandments to Daily Life" (25 minutes)...... General Board Member Saturday, 8:40 to 10:30 p. M.?Entertainment for the entire stake membership, under the direction of the M. I. A. Sunday, 10:00 a.m. To 12 Noon?Relief Society Stake Board. Meeting. (Held "simultaneously with general session devoted to the work of the Sunday School.) This meeting will be for stake board members only. 1. Accomplishments of Work and Business Meeting (15 minutes)...........". Stake Board Member 2. Miscellaneous Problems (30 minutes)............. - Bee eae.. General Board Member 3. Questionnaire (35 minutes).... General Board Mernber 4. Conversation of Time and Energy Within and Without the Home (30 minutes)..... General Board Member ' Sunday, 2:00 to 4:00 p.m.?General Conference Session. Sunday, 7:30 to 9:00 p.m. General Meeting Under Direction - of M. I. A. Wasatch Stake SUMMER PROGRAM Programs for two meetings each month?the second and fourth Tuesdays in July and August. Second Tuesday in July, under direction of ward presidency ?Business meeting with teachers' reports, testimony bearing. Fourth Tuesday in July, under direction of the three class leaders?A comedy in one act "Sewing for the Heathens," old folks and homebound special SUREES) district teachers serve light: refreshments. Second Tuesday in August?business with teachers' reports; program under direction of choristers and organists; songs selected from Relief Society Song Book, including quartette, trio NOTES FROM THE FIELD 385 and choruses by Relief Society members; violin solo and piano selection, from best talent in ward. Fourth Tuesday in August?A committee to be appointed by president to plan entertainment for Mutual: officers and girls and Relief Society members; songs by Relief Society members from M. I. A. Song Book; games and refreshments. Annual Stake Day, held at Sukes' Hot Pots, August 17? ward officers and members to provide transportation and luncheon; each ward to display Relief Society colors; the stake and each ward to provide a prize. The day' s activities consisted of trios, quartettes from wards, luncheon, bathing, dancing, prizes for each ward entering a quartette, prizes for oldest lady present, for person who has belonged to Relief Society longest, for ward with most officers present, for ward with most members present, for ward which had spent most days in temple work from January 1 to August 1, prize for ward which had the highest average attendance from January 1 to August 1, prize for ward which has the most members who. Had beautified home surroundings by planting flowers, or shrubs, or viness or trees. Four hundred fifty people attended the stake outing and six bishoprics were represented. The Ugly Duckling Brooks Kairn Truly an ugly duckling grown Into a rich plumed swan are you Royal Beehive state Once drab?now marked in brilliant hue On Nature's slate. 'Twas scarce an idle prophecy That sturdy pioneer chieftain made Through vision's glow To his staunch, humble cavalcade Long years ago. For one by one those ancient dreams Unfold in truth, sustain the words "This is the place;" Choice now this land the mountain girds, By heaven's grace. Lo! Here a wondrous garden lives Where vicious wilderness once lay, Who then may prate That Utah's star sheds lesser ray In forty-eight?