IN EDITORIAL The Sesqui-Centennial Fifty years ago an exhibition was held in the city of Philadelphia, commemorating the centennial of the Declaration of Independence. Philadelphia is the home of Independence Hall and of the Betsy Ross cottage where the first U. S. Flag was made. It is today the seat of an exposition celebrating the 150th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. Since the Centennial Exhibition great, even marvelous changes have taken place in the United States. The union has solidified; it has overcome in surprising manner, many, if not all, of the effects of the Civil War. It has entered on a period of material progress that staggers the imagination. '"The United States is the wealthiest nation the world has ever seen," says Dr. Snedden of Columbia University. The exposition at Philadelphia will include a very different 
 exhibit to that which was made fifty years ago. Through a beneficent Providence and superb effort on the part of persons gifted in scientific lines, many notable contributions have been made to life, and fortunately for women, these contributions are conspicuous in that part of life we designate as "home life."" Whatever knowledge was possessed in 1876 in relation to electricity, the home had not benefitted greatly by that knowledge. Since that time lighting by electricity has become common in the home, as has the telephone, and the use of electricity for cooking, washing and ironing. All the industries have benefitted through the practical application of electricity;-and even the field of medicine has been invaded. Great personalities in any line of endeavor contribute to the advancement of life. In the fifty years that we have just lived we have had great leaders in the political field, such as Theodore Roosevelt, and Woodrow Wilson. To think of invention is to bring to mind the name of Thomas Edison, responsible for much of our efficient lighting, and for the fact that our homes can be flooded with the best music by the best artists of the world. Henry Ford, a captain of industry, who has taught and is yet teaching the world what can be done in the way of industrial cooperation, has been able, while serving the world with the product of his manufacturing establishment, to pay a respectable living wage. There have been great teachers, great preachers, great writers and great artists in the United States in the past, which | is immediately behind us, yet there is much to do in the spiritual realm in this great nation of ours. Much as there is to rejoice over in reviewing the fifty years that are now passing into history, there are some things that are a source of the deepest humiliation to us, and need our greatest care to correct. For instance, Agnes Repplier has said in recent article in the Atlantic Monthly?'To lead the world in crime should be a source of legitimate humiliation. President Coolidge called the attention of the State Governors last January to the fact that twenty-four thousand persons had met their deaths by highway fatalities within twelve months. He said it was too many for one country in one year, and he was right. Yet twentyfour thousands deaths by accidents?some of which were unavoidable?are less appalling than eleven thousand deaths by violence in the same length of time. * * * In 1923, Scotland, with a population of five millions, had only eleven murders, while Massachusetts with a population of four millions, could boast of one hundred and seven.' The unsightly places in the United States are daily becoming more beautiful. There is evidence of civic pride in most of the cities of our land. Flowers and trees are abundant in many parts. EDITORIAL 357 As we seek to turn this land of ours into a veritable paradise, we must efface the ugly spots that mar the moral and the spiritual, even as we blot out through persistent labor, the unattractive places in our path. Mrs. Margaret Stalle Barker, a Pioneer from the Italian Alps We are particularly grateful to present in this issue an exceptionally interesting account of pioneer experience in reaching the valleys of the mountains, and in building the great West. Few stories, we feel, can be more truly touching, instructive and faith-promoting than the story of Maragret Stalle Barker, a little tot of five years, who remembers the incidents of the journey in a most extraordinary manner. Her story is altogether unique, and her background most unusual. Even today it takes a long while to penetrate the fastness of the Italian mountains, so that the wonder grows that under any circumstances these people should have been sought out by "Mormon" elders at so early a date as 1850. That they were worthy of the visits they received, no one will doubt, for they, with their ancestors, had protested against the tenets of Roman Catholicism and the over-lordship of the Pope at a time when to resist his power meant certain suffering and often death. The courage of these people commands our intense admiration, for to add to the travail of centuries they began a long weary march across the plains. Nor was their privation and physical suffering their only trouble. The fact that they could not communicate with the people with whom they were surrounded brought its hardship, while the death of their father on the plains must have filled their cup of sadness to overflowing. No wonder the father was led to prophetic utterance before his death, and no wonder the Lord has seen fit to bless the posterity of this union so that they stand before Zion today prominent in the Church and particularly prominent in the field of education. We cannot help feeling that it would have softened the hours of greatest inconvenience resulting from a difference in' language, could they have known that among their posterity would be one who is making a linguistic contribution to the Church as well as to the Nation. One who is eager to have others appreciate the language that served those men of might and women of power who struggled for their religious ideals far away in the tops of the Italian Alps..