How to Teach Dean L. John Nuttall, Brigham Young University
I am not here to talk to you about just how to teach but about how to teach adults. We have not studied this question as much as we should. We have not paid nearly as much attention to it as we have paid to the study of how we ought best teach younger folk and little children. There is a reason why we have neglected learning more about teaching adults. Older people are more polite than children. If children go to Sunday School and are bored with a poorly taught lesson, the mothers have trouble getting them to go back, and they are not modest about saying why they do not want to go. If a group of girls about fifteen years of age are poorly taught, they giggle, and the teacher knows that something is wrong. She studies how to avoid these giggles which are impolite but which at times really do show good judgment. When we find the young men in the Church would prefer to go down town rather than to go to meeting; when we find them staying away from Priesthood classes, the bishop wonders what is the matter with the boys. The boys insist they are all right but do not like their class work. Then we study the problem of how to teach the boys. But the older folks are so thoroughly loyal, so imbued with the idea that going to Church is at least in part a duty which they owe to the Church, that they will permit themselves to be poorly taught without protesting, so we have not studied the problem of teaching them. In this discussion we can talk this problem over and make some suggestions which may be helpful if not final. First consider the responsibility of teaching these older people. When we realize that in a Relief Society meeting we ask from twenty to fifty mothers to leave their homes for two hours and then return home and find the housework still to be done by extra exertion, we realize that it is our first obligation to have a message for them which will make their souls bigger and their lives happier when they are through, so that our problem is so to teach them that They will enjoy being present. Second, consider the aims in teaching parents in Church. When we think of mothers and fathers, we think of them as parents. A parent is one who cares for children, but in addition is a human being, full of joy, full of ability, full of willingness to do and deserving of being considered as an end in the teaching work. An illustration will make this distinction clear. I am talking to a mother, and I have half an hour to spend HOW TO TEACH 377 with her. I take my subject from the field of literature. I can do one of two things. I can say, "You are a mother and have children at home, and you are going to have to teach the children some day, so probably I would better give you something for the children." I fill her up like a basket with children's literature which she takes home and distributes to the children. She thus becomes a means to the end that my teaching is meant to achieve. Or I can talk to that mother and I can say, "You are a human being, you love pleasure, you love to enjoy life, you have imagination which, if permitted to work, will bring you as much real pleasure as it would to anybody else in this community, so what I am going to do for you today is to give you a story which you will enjoy, because it fits into your life, but when you get through you will feel that you have lived your own life as an end, not as a means to an end somewhere else." Mothers and fathers whose lives are thus enriched will be parents and will be happier ones. We have three distinct aims in teaching parents, each one calling for a different type of methods. First, we teach lessons in which the members of our classes are given material which they in turn will teach to others as a series of stories or games. Second, we have lessons that are taught to be applied in some of the more practical fields of work; for example, community health work. The third aim is a distinct information and appreciation aim. When asked why they should study the baptism of Jesus, the first three or four speakers in a parents' class said it would not do them any good. They inferred that they had already studied it, that it sounded like an old familiar subject, that they knew all about the baptism of Jesus. A second group of speakers thought that it would be all right to study it because sometimes we might have to teach it to our children. As a third group a sister got up and said, "I would like to know just the facts of the case." The teacher began to ask questions about the place where Jesus was baptized, who were there, how John the Baptist was dressed, etc. There was evidenced much doubt. The class then read the accounts of the baptism of Jesus as they are recorded in each of the four gospels; discussed them; and learned accurate facts. It is merely an illustration of the joy that can come to a group of adults learning some new facts?not new in the sense that they are recently discovered, but facts that they haven't known. They have known about them, but they have never known them, in detail. The appreciation element of the aim is achieved when the members of the class at the end of the lesson say, "That was a good time; I just thoroughly loved it, and whenever I get time I am going to study some more of that." When the class mem- 
 bers say, "I guess that was a beautiful subject, but for the life of me I couldn't stay awake," then they are not appreciating. When the class members say, "That was very entertaining, I quite liked it, but for the world, now, I don't know what it was about," they are getting enjoyment but not learning. The information and appreciation aim is a lesson so designed that during its process every member of the class is having a good time, being entertained, really getting pleasure out of the moments in the class, and then when it is all over, say it is worthwhile, that it brought so much joy, pleasure, entertainment, that at the first real opportunity they will have more of it. The three aims are: the applied aim, the information aim, the appreciation aim. It is this last point that we oftentimes think the members of our adult classes don't need. One of our fine writers has said: "The best characters in literature will influence them (speaking of older people): their daily labor will be dignified, new joy will come into their lives from this association with science, literature and art; and they will find that true happiness does not come from wealth but from sympathy with the best things in art and with the love of nature." Bigger things will come into our lives if we will really teach the purposes of religion, and not alone its application. Third?What is the suggestion of method? Briefly, it is this: We have spent too much time just telling each other about things when there hasn't been enough difference between the ability and the knowledge of the teacher and the ones being taught. This is the chief factor in the weakness of our present method. Everyone would go and pay for it if necessary, to learn from and enjoy a lecture given by a specialist recognized for his superior ability in his special line. Let us keep on using experts as far as we can. Most of our class leaders are people willing to work and do their best. Even after preparation, the teachers do not feel much better equipped than the members of their classes. So the teacher faces the class with a good deal of diffidence and modesty and the class does not respond with the same degree of confidence as if the teacher were a little farther beyond them in knowledge of the subject. We do not want to change this teaching system. We want the neighborhood people to come together and be taught; this is a plea for more of a study-together type of method. There is a lesson on diet in the social service work for May. That lesson contains a little description of diet in terms of calories, vitamins, carbohydrates, fats, etc. How can the information in the Magazine be made most useful? It is based upon the experiments of the scientists. Their results are to be applied in the home. My suggestion for that lesson would be to have a little review on what diet means. What is the difference between diet and food? Review what calories mean, what vitamins mean, and