Lake Lillian Coral J. Black Hidden safely in the mountains? Mountains old and famed in story? Lies a gem encircled mirror Full of rare and mystic beauty; Where the rainbow, bent and laden With it's pots of precious metal, Comes to rest here, here 'mid the silence, Safely guarded by the elf-folks, Lies the queen of fairy waters. Morning Morning dawns with eyes of gladness Gliding softly hither, thither; Touching with her rosy fingers Every leaf and bud and flower; Stirs to life the drowsy insects; Wakes the birds and bids them carol; Shakes a thousand sparkling dewdrops From the dainty fluttering aspens; Binds a crown of gleaming jewels On the head of each tall mountain; Leaps across the shining water, Casting shadows, light and shadows, Dainty patterns, wrought with cunning, Silver filagree and laces; Bends above the Magic Mirror, Sees her beauty there reflected, In the calm and placid water; Turns her rogueish face and beckons, Beckons to the solemn Noon-day, Tempts him with her honeyed kisses, Tempts, then flies into the forest. 
 Nn Noon-DAy Noon-day silence fills the mountains, Mountains rising grim and hoary, Filled with grandeur, still and solemn, Filled with majesty most awful, Handwork of the great Creator. Not a note of bird is thrilling, Not a leaf or bough is stirring. Royal blue the sky bends o'er them, Molten gold the lake below it  As the sun's unrivalled splendor Is from out its depths reflected, Now across the lake's still bosom Stealing slowly like a spectre? He who bears the mighty sickle? Comes a shadow from the summit, Grimly marks the passing hours, Hours passing, passing, passing To the tomb of time eternal, Marks them well, then steals as silent Deep into the mountain fastness. EVENING So the coming of the evening, Evening full of quiet yearning. Purple shadows lengthen slowly, Lose themselves in copse and thicket, Tender blues, soft grays entrancing, Fade, as swiftly comes the gloaming; Through the pines the night winds whisper; Sleepy night-call of the birdlings; Over all the brooding darkness, High above the peaks, ascending, Comes the full moon pale and lovely Greets her sister of the waters, Round and fair, her smile returning. Darkling night doth now caress thee Wasatch Mother's arms enfold thee, Rest in peace and virgin beauty Lillian, queen of fairy waters. \ THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth.  Magazine  Vol. XIII JULY, 1926 No.