Boyce, Louise M. Boyce (Mother), Myrtle Brown, Delila M. Asay, Betsy S. Walker, Sarah A. Ames, Louise L. Evans, Oliver Wheeler, Rachel B. Olsen.
Louise Marshall Boyce
On May 5, 1926, another pioneer passed to her eternal reward. Grandmother Louise Marshall Boyce was born March 12, 1850, in Herefordshire, England. She was six years old when she came to the United States. Although of tender years she walked a good deal of the way across the plains. She and her husband?Martin Calvin Boyce?have the distinction of being the first couple married in Oxford, Idaho. Twelve children were born to this union, five sons and seven daughters. Two of the boys died in childhood, the remaining ten lived to be married in the temple. The picture accompanying the article gives us the mother with her son and seven surviving daughters. They are respectively, John L. Boyce, Louise M. Boyce, Myrtle Brown, Delila M. Asay, Betsy S. Walker, Sarah A. Ames, Louise L. Evans, Oliver Wheeler, of Lovell, Wyoming, and Rachel B. Olson of Castle Gate, Utah. They are a family of Church workers. All of these children have held responsible positions in the various wards and mission conferences where they have resided. The mother?a veteran in Relief Society work?has been connected with the organization for 56 years. She first served as teacher in the organization, and later she served as president in Dayton, Idaho, from 1879 until 1892, 
 She is greatly beloved by her numerous posterity, who call her blessed for her precept and example. Among the faith-promoting incidents Grandmother Boyce used to tell her children was the story of her mother's migration to Utah. Sarah Marshall heard the gospel message in England. During the time she was investigating same she suffered much sorrow and tribulation, as her husband bitterly opposed her. He died, leaving her penniless with six small children. She joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and worked very hard to support herself and children. After a couple of years she decided she had saved enough to bring herself and children to Zion, also her youngest sister. The night before leaving England her relatives and friends planned a farewell party for her. During the evening several of them were crying and telling her not to go, for she would lose her children and perhaps her own life by the way. Two elders were present and heard the discouraging remarks. One rose to his feet and by the power of the Lord said: "I'll promise Sister Marshall, in the name of Israel's God, she shall go to Zion and shall not lose one of her children by the way." This prophecy was fulfilled, as she with her children were the first of this company to arrive in the valley?this being the first handcart company to arrive in the year 1856, with Captain Ellsworth in charge. Grandmother Boyce's call came on her wedding anniversary, which was also the wedding anniversary of her parents, and her husband's parents, and her own grandparents. She was greatly beloved here, and there is no doubt she will be greatly welcomed there.
The "Mormon" Pioneers (Lines from a poem by George A. English)
Desolate, drear, forsaken, forlorn; Just as it was when the world was born, And since the day when the world was young That desert lay in the burning sun. Scant sage, dry, half dead and brown As the Wasatch snow-capped peaks looked down. This weary waste arid lifeless plain Had ages long in solitude lain; Scorched and dry in the sun's hot rays, Brooding in silence in wavering haze That rose from sea of salt and brine. Thus had it lain from dawn of time. This was the picture that met the gaze Of the pioneers of those memorable days.
Pioneer Days in Payson Emma S. Curtis Simmons
The first settlers with their families arrived October 20, 1850, and located on Peteetneet Creek. They were, James Pace, Andrew Pace, Andrew Jackson Stewart, and John Courtland Searless. Two other men with their families arrived December 7. They were Joseph and George Curtis. December 20, a meeting was held in the home of James Pace, George A. Smith presiding, A. J. Stewart, clerk. (Joseph Curtis also took minutes of the same meeting.) The names of those present were: James Pace, Martha E. Pace, Lucinda Pace, Margaret Pace, William B. Pace, John E. Pace Mary A. Pace, Amanda L. Pace, Warren Sidney Pace, John Courtland Searless, Jerusha Morrison Searless, Ellison Hill, Joseph Curtis, Sally Ann Reed Curtis, Sarah J. Curtis, Delia P. Curtis, Andrew Jackson Stewart, Eunice Haws Stewart, Catherine Stewart, Andrew J. Stewart, Jr., George Curtis, Emma Whaley Curtis, James E. Daniels, Elizabeth J. Daniels, Nathaniel Haws, Elias Gardner, Betsy E. Gardner, Henry Gardner, Lyman Hinman, John Holt, Martha Holt, Susannah Holt, Samuel Holt. A branch of the Church was organized with James Pace as president. The name of Peteetneet was changed to Payson in honor of the president. Sunday morning, December 21, G. A. Smith and company continued their journey south. December 22, Joseph Curtis, George Curtis, and James E. Daniels were chosen as school trustees. The first child was born January 30, 1851. Her name was Jerusha Morrison, daughter of John Courtland and Jerusha Morrison Searless. She died February 8, 1851. The second child, James McCall, was born April 24, 1851. His parents were James Armstrong and Dorothy Muir McCall of Scotland. He married Eugenie O'Hara. They have nine descendants, still living in Payson. The third child was Emma Sophronia, daughter of George and Emma Whaley Curtis, born September 24, 1851, and at this writing, is living in Provo. The fourth child was Zilpha Z., daughter of Joseph and Sally Ann Reed Curtis, born November 13, 1851. She is the widow of Charles Hancock; her home is in Raymond, Canada. Her descendants number 30. The fifth child was Elizabeth Luella, daughter of James E. And Elizabeth J. Daniels, born January 8, 1852. She is the widow of John R. Twelves; she has 29 descendants, and her home is 
 (See Relief Society Magazine, No. 7, Vol. X, July, 1923) July 18, 1853, Alexander Keel was shot and instantly killed by an Indian. He was standing guard at the time. This was the commencement of the Walker Indian War. The alarm was quietly given. All the women and children were taken to the meeting house, and two or three private residences where they were closely guarded. It was a night of terror. No one could tell how numerous the Indians might be, or if all would be massacred before morning. As a result of this, one man lost his reason and never regained it although he lived to be an old man; and a young mother paced the floor all night with a small child under each arm. The morning was calm, clear, and bright, but the terror had hardly lessened. John F. Bellows and two or three other men with their families were at the sawmill in Peteetneet canyon. They must be warned and brought to the town. Joseph and George Curtis, with others were given this task. One of the pioneers stood near the cradle where his babe was sleeping, his hands resting on his gun, his head on his hands, tears rolled down his cheeks. His wife was near enough to see his grief. He turned and left without a word of farewell. The journey was made, and the families brought home in safety. They saw a few Indians and heard a number of shots, but nothing serious occurred. A little later, a corral was built in the northeast part of town where all the animals were kept. During the day they were herded by armed men. A fort was planned which would enclose twelve blocks. The wall was four feet wide at bottom, and two at the top, six feet high on the inside. The material was taken from the outside which made the wall some ten feet in height. Each owner was supposed to build the wall across his own property. It was never finished. The supply of water from Peteetneet canyon, northeast of Payson, was good and pure at first, but as time passed, the water became less pure. So much wood and timber had been cut that in the spring there was nothing to hold back the melting snow and the streams were torrents of roily water. Then they built a public well in the center of the street, northeast of the present Nebo stake tabernacle, which supplied the people with good water for several years. Usually there were six weeks of good sleighing and with the extreme zero, the fruit trees were winter killed. It was years before fruit could be raised. The first homes were log huts, with dirt floors, dirt roofs with cane or small cotton wood trees as a support. As