Boyle Notes from the Field. We present an extract from a letter written by Elder G. M. Southwich to the Lehi First Ward Relief Society, concerning the work now going forward in Great Britain: "I am sure that you sisters would be glad to know something of the work which your co-laborers are doing in this far away land. The Relief Societies in the British Isles are in far better condition today than they have been for sometime past. The credit for this state of affairs must justly be given to Sister Ida B. Smith, wife of President Hyrum M. Smith of the European Mission, who, during the months of October and November of last year, made a visit to each conference in the mission and held meetings with the presidents of organizations explaining the duties of members and the method of conducting meetings, etc. Since that time she has been in communication, through correspondence, with every organization in England, and has undoubtedly given an impetus to Relief Society work in this land. During the last three months eighteen new societies have been formed, making a total of forty-two in the mission. Prior to the time of Sister Smith's visits many of our organizations were in a very unsatisfactory condition. The meetings seemed to be devoted, more or less, to idle talk, with the result that very little was accomplished. From the reports which now come in, it would seem that a thorough awakening has taken place, a new spirit exists, and in place of wasted time, a well conducted program is listened to, which does not interfere with their work, but instead, elevates and strengthens in every sense of the word. The attendance has been greatly augmented, even by non-members, and the work of visiting among the Saints has been increased ten-fold. And so I conclude that the unsatisfactory condition existing was not due to insincerity, but to lack of knowledge as to the proper course to pursue, and the need of constant supervision by a competent sister from Zion. Perhaps one of the greatest works ever done by the Relief Society organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in foreign lands is that now being conducted by the sisters of the British Isles today, in assisting the relief work carried on in behalf of the British soldiers. When cold weather set in, a request was made by the government that the women of the kingdom direct their efforts toward making warm articles for those at the front. It was suggested that woolen scarfs, socks, belts, mittens, etc., be knitted and handed to a committee having charge of this work. Here was a splendid opportunity for the despised "MorNOTES FROM THE FIELD. 227 mon" women, whose Church has suffered so many times the injustice of thoughtless people, who, through the government, now sought their aid. And they took advantage of it. Each organization was able, through special effort, to raise money with which to buy wool and the work of making these articles was taken up in earnest. At the time of writing over one thousand articles have been handed in to the proper authorities of the different cities in England, and the Relief Societies of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have received credit on the books which contain such records. Very grateful acknowledgments from these authorities have been sent to our Relief Society presidents, in which they highly praise the efforts of our organizations. Our little Society in Liverpool has contributed a greater number of articles than any other church organization in the city and you can realize that it is having an effect upon the women who have charge of the work. Never before was the work of the "Mormon" Church brought so favorably before the upper class of people in this land as through this special work of the sisters, and we are sure that the result will be a blessing to the work of the Lord. Besides the effect upon the outsiders, it has wrought wonders within. Organizations which at one time were divided, because of indifference and misunderstandings, are now united by the bond of love and a common cause. A greater number of visits are now being made, more work is being done for the poor and destitute, the "peace on earth good will to men" spirit is taking a firmer hold upon each member, and the generally flourishing condition of the Relief Societies of the British Mission, brings joy and gladness to our hearts. Relief Society Extension Work in Cache Stake. A most interesting experiment is reported from Cache stake. Desirous of interesting more women in the Society, while broadening the usefulness of charitable assistance to those in need, the Relief Society Stake President appointed a committee to co-operate with the ward committees. These committees arranged a luncheon last 4th of July on the Public Square, selling cake and ice cream. The sum realized — $95.85 — was added to by liberal donations from the merchants; and great sewing bees were held, many non-members assisting enthusiastically; clothing was made; stockings for invalid mothers were darned; and wholesale gifts and assistance was thus rendered to the Logan sick and needy. Other associations and organizations joined in the movement, and thus was established the best and purest kind of "extension work." Clothing for the Woman Past Forty. By The Two Sarahs. SPRING ADAPTATIONS. Spring, the most glorious season of the year, is with us, and all nature awakens. The violets are peeping from beneath their snowy beds, the birds are singing, and all nature is rejoicing. We plan for our gardens and flowers, for spring cleaning and school festivals, and last, but not least, our wardrobe claims our attention. Have we anything wearable for the bright sunny days when we really must discard our winter coats, which sometimes cover a multitude of undesirable clothing? How shall we know what is best to wear? The season between seasons is a vexed problem for woman to solve. Many of us feel we must wear our winter clothes through this spring of surprising changes until that fickle dame fashion has settled on a fair, simple style for summer and for several coming seasons. It is a question with most women as to the best time to buy or make a street suit — spring or fall. Some of the advantages for buying or making early in the season, is the satisfaction of having a complete change from winter clothing. We get good service from a sensible blazer suit, for our jacket comes in good on summer evenings, and is just the thing in the early fall. We also get the new shades and styles by buying early in the season. Every woman should have a blazer suit, that is, a coat and skirt of the same material. A great deal of silk will be used in spring costumes. The taffeta petticoat is again coming into use. The old-fashioned pockets are revived, imitation pockets, and pockets for actual use. Black and white combinations will doubtless be the leading color feature. We welcome the return of the shirt waist. The essentials of a wardrobe are many and varied. We should remember the necessity of perfect cleanliness in neck wear. We should be careful in buying or making guimps, lace yokes or chemisettes. They should always be chosen with an eye to their practicability. For unless these accessories are made to withstand continued laundering, they are the most extravagant part of a woman's wardrobe. In making a serviceable chemisette to wear with a street dress, cover a high-necked corset cover that buttons in the back — if necessary, cover both back and front with chiffon or silk to harmonize with dress material. Make small bows of baby ribbon or velvet; place small buttons in the center of bows and sew at intervals down