The Prince of Ur 3 Homespun. As Abram made his slow way back to the palace and the city, his mind dwelt heavily on the unhappy events of this day now passing so rapidly into the brief, golden, evening hours of the Orient. With the clear prescience, which was a part of his seeric gift, he knew that he was approaching the very crux and crisis of his life. Hitherto, his years had flowed along placidly, if somewhat strenuously in the city of Salem, in the house of his forefather, Shem, with his deep study, his profound discoveries in mathematics and astronomy, his travels into Egypt and adjoining countries, for purposes of culture and wider associations. He had marked with constantly increasing sorrow the degeneracy and growing wickedness of the peoples of the earth. He knew whereof he sorrowed, for he had discoursed with princes and savants, had fought on the plains of Shinar in his Uncle Shem's armies, had met and vanquished the wild beasts of the jungles and the wilder savages of the inner steppes of the eastern lands. He had supped with merchants of Ionia and dined with philosophers of Elam and Idumia. And among them all the unbelief and the gradual and subtle changing of the truths of heaven had become wholly universal. In it all, his clear vision had detected the sin, no matter how elegantly it had been robed with sophistry; his spirit had focussed the apostasy, howsoever it had been cloaked with guile and hypocrisy. He sought for truth — for light— for the powers of the everlasting priesthood, which was without end of days and without father or mother. Only in one place — blessed Salem, under the reign of the King of Salem, Melichizedek, or Shem — was there to be found the gospel in its fulness, simplicity and purity. Well, he was now in Ur of the Chaldees by his own choice. His forefathers' household had been located there for many centuries; and like the true and obedient oriental son that he was, he could not wilfullv draw away from the loyal service he owed to the father of his father, who was at once the head of the tribe and its shepherd, king, satrap or petesi. His thoughts drifted to the poor black maidens and their grief and again he dwelt sadly upon the too-evident affections of his cousin Irit. What ailed the women of his household? Was there not Arphad — and Lot — and the many young and gracious warriors in his father's retinue? He was at the gateway of the city; and as he paused beside the great wall, where hundreds of travelers were now gathered in voluable exchange of friendly gossip — he saw the damsels of 
 the common people of the city trooping down to the wateringplace, their graceful bodies erect as the palm-tree, their shining eyes brilliant with health, their scarlet lips bearing full testimony to the red blood of health and youthful vigor which leaped in wild strains through their undisciplined bodies. Aye, undisciplined. For Abram knew that these city-dwellers — the lower orders of his countrymen and country-women, recruited as they were yearly from the hills and fields, were as given over to the fashionable vices of the day, as were their employers and masters. "If these lovely maidens only knew — if they only knew — " "Saidst thou aught?" queried a deep, musical voice at his side. Abram was unaware that his thoughts had found vocal expression. "Yes," he said; "I said that these lovely maidens were all unaware of the fierce fires of hell which wage in the city's and the temple's newly devised orgies and ravishments." "Thou speakest sharply concerning the religion of the state and the empire. Methinks the Emperor Nimrod would not care to listen to thy words." Abram looked keenly at the young stranger, who had thus accosted him. His scrutiny was amply rewarded. The look he caught in return was so candid and so friendly that Abram turned away with a sigh as he said: "Nimrod knows and knows that he knows — therefore, he is the most deadly apostate of them all." "Even so, my master, may we not be careful that these walls shall not betray our words?" Abram cast a glance upward to the great towers and parapets above them and as he looked, he caught the face of a lady leaning over the wall and looking down into his own with great interest. She threw out her rich scarf to the breeze and with a graceful gesture, she beckoned to him to come within the walls and join her on the public parapet in her evening promenade. "Thou seest one evidence of the virtue-destroying customs of these modern degenerate days? See! that is my lovely cousin who walks aimlessly forth in the public thoroughfare, and is no doubt unaccompanied save by her eunuch; is this a decency or a safe procedure for society or for our women?" "I seest that thou dost not agree with the Assyrian customs of giving women more than half the privileges and liberties enjoyed by the two sexes?" "Nay, she should have her just rights, as should man. Both are indissolubly linked together." "My master, you would not shut a woman up into her own cramped quarters, as do the desert tribes of Elam, and there confine