Notes from the Field. By The General Secretary, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman. A few changes have been made in the Taylor stake recently. Mrs. Georgina O'Brien of Raymond has been made President, and following is a complete list of officers: Counselors, Mary McCarty and Mariah Scovil, Secretary, Verena Redd, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary, Ivie Smith, Organist and Chorister, Augusta Erickson. Board Members: Ivie Smith, Jezeil Merkley, in charge of art; Augusta Ericson, Jennie Eawns, in charge of ethics; May Weed, in charge of theology; Margaret Allred, in charge of genealogy. It will be noted that in this stake the Board members have been given a specific line of work to be responsible for, thus relieving the President of these details, and giving her more time for the executive work connected with her office. On May 23rd, the Young stake was reorganized. There were no changes made in the offices of President and Treasurer, President Mrs. Mary M. Halls, Counselors Mrs. Mary E. Lamb and Mrs. Mary Zufelt, Sectreary Mrs. Harriet M. Stephens, Treasurer, Harriet Ellis, Organist Minnie Wheeler, Chorister Vida B. Halls, Missionaries, Mrs. Sarah Young, and Mrs. Agnes Slade. A reorganization of Benson stake took place June 21st. Mrs. Rebecca L. Rawlins, who has faithfully performed her duty, as stake president for a great number of years, was honorably released. Mrs. Rawlins has given excellent service in the Relief Society, and will always be affectionately remembered. The new officers are: President, La Preil Hyer, Counselors, Bessie C. Merrill, Margaret P. Hendricks, Secretary and Treasurer, Alice T.. Barnett, Board members: Jane Hendricks, Olive Harris, Alice Harris, Harriet C. Larson, Viola Kent, Maude Roskelley, and Larnia Anderson. Visitors from the Arizona stakes report that it has always been the rule in these stakes to hold weekly Relief Society meetings in the wards. Much of their success in the past has been attributed to this custom. Because they were so thoroughly established in this respect, the wards in these stakes have taken up all of the work outlined by the Board during the last two years, and have been greatly benefitted by the same,