Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. An American submarine that will cross the Atlantic to Europe and return without finding it necessary to take on new supplies has been built. Thus undersea navigation makes rapid progress. The Ogden choir had a very pleasant trip to the great fairs in California, where it did Utah much good by its charming music and equally charming membership. It is explained by Germany that the torpedoing of the American steamship Nebraskan was a mistake. Too many of these are causing a suspicion of intention. Conditions in Mexico grow steadily worse, and present a more immediate danger of armed conflict involving the United States than does any European crisis. Utah is specially interested in the fact that the powers that be in Washington have conceded the point that a protective tariff is necessary on one great American industry in which Utah is largely interested, namely, the manufacture of sugar. The Pioneer Day celebration in Salt Lake City, in 1915, was a notably successful event, strongly reminiscent of the spirit of celebrations in Utah in earlier days, when everybody joined in with cheerfulness and goodwill. While the American national administration is taking vigorous steps toward placing the country in a state of effective defense in the event of war, it need not be supposed that even the critical situation between the United States and Germany will reach to the extent of open hostilities. There are many diplomatic paths yet open. * The women of Great Britain are taking the place of men in the factories which manufacture munitions of war for the British army. This manner of militarism doubtless will prove much more efficacious in securing the elective franchise for the women there than did the recent methods of the militant English suffragette. CURRENT TOPICS. 419 The allied armies which are attempting to force the Dardanelles appear to be making slow progress; but the fact that they are progressing steadily means notable results within a few weeks. Meanwhile the British army from the British Indian side has advanced past Baghdad along the Euphrates valley, on the way toward the Turkish capital. On July 24 an appalling catastrophe at Chicago resulted in the drowning of some 1200 persons, mostly women and children. The employees of the Western Electric Company were out for a picnic, and about 2500 of them were on the fast excursion steamer Eastland, which capsized in the Chicago river, while being loaded at the company's pier. A government investigation has been ordered, and it probably will result in the adoption of a rule such as had been in vogue in Europe for a third of a century, prohibiting high and narrow water-ballasted vessels from engaging in the excursion traffic, because of a well-grounded fear that such vessels would "turn turtle" when heavily loaded with human freight. The appreciation of the people of Utah at the opportunity of viewing that notable relic of the American Revolution, the Liberty Bell, was exhibited in marked degree by the way in which everyone who could do so came to view it, and in the gratifying spirit of patriotism and reverence displayed. Nowhere along the whole route of its travel did the Bell receive a more cordial welcome than in the Beehive State. The fact that it was brought here on Sunday gave the privilege of beholding it to a larger number than otherwise would have been the case, and added materially to the spirit of devotion so strongly manifested by the assembled multitudes. The German note in reply to the second communication of protest from the United States over the torpedoing of the Lusitania evaded the direct issue raised, and called forth a plain and forcible third note from this Government, warning Germany that a repetition by German naval commanders of acts in contravention of the rights of neutrals under established international law, when those acts affected American citizens, would be regarded by this Government as "deliberately unfriendly." While the German government manifestly was irritated by the decided and unmistakable stand taken by the American Government, the American people have become more solidly unanimous in the conviction that this nation has on its side the absolute right of the question at issue.