ERE COMES THE NIGHT.

What though so difficult is life at best?
What though so longingly we sigh for rest?
Yet must we patiently keep doing, lest
Lost is one moment of the precious light?
Upon our right and left, Death's shadows fall,
Shrouding the high and low, the great and small;
"Work while 'tis day," e'en thus their voices call,
				Ere comes the night.

The day is nearly spent, low sinks the sun;
Our friends are all departing, one by one;
Almost, we wish our needful task was done—
That we might enter yon Elysium bright;
But oh! my soul, be not the least deceived—
Mortals must work, though weary and aggrieved,
For here a victory must be achieved,
					Ere comes the night.

Oh, life! so brief, fraught with results so grand,
Nor morn, nor evening, should we stay our hand;
The living claim our help, the dead demand
Remembrance, too—who died without the light;
Duties of different grades, forever blending—
Labors of love, our human strength transcending;
Yet must these tasks be done, that seem unending,
				Ere comes the night.

Willing the spirit, but the flesh is frail;
Unnumbered ills our best resolves assail;
We fear, lest at the last our strength should fail—
Ere to eternal bliss we earn the right,
Lest, sore discouraged, sinking in dismay,
Losing the light of Faith's celestial ray,
We even might become a castaway—
				Ere comes the night.

Oh, Thou, Who knowest whose desire is pure,
Oh, Thou, "Whose mercy dost for aye endure,"
Help us to everlasting lives secure,
Before this fleeting life shall vanish quite.
So much, so much 'tis needful he should do,
Deign to assist us, and our strength renew;
Without Thine aid we never can get through
				Ere comes the night.

But oh! the tranquil rest, so sweet and sound,
Of the worn body, in the quiet ground,
In blest oblivion, till "The Trumpet's sound"
Quickens the dust, by God's supremest might.
And oh! the full expansion of the spirit.
When this frail dwelling " 'twill no more inherit;
Ah! but our future bliss we NOW must merit,
				Ere comes the night.

