		SPRINGVILLE PRIMARY.
	The several Primary Associations of Spring-
ville held a joint session in the meeting house
in that city Monday evening, Nov. 14, the oc-
casion being the visit of Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith and Sister Louie Felt, who were anxious
to meet with all the children of the different
wards. Sister Louie Felt was chosen to pre-
side. After singing and prayer, Sister Felt
asked various questions, which were promptly
answered by the little folks; and also made a
few opening remarks. A song was sung, enti-
tled "Do right," by Zina Huntington; recita-
tion, "Not so easy," a little boy; recitation,
"Our Father in Heaven," by a number of lit-
tle girls; recitation, "When I'm a man," by a 
company of little boys; recitation, "The or-
pahn's prayer," by a little girl.
	Sister Felt made a short speech upon sub-
jects calculated to inspire the children with
faith and good works. Sister Eliza next ad-
dressed the meeting. In the course of her re-
marks, related in a pleasing way instances
of what the children were doing in the differ-
ent settlements. Spoke of some Associations
where they were saving the money donated, to
help emigrate poor children from other coun-
tries. She asked them some questions and
entreated them to improve their minds and store
them with things pertaining to the Gospel.
Gave, in her most happy manner, a description
of the manner in which Indians conducted
themselves in meeting-of the good order they
observed.
	Bishop Bringhurst exhorted the chiidren to
put in practice the teachings they had heard.
	Brother Kelsey felt glad to see the advancement
the children were making. Many excellent
things were alluded to in the remarks made
and all felt amply repaid for coming together.
Dismissed with singing and prayer.
				MARY T. AVERY, Sec'y.
		GUNNISON PRIMARY FAIR.
	On the 15th of October our Primary held
its first Fair in Gunnison. People who came
to see it were agreeably surprised. There were
but eighty-nine articles exhibited, which how-
ever, were made by fifty-fve children. There
were some beautiful little notions, as well as
handsome, useful articles. A pie, made by a
little girl between four and five years of age;
[Column 2]
a beautiful rug (three weeks work) by a girl
of fourteen; twenty-one skeins of yarn by a
girl thriteen; a set of toy dishes, two marbles
and a miniature grindstone, carved in petrified
white clay and white sandstone, by a boy ten,
who carved it while herding cows in the hills,
where he found the material. One girl seven
years old exhibited two pairs of exellent
stockings for children, one pair mittens, one
pair garters, one necktie and a sample, all
knitted. There were cradle quilts, pillow slips
and lace, tidies, lamp mats, mottoes, wall pock-
ets, match-safes; wool and hair flowers, work
baskets, a tin funnel, beautiful white salt,
honey, a straw hat colored and trimmed, cab-
bage, onions, carrots, bread, cakes and pud-
dings-which latter articles we had reason to
know were very good. Balls of carpet rags
adn quilt blocks were sewed by quite small
girls. And considering that "great things have
small beginnings," we look forward to grand-
times in the future for our Primary.
	The proceeds from the Fair (five cents per
ticket) were used to buy books for the Primary,
such as "Bible Questions and Answers," "Faith
Promoting Series," and "Primary Hymn
Books."
	The children and their mothers, who took
active parts in the Fair, feel that there is  a 
wide field open even in this direction, and
many were the expressions of encouragement
and well deserved praise to the children that
day.
	A few of the articles exhibited were donated
to the Primary Association and sold on the
spot, which was the occasion of some good-
natured competitive bidding, which greatly
pleased and encouraged the industrious little
donors.						H. M.


