SPRINGVILLE.

	Special meeting of Relief Society at Spring-
ville, Nov. 14, 1881, as Sisters E. R. S. Smith
and L. Felt favored us with a visit. Mrs. Ann
D. Bringhurst presiding. After the usual ex-
ercises Sister E. R. S. Smith introduced Sister
Margaret T. Smoot, who, in addressing us, said
this is a time that we sbould be faithful, and
cease onr light-mindedness. Felt thankful
that she was a handmaid of God, thought it a
high and holy calling. Reminded us of the
Relief Society Conference of Utah Stake, to
be held the 2d of December.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith addressed the sisters,
saying: We have our duties to perform, and it
may cost as much to save us as our brethren.
The work of God is a progressive work; we
understand our duties to-day better than we
did a number of years ago. We can make
professions or not, just as we choose; we can
become joint heirs with Jesus Christ, or gather
the riches of this world around us and die and
be forgotten. We are required to keep the
commandments of God. If you are taking
care of your families with an eye single to the
glory of God, you are doing as much good as
an Elder abroad. If I could arouse one sister
that neglects her duty, to faithfulness, I should
be amply paid for coming. Keep your eyes
fixed upon heavenly things. The Relief So-
ciety was organized as a self-governing institu-
tion, to root out evil; if we were never a clog
in the wheel, would not this help our brethren?
Prest. Young said, "were I to live my life over
again, I would have mothers pay tithing." In
Goshen the Primary children pay tithing; this
helps to turn their hearts to God. I organized
the first Young Ladies' Association that was
organized in Utah; mothers, I want you to
take a deeper interest in the young ladies' and
gentlemen's meetings. A gentleman once
asked a noted lady what they should do for
France; she said, "Educate the daughters of
France!" I would say, educate the daughters

[Column 3]
of Zion, who are to be the mothers of future
generations. We should make some progress
every day. If you beautify your hearts, will
that help me? we must do these things for
ourselves. I want to secure to myself those
family ties which are eternal. What is life
without husband, children and home? If I do
not attain to Celestial glory it wtll be my own
fault; if I secure this, it will be everything to
me. God is the first and last thing I strive to
think of. Do you impress upon your children's
minds what they are baptized for when they
are eight years old? Send them to Primary
meetings; arrange your housework so it shall
not interfere with their meetings. Should it
take all our time to feed and clothe our bodies?
No! let our spirits always take the lead of our
mortal bodies. Do away with selfishness.
Plural Marriage will help us to overcome this
faster than any other principle. God revealed
this principle for our benefit; if we are ashamed
of one principle of the Gospel, Christ will be
ashamed of us. God bless the honest and
faithful. I want to accomplish all the good I
can in this life, overcome evil and gain a ful-
ness of glory. Amen.
	Sister Felt begged the sisters to let Sister
Eliza's words sink deep into their hearts; seek
the knowledge of God earnestly. Gather
your children around you; tell them your ex-
perience; teach them to honor the principles of
God, polygamy not excepted, so we can come
back into the presence of our Maker.
	Bishop Bringhnrst made appropriate closing
remarks. Spoke briefly to mothers upon edu-
cation, tithing and polygamy; begged mothers
not to rebuke their husbands before their chil-
dren. God preserve you. Amen.
The President endorsed all that had been said.
Primary meeting appointed that evening. Sing-
ing. Prayer by Brother Wm. Kelsey.
			ANN D. BRINGHURST, Pres't.
