A PLEA FOR UTAH.

	Not at any time within our remembrance has
there ever been so much said in newspapers,
and everywhere, publicly and privately, against
the "Mormons," as at the present time; and we
cannot help mentally exclaiming, What does it
all mean? The "Mormons" are considered an
ignorant people, despised by the great enlight-
ened world at large; they occupy only a small
Territory, they have scarcely any voice and no
vote at the Capital! They are looked upon as an
insignificant class. Only a few years ago, they
were driven into the wilderness, exiled from so-
ciety, their homes and the graves of their fa-
thers. What has wrought this wondrous
change? All sorts of suggestions are being made
to Congress, in regard to dealing with the "Mor-
mons!" The advice comes from editors, priests
and peoples. One might suppose that in the mul-
titude of counsel there would be safety, or that
from all these sources there might be sufficient
wisdom drawn to protect the United States from
a handful of people. What are they afraid of?
Do not people come to Utah and do just as they
please? Have people been restricted here in
worshipping God in their own way? Is it not
proof positive of the fact asserted, when their
chapels and churches are erected not only in the
city, but in country towns, wherever it suits the
convenience of the sect or party to go and settle?
There is no place in all the broad land where
American citizens are better protected in every
right and privilege than in Utah. If not, why
do they come here?
	The "Mormons" are the old settlers, they are
the land-holders and land-owners. It was they
who wrested the desert from barrenness. They
made the roads and bridges and dug the ditches
and canals, plowed and planted and built, and
inhabited and established law and order. Why
should they be interfered with in their life, lib-
erties or pursuit of happiness?
	Why not allow them to worship God according
to the dictates of their own consciences? What
possible injury can they do this free and inde-
pendent Republican government, this great and
powerful nation? The Mormons are not popu-
lar, and therefore what influence can they have
that need be feared? They wish simply to be
respected in their rights as loyal citizens of the
Republic, and this is too much for those who are
so determined to oppose them. When the peo-
ple of Utah have elected, by an overwhelming
majority, a delegate to Congress, to protect or
promote the interests of the whole people of the
Territory, in whatever legislation may be
brought forward concerning Utah, those who
cannot possibly be interested in the matter, and
certainly do not comprehend it, are ready to
denounce the measures and vilify the
man whose record is as clear as one can
be made, and to effect this, circulate all the scan-
dal and gossip that goes the rounds of newspa-
pers and newsmongers.

[Column 2]
	So many things are brought up in this regard
that one can scarcely enumerate the long list of
evils, and so much advice given to Congress that
it must be overcrowded. Congress is urged to
put a stop to the numbering of ballots, which is
an absurdity, as everybody must know who goes
to the polls to vote, that the ballot is a secret
one, and although the name must be looked up
on the registration list, yet no clerk of election
can tell by any means, unless informed by the
person voting, which ticket he or she has folded
and dropped into the ballot box. Another piece
of advice given recently is that plural wives
shall not hold property in their own right. How
very noble, generous and high minded! How mag-
nanimous in fact! How very unlike the charity of
the Savior! Are plural wives not entitled to any
consideration before the law? Why not? Are
they not possessed of the same nature and
gifted with the same powers as other women?
In what do they differ? Many of them are the
daughters of the Puritans and inherit the same
undaunted heroism. We are sincerely sorry for
those who so misunderstand and misinterpret
the motives and actions of the Mormon women,
and who are so anxious to bring about legisla-
tion to deprive them of the rights and privileges
accorded them by the laws of the Territory. If
they could only patiently wait and see the re-
sult of carrying out the views which
seem to them to be so aggressive,
and which are so decidedly unpopular
in the nineteenth century. Is not the
marriage question the all-important one in the
history of nations past, present and future? It
is the condition by which the law of human
progression is balanced, both in quantity and
quality, in race and color. It is the actual pow-
er by which is carried out in life, the first com-
mand given to the human family, to multiply
and replenish the earth; which commandment
is still in force. To improve in everything per-
taining to a higher or more exalted life, or char-
acter, all the light and knowledge which can be
produced should be brought forward. Strange
that it never occurred to the great reason-
ers of the age, who are so anxious to reform
and remodel society, that there might
be conditions that required a change in
the marriage relation. If such changes should
be necessary woman must take a practical part
in the innovation and the revolution which
such a state of things is sure to produce.
	If by self-sacrifice, or say by laying aside self-
ishness and becoming endowed with that no-
bility of character, which will grasp the higher
good for the larger number, a few women have
shown themselves equal to the effort? Examine
without prejudice into the principles of this order
of matrimony, and it will be found a remedy
for many evils that now exist in the world, and
are causing sorrow and misery. Not only
actual death, but death to all the finer sensi-
bilities of the soul, virtue, purity of life and the
progression of race. Look at the large cities
even in the new world! See the misery and deg-
radtion which is so fast increasing year by year,
and then reflect if there is not something need-
ed to allay the wicked practices of men, which
is the primal cause, and their victims women.
Is it not worth the grandest effort of the human
soul?
	The "Mormons" sought in coming here and
reclaiming a desolate wilderness, by the grace
of God and under His direction, to found a social
system that should preclude all possibility of con-
ditions such as exist in the world, at the present
time, implicitly believing that the Constitution
gave them this liberty. The majority of them
have been sincere, and the results have been as
satisfactory as could be expected in one genera-
tion, with all the opposing influences brought to

[Column 3]
bear against them from time to time in various
forms and ways. Utah is growing and increas-
ing in population rapidly. The in-
dustry, enterprise, and thrift of
the people cannot be denied. The happiness
and prosperity of the humble homes that exist
throughout the country is something wonderful,
unless one recalls the devotion of the occupants
to God and their religion, which cannot but
bring down the blessing of heaven upon labors
thus directed. Then why not let well enough
alone? There is no people more willing to ac-
cord privileges to all nations than the people of
Utah. None who would more manfully main-
tain the honor of the nation. To them the Con-
stitution is a divine instrument, given by inspi-
ration. There is one right which cannot be de-
nied, even to Mormons, the right to
petition Congress, and although Mormon-
ism may be unpopular, yet men who sit
in the grand councils of the nation, profess to
hold it as a sacred duty, to present a petition
from any citizen of the United States. One of
the greatest men who ever occupied the postition
of Chief Executive of the nation said: "So far
from refusing to present a petition because it
might come from those low in the estimation of
the world, it would be an additional incentive,
if such incentive were wanting."
	But with God on the side of justice, what
should the Latter-day Saints fear? Nothing.
The great onslaught that is being talked of
against the Mormons exists in the imagination
of those whoare anxious to bring such mea-
sures about, to further their own wicked pur-
poses. It is the same spirit that has prevailed
in other ages of the world, the self-same spirit
that caused the Jews to cry "Cruscify Him!
Crucify Him!"


