HOME AFFAIRS.

	WORD has been received of the arrival at the
Capitol of Hon. George Q. Cannon, Delegate
from Utah to the 47th Congress.

	BISHOP O. F. Whitney and party, who sailed
from New York Nov. 2, in the S. S. Arizona,
have arrived in Liverpool, having had a very
pleasant and prosperous voyage.

	PRESIDENT Taylor and party are still travel-
ing in the settlements, holding meetings and
making glad the hearts of the people. It ex-
pected they will return about the 5th of the
month.

	AT the Salt Lake Theatre, on Monday eve-
ning, Nov. 5, the Home Dramatic Club will ap-
pear in the play entitled "Our Boarding House."
Mr. Henry Maiben, well known on the Salt Lake
stage in former days, will take a part in the per-
formance.

	ON Sunday morning, Nov. 27, the Primary
Association of the 17th Ward was re-organized
by Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith. Mrs. Julia C.
Howe was elected President, Mrs. Maria Y. Dou-
gall First Counselor, Miss Belle Clayton and Miss
Phebe Tingey also Counselors; Miss Nellie Al-
ford, Secretary; Miss Flossie Alder, Assistant
Secretary, and Master Willie Dougall, Treasurer.
The meeting was addressed by Sisters E. R. S.
and B. W. Smith. The first meeting will be
held on Friday, Dec. 2, at 3 p.m.

	"VOICE from the Mountains," is the title of a
pamphlet of twenty-four pages, by Joel H.
Johnson, published at the "Juvenile Instructor"
office in this city. It contains a brief sketch of
the author's life, and strong testimonies of the
truth of the Gospel, as revealed to Joseph Smith.
Bro. Johnson was born in Grafton, Mass., 1802,
and has been a Mormon half a century; was
with Joseph Smith when the Word of Wisdom
was given him by revelation. The book is one
our young people should read. It is for sale at
the Juvenile Office, price ten cents.

	WE call attention to the advertisement of
"Wild Flowers of Deseret," and suggest to our
readers that it would be suitable for Christmas
Gifts. It is a book no one need be afraid to put
into the hands of their children, and contains a
great variety of poems. The author has strug-
gled very hard to secure its publication, and is
depending upon the sale of it to relieve her from
the embarrassment incurred by publishing
Among other home manufactures, home litera-
ture should not be neglected. We have no hesi-
tation in recommending the book upon its own
merits. It is well worth the price, and more.
Some of the poems are grand, some quaint and

[Column 2]
﻿sublimely touching. When you are purchasing
Christmas Gifts, include "Wild Flowers of Dese-
ret," which may be purchased at this office.

	A SUMPTUOUS dinner was given on Wednes
day, Nov. 23, at 12 m., by the officers of the
Relief Society of the 10th Ward in this city, at
the residence of the President, Mrs. Jane Earl.
All the teachers of the Relief Society of the
ward were invited, also the Bishop and his
Counselors, with their wives. The following
ladies were also present by invitation: Mesdames
Eliza R. Snow Smith, Presendia L. Kimball, M.
Isabella Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith, Elizabeth
Howard, Elmina S. Taylor and Emmeline B.
Wells. After dinner a meeting was held in the
Ward meeting house, which was well attended
by brethren and sisters, Mrs. Jane Earl presid-
ing. A good spirit seemed to prevail, and much
good instruction was given by the sisters men-
tioned above, and many suggestions made calcu-
lated to benefit the Society were they put in
practice. Counselor James Woods made a few
remarks at the close of the meeting, expressing
his appreciation of the work of the different or-
ganizations in which the sisters were so earnestly
and assiduously laboring, and referred to the
order of the Church as set forth by the Apostle
Paul, where, after enumerating the different de-
grees of authority, speaks of the helps; and cer-
tainly he considered these organizations were
essential helps. Sister Eliza explained that
President Joseph Smith stated in Nauvoo that
whenever the Church of Christ was fully organ-
ized upon the earth, the Relief Society existed.


