CONCLUDED.

	P. S. It has been said that a woman's letter
is never finished without a postscript, for she is
sure to forget some idea or sentiment which
must be added; and in the present instance I
beg the indulgence of my readers for forget-
ting one important item in the history of Sister
Eliza, which should be chronicled among her
other literary works of merit. I have sought
in this pen sketch of her life to gather up all
facts which would tend to stimulate the young
to follow in her footsteps, and also to record
the real work of this venerable lady, that the
Saints might comprehend and appreciate her
multifarious labors. Directly after issuing the
Primary Hymn Book for the children, of which,

﻿[Column 2]
by the bye, over twelve thousand copies have
already been sold, and ten thousand are to be
issued very soon, Sister Eliza, with her quick-
ness of discernment, saw the necessity of a
TUNE BOOK, to accompany the Hymn Book,
and set about preparing it immediately. She
arranged the hymns to selected music, although
most of the musical composition was original
with our people; this she carefully compiled
for the publishers previous to her visit to St.
George last winter. The Tune Book has been
a great help to those who have charge of the
Sunday Schools, as well as the Primary Asso-
ciations, and is now used in nearly every settle-
ment in Zion. It proves the versatility of tal-
ent possessed by this clever woman, and shows
what one may accomplish even at what is con-
sidered an advanced age, by application and
continuity. Her labors for the children of Zion
have been almost unceasing, and she is at the
present time diligently engaged in compiling a
series of books of recitations and dialogues for
their especial benefit.
	The following poem, composed for the pur-
pose of closing this history of her life was
handed to me some time since (you may per-
haps wonder I should forget it), and furnishes
another reason for my postscript. The lady
speaks for herself her own sentiments, express-
ing her ideas of the vanity of all earthly fame
as compared with the glories of futurity, if we
secure the prize which the Apostle designates
as "the mark of the high calling in Christ
Jesus:"						E. B. W.

