SISTER'S CONFERENCE AT COALVILLE.

	The Relief Societies of Summit Stake held
their Quarterly Conference at Coalville on Fri-
day, October 28, which we attended by invita-
tion, in company with Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
of this city. Meeting commenced at ten a. m.,
Mrs. Mary Jane Atwood presiding. Minutes of
previous Conference were read, in which were
included the formal resignation of Mrs. Sarah
S. Richards, the former President, who resigned
on account of removing to another part of the
country, and the fact that Mrs. M. J. Atwood
had been formally chosen and unanimously
elected to preside over the Relief Societies in
Summit Co. Also that Mrs. Louisa Roundy
had been chosen to preside over the Primary
Associations of that Stake. Reports were read
from the different branches, and verbal reports
were also given, which were very satisfactory.
Speeches were made by Prest. W. W. Cluff,
Bishops Samuel Atwood, Jared Roundy and
Salmon, and Bro. Beard, also by Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball, Mrs. E. B. Wells and the local sisters. Sis-
ter M. J. Atwood made some excellent remarks
and although she expressed great timidity in re-
gard to presiding, it was not apparent in her
manner, which was dignified and impressive.
The Conference only lasted one day, yet there
was considerable business transacted and many
suggestions made calculated to promote the in-
terests of the organizations represented there.
The Conference adjourned until the last Friday
in March.
	The sisters in Coalville are quietly but indus-
triously working up a very prosperous millinery
and dressmaking business in the interest of the
Relief Society. They have built a house in a
most desirable locality, forty feet long, and width
in proportion, and being on a corner it is well
lighted. In the front there is a very large show
window, which answers nicely to display fancy


goods, of which they keep a good variety. It is
well arranged with screens and curtains for the
various departments of work. Five ladies are
regularly employed there, and we were informed
the establishment is well patronized by people
from Echo and other places in the vicinity.
They keep in the store a fine assortment of ladies'
furnishing goods, for trimmings, etc., which is
quite an advantage.
	Shortly after the house was built the sisters
gave a tea party, and had a very enjoyable time.
The large hall is brilliantly lighted for evening
with handsome chandeliers; and in fact the en-
tire arrangements are suitable and in keeping
with the purpose for which the building was
constructed. We were informed it was all paid
for, and the sisters of Coalville may congratu-
late themselves on having been so successful.
It proves they are women of ability and enter-
prise, from small beginnings to have accom-
plished so much.


