BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	A thousand and one opinions are being daily
expressed concerning the polygamous "Mor-
mons" and their destiny, but the more they try
to solve the problem the harder and more in-
tricate it becomes, which is the natural conse-
quence of ignorance.
	The results which they predict would be
inevitable were it the work or scheme of men,
but as it is the work of the great God, who
will, not behold iniquity with any degree of
allowance, and having promised that the king-
dom shall not be given to any other people; if
we sin He will punish, and if we go astray He
will chasten us. Every principle which the
Lord reveals for the exaltation of mankind
may be perverted, which leads to degradation,
and even to everlasting damnation. There
always has been and always will be those who
pervert the ways of the Lord. The tares must
grow with the wheat until the harvest.
	"Mormonism," so-called, would have died
a natural, death years ago if it had been the
"fraud" which the world represents it.
	The schemes and threats of men have but
little weight with those who have been made fa-
miliar with them from their earliest remem-
brance, and have become accustomed to the
sound, as we do to the idle winds or the bark-
ing of a few curs. The conflict is between
them and our God, who has never forsaken
His people; but He does not expect us to sit
quietly down and fold our hands in idleness,
while our enemies are publishing their outra-
geous falsehoods to blind the eyes of the weak
or credulous to the most glorious truths of
heaven, and to throw ignominy and dishonor
upon our people, more especially the women
and innocent children, who are as much far-
ther advanced in the ways of God and the or-
der of heaven, as our slanderers are in the
road to perdition, but to use every honorable
means to defend ourselves against their vile
attacks.
	The following truthful description of the
Prophet Joseph and his brother, Hyrum, I
think very appropriate at the present time, and
it is quite a treat to read the sentiments of un-
biased and liberal-minded men, who could
afford to give due credit even to "Mormons."
It was written to James Gordon Bennett by a
correspondent of the New York Herald, who
was stopping in the city of the Saints, which
he designated as the "nucleus of a Western
Empire:
	"Joseph Smith, the President of the Church,
Prophet, Seer and Revelator, is thirty-six years
of age, six feet, high in pumps, weighing two
hundred and twelve pounds. He is a man of
the highest order of talent and great indepen-
dence of character—firm in integrity, and de-
voted to his religion; in fact, he is a per-se, as
President Tyler would say. As a public


[Column 1]
speaker he is bold, powerful and convincing,
possessing both the suaviter in modo and the
fortiter in re; as a leader, wise and prudent, yet
fearless as a military commander; brave and
determined as a citizen, worthy, affable and
kind; bland in his manners, and of noble bear-
ing. His amiable lady, too, the electa cyria, is
a woman of superior intellect and exemplary
piety—in every respect suited to her situation
in society, as the wife of one of the most ac-
complished and powerful chiefs of the age.
	"Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch of the Church
and brother of Joseph, is forty-two years of
age, five feet, eleven and a half inches high,
weighing one hundred and ninety-three pounds.
He, too, is a Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and
is one of the most pious and devout Christians
in the world. He is a man of great wisdom
and superior excellence, possessing great en-
ergy of character and originality of thought."
	The following interesting extracts are taken
from a letter addressed to the Editor of the
New York Herald by an officer of the U. S.
Artillery, dated City of Nauvoo, Ill., May 8,
1842:
	"Yesterday was a great day with the 'Mor-
mons.' Their legion, to the number of two
thousand men, was paraded by Gen. Smith,
Bennett and others, and certainly made a very-
noble and imposing appearance. The evolu-
tions of the troops would do honor to any body
of armed militia in any of the States, and
approximates very closely to the regular
forces.	*	*	*	Before many years this le-
gion will be twenty, and perhaps fifty thousand
strong, and still augmenting. A fearful host,
filled with religious enthusiasm, and led on by
ambitious and talented officers, what may not
be effected by them? Perhaps the subversion
of the Constitution of the United States; and
if this should be considered too great a task,
foreign conquests will most certainly follow.
Mexico will fall into their hands, even if Texas
should first take it.
	"These 'Mormons' are accumulating like a
snowball rolling down an inclined plane, which
in the end becomes an avalanche. They are
enrolling among their officers some of the first
talent in the country.	*	*	Only a part of
their officers, regents and professors, however,
are 'Mormons,' but they are all united by a
common interest and will act together on main
points to a man. Those who are not 'Mor-
mons' when they come here, very soon become
so.	*	*	*
	"The Smiths are not without talent, and are
said to be as brave as lions. Joseph, the chief,
is a noble-looking fellow, a Mahomet every
inch of him. The postmaster, Sidney Rigdon,
is a lawyer, philosopher and Saint. Their
other Generals are also men of talent, and
some of them men of learning. I have no
doubt that they are all brave, as they are most
unquestionably ambitious, and the tendency of
their religious creed is to annihilate all other
sects; you may therefore see that the time will
come when this gathering host of religious fa-
natics will make this country shake to the
centre. A western empire is certain. Eccle-
siastical history presents no parallel to this
people, inasmuch as they are establishing their
religion on a learned footing. All the sciences
are taught, and to be taught in the college with
Latin, Greek, Hebrew, French, Italian, Span-
ish, etc., etc. The mathematical sciences, pure
and mixed, are now in successful operation,
under an extremely able professor of the name
of Pratt (Prof. Orson Pratt); and a graduate
of Trinity College, Dublin, is President of
their University.
	"Now, sir, what do you think of Joseph, the
modern Mahomet?	*	*	Who will say that
the 'Mormon' Prophet is not among the great
spirits of the age?"
	The following, dated June 17, 1842, is also
from the N. Y. Herald, and is headed: "Won-

[Column 2]
derful Progress of Joe Smith, the Modern Ma-
homet.—Spread of the Mormon Faith, and a
New Religious Revolution at Hand."
	"By the mails last evening we received a va-
riety of letters and papers from Nauvoo, the
capital of the new religious revolutionary em-
pire, established by Joe Smith; and also from
other towns of Illinois, exhibiting the extraor-
dinary progress of this most extraordinary
people, who call themselves the 'Latter-day
Saints.' These letters and papers are as fol-
lows: First, a letter from a United States ar-
tillery officer traveling through Nauvoo, who
gives an original glimpse of the Mormon move-
ment there. Second, an extract from the San-
gamo Journal of the 3d of June—a newspaper
in favor of the Whig party, and opposed to
the Mormons on account of their locofoco ten-
dency, requiring a review of their military or-
ganization. Third, a law of the Mormon city
of Nauvoo, extending toleration towards all
religions; even Mahometan, and assuming
power to legislate for all with imperial noncha-
lance. Fourth, a public meeting of Mormons
in Nauvoo, developing their sentiments and
position in the elections in Illinois. Fifth, a
letter to Mrs. Emma Smith, the wife of the
Prophet, from a lady in Edwardsville, exhibit-
ing the singular mixture of piety, politics, tact
and shrewdness of those who believe in Mor-
monism. All these letters and documents dis-
close a most extraordinary movement in hu-
man affairs. What they mean we can hardly
tell, but is it not time for some great religious
revolution, as radical as Luther's to take place
in the Christian world?
	"In the early ages of antiquity, before the
dates of the monuments of Egypt, we have
distinguished names handed down to us by
tradition—Brama, Vishnu, Confucius, Zoroas-
ter, Isis, Osiris, including Adam, Seth, Noah,
Abraham, were the master spirits of great an-
tiquity throughout the ancient world. In later
times, Moses and the Prophets, Peter and Paul
and the Apostles of Christ, and even Mahomet,
who acknowledged the truth of Christianity.
Each of these movements was a religions revo-
lution, but that which followed the time of
Adam, Seth, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Christ
and the Apostles, has developed the only true
system of morals, of belief, of revelation, of
prophecy, of man, of God, of eternity. When
the Christian Church was overwhelmed with
follies and superstitions of Rome, and the
thousand quarreling sects of monks and idlers,
a fresh spirit arose in the world—a spark came
down from heaven—Luther lifted up his voice,
and a religious revolution started at his word,
and renovated Christianity. But a new age
has come, a fresh infusion of faith is required,
a strong impulse is rendered necessary.
	"May not this wonderful Mormon movement
be the signal for a new religious revolution? Is
not Joe Smith its master spirit, and General
Bennett its military spirit? The vast progress
of the last century in art and science, through
steam and type, has changed the nature of
man and society. Is it not necessary that a
new religion and a new faith should come
down from heaven, to carry out the destiny of
the race under its present condition?
	"It is very evident that the Mormons exhibit
a remarkable degree of tact, skill, shrewdness,
energy and enthusiasm. The particular fea-
tures of their faith are nothing against their
success. Do they believe their new bible, their
virgin revelation, their singular creed? If they
do so with enthusiasm and practice their
shrewd precepts, the other sects will fall before
them. This is certain—this is human nature.
In Illinois they have already shown how to
acquire power and influence, by holding the
balance of power between both the great par-
ties. They can already dictate to the State of
Illinois, and if they pursue the same policy in
other States, will they not soon dictate to Con

[Column 3]
gress and decide the presidency? In all matters
of public concernment they act as one man,
with one soul, one mind and one purpose.
	"Their religious and moral principles bind
them together firmly. They may be, and have
been abused and calumniated—partly true,
partly false—but whether true or false, these
attacks only increase their popularity and in-
fluence. Unlike all other Christian sects, they
adopt at once all the modern improvements of
society, in art and literature; and from their
singular religious faith give the highest enthu-
siasm to the movement at large. There is
nothing odd, or singular, or absurd about
them.
	"Verily, verily, we are truly living in the
'latter days,' and we should not be surprised to
see that the Mormon religion is the real Mil-
lennium already commenced. One thing is
certain—the Mormons are so constituted that
in these temperance times they will swallow up
all the other lukewarm Protestant sects, and
the moral and religious world will be divided
between the Pope and the Catholics on one
side and Joe Smith and the Mormons on the
other. The oyster is opening and soon will be
equally divided."
	The writers of the above, though rather ex-
travagant in some of their ideas, spoke more
truths than we have been accustomed to hear
for a long time, and many more than the oppo-
nents of "Mormonism" would be willing to ad-
mit, though they oftentimes do so unwittingly.
	We are entirely too clannish to suit the
agents of his Satanic majesty, who knows as well
as we that "union is strength" and power, and
that his craft is in danger; he therefore abhors
it. But as the religion of Jesus Christ, whose
ways are pleasantness, whose paths are peace,
whose end is perfect joy," teaches us to become
one, and as we choose to obey the Almighty,
who, I would ask, among His groveling sub-
jects, should claim the right of saying, "Why
do ye so?" This is the last religious revolu-
tion, and our faith and enthusiasm have been
equal to every emergency. In all that we un-
dertake we are in earnest, because we know
that we are fighting under the bright and glo-
rious banner of Truth, and though the lot of
man is trouble, and we are looking and pre-
paring for it, and for the time when the whole
world will unite to fight against this work, we
have nothing to fear, for truth, though crushed
to earth, will rise again.
	If those not of our faith, who visit our cities,
came with a determination to lay aside their
prejudices, to learn the facts concerning us, or
our religion, nothing would give more pleasure
than to tell it them; but too many who have
come here, after being treated with every po-
liteness and escorted to seats in our Tabernacle
which are reserved for the stranger, sit there,
under the very altar of the Lord's Supper, in
the hearing of Saints who assemble to worship
God, and spit out their venom, or make ridi-
cule of every thing that we hold sacred.
	But the most despicable characters are the
overly righteous souls, who are filled with such
holy horror at the mention of "Mormon" po-
lygamy, and are the ones whom we look upon
with suspicion, and set them down as among
the most corrupt of hypocrites. It is through
their paintings and misrepresentations that
those at a distance join in the cry ofthe hunt-
ers and hounds, for no other reason only be-
cause they see others do it. Many who are
among us (for self-interest or jealousy) keep up
the hue and cry about the dreaded "Mormons"
who are spreading over these Territories, etc.,
till their ignorant dupes might easily suppose
that this people, who sought refuge in the
Rocky Mountains, were preparing to swallow
them up at one mouthful; and more than likely
take in the whole planet.
	If everybody had been as much concerned
and interested in their own affairs, and attended


as strictly to them, as have their far off peace-
able neighbors (who believe in and practice
the principle of "minding their own business")
they might possibly have kept their own gar-
dens from being overrun with those rank weeds
and briars, the thorns of which will yet tear
and pierce their tender flesh till they are re-
minded of the innocent blood which they have
caused to be shed, and of the tears of the
widow and the fatherless and the oppressed ex-
iles, who patiently endured long years of pov-
erty and suffering, brought upon us in conse-
quence of their cruel and wicked falsehoods.
It would be well for them if they would stop
and reflect a little, and instead of shutting
their eyes and ears listen to the voice of truth,
and let common sense and reason govern them
instead of that "green-eyed monster," that fills
their mouths with lying words, and "Slander,
the foulest whelp of sin." It was this that
caused Cain to slay his righteous brother, Abel
and the Jews to hate and crucify the Savior,
and to kill the Apostles and Prophets, because
they would not forsake their religion; and as
they have severely felt the result of it, so is
this nation now feeling the scourging hand of
the Almighty.

To be continued.


