BURY ME QUIETLY WHEN I DIE.

When my spirit ascends to the world above,
To unite with the choirs in celestial love,
Let the finger of silence control the bell,
To restrain the chime of a funeral knell:
Let no mournful strain—not a sound be heard
By which a pulse of the heart is stirred—
No note of sorrow to prompt a sigh:
Bury me quietly when I die.

I am aiming to earn a celestial crown—
To merit a heavenly, pure renown;
And, whether in grave or in tomb I'm laid—
Beneath the tall oak, or the cypress shade;
Whether at home with dear friends around,
Or in distant lands, upon stranger ground—
Under wintry clouds, or a summer sky:
Bury me quietly when I die.

What avails the parade and the splendor here,
To a legal heir to a heavenly sphere?
To heirs of salvation what is the worth,
In their perishing state, the frail things of earth?
What is death to the good, but an entrance gate
That is placed on the verge of a rich estate,
Where commissioned escorts are waiting by?
Bury me quietly when I die.

On the "iron rod" I have laid my hold;
If I keep the faith, and like Paul of old
Shall "have fought the good fight," and Christ the Lord
Has a crown in store with a full reward
Of the holy Priesthood in fulness rife,
With the gifts and the powers of an endless life,
And a glorious mansion for me on high:
Bury me quietly when I die.

When the orb of day sinks down in the west,—
When its light reclines on the evening's crest—
When the lamp in the socket is low and dim—
When the cup of life is filled up to the brim—
When the golden Autumn's brief glass has run,
And gray Winter with whit'ning tread moves on—
When the arrow of death from its bow shall fly:
Bury me quietly when I die.

[Column 3]
Like a beacon that rises o'er ocean's wave,
There's a light—there's a life beyond the grave;
The future is bright, and it beckons me on
Where the noble and pure and the brave have gone;
Those who battled for truth with their mind and might,
With their garments clean and their armor bright:
They are dwelling with God in a world on high:
Bury me quietly when I die.
									E. R. S. S.
	Salt Lake City, July, 1881.


