CONTINUED.

	In the preceding chapter of the history of
Sister Zina an error was made in the name of
her grandmother on the mother's side, which
was Dorcas Dimock instead of Diantha as
stated.
	The Huntington family embraced the Gos-
pel at a very early day in Watertown, N. Y.,
and Zina D., when only fifteen, was baptized
by the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, August 1,
1835, and shortly after went to Kirtland with
her father's family. Sister Zina had many
wonderful spiritual manifestations while very
young. On one occasion, at a fast meeting in
the Kirtland Temple, she heard a whole invisi-
ble choir of angels singing; there seemed to be
myriads of melodious voices, whose sweet and
tuneful harmony filled the spacious building.
She was also in the same Temple at the mem-
orable Pentecost, when the Spirit of God filled
the house like a mighty rushing wind. Zina
was also one of the members of the Kirtland
Temple choir, of whom there are at present
but a small number living.
	The Huntingtons removed with the Saints
from Kirtland to Far West, Mo., Zina accom-
panying them. In Missouri she, in common
with others, experienced many very severe
trials and encountered great hardships, through
the persecution brought against the people of
God. Although only a young girl, she had
great faith, and her integrity to the Gospel was
as unflinching then as now. On the 18th of
April, 1839, the Huntington family, including
Zina D., left Far West for Illinois, arriving at
Quincy on the 25th inst., and reaching Com-
merce, afterwards called Nauvoo, on the 25th
of May.
	The Saints were very poor, and many of
them were suffering from fever and ague, and
other diseases brought on by privation and
hardship; they had been driven from their
homes in Missouri, without any preparation for
journeying, and had suffered beyond the power
of pen to portray. Mrs. Huntington, Zina D's
mother, was taken with a congestive chill, on
the 24th of June, and afterwards one after the
other of the family succumbed to disease con-
sequent upon fatigue and privation, until there
was only a boy twelve years old to give them
even a drink of cold water. During this time
of affliction the Prophet Joseph, with his char-
acteristic sympathy for all suffering, showed
them great kindness, doing all in his power to
comfort them, and at one time made them tea
with his own hands. Early in the morning of
the 8th of July, 1839, Sister Huntington's
spirit took its flight, without even a groan or a
quiver of the lip. There were only two of the
family able to follow her remains to their last
resting place on earth. Zina says: "Thus died
my martyred mother! The Prophet Joseph
often said that the Saints who died in the per-
secutions were as much martyrs of the Church,
as was the Apostle David Patten, who was
killed in the defense of the Saints, or those
who were martyred at Haun's Mill. And my
beloved mother was one of the many bright
martyrs of the Church in those dark and ter-
rible days of persecution."
	Sister Zina was married in Nauvoo, and had
two sons born to her, Zebulon and Chariton.
It was a most unhappy and ill-assorted mar-
riage, and she subsequently separated from the
husband who was so little suited to be a com-
panion for her through life. Joseph Smith
taught her the principle of marriage for eter-
nity, and she accepted it as a divine revelation,
and was sealed to the Prophet for time and all
eternity, after the order of the new and ever-
lasting covenant.
	Sister Zina was an active member, although

[Column 2]
quite a young woman, of the first organization
of the Relief Society at Nauvoo, and was
practically interested in the benevolent work
of that institution.
	When the Temple had been so far completed
as to admit of ordinances being performed
therein, Sister Zina did not hesitate to go for-
ward and receive the blessings and endowments
given there to the faithful Saints. She was
united in marriage for time to Brigham Young,
and with the Saints left Nauvoo in the wintry
month of February, and crossed the Mississippi
River on the ice. Many were the hardships of
that eventful period, but Zina was ever true,
full of courage, inspired with faith, and able
to comfort others in the darkest hours of that
weary pilgrimage.

To be continued.


