								E. R. S. S.

	Died, in the 15th Ward, S. L. City, Nov. 18,
1881, Mrs. Charlotte W. Griggs. Deceased was
born in Dover, Kent, England, Nov. 4. 1818.
She was baptized in Dover, Dec. 24, 1854, and
came to America in 1856, crossing the ocean in
the ship "Wellfleet," from Liverpool to Boston,
where she landed on the 9th of July. Sister
Griggs, with her family, remained in Boston,
where she formed some pleasant acquaintances
and lasting friendships with other Latter-day
Saints who were temporarily residing there pre-
vious to coming to Utah. She was a woman of
sterling integrity, and one capable of the most
sincere and close confidence in companionship.
	In June, 1861, she left Boston and came to the
frontiers, crossed the plains in Captain Joseph
Horne's company. On the way she met with a
most terrible misfortune, the death of her
mother by accident, being run over with a team.
Mrs. Griggs, who was a widow, and her two
sons arrived in Salt Lake City Sept. 13, 1861.
The same year Charles, her eldest son, died at
the residence of Bishop Hess, at Farmington.
	Sister Griggs was a resident for two years or
more of the Fourteenth Ward, was re-baptized
in that Ward, but removed from there to Fair-
field, in Cedar Valley, where she lived about
two years; subsequently removed back to the
city, where she resided until her demise. She


died at the home of her son, Thomas C. Griggs,
who has but recently returned from a mission to
England.
	Sister Griggs had been for years an efficient
teacher in the Sunday School, where she was
greatly beloved by all. She had been a member
of the Relief Society from its first organization
to the time of her death, having joined the So-
ciety in the 14th Ward at the time it was organ-
ized by Bishop Hoagland. She was zealous in
all good works, was benevolent and kind-hearted
by nature, and delighted in doing good to others.
	She was a firm believer in all the principles
of the everlasting Gospel, and thought no sacri-
fice too great for the Gospel's sake. She sleeps
in peace, and her memory is enshrined forever
in the hearts of those who loved her. Her hopes
of eternal life and a part in the first resurrection
were strong to the last. The funeral was held
at the residence of her son in the 15th Ward.
There was a large number of friends and rela-
tives assembled to pay the last tribute of respect
to the deceased. The singing by the 15th Ward
Choir was heavenly. Counselor D. H. Wells
delivered an interesting and eloquent discourse,
and was followed by Prest. Joseph F. Smith, who
made an earnest appeal to the living to walk in
the ways of eternal life.
								E. B. W.


