	MAN'S EXPONENT FOR OCTOBER 15, 1881.

	Dear Friend:-You have endeavored, in
your article named above, "to prove that novel-
reading is a study of art." I doubt not that
you have succeeded to the satisfaction and also
to the injury of many young, romantic minds,
in proving that novel-reading and novel-writing
is a noble pursuit: Allow me, in all sincerity
and soberness, to offer my frank opinion upon
the subject, which is that such satisfaction
as may be gained from such sources is false,
and consequently must be injurious. If we
speak, shall we not speak truthfully? And
how much more necessity is there, if we write,
that we write the truth, since characters, even
on paper, may be preserved for ages, and we
know not by whom they may be read.
	I am not an inexperienced person in regard
to the subject in question. I have read more
novels than scores of people who are much
wiser than myself, and I know just what it is
to follow the novelist among all the beautiful
as well as thorny paths which he searches out
for his followers to tread upon and scramble
through, watching his beloved heroes and hero-
ines with all the absorbing interest and anxiety
of a faithful sponsor or guardian. And more.
I know what it is to feel that I too have been
gifted with the divine, immortal power that
will enable me to interest others as I have been
interested; to call forth the tenderest sympa-
thies and work upon the finest senses of the
human soul!
	More than once or twice have I made "burnt
sacrifices" of rolls of manuscript, containing
glorious characters and splendid plots, because
-acutated by the sixth sense, to which those
who strive to be Saints are entitled, namely,
the Spirit of God- I could but see that with
all their glory and with all their splendor, they
were false. Yes, false, so far as I knew; for
although I had described them as though I
had known them to be true, I had never known
any such thing.
	The admonition of the good spirit comes in
different ways at different times. I had once
happily produced a portion of what was to be
a very find drama. Opening my first Book of Mor-
mon, I read a portion of the first book of Ne-
phi, in which these words occur: "And the
large and spacious building which they father
saw, is vain imaginations and the pride of the
children of men." I had read the words be-
fore, but had never comprehended their mean-
ing as I did then. "Vain imaginations! The
Spirit told me that pondering over and conjur-
ing up objects and subjects and circumstances
that never were and never will be, and pre-
tending to give them reality, was vain imagina-
tion. Can you find any plainer interpretation 
of the term?
	You say "the novelist is a creator." He
makes his own worlds, and peoples them," &c.
But alas! they are like the Sectarian God,
"without body, parts or passions," and has no
existence anywhere. So after all, what a worth-
less creation! "The Blacksmith's Dream,"
which was on exhibition here a year or two
ago, is of more consequence than such a world;
for that does consist of something that can be
seen, heard and handled.
	You say that "by means of novels many
widespread abuses have been corrected in na-
tions; but you do not state that many more
evils have been more widely spread by the same
means, in the shape of wasted time and talents,
mistaken aims and dissipated lives. We might
say that thousands of valuable lives have been
saved by the judicious use of excellent brandy;
and make no allowance for the millions of
lives which are wrecked and lost by the inju-
dicious use of similar articles. But would that


justify any teacher or leader in placing the
tempting cup to the lips of youth and declaring
it noble and sublime? No! Nor would it
justify any Latter-day Saint in giving his time
and attention to the production of spirituous
liquors, no matter how great his abilities for
producing excellent articles might be. There
is better employment, nobler aims for the Latter-
day Saints than the production, study, or use
of novels or whiskey.
	Shakespeare, I believe, lived and wrote ac-
cording to the best light he had in his day;
and other great authors may have done the
same. But in our day, let us thank God that
greater light has come into the world, and that
His people are called to a higher calling than
the production or study of fiction. Let us
praise and bless Him that He has given us pre-
cious, tangible, eternal truths to study and re-
flect upon, and to talk and write about.
	I am aware that occasionally a page or a
paragraph of a novel contains some excellent
moral lesson, or embodies some beautiful senti-
ment. But we can always find lessons on the
same subjects, and even more exalted senti-
ments, more briefly and yet more clearly stated
in the written word of God. The best writers
of fiction invariably turn to the Scriptures for
their best and wisest arguments.
	Then is it not wisdom in us to search the
Scriptures for ourselves, and find them in their
own beauty and strength, rather than take an-
other's rendition of them, mixed up with a
great deal of adulterating material? I say it
is. One of the commandments of the Lord to
His Saints is, "Treasure up in your minds con-
tinually the words of life." Surely "the words
of life"—Life Real, Life Eternal, are not to be
found in any man-created work, or in anything
whatever, save in Truth Real, Truth Eternal!
								LULA.


