NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Society
will devote its special effort this winter toward
securing municipal suffrage for woman.

	THE Pennsylvania Railroad Company is
making an effort to abolish the improper use of
the word "depot." The word station is to be
used on its lines henceforth, and even the great
"Union depot" at Pittsbnrg is hereafter to be
known as the "Union station." Richard Grant
White is thus indorsed. The word depot means
a place of storage of goods. Station is the
correct word. Railroads may have their de-
pots for freight, but not for passengers.

	MR. Edgar Bruce, the lessee of the Prince
of Wales Theatre, may congratulate himself
upon being the only manager who has had the
honor of producing a play in the presence of
her Majesty, Queen Victoria, for more than
twenty years. That period has elapsed since
the Queen, in company with one or two of her
children, went to the Adelphia Theatre to see
"Colleen Bawn;" and from that time forth her
Majesty, formerly so ardent a supporter of the
drama, has never been inside a theatre nor an
opera house. The Prince of Wales, however,
deeming it likely that the Queen, whose highland
home is so close to his own, would be induced
to patronize a theatrical entertainment, if given
at Abergeldie, summoned Mr. E. Bruce, who
was at the time performing the "Colonel" at
Edinburgh, and proposed to him to fit up a
stage and bring his company to Abergeldie
Castle. Mr. Bruce, aided by some local talent,
soon turned the huge coach houses of the Cas-
tle into a charming miniature theatre, and on
Tuesday night produced, before a large and
distinguished audience, the comedy which has
been running at the Prince of Wales since
February last. Her Majesty arrived from
Balmoral punctually at nine o'clock, and this
was the signal for the other guests, who had
assembled in the hall at Abergeldie, to pass
into the theatre. Among those present were
Beatrice, Louise, &c. &c. As her Majesty en-
tered the room the band struck up the National
anthem, and the welcome accorded to the royal
party was of a most exceptionally cordial na-
ture. The comedy at once commenced, and
despite the somewhat cramped dimensions of
the stage, and the still more trying ordeal of
such an unusually brilliant audience, the actors
acquitted themselves admirably, and the con-
stant applause and laughter testified to the
satisfaction with which the "Colonel" was re-
ceived at Abergeldie. The curtain fell upon
the last act at half past eleven o'clock, and
her Majesty, who had thoroughly enjoyed the
performance, expressed to Mr. Bruce (who was
presented to her by the Prince of Wales) her
gratification and approval. The Prince after-
wards entertained the company to supper.
Probably now the public may see a little more
of their beloved Queen.


