[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | February | Issue: 15 | Title: Editorial Notes. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion, will be held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms in this
City, Friday March 17th, 1893. This will
be an important time in view of the Temple
dedication and the work for the Columbian
Exposition and the several branches in the
County should be ably represented that
there may be a proper understanding of
what is expected. There will be two meet-
ings, one at 10 a. m. and one at 2 p. m.
and no doubt much valuable instruction
will be given on matters of grave impor-
tance.
	MRS. ELIZABETH STEVENSON gave a
party to a few old time friends, December
29,and an elaborate dinner,and the ladies en-
joyed themselves as usual when she enter-
tains. She is one of the genial hostesses
who knows just how to entertain her
guests, and never fails. She has been
noted for her hospitality for some years past,
and her popularity in this respect is not
waning but on the increase. The company
all testify to the good time participated in,
as well as the excellence of the viands and
the genuine welcome always extended to
the honored guests.
	MRS. ELMINA S. TAYLOR gave a pleasant
party, Friday evening Jan. 13th, to a few
of her intimate friends. The rooms were
very handsomely fitted up and the decor-
ations of smilax and flowers daintily ar-
ranged, made a picture charming to remem-
ber; the refreshments were very delicious
and elegantly served, and the whole affair
was a perfect success. Mrs. Taylor is one
who shines brightly at home as well as in
public, and knows how to entertain her
guests in the truly hospitable style. Each
lady had a small bouquet of flowers and
smilax tied with ribbon,and card with name,
date, and motto daintily tied with ribbon.
After the repast when all had gathered 
again in the parlor, Mrs. Taylor requested
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young to preside, and a
sort of “love feast” began by singing and
prayer, each one present speaking as she
felt prompted to do, by the good spirit that
prevailed. It was a very happy gathering
of a few congenial souls, whose desires and
aims in life are similar, and who thoroughly
enjoy these brief respites from worldly
care.
	ON Tuesday January 31st, Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young the venerable and respected
President of the Relief Society celebrated
the anniversary of her 72nd, birthday.
The party was given by her daughters at
the residence of Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie
and was quite as enjoyable, as it was pos-
sible to make the happy event. President
Wilford Woodruff and wife were present
and several members of the family of the
late President Brigham Young. Bishop
Tingey of the Seventeenth Ward and Bishop
Whituey and wife of the Eighteenth Ward
were among the assembled guests. Miss
Maude May Babcock gave some of her
characteristic recitals and quite astonished
as well as delighted the company by her
artistic character representations, and won-
derful changes of voice and manner. Her
originality in rendering the most difficult
compositions is a continual surprise and de-
light to those who listen. She has what
the poets would call a “witching voice”
and the perfect cultivation of tones and
modulation is surpassingly sweet and musi-
cal. Of the refreshments on this auspicious

[column 2]
occasion we need only say that everything
was excellent, and all enjoyed the feast of
good things as well as “the feast of reason
and the flow of soul,” also the enchanting
music, and for our dear “Aunt Zina,” as
she is lovingly designated may she live un-
til her soul is satisfied, and always be as
greatly honored and beloved in Israel as she
is at the present time.
	ON Tuesday January 24th, an anniver-
sary party was given by Mrs. Amelia F.
Young widow of the late President Brig-
ham Young, at her residence on S. Temple,
1st West Sts. About forty of her friends
gentlemen and ladies assembled by invitation
to honor the day, being the anniversary of
her marriage thirty years before, it seemed
a fitting time to commemorate, and as Mrs.
Young had been some time abroad and had
recently opened her house, it was quite
pleasant to call together a few of those who
were formerly in the habit of visiting her
in the more “palmy days.” Mrs. Young
had been accustomed to entertain on a
large scale in the late President’s lifetime,
and knows exactly how to manage such
affairs. It is needless to say she is a fine
hostess the fact is well established. On
this particular occasion, there were present
of the Apostles John Henry Smith, Heber
J. Grant, Abraham H. Cannon and Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon, with other honor-
able gentlemen and quite a number of
distinguished ladies, too many to mention
separately. The evening passed off delight-
fully, with greetings of old friends, brilliant
conversation and exquisite instrumental
music by Mrs. Young’s niece Miss Folsom.
The refreshments were delicious and
daintily served and the guests were so
charmed that time for parting came all to
soon, ere they were aware of the lateness of
the hour. The one drawback to the en-
joyment was the indisposition of Mrs.
Young’s father, Bro. Folsom, who was not
well enough to attend the party, that evening.
Mrs. Young has, since her return home,
devoted much tmie to the interests of the
World’s Fair exhibit for Utah and is a
very efficient worker in the Salt Lake
County Board.


