[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | February | Issue: 15 | Title: THE CLOSING OF THE YEAR 1892. | Author: Unknown]

THE CLOSING OF THE YEAR 1892.

	I DO not know a more prolific theme,
nor one that would be more interesting,
than the one I have chosen, but I fear that
in the hurry and bustle of the closing year
shall fail to do it justice. 
There are many things before us to con-
template if we had time to devote to their
contemplation, but we are truly living in a 
fast age when all things seem to be hasten-
ing, to their final consummation, there seems
to be a wild rush by many after wealth,
while others are strugling for a bare pit-
tance, some are almost solely devoted to
pleasure, while duty stands in the back-
ground totaly neglected. Strife is rampant
in families in neighborhoods in
municipalities in States, and I have not had
time to read the Congressional news during
the present session, but the closing scenes
of the last one, were about as stormy, as
we would suppose that cultivated gentlemen
and lawmakers of a great supposably civil-
zed nation such as ours, could make it.
	Indeed one might think to look around
them, and read the newspapers, that peace
was taken from the earth, and yet we are
living in the last days, when people are
supposed to be preparing for the coming of
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, for I be-
lieve that not only the Latter Day Saints
have faith in his near advent but the whole
Christian world seems to feel more or less
the Spirit of the times, and that great events
are about to transpire. Many shifting
and changing scenes are constantly passing
before us, like a moving panorama but as I
have only to deal with the clos-
ing of the year, I will try to portray our
situation in a measure as it is to day. We
as a people are blest with the sunshine of
peace, and with a good degree of prosperity,
also with a fair proportion of health and
strength for all of which we should be very,
very grateful to our Heavenly Father and
with the close of this year (although as a
rule I am not given to spasmodic New Year’s
resolutions) we should make a great effort,
with His help, to make the Year 1893 a
more fruitful one of good works, and de-
votion to Him and His cause than the out-
going one has been.
	The close of the present year finds many
mportant subjects before us, a few ol which
shall mention the autagonism betwixt
capital and labor, the peculiar amnesty
granted to some of our brethren, and still
greater than all other things are the World’s
Columbian Fair, and the completion and
dedication of our beautiful Temple of the
World’s Fair I shall not have much to say
only that it is expected to be one of the
most important events that has occurred in
the history of the world, and its magnitude
so great, that one’s mind can hardly grasp it
just think we have had ward fairs, county
fairs, city fairs, and Pri-
mary fairs, but this will be the World’s
Fair! All the world is expected to contrib-

[Column 2]
ute to it, all the world is expected to go to
it. Chicago is the favored city where so
much of interest will be gathered together,
Chicago henceforth, no doubt will consider
herself crowned Queen but to the hearts
of the true Latter-day Saints, Chicago apd
the World’s Fair, will fall into insignificance
when compared to the more important
event of the dedication of the Holy Temple
of our God!
	Think of the millions that have died
without the Gospel! Whose spirits await
redemption! Think of the labor of love
that lies before us, in assisting in that Holy
house to bring to pass that redemption!
Are we ready for it? Are our hearts, and
homes set in order? The Lord has said,
“He would suddenly come to his Temple?”
if he should do so at the dedication thereof
should we be ready to meet him? Or would
the parable of the ten virgins be fulfilled
and find us all asleep. “No man knoweth
the hour of his coming,” but let us scan
the situation, as it presents itself to us at
the close of this year, and study the signs
of the times, and square our lives in ac-
cordance with what should be required
providing that great and important event
were to transpire, that though we may be
asleep, we may at least be found among
those who will have oil in their vessels,
and their lamps trimmed and burning.
