HER LIFE AND WORKS.
(Preamble.)
	So little is really known of Sappho, that
one is compelled to depend upon what has
been handed down, which is partly legen-
dary, and very many people only consider
Sappho a myth.
	To me as a child Sappho was a reality,
and an ideal creature at the same time. I
can scarcely remember so young was I,
when I first heard Sappho talked of, nor
when I first read her name underneath the
picture which hung in the little chamber or
nursery where I slept. I recall it now,

[Column 2]
with its glow of beautiful coloring, and the
wondrous beauty of every outline of her
graceful figure as she appeared to my child-
ish eyes. Sappho with a harp in one hand,
which I supposed made of gold, and the gar-
land of lilies, as I thought, in the other, leap-
ing from the Leucadian rock into the yawn-
ing abyss below;—many a time have I fallen
asleep with the picture in my mind fancy-
ing I saw her motion in the very act of
springing into the water, her dress actually
fluttering in the wind.
	I am sure I must have wearied my mother
with the endless queries I put to her about
Sappho; why she wanted to throw herself
from the rock, and what love was, or Cupid
that made her do it; and why she sung
sweeter than all the Greek maidens? and
every other imaginary question. But in
truth I was never quite satisfied, nor am I
yet, nor are any of those who hanker after
the unattainable, the mystery of mysteries.
I hope some time the secret of Sappho will
be unraveled, and that we shall find she
was really a creature of flesh and blood, and
not a myth, or simply an ideal.

	The best knowledge of Sappho extant is
that she lived and flourished before the
Christian era, reaching the zenith of her
fame about 610 B. C. It was during
her life time Jeremiah began to prophecy,
and Daniel was carried away to Babylon.
Solon was legislating at Athens, and Tar-
quinius Priscus, the fifth king, is said to
have been reigning over Rome. She lived
before the birth of Guatuma, the founder of
Buddhism. It is not strange that twenty-
five centuries should have made her record
unauthentic. It is almost wonderful that
anything even legendary should be left of
one who lived so long ago, and who was
only a woman, and a poet-songstress. One
writer says had it not been for the quota-
tions of lexicographers and grammarians
no word of hers would have survived; al-
though history says her writings were pre-
served intact, until 360 A. D., and
the Athenian comic poet, Epicrates, who
wrote about that time, says in his Anti-Lais
that he too,
“Had learned by heart completely all the songs,
Breathing love, that sweetest Sappho sung.”
	Some historians affirm, although
there is no confirmatory evidence, that the
works of Sappho and other lyric poet, were
burnt at Constantinople and at Rome, in
the year 1073, in the popedom of Gregory
V 11. Cordan says the burning took place
under Gregory Magianzen, about 380, A.D.
	Bishop Blomfield, who is an acknowl-
edged authority, thinks they must have
been destroyed at an early date, because
neither Alcaeus nor Sappho are annotated
by any of the later grammarians.
	The origin of Sappho is also more or less
mythical. Herodotus says her father was
Scamandronymus, but Suidas, who com-
piled a Greek lexicon in eleven hun-
dred, gives us the choice of seven other
names. Her mother's name was Cleis. It
is possible too that she was born at Mitylene
the chief city of the island of Lesbos, an is-
land in the Agean sea. Strabo in her geogra-
phy says Mitylene, formerly produced cele
brated men, such as Pittacus, one of the wise
men, Alcaeus, the poet, and others “Contem-
porary with these flourished Sappho, who
was something wonderful; at no period
within memory, has any woman been
known, who in any way, even in the least
degree, could be compared to her for poetry.”


