U. W. P. C.

	THE regular meeting of the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club, was held at the office of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, March 31, 1896,
E.B. Wells presiding. Opened with pray-
er by C C. R. Wells, Roll call answered
by sentiments. The Secretary read the
Minutes which were approved. Miscellan-
eous business was next in order, and the
name of Miss S. L. Monroe was presented
and unanimously accepted as a member of
the Club. A letter from the Utah Federa-
tion of Woman’s Clubs was then read as-
signing the topic for the Annual Meeting,
the subject being “What some clubs are
doing in the east.” The President ex-
plained the Federation,its origin and object,
for the benefit of the new members. An
invitation was read from Mrs. L. S. Dickin-
son to the Club, to hold their next meeting
at her residence. It was moved and carried
that we accept the invitation with thanks.
Dr. Curtis then recited an original poem in
a very pleasing manner; this poem being
dedicated to the ladies of the U. W. P. C.
	This was followed by a paper, “George
on Jefferson,” by Henry George, relating
to the Single Tax. This was followed by
an interesting discussion in which the mem-
bers took part.
	Pres. E. B. Wells gave her idea on the
single tax question, saying, it is a tax on
land according to its value, it is growing in
favor and may, perhaps, eventually prevail;
but it does not constitute all the knowledge
of politics we need. Large land owners
object to single tax—lands valued by their
location, and not by their buildings.—The
one permanent idea is to exempt labor and
put the burden on the wealthy land owners,
because the present status shows the small
land owners to be at the mercy of those who
own large sections of land. Single tax
prevents the former class evading taxation.
President Brigham Young’s idea was for
every one to own a small amount of land
and cultivate the small buildings. The one
question arises: “Is single tax unconstituti-
onal?”
	The Secretary then read a chapter on
parliamentary law, followed by discussion.
	Mrs. Ella W. Hyde made a motion which
was carried, that the President appoint the
delegate to the federation. The President
then appointed Dr. Ellis R. Shipp to repre-
sent the Utah W. P. C. and to report the
year’s work. Laura Hyde, Pearl Rus-
sell Olea Shipp and Edith Rossiter to
serve on the committee for refreshment and
decorations. The appointment of the lady
to give the paper at the Federation was
postponed till the business meeting on the
15th of April. Adjournment was next in
order benediction was pronounced by Maria
W. Wilcox.
