FORGET TO CLOTHE THE HEART.

	“A man is known by the company he
keeps” or we may say it is the association
that corrects or demoralizes the man. Fur-
ther, a man or a people can be measured by
the way their time and powers are spent.
For proof of it we only have to look about
us and we can see the fulfillment of this in
every individual in their upward course to
success or their downward course to failure.
	I heard a person say that people were
known by the clothes that they wear. It 
seemed hard at that time, for an unfortu-
nate poor person to be thus judged; but that
saying is filled with more or less signifi-
cance; for industry, perseverance, economy
of time, labor and means, brings happiness,
health and wealth. But indolence, extrav-
agance and recklessness, result in poverty,
drunkenness and crime.
	As the outer man, so is the inner. The
external is an imprint of the internal. If
the heart is filled with graces, clothed with
charity, faith and the love of God, a care
for others will be exhibited in their acts,
there will be manifested the true nature of
the being, which is the unfolding of the in-


ternal. Thus we are bound to acknowledge,
by the laws of cause and effect, that God
abides in the individual, because he ob-
serves the laws of God. Thus man or
mortality approaches nearer to divinity.
	Our culture should be continuous; if so
we are morally enriched, and a knowledge
of this fact once obtained, stimulates further
exertion; as the individual has discovered a.
previously hidden mystery,—that the bitter
in his organism is being supplanted by some-
thing more beautiful and desirable. The
child first moves by instinct, but it requires
constant watching, thought and growth, to
develop the God-like man.
	Law is the first and grand principle by
which man is protected temporally and spir-
tually. If we transgress the laws of na-
ture, sickness is liable to be the result. If
we transgress the laws of God, we meet his
displeasure or disapproval, and if His spirit
is withdrawn from us as Paul said “We are
of all men most miserable.” Our spirit
has then lost luster, hope is defered, the
law has been broken, and discouragement
is the result, because His teachable spirit
had departed. Disparagement is not al-
ways a hopeless condition. Great results have
been achieved when apparently all hope
was lost, because some condition had awak-
ened or stimulated fresh courage, and faith,
a living moving principle to all action, still
existed in the heart, and we learn, by it
worlds were formed. It is the principle
upon which God moves and man is sustain-
ed.
