REFLECTIONS

OUR labors are finished our prayers have been
	answered
	And homeward all joyous we go 
It will cheer the fond hearts of our aged parents
	And little we’ll heed the fall of the snow.
But our flowers are tender from warm beds they’re
	taken,
The cold, chilly winds they never have known;


Beneath sultry skies they were planted and
	nurtured, 
	In their infancy there with others they’ve grown.
We have labored so hard to prune well the vine-
	yard
And carefully remove every rock from the way,
For the Master has said if thy labor is faithful,
	Thy reward will be sure at the close of the day.
So our hearts were e’er happy, our burdens were
	lightened
	The labor was finished we were sent forth to do,
We knew to our homes we again would be wel-
	comed, 
By our kindred and friends who have been to
	us true,
So with hearts bounding over with joy and with
	gladness
	God speeded our journey by sea and by land,
When nearly approaching the city of promise,
	A cold, chilly cloud o’er shadowed our band.
Our fears were aroused on account of our flowers,
	So tender,so priceless,rare jewels from heaven,
	We nestled them closer,but felt a foreboding,
Of ill-fate, as towards us the cloud was fast.
	driven.
Kind friends full of joy ne’er thinking of evil,
	Warmly greeted us ’ere we arrived at our home;
But could we forget the cloud that hung o’er us,
	The sorrow that, seemed to await us at home?
O no ’twas the cold chilly winds of December,
	That stole from our garland the fairest of all;
And our hearts were bowed down when we
	thought to be happy,
	And humbly we bowed to the Maker of all.
For the Gardener was ready to gather the flowers
	He had given us to cherish and keep for awhile
And our hearts were sore grieved when he firmly
	demanded
We yield up our darling, our beautiful child.
And thus our return to our home was made
	gloomy
	By the cold hand of death that welcomed us all
And Fate had decreed the reception long talked
	of
Should be to us only a burial pall. 
	LIBBIE	
January, 1896.


