[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Meeting of Ladies, held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
Feb. 22nd, 1896. Counselor E. J. Steven-
son presided. Singing, “Lord we come be-
fore thee now.” Prayer by Counselor
Clara C. Cannon. Continued by singing,
“Welcome best of all good meetings.”
Minutes of last meeting read and accepted.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she thought
it so beautiful that our meeting came this
year on Washington’s Birthday. But did
he do all these glorious things without
seeking unto God for light and truth.
Read the life of Washington, it is so full of
faith. Often he went into the woods to
pray. Sisters improve the time and say a
few words and then you will feel to speak
of the goodness of God. Sister Mary Ann
Hyde said she came to be built up and
strengthened. I am thankful to be one
among you. The subject of the youth of
Zion had troubled her for many years.
They are surrounded by temptation. We
must pray earnestly all the time that Satan
does not overcome us. The day has ar-
rived that the dreadful things are coming to
pass, which the prophet told us of. Are
we preparing for the coming of the Son of
Man? We should encourage our children
to have faith. I pray God to bless us all.
	Sister Sperry said her heart beat so hard,
that she felt to bear her testimony. I pray
that we may be faithful. Also prayed that
the aged would be blessed, for they had
borne the heat and the burden of the day.
	Sister Rollinson bore an excellent
testimony. A sister in the congregation
bore her testimony, said she had found true
happiness since she understood the gospel.
	Sisters sang, “Redeemer of Israel.”
Sister M. L. Morris said she felt glad that
“This people is my people, your God my
God.” Let us help those who are cast
down. The Lord loves the pure in heart.
Let us build each other up. I know that
my Redeemer liveth.
	Sister Nunn bore her testimony. Spoke
of a little girl that she had adopted, and
how much faith she had.
	Sister J. Samson bore testimony also
that the Spirit of God was here in rich
abundance.
A sister in the congregation bore testi-
mony, giving honor and glory to the Lord
who had strengthened her in her body,
also stating that the healing power was in
the Church, and the blessing of these
meetings.
	Counselor E. Webb, felt it a pleasure to
meet here in peace and quiet, while trouble
and strife is increasing all over the earth.
Spoke a few words relative to the franchise,
urged the sisters to be wise in its use.
Asked the sisters not to judge each other,
but be peace-makers, and closed by bearing
a faithful testimony to the truth of the
Gospel.
	Sister Barnes bore testimony to the com-
fort and blessings she received in these
meetings.
	Sister L. D. Alder bore a faithful testi-
mony,

[Column 2]
Sister Mary Ellen Kimball: The Lord
had said “If ye are not one ye are not
mine,” said she rejoiced in every one who
loved the Lord. Spoke of a man who
fought with Washington that knew the Lord
had been with him, by hearing him praying
in the woods. Now in this day when
prayer is despised by many how beautiful
this practice of Washington seems. De-
plored the condition of our young people
who were recreant and indifferent. Made
other interesting remarks.
	Sister Barnes’ daughter bore testimony to
the gift of the Spirit while the sisters were
singing, “Redeemer of Israel ”
	Another sister bore testimony to the gift
of healing, her little daughter being healed
so wonderfully. Spoke of a dream she had
and felt to press on and serve the Lord.
	Sister Stevenson made closing remarks.
Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, “This God is the God we adore.”
Benediction Sister Elmina S. Taylor.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro-tem.


