[Column 1]
	The tale runs that the unfortunate love
of Sappho caused Phaon to flee to Sicily,
whither she followed him. The inscriptions 
on the Parian marbles also mention a cer-
tain year in which Sappho sailed from
Mitylene and fled to Sicily. The Chroni-
cle however, says nothing about Phaon,
nor is any reason given for her exile; some
have imagined that she was obliged to leave
her country on political grounds, but there
is no trace in her writings, nor does any re-
port indicate that she ever interested herself
in politics.
	Strabo in his Geography says, there is a
white rock which stretches out from Leucas
to the sea towards Cephallenia, that takes
its name from its whiteness. The rock of
Leucas has upon it a temple of Apollo and
the leap from it was believed to stop love.
From this it is said that Sappho first in pur-
suit of the haughty Phaon, urged on by
maddening desire, threw herself from its
far-seen rocks, imploring the (Apollo) lord
and king. The story of the Leucadian leap
was never much doubted until modern
times. It is strange that none of the many
authors who relate the legend, say what
was the result of the leap, whether it was
fatal to her life or to her love.
	The story as given by Addison was, Sap-
pho the Lesbian in love with Phaon, arrived
at the temple of Apollo habited like a bride,
in garments as white as snow. She wore a
garland of myrtle on her head, and carried
in her hand a little musical instrument of
her own invention. After having sung a
hymn to Apollo, she hung up her garland
on one side of his altar, and her harp on the
other. She then tucked up her vestments
like a Spartan virgin, and amidst thousands
of spectators, who were anxious for her
safety and offered up vows for her deliver-
ance, marched directly foward to the ut-
most summit of the promontory, where af-
ter having repeated a stanza of her own
verses, which they could not hear, she
threw herself off the rock with such an in-
trepedity as was never before observed in
any who had attempted the dangerous leap.
Many who were present related that they
saw her fall into the sea, from which she
never rose again; though there were others
who affirmed that she never came to the
bottom of her leap, but was changed into a
swan as she fell, and that they saw her hov-
ering in the air under that shape. But
whether or no the whiteness and fluttering
of her garments, might not deceive those
who looked upon her, or whether she might
not be metamorphosed into that musical
and melancholy bird, is still a doubt among
the Lesbians. Alcaeus the famous lyric
poet, who had for some time been passion-
ately in love with Sappho, arrived at the
promontory of Leucate that very evening
in order to take the leap on her account
but learning that Sappho had been there
before him and that her body could nowhere
be found, he very generously lamented her
fall, and is said to have written his one
hundred and twenty-fifth ode upon that oc-
casion. Sappho, if we can believe the an-
cient writers, loved, and loved more than
once, and loved to the point of desperate
sorrow, though it did not come to the mad
and fatal leap from Leucate as the unnec-
essary legend pretends. Sir Edwin Arnold
says “Nevertheless there are worse steeps
than Leucate down which the heart may
fall, and colder seas of despair than the
Adriatic than which to engulf it.”
	Although so little of Sappho remains, her

[Column 2]
complete works must have been consider-
able. She seems to have been the acknow-
ledged writer of wedding songs, if we may
believe Himericus and there is little doubt that
Catullus Epithalamia was copied if not
actually translated from hers. She was on
all sides regarded as the greatest erotic poet
of antiquity. Nine books of her lyric Odes
are said to have existed, but it is uncertain
how they were composed. Some of the
Odes of Horace have been regarded as direct
translations from Sappho.
	Athenaeus says that Chamaeleon, one of
the disciples of Aristotle, wrote a book
about Sappho, and Strabo says Callias of
Lesbos interpreted her songs. Alexander
the Sophist used to lecture about her, and
Dracon of Stratonica, wrote a commentary
on her metres. She wrote in the Aeolic dia-
lect; the absence of rough breathing, the
throwing back of the accent, and the use of
many forms and words unknown to ordinary
Attic Greek, all testify to this. Her poems
were undoubtedly written for recitation
with the aid of music, they were in fact,
Prof. Mahaffy says “The earliest specimens
of what is called in modern days “The Song
or Ballad,” in which the repetition of short
rhythms produces a certain pleasant mono-
tony easy to remember and easy to under-
stand.”
	Plato’s definition of melic poetry like
Sappho’s, is that it is “Compounded out of
three things, speech, music and rhythm.”
	Aristoxenus, as quoted by Plutarch, as-
cribes to her the invention of the Mixo-
Lydian mode, of which the plain meaning is
asserted to be that she sang softly and
plaintively, and at a higher pitch than any
of her predecessors. All Greek modes can
be exhibited by means of our diatonic scale
—by the white keys for example, omitting
the black ones, of our modern piano-fortes;
the various modes having been merely di-
visions of the diatonic scale into certain
regions, each consisting of one octave. The
Ecclesiastical Mixo- Lydian mode supposed
to be similar to the Greek mode of the
same name, is the scale of our G. major
without the (F. #.) or leading note. It was
called in the early Christian Church the an-
gelic mode, and is now known as the
sveenth of the Ecclesiastical or Gregorian
modes. Sappho is said by Greek historians
to have been the first of the Greek poets to
use the Pektis, a foreign instrument, a kind
of harp which was played by the fingers
without a plectum. Sappho also mentions
by name kinds of many-stringed Lesbian
lyres, which cannot now be identified.
	It is said to be impossible to translate the
songs of Sappho and preserve the poetry,
and most of the fragments are given prose
translations which give a truer meaning.
	I have copied one or two as specimens—
here is one the 51st fragment.
	“And there the bowl of ambrosia was
mixed, and Hermes took the ladle to pour
out for the gods; and then they all held
goblets, and made libation, and wished the
bridegroom all good luck.”
	“Round about, the cool water thrills
through the apple branches, and sleep flows
down upon us in the rustling leaves.”
	“Come goddess of Cyprus, and in golden
cups serve nectar delicately mixed with
delights.”
	“O muse of the golden throne, raise that
strain which the Elder of Teos, from the
goodly land of fair women, used to sing
so sweetly.”
	“Raise high roof-beams! carpenters! Like

[Colmun 2]
Ares comes the bridegroom, taller than a
tall man! Hymenaeus! Towering as the
Lesbian singer towers among men of other
lands.”
	Another prose translation.
	“As the sweet apple blushes on the end of
the bough, the very end of the bough,
which the gatherers overlooked, nay over-
looked not, but could not reach.”
	Tran lation by Palgrave.
				O fair—O sweet!
	As the sweet apple blooms high on the bough
	High as the highest forgot of the gatherers 
					So thou!
	Yet not so! Nor forgot of the gatherers
	High o’er their reach in the golden air
				O sweet! O fair!
	Of her child Sappho wrote beautifully in
the Aeolian, literally translated.
	I have a fair daughter with a form like a
golden flowers, Cleis the beloved! Above
whom I prize, nor all Lydia, nor lovely
Lesbos. 
	Translated by Merivale.
		“I have a child, a lovely one
		In beauty like the golden sun,
		Or like sweet flowers of earliest bloom
		And Cleis is her name, for whom,
		I, Lydia’s treasures, were they mine
		Would glad resign.”
	It is said by the best men of letters and
Greek scholars, that it is impossible to
judge Sappho by any translations of her
fragments either prose or poetry; and as it
is utterly useless to try and picture her in-
comparable beauty of face, grace of form
and voice of sweetness, the whole idea of
Sappho as I have it in my mind is in its-
self a poem not capable of being translated.
						E. B. W.


