NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Republican State Convention of
California, in session at Sacramento on May
6, adopted the following resolution by an
almost unanimous vote:
	Resolved, That this Convention favors
the proposed amendment to the Constitution
of the State of California, whereby it is,
sought to extend the elective franchise to
all citizens of the United States, both men
and women. 
	DON'T let us say that we would’nt trust
onr daughters and our sons anywhere. Let
us keep our faith whole and unbounded in
them. But do let us revise our ideas a little
as to what is right and proper in our social
customs. If our social customs were not so
lax, if young girls were not left alone with
young men so often and for so long a time,
there would be fewer daughters of respectable
homes go astray. Mothers cannot longer
close their eyes to this question; the souls of
their daughters are in their hands, and they
owe it to themselves, to their daughters and
to society, to throw every possible protect-
tion around them.— Womankind.
	THE New York Woman’s Press Club is
one of the many clubs which have respond-
ed to Mrs. Henrotin’s letter, sent out in
January to the “Federated Clubs,’’ urging
them to hold “peace meetings.’’ This club
held its peace meeting, sang patriotic songs
and then passed the following resolutions
with great unanimity: 
	Resolved, That the Women’s Press Club
of New York has two fights on hand—one
with Turkey, for the rescue of the Arme-
nians; the other with Spain, for the inde-
pendence of heroic little Cuba. When these 
are satisfactorily settled it will joyfully
welcome a peace jubilee. In the mean
time it heartily responds to the demand for
an international court of arbitration, and
looks upon “talk” of war, on the part of
nations or individuals, in regard to ques-
tions capable of peaceful solutions, as a blot
upon our nineteenth century civilization.
Resolved, That the thanks of all clubs of
women are due to Mrs. Henrotin, the presi-
dent of the General Federation of Women’s 
Clubs, for affording the opportunity of an
expression of opinion from 50,000 women
in regard to the preservation of the mani-
fold blessings of peace, in which women
and the homes they specially represent, are
so vitally interested.
	MISS ANTHONY, president of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association;
Mrs. Ellen Sargent and Mrs. Austin
Sperry, president and treasurer of the Cali-
fornia W. S. A.; Mrs. Knox Goodrich, of 
San Jose, Rev. Anna H. Shaw, Miss Mary
G. Hay and Mrs. Ida A. Harper attended
the California Republican State Convention,
with a view to securing a woman suffrage
plank. The San Francisco Call says:
“Scarcely did they put up their placard in
the lobby of the Golden Eagle, stating that 
their headquarters were in parlors C, D and
E on the third floor, before they began to be
visited by the gentlemen delegates. They
went in two’s and three’s, in large groups,
and sometimes entire delegations went to
pay homage to these more modest workers


and apparently to beg the privilege of serv-
ing them. Large numbers of Sacramento
ladies identified with the cause of woman suf-
frage went to the headquarters,and left many
a choice collection of Sacramento’s magnifi-
cent roses and other flowers as a token of
their good wishes.” The committee on
platform and resolutions gave a hearing to
Miss Anthony, Miss Shaw, and Mrs. Har-
per, and to Mrs. Ballou and Mrs. Blinn of
the Women’s Republican League Associa-
tion. Miss Anthony presented a petition
with 22, 000 signatures. She said these had
been somewhat hurriedly gathered, as it
had not been supposed that the convention
would meet so early, but it was the largest
petition ever presented in California on the
subject.—Ex.


