CULTURE IN THE STATE OF UTAH.

Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State
of Utah.
	Section I. That for the term of ten years
after the passage of this Act, there shall be
paid out of the State treasury to any cor-
poration, firm or person engaged in the pro-
duction of cocoons of the silk worm in this
State, a bounty of twenty-five cents for each
pound of cocoons produced in the State, un-
der the conditions of this Act.
	Sec. 2 No bounty shall be paid for co-
coons not produced by worms fed entirely
upon the leaves of the mulberry tree, nor
shall more than two thousand dollars be
paid for bounties under the provisions of
this Act in any one year.
	Sec. 3. All claimants shall, from time to
time, as the board may prescribe, file verifi-
ed statements with said board, showing the
quantity and quality of the cocoons for
which bounty is claimed, the place and
county where and the conditions under
which the cocoons are produced, including
the species, and eggs produced, together
with any other information required by said
board to enable them to make and preserve
a complete and reliable record of the pro-
gress of silk culture in the State’
	Sec. 4. The Governor shall appoint a
committee to be known as the Utah Silk
Commission, to consist of five persons, not
more than three of whom shall be of the
same political party, who shall serve with-
out compensation, and who shall hold their
office until their successors are appointed
and qualified. The members of said com-
mission shall, except in the case of those
first appointed, hold their office for five
years, and until their successors are appoint-
ed and qualified. Those first appointed
shall hold office for one, two, three, four and
five years respectively, and until their suc-
cessors are appointed and qualified, the
length of time each appointee shall serve to
be stated by the Governor at the time of the
appointment of said commission. Each
member of said commission shall give a
bond, running to the State with sureties to
be approved by the Secretary of State, in
the sum of one thousand dollars condition-
ed for the faithful performance of the duties
of the office. The Governor shall have
power to fill any vacancy that may occur in
said commission.
	It shall be the duty of said commission
or its duly appointed representatives, to ex-
amine all cocoons for which bounty is
claimed, and after such examinations to
render a statement under oath to the Secre-
tary of State, showing the quantity, grade
and quality of the cocoons upon which
bounty shall be paid, and the name of the
party or corporation entitled thereto.
	Sec. 5. It shall also be the duty of said
commission to cause to be published, in
book or pamphlet form, explicit instructions

[Column 2]
in all the practical branches of sericulture,
for free distribution to the people of the
State; also to provide instructions in reeling
in each county raising one hundred pounds
of cocoons; to provide reliable eggs; and in
every way encourage those engaged in this
industry, and provide the best possible mar-
ket for reeled silk and cocoons uutil it can
be consumed by manufacturers in our
State.
	It shall also be the duty of this commis-
sion to render an annual report to the Secre-
tary of State.
	Sec. 6. For the purposes mentioned in
Sections 4 and 5 of this Act, the said com-
mission may use such sum as they may
deem requisite, and not to exceed the sum
of one thousand dollars in any one year.
	Sec. 7. The sum of three thousand dol-
lars per year, out of any moneys now in, or
which may hereafter come into the treasury,
excluding all school moneys, or so much
thereof as maybe necessary to carry out the
provisions of this Act, is hereby appropriat-
ed for the purposes of this Act. The audit-
or shall draw his warrant upon the treasur-
er in favor of the person or persons entitled,
upon the certificate, showing a compliance
with the provisions of this Act.
	Sec. 8. Any person who shall knowing-
ly swear falsely to any matter or statement
in any section of this Act, shall be guilty of
perjury.
	The Secretary of State in his discretion
may, at any time require the statements of
claimants to be supported by the affidavits
of other persons having a knowledge of the
facts.
	Sec. 9. This Act shall take effect upon
its approval.
	Approved April 4, 1896.


