CONFERENCE OF THE N.A.W.S.A.

	(Continued.).
	MRS. LILLIE R. PARDEE
"Was next introduced. She spoke as fol-
lows:
Ladeis and Gentlemen: 
	This Conference has been, so far, an ex-
perience meeting that I think I might be
pardoned if I myself make a personal allu-
sion to one of our leaders in the suffrage
work.
	It was my good fortune while in college,
to hear an address by Rev. Anna Shaw,
delivered before the students in chapel.
Among other things she related her strug-
gles while in college.
	She said that any woman who would
make anything of herself in the world must
work and struggle with difficulties, and she
gave an illustration in her own winning
way. She said when other girls in school
were wearing their dresses cut on the bias,
hers were cut on the straight, and when
others were cut on the straight, she found
that she had gotten hers cut on the bias.
(Laughter) So we must all make sacrifices,
if we wish to do things worthy of note.
An old judge said to me recently, “Don’t
talk to the men any more about suffrage,
talk to the women.” He was referring to
the recent municipal election in Ohio; he
seemed to forget that the women there went
out to vote in the pouring rain, and one
woman was so eager to cast her vote that

[Column 2]
she got to the polls before they were open.
I think it is well to say a few things to wo-
men on this subject, because they are not
all convinced that they ought to vote. In
my opinion, one of the greatest obstacles
that stands in the way of some wom n
favoring woman suffrage, is that they think
the Bible is opposed to any independent
action on the part of women; for instance
when St Paul gave the injunction that women
were to keep silent in the churches, he did not
mean that women for all time were to keep
quiet, but simply that women of that time
and place should not appear in public on
account of some impropriety they had been
guilty of. It may seem unnecessary to re-
fer to this but in a recent standard magazine
I found an article which I deem unworthy
of the pen of the eminent writer. I refer
to Mr. Boyesen’s article on the “Matrimon-
ial Puzzle" in the February number of the
North American Review. He saye:
	“Women of the upper classes have been
petted and defered to almost from baby-
hood, and have been taught to regard them-
selves as privileged persons. Every stone
is carefully removed from their path, reality
is expurgated for their benefit, their very
religion is refined and tempered to their
delicate constitutions, etc. But it is un-
doubtedly true that as individuals they
have lost rather than gained by being
shielded and protected from all rude and
painful contact with reality. You can-
not artificially limit experience without im-
pairing growth, diminishing the chances of
survival, and blighting the germs of char-
acter.”
	How true to fact and how strongly
stated! The false conclusion of the writer
is all the more surprising:
	”If they (women) desire equality, inde-
pendence and development of individuality
(which is surely a legitimate desire) they
ought to have the courage to face celibacy
and renounce matrimony; for equality in
matrimony is an irridescent dream. Love,
permit me to humbly remonstrate, delights
not in self-assertion, but in self-surrender,
and all this loud trumpeting of indepen-
dence will make the shy little god hang his
head with shame; if it does not frighten
him away altogether.”
	Then Mr. Boyesen goes on to draw a
picture of a middle aged statesman and his
serene wife whose love for her lord is as
simple and natural as Eve’s love was for
Adam before the serpent began to talk
philosophy to Eve. “It was after the fatal
discourse on the higher education that their
matrimonial sky darkened and troubles be-
gan to thicken. Then the raven croaked
in the Garden of Eden, the nightingale
sang out of tune, and the turtle doves fell
to quarreling in the Tree of Knowledge.
Matrimony had become a problem.” 
	And so matrimony becomes a problem
when women become enlightened! In
other words, to make marriage a success,
women must be densely ignorant. The
women who insist upon improving them-
selves must bravely face celibacy. A fine
position indeed for eighteen hundred and
ninety-five! He says that every bachelor
is a skulker, but he holds that every wo-
man who means to make something of her-
self must renounce matrimony. It seems
to me, on the other hand, that every wo-
man who renounces matrimony for selfish
purposes is a skulker also. I don’t refer to
those women who, like St. Paul, have
sacrificed everything for their life-work, but

[Column 3]
the ordinary woman is intended for mar-
riage, I cannot understand why men talk
so much about the domestic woman, why
they marry the Dora that Dickens tells us
about and just as soon as they get that do-
mestic woman bound to them, they leave
her for the saloon or club. If woman were
a true companion her hnsband would never
leave her for other selfish pleasures.
	I read a pretty story recently about the
Burmese ladies. We think that over there
in Burmah they are very far behind the
times, it will no doubt surprise you as it did
me to learn that the Burmese have equal
privileges for both sexes.
	When a Burmese maiden makes up her
mind that she is ready to marry, they have
a pretty custom of placing a candle in the
window and at this signal the suitors begin
to present themselves for approval.
	It seems to me that in this country when
a maiden feels that she is ready for mar-
riage if her lamp could be lighted by intelli-
gence and common-sense that the marriage
relation would be more enduring, 
	So much was said during the Constitu-
tional Convention especially by the hero
Roberts about woman suffrage breaking up
the family. This is such a hackneyed ob-
jection that I don’t wish to devote much
time to it, but so much was said upon the
subject during the debate in the Convention
that I think it is well to refer to this point.
	I read a statement a short time ago in
reference to divorces in Wyoming claiming
that there were fewer divorces there in
proportion to the population than in any
other state in the Union. How does that
look for breaking up families?
	Mr. Roberts also had a great deal to say
about Tennyson, and often quoted him to
show his ideas of the position of women.
Now I should like to read a few extracts
from Emerson(and you all well know that
if there ever was a man in this world that
was well poised and well balanced that
man was Emerson) in his lectures on “Pro-
gress of Culture” delivered before a college
class away back in 67, he says;
	“The new claim of woman to a political
status is itself an honorable testimony to
the civilization which has given her a civil
status new in history. Now that by the
increased humanity of law she controls her
property, she inevitably takes the next step
to her share in power. (She has had a
hard fight for it.)
	We wish to put the ideal rules into prac-
tice, to offer liberty instead of chains, to see
whether liberty will not disclose its proper
checks; believing that a free press will
prove safer than the censorship to ordain
free trade, and believing that it will not
bankrupt us, universal suffrage, believing
that it will not carry us to mobs or back to 
rings again. I believe that the checks are
as sure as the springs.” (Applause.)


