A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

(To the memory of Sister Minerva W. Snow.)
Dear Exponent:
	I wish to say a few words in commem-
oration of my dear departed friend and
Counselor, Sister Minerva W. Snow, whose
sudden death occurred in less than two
weeks after our meeting together in our
Relief Society Stake Conference, held at


Moroni, March 21, on which occassion she
spoke with much fervency, feeling a deep
interest in the spiritual as well as temporal
welfare of the association.
	We became acquainted in the early days
of the Nauvoo experiences, and had the
privilege of learning from the Prophet's
own lips, many valuable truths, which
were sacred and life-giving; which never
departed from us, but enabled us to hold
sweet communion together, especially in the
hour of trial, which was more precious than
worldly honors. We also received instruc-
ions on the principle of celestial, or plural
marriage which he established before his
death; which testimony he sealed with his
blood. I witnessed his departure from Nau-
voo when he said: "I go as a lamb to the
slaughter, but am calm as a summer morn-
ing."
	After the exodus from Nauvoo, we settled
in Salt Lake City for a time, when her hus-
band, Apostle Erastus Snow, was called to 
preside in St. George, Washington Co., and
Sister Minerva Snow was appointed to pre-
side over the Stake Relief Society, also to
labor in the Temple ordinances, after the
Temple at St. George was dedicated.
	About the same time that Brother Snow
was called, my husband, Apostle Orson
Hyde was appointed to preside in Sanpete
Stake. We kept up a correspondence, and,
as our Manti Temple was nearly completed,
I was called to labor in the St. George
Temple, where our friendly relations were
renewed; subsequently I returned to my
home in Sanpete.
	Circumstances have since transpired to
bring us together again. Having lost my
First Counselor, she was chosen to occupy
that position, which she filled ably for
several years.
	We left Moroni together, after our late
Relief Society Conference and spent the
night at Ephraim to visit our dear friend
and fellow laborer, Sister Sarah A. Peter-
son, she not having been able to attend our
Conference. We had a very pleasant visit
together, little thinking it would be the
last in company with each other. Sister
Minerva was ever true and faithful; always
the same, seeking to do good on all possible
occassions, and her name will be cherished
in fond remembrance by the young as
well as the old. She was chosen as an aid
to Sister Stena Willardson, President of the
Young Ladies' Stake Association, to whom
she was much attached, and with her labor-
ed for their growth in intelligence and use
ful knowledge.
