MRS. BROWN'S LETTER.

To the U. W. P. Club, From Wash-
	ington D. C.
My Dear Mrs. Wells:
	In letters received from home so many of
my friends ask me what I do with myself,
where I go and who I see. I have thought
often of the Utah Press Club and have in-

[Column 2]
tended writing them ever since I came, but
before doing so I wanted to visit the Na-
tional Association, as I have given myself
that pleasure, I send you this letter and
it you think best you can read it at the
next club meeting. Sincerely,
Isabel Cameron Brown.

	MRS. LOCKWOOD invited me to go to the
Woman’s Press Club Friday Evening at
the Riggs’ House Parlors. It was a very
hot uncomfortable evening; but the parlors
were full to overflowing. I met many
bright and distinguished women—a great
many have gained distinction in the literary
world. It was an open meeting in honor
of its President Mrs. Hannah B. Sperry
who with Mr. Sperry and her son go to
Europe the 24th of April, they have a son
I believe who represents the Government
in Scotland—they will be absent about
four months. The wife of Senator elect
Money—of Miss. Claudia B. Money gave a 
most interesting paper, “Impressions of
Hawaii"—she is a sweet looking, very un-
assuming woman. Mr. A.F. Sperry,a paper.
(I could not just see where he came in,as it
was a woman’s meeting) but it was a well
prepared paper and well given. An 
original poem was read by the writer
Marian Longfellow O’Donoghue, who
writes under the name of “Miriam Lester,”
she is a niece of the Poet Longfellow, a 
handsome and striking looking woman, and
very active here in public works, pertain-
ing to women. Miss B. V. Sherwood
(Sherwood Vane) gave a humorous sketch
of ghosts. She described the performances
given by Anna Eva Fay as we saw them
in the Salt Lake Theater a few years ago.
Mary Frost Ormsby gave a talk on her trip
to Europe when she went as a delegate to
some convention. Nearly every one of the
ladies that I met knew Mrs. Wells person-
ally and all said such nice things about her.
One of the members of this association is
Mrs. M. D. Hall. Mrs. Hall has been a 
guest in Salt Lake City of the Wells’ family
her husband is a cousin of D. H. Wells'.
	I went Saturday as a guest of Rosa Wright
Smith, one of the most charming women I
ever met, to a reception given by the mem-
bers of the “Mary Washington Chapter D.
A. R.,” at the Woman’s Club House 1710
I St. This Club House filled my soul with
delight, and it is what we all so need and
want in Salt Lake, it was rented for this
occasion, there was music, (and I noticed
no patriotic airs were sung) and ices and
lemonade served. Mrs. Smith is a dis-
tinguished woman. She lives in a charm-
ing home on A. St. with her father General
H. G. Wright, he is one of the most dis-
tinguished army men left. General Wright
commanded Blandensborg, preventing the
rebels from capturing Washington City.
Mrs. Smith is a "Colonial Dame" and has
been Corresponding Secretary to the
National G. A. R. I met the other day
when paying a visit to Secretary Morton’s
the woman that I think has interested me 
the most of any that I have yet met (not
excepting Mrs. Cleveland.) Mrs. Wilcox,
she was born in the White House, her
father was an adopted son of Andrew
Jackson. Her father ran for Vice Presi-
dent with Fillmore and was minister to
Germany, she knew all the great men of
her day and has a charming way of telling
about them. A friend took me one morn-
ing to Mrs. Caroline H. Dalls class, twenty-
five ladies meet each Wednesday morning to


pursue a course of reading—a number of
the Senators daughters belong. It was a
rainy morning and the ladies had their
work. Mrs. Dall did the reading and
asked questions, they meet in her morning
room, current events were gone through
with, she doing all the reading, then the
business of the morning began, the read-
ing of (Madame D’Arblay) Fannie Burney’s
letters when at the Court of George the
III of England; Mrs. Dall commenting as
she read. Mrs. Dall told me she had been
in Utah and seemed t know a great deal
about you all, in fact nearly all or everybody
one meets here has been in Utah or has
relatives or friends there. Mrs. Cleveland
is yet at Woodly where she fled with the
children when measles broke out in the
White House. I received a nice letter
from her yesterday and she writes, “Ruth
and Esther both have had the disease and
both are out again, the little baby seems to
be going to escape. The children had good
thorough cases and I think in a few days
they will be as strong as ever.” The
sweetest thing I have yet seen in Washing-
ton is the three Cleveland children in the nursery. 
Ruth was born in Oct. 1891—
Esther Sept. 9th, 93—Marion July, 95.
Mrs. Cleveland has nursed all her children.
	I wish our Utah mothers could see how in-
expensively and plainly they were dressed
the day I saw them, not a bit of trimming or ,
a tuck or a ruffle on any one of the three;
they were jolly, wholesome and rather
dainty looking children. Ruth looks like
her mother, Esther has light hair. You see
Mrs. Cleveland has her hands full to say
nothing of her social duties. Her mother
Mrs. Perine is to me as interesting as the
daughter and they are wonderfully alike.
Mrs. Perine is a great favorite in Washing-
ton and goes about and makes visits in the
most sociable manner and so the people 
like her greatly. The Vice President’s 
family are also very democratic and very
much liked, they live at “La Normande” 
and are in mourning for a daughter but they 
go about as they like and every one's face
wears a smile when Mrs. Stephenson
comes near them.
	I want to say in closing, that the weather
has been abominable, the entertainments I
have been to are no nicer than ours in Salt
Lake; the people I have met are no brighter,
the women are not nearly as pretty—and
the Brown family are all anxiously longing
for the adjournment of Congress to get
back to dear old Utah.


