[Column 1]
present. She referred to their San Fran
cisco trip and Salt Lake last summer and
said that the Congress of San Francisco was
the most marvelous gathering she ever saw.
The newspapers said the men were all
hypnotized or they would not stand on the
side walks two hours to get into a Church.
Every subject considered from the training
of children to the decoration of the home, it
all turned on the ballot for woman and
Susan B. Anthony was the Belle of the
Ball. The Superintendent of the San
Francisco schools closed them that Miss
Anthony might address nine hundred
teachers.
	Senator Peffer of Kansas before whom
twenty-two of the Convention presented
their petitions, said there never was a time 
when Congress showed so little prejudice to
our cause as now. Reform in Washington
seems to be the watchword, I believe that
seven out of every ten realize that the ballot
is the one thing necessary to aid in these
reforms.
	The sin spot of Washington, called the
Division or Washington plague spot was be-
ing raided. A prominent lady, a Mrs.
Barrett, at a big mass meeting held there to
take into consideration the best steps to
arrest the sin stained spot was asked by
several well known Lawyers and business
men of the city, would you advocate
raiding the Division and she invaribly
answered “no, because I would not close
even that door to these unfortunate women
until another door was opened for them.’’
	"There stood," said she, ‘‘once in the streets
of Florence, a block of marble, it was an un-
sightly mass of stone which occupied the
public space and was in everybody’s way.
It was decided to remove it and one day a
force of men came to break it to pieces and
cast away the fragments. Before they be- 
gan their work, Michael Angelo chanced to
pass and seeing the block asked that it
might be given him, he said there was an
Angel in that mass of stone and he took it
home. The Sculptor set the Angel free
and today instead of being a nuisance to the
citizens of that beautiful city it guards the
entrance to a great Church and is admired
by the world. So there is an Angel in
every fallen woman and it needs but a
Michael Angelo to bring it forth so that it
may shine in the light of God’s glory to be
numbered among the sinners who have re-
pented, whose value is so many more times
greater than the wise men.” This is a beau-
tiful metaphor; we could write volumes of
the many and varied kinds of mission work
which seems to actuate all classes and de-
nominations in Washington. The descrip-
tions of the receptions and the little inci-
dent of presenting our Senators with a
bouquet of flowers the morning they were
sworn in can be better portrayed by Mrs.
Richards orally than I can do it in writing.
However I trust the feeling that exists
between the national association and the
women of Utah will ever remain, and that
the hand of friendship may never be sev-
ered but that our representation in Wash-
ington may be yearly renewed which will
better evidence our interest in the great
cause of our sex and in humanity than all
the writing we could do. I do know that
our presence and conversation allayed much
prejudice against our people. Shakespeare 
says, “There is a destiny which shapes our
ends, rough, hew them as we may.” The
destiny of Utah is onward and upward. It
is right, conquering might, and may the

[Column 2]
men of Utah never have cause to regret the
part they played which has resulted in
woman's political freedom by an indiscre-
tion of ours, is the honest wish of your co-
laborer in the battle for the right.
SARAH A. BOYER.
Springville, Utah.


