THE BOOK OF MORMON.

(A Sacred Relic.)
	DID any one ever read this Book of
Mormon with an inquiring mind to know
why it was kept expressly for this period
of time, for this generation? Do they dif-
fer from other people, does not human
nature seem to be the same to day that it
has previously been for ages.
	Oh yes: but you will remember the Lord
said in the last days “He would pour out
His spirit upon all flesh:” and now since
this has been done see how science has
flourished until, we are all captivated, by
science. So much so we have no time to
read sacred relics. O no! A grand display
of everything is the need of the hour today.
	Yet there are a portion of the people, who
believe in an Omnipotent Power called God.
These people can see the hand of God in
all things.

[Column 2]
	These people can see the prosperity of
having night as well as day, for night
brings a new lesson for them to learn, The
Solar System for instance which shows how
the planets revolve around the sun and then
our earth also is a planet, &c.
	Now when we contemplate these things
we see our Father’s designs and purposes
come in their own time and place; all for a
wise purpose known only to Himself, yet
being His children we learn them by ex-
perience; while He knows the results before
they are seen by us. He knew who
would accept of this sacred relic the Book
of Mormon and appreciate it too. He knew
it would be those who were firm believers
in our Savior’s teaching and his power to
do the mighty works he did, called miracles.
	Now the question arises. Why did the
angel tell Joseph (this boy not fifteen years
old then) after seeing the plates that it was
not time yet, until four years more, but he
must meet him once a year until this time
expired. Does not this show that there are
times and seasons for every purpose under
the sun?
	This then is an important era of time,
great events will transpire in these days,
not only by science which has captivated
the human family: but great calamities
which man cannot fathom and which stops
man in his wild career to call him to ac-
count how he has spent his talents and time
given him by his Creator, for the human
family take great credit to themselves be-
cause of their improvement in the sciences.
	Would it not be well then to be humble
since we claim God to be our Father: and
remember this life is a school where there
are so many lessons to learn, each of them
to fit us for some place in our Father’s
kingdom.
	This being the case let us beware of pride
which is the spirit of this world and not of
our Father. The Book of Mormon shows
this in terms so plain that you can not be
mistaken. What do we learn of those
people who came to this continent because
of their humility and faith in God? His
protecting hand was over them, how great-
ly they were blessed until they became
rich in worldly goods, then pride crept in
and envy, hatred and malice followed in its
train. 
	Then we see the words of the wise king
or prophet verified, who said “Pride comes
before destruction and a haughty spirit be-
fore a fall.”
	Now I would ask: What is our position
to day, do we ever hear said ‘I am proud of
this and that,’ yes proud of this gospel,
proud that God is our Father, I would
rather He would be proud of me and help
me to live so that His smile of approbation
may rest upon that I do or say, rather than
I should make a grand display with which 
I may dazzle the eyes of my friends. No
let them be friends because I have proved
myself worthy of their friendship.
	Please excuse me if I compare notes of
the time the Book of Mormon speaks of,
and the present time. We read in days of
King Mosiah who was a righteous man,
but was about to die: he recommended they
had no king excepting he was a righteous
man because a wicked king would bring
much destruction upon the people, he
thought judges would be best.
	While he had been king the laws were
just laws, and peace prevailed, he said if
your judges do not judge by the law which
has been given, ye can cause them to be
judged by a higher law, and if this fail ye

[Column 3]
can bring a few of these judges together
and they shall judge by the voice of the
people. (Page 231 Book of Mosiah.)
	Now Alma was the first chief judge and
we learn from the book of Alma that a man
by the name of Korihor did not believe in
God, but said it was a foolish tradition of
their fathers to deceive the people and so be
injurious to the people, and glut themselves
on the labors of the people. Alma said to
him you know better, we do not take one
senine for our labors only for the time we
are on the judgment seat, but we work for
our support. That the people may not be
taxed so heavily. But Korihor would not
listen but must have a sign that there was a
God.
	Now Alma was grieved with his stubborn
will but being a righteous man asked God
to strike him dumb, it was done, then he
wrote saying he had been told by a person
to teach these words and was so successful
he began to believe it himself. Here he
saw his errors and that by the power of
God.
	Here we learn from this ancient history
how the Lord can bless the righteous, the
upright, and just and bring to naught the
designs of wicked men. The book of
Mosiah is beautiful on this subject.
	But grandeur and style has absorbed our
attention to that degree that this precious
book has been neglected, until we begin to
feel oppression in various ways, one in
particular is in building large and grand
structures which must be paid by taxes.
Another is the scientific machinery, by
which one man can do the work of five
men thus leaving those five men out of
work. Then how can these taxes be paid,
and obey the laws of God to feed and bless
the destitute.
	We read in yesterday’s paper that 300.000
dollars tax has been brought in, which is
only one third of taxes due to this city,
six hundred thousand remains due, in de-
linquent taxes. Yet every piece of property
is heavily taxed.
	How glad would we be to see those
days King Mosiah saw when he, although
their king was careful not to be oppressive
to the people in taxation. And when Alma
came to him to be instructed by him how to
judge a certain few King Mosiah says
“I judge them not, I leave this to yourself.”
	Alma was grieved but he went to God for
wisdom even as King Solomon asked God
for wisdom to judge Israel.
	They neither of them failed to get what
they asked because they were humble
and had faith in God our Father.
	Was there ever a book besides this book
which can so beautifully illustrate what we
are, and what we should be, to please our
Heavenly Father. I never saw its equal.
						M. E. K.


NEWS comes from Lexington, Ky., that
Col. W. C. P. Breckinridge is canvassing
his district again to run for Congress this
year, and the old movement of the women
in the district is being reorganized. They
will oppose the Colonel as they opposed
him two years ago. Then the race for
nomination between Breckinridge and Owens
was close. Now the friends of Kentucky’s
silver-tongued orator express the fullest
confidence in his success. He has been
practising law quietly for the last two years,
and seems to have worked off his memory
of the suit that caused Owens to beat him.


