	MARY E. TOMLINSON

	DIED at Concho, Apache Co. Arizona, April 8,
1896, at 1-30 a. m., Matilda P. Williams. She had
been troubled with heart disease for several
years which terminated in dropsy of the heart.
She had lived an exemplary and useful life, was
loved and respected by all who knew her; all that
loving hearts and hands could do, was done for

[Column 2]
her but she passed away like one falling asleep
without a struggle; she had desired not to get
helpless. She leaves one daughter, and one son,
also ten grand children. Three children having
preceded her to the other side. Also her
husband having passed away some thirteen years
ago.
	She was born in Vienna, Trumble County,
Ohio, January 26th, 1828, joined the Church at an
early age while in Ohio, removed with her
parents to Nauvoo, experienced all the persecu-
tions which the Saints were subjected to, received
her blessings and anointings in the Nauvoo
Temple. Mrs. Williams was the one that first
discovered the Temple to be on fire in time to
have it extinguished has always been a useful
and zealous worker in the Relief Society also a
dear lover of the EXPONENT, and was an oc-
casional contributor to its columns. She went
from Nauvoo to Missouri with her parents where
she became acquainted with and married George
Williams, remaining there until the year 1867. Re-
moved to Salt Lake City, then to Payson, Utah
County, afterwards to Salem, Utah County, at the
first organization of the Relief Society, she was
chosen as Secretary, which position she filled un-
til the year 1877. Her husband was called to
help settle Arizona. She was chosen President
of the first Relief Society at Brigham City
Arizona; which position she retained until the
year 1879, when she removed to Concho, Arizona,
where at the organization of the first Relief
Society, then she was again chosen President;
which position she faithfully filled until failing
health caused her to resign. She has comforted
many a troubled heart, both by her presence and
her pen. She did not cling to life as she had felt
very lonely since the death of her husband and
we feel assured that a just reward awaits her for
the labors she has done in the flesh.


