SUFFRAGE IN THE WEST

	THE agitation of woman suffrage in Cali-
fornia, Arizona and Idaho, is attracting
much attention and comment throughout
the several states that have taken an active
part in the questions of the day. In Cali-
fornia particularly there is a regular cam-
paign going on at the present time and Miss
Susan B. Anthony, Dr. Anna H. Shaw,
Miss Yates' Miss Hay, Miss Mills and Lucy
E. Anthony are working vigorously to se-
cure the amendment to the Constitution
which shall give suffrage to women, mak-
ing them eligible to vote and hold office in
the State of California.
	The Amendment will be submitted to the
voters in November, 1896; if it receives a
majority of votes cast thereon at that elec-
tion, it will be a part of the Constitution
without further proceedings. Meantime
the State is being thoroughly awakened,
and suffrage sentiment is in the air, and be-
ing wafted broadcast as never before on the
Pacific Coast, and in every nook and cor-
ner of the State.
	Mrs. Laura M. Johns has been doing
good work in organizing and speaking in
Arizona, and will be here now very soon
on her way to Idaho. Mrs. Diggs will join
her in Idaho, and the two will make a very
strong team, both are such ardent advocates
and such eloquent speakers, and are so well
adapted to public work of this sort, that the
cause must be greatly benefited, and nu-
merous converts made by means of their
logical arguments.
	To secure planks in the party platforms
Miss Anthony declares is one of her hobbies,
and it is certainly a great advantage gained,
for when once a plank is introduced it is
pretty sure to be voted upon, men will
not usually go back upon the platform they
had sustained publicly.
	In Utah the struggle is over, there is to
be sure, educational work to do among the
people generally, and wisdom is needed as
well as knowledge that the advantages
gained be used for the good of the common-
wealth and no individual caprice or am-
bitious desire for power or the spoils of
office ought to be allowed to creep in and
usurp the place of conscience and beguile
women into doing that which may seem
expedient but which is not straight-forward,
each woman should as far as possible in-
vestigate for herself and be sure she is right
and honest in politics, as well as in other
matters which pertain to one's well-being.
	It is well when doubtful on a subject to


give one’s self the benefit of the doubt, and
wait to be fully convinced before taking any
step that will be regretted afterwards.
	Certainly it is not expected women will
not make any mistakes, but it is right to
anticipate some good results from the new
element infused into the politics of the new
state. All the women (and possibly many
men) are watching the women voters of
Utah with greater interest, we are told upon
good authority, than they watched the wo-
men of Wyoming and Colorado. There-
fore it behooves Utah women to set a good
example to the women of the other states.


