	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	TO the memory of Sister Janet Laird Jenkins
who departed this life March 28th, 1896. She took
to her bed Tuesday and passed peacefully away
Saturday afternoon. Deceased was born January
13th, 1821, at Kinnaird, Larbert, Sterlingshire,
Scotland, married to James H. Jenkins in 1842.
Was baptized in the church May 27, 1847 by Peter
Moffet at Ardrie Lanarkshire Scotland.
	Confirmed by James Wilson May 30th, 1842.
Emigrated to Utah in 1863, arrived in Goshen
1864. Deceased was the mother of thirteen
children, seven of whom preveded her to the
spirit world. There are sixty-seven grand
children and twenty seven great grand-children.
	She endured many hardships in the old world,
crossing the plains and, in this country; but she
was ever firm and true to the gospel; was always
a very devoted and loving wife, living in peace
and harmony with her husband for nearly fifty
years and when he was incarcerated in the Utah
pennitentiary for conscience sake five years
ago last October, was their first separation
and when in the following February he was
brought home a corpse, her grief was intense;
but she doubled her energy in the gospel, doing
everything she could to carry out his wishes,
helping care for his young family and never tiring
in performing her church duties. She has been a
faithful member and teacher in the Relief Society
from the beginning; always loving to attend her
meetings better than anything else.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
call away our beloved sister and co-worker to a
higher sphere.
	Therefore be it resolved that wethe officers and
members feel the loss of such an energetic work-
er in the cause of Lord, for her very last work
done on this earth was in performing her duty as
a visiting teacher of the Relief Society; yet we
realize she has gone to reap a glorious reward in
the Celestial Kingdom of God.
	Resolved that we try to emulate her good
example and good works that we may be able to
meet with our beloved sister again.
	Resolved that we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved family and earnestly pray that the holy
spirit of God may rest down upon them that they
may walk in her footsteps and be prepared to
again meet with their beloved mother and com- 
panion.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the family, one be published in the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT and one be inserted upon our
records.
“As a teacher she faithfully guarded that trust,
Her motto was wear,out but never to rust,
The last work she did was in filling this call,
As an angel of mercy with blessing for all.”
	ELLISON GOURLEY,	}
	MARY DODDS, 		} Committee.
