			SIXTY YEARS.

FULL sixty years of life together
Through both fair and stormy weather;
Full sixty years has the grass grown green,
And sixty snows lie deep between.
Look backward to days on the long dusty road,
Where together you’ve borne this life’s heavy
	load;
Scan all the dark places you’ve safely passed o’er,
Where the storm clouds hang darkly behind and 
	before.
Then think of the sunshine that has glinted be-
	tween,
The warm summer breezes, ambrosial serene;
And then of the lessons you’ve learned by the way
Though sent in love’s kindness, yet hard to obey.
Now remember your children, dear pledges of
	love,
Choice gifts of a father that dwells up above;
How cheerful your hearth, how happy your home,
Where love and devotion ever hath shone.
Sigh softly for those you have laid in the earth;
Whose love was so dear from the hour of their
	birth;
But they have gone on a place to prepare,
For father and mother and loved ones to share.
The Gospel light was given to you
Down in your hearts you knew ’twas true
You left your home and friends behind,
Far in the West the Church to find.
The Prophet's voice fell on your ears,
You hear it yet through changing years;
When in Nauvoo dark shadows fell
E’en now, though sad, the tale you tell.

God bless the noble Pioneers
Who left Nauvoo in blood and tears;
And on that bitter, stormy night,
Began that dreary, lonely flight.
God bless them? Yes! a hundred fold;
For cause of Truth they stood so bold;
Far out on Western barren plains,
On the breeze rang out the “Mormon” strains.


Now here in Utah’s peaceful vales,
Where cheer and plenty never fails,
With sons and daughters all around,
With the Saints of God you still are found. 
The sun now shining in the West,
With glory bathes the mountain crest;
And yet beyond, just over there
Lies a land more glorious, bright and fair.
Tis the land where all the faithful meet,
And loving friends each other greet;
'Tis the land where the loved and lost are found,
And all things fair, for aye, abound.
God love you now and ever more!
His choicest gifts, too, we implore:
And life as long as sweet to live,
And then the rest that Heaven can give.
LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Loving thoughts to Patriarch and Sister Horne
on the Sixtieth Anniversary of their wedding day.
	May 9th, 1896.


