JOSEPH AND M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	THE anniversary sixty years after of the
marriage of two noted pioneers of Utah,
Brother and Sister Horne, was celebrated in
this city May 9, 1896. The event was
unique in itself, as it is an exceptional thing
for two people to live together for three-
score years.
	Brother and Sister Horne came to the
valley in 1847, only two months subsequent
to the arrival of the pioneers, and it was
this company of stalwarts who came at that
time who did the early formative work in
this City. They built the fort, they killed
the crickets, they built bridges, and did all
sorts of pioneering, enduring hardships un-
told, laying the foundation for those who
came afterward. All honor we say to these
valiant veterans and to those associated with
them.
	The wedding anniversary day was kept
in a fitting manner, their children and
children’s children were around them, af-
fectionately greeting them and presenting
gifts and tokens of love, and themselves
made it a happy occasion. Some of them
came long distances, even from other States,
to pay their respects and meet with their
honored and beloved parents.
	A banquet was prepared for the evening
and as many intimate friends invited outside
the family as could be accommodated in a
private residence; certainly the banquet was
of the most delightful as well as the most
delicious character, and served by loving
hands, daughters and sons and grandchild-
ren of the family. The tables were decor-
ated with flowers, and cards with the name
of the guest, dates 1836-1896, were laid by
each plate. President Joseph F. Smith
pronounced the blessing which was a most
eloquent prayer as well as blessing. But
the feasting was not the only pleasant
feature of the evening. There were
speeches and songs and music at intervals,
and conversation which added to the delight
of all present.
	The evening exercises were conducted by
the eldest son present Bishop Joseph
Horne of Richfield, Sevier Co. who acquit-
ted himself admirably in every particular,
as master of ceremonies. President Angus
M. Cannon, in his characteristic way, gave
the toast to the aged couple, which virtually
expressed the sentiments of all present, who
had for so many years been associated in
the most pleasant relations with Brother and
Sister Horne. Dr. Elvira S. Barney read
REMINISCENCES composed by herself, that
seemed to embody every event of their long
and useful lives and commemorated as well as
many things of historical importance.
	One of the daughters Mrs. Martha H.
Tingey read a very telling poem by Mrs.
Emily H. Woodmansee, Mrs. E. B. Wells
read a short but comprehensive tribute to
Patriarch Horne, composed by Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball. Sweet songs were beauti-
fully rendered by George D. Pyper and Mrs.

[Column 2]
Cornelia H. Clayton and Mrs. Martha H.
Tingy, one of them being “The Old
Home” by two of the daughters; and instru-
mental music by others of the family en-
livened the program. A poem by Mrs. E.
B Wells (which she designated a love story)
was read by her during the evening’s enter-
tainment, but there was not nearly time for
all that had been prepared. President
Joseph E. Taylor offered the benediction at
the close before the departure of the guests.
Br. and Sister Horne looked as charming
and as handsome, and as happy as though
this had been their wedding day, instead of
the sixtieth anniversary, and no one who
saw them, could say old age is not beauti-
ful; with the beauty of the years that have
left their impress upon the faces and forms
of those who have lived pure and saintly
lives. What can be more beautiful than
such a living picture. There is nothing
more noble or more desirable than to be
able to look back upon such a life in the
evening of one’s days. And for this among
the many other things accomplished the
many friends of Br. and Sister Horne con-
gratulate them, and wish them continued
happiness and prosperity during the remain-
der of their sojourn here. The following
poem was written for the wedding anniver-
sary party but the evening was far too short
for the expression of good feeling and kind-
ly sentiment by all who were desirous of
showing their love and appreciation.

