TWENTY FOUR YEARS.

	THE present number of the paper com-
pletes the 24th volume of the EXPONENT;
ever since it first made its appearance on
the first day of June 1872, it has been un-
failing in its defence of truth and right.
On every question before the people and
especially those of the most vital importance 
to women and to humanity as a whole it
has been genuinely fearless.  Woman’s
organizations for charity,  philanthropy,
industry, education and literature have al-
ways been given honorable mention in its
columns. As a record of woman’s work in
all departments it has kept pace with the
times as reference to its columns testify.
Womens' missionary work at home and
abroad is given much space; minutes of
meetings and Conferences almost a complete
record. Biographical sketches of the most
eminent women of our time in the Church,
and in other great movements are to be
found in its pages, and many interesting
essays and poems of more or less merit of
home production.
	It has been the aim of the EXPONENT
from the beginning to foster and encourage
home talent, and it has not failed in this
respect, for some of the best writers Utah
can boast begun their literary work in this
homely little paper, and its good work in
this respect still continues. It was the first
woman’s paper, except one, established west
of the Mississippi, and it has never swerved
in its loyalty on the question of equal suf-
frage.
	The EXPONENT has found its way into
many high places as well as lowly ones, and
has visited nearly all the countries of the
world.  All the womens’ papers published
almost without exception exchange with it,
and many consider it one of their best ex-
changes because of its entire freedom from
anything like sensationalism.
	If the women of Utah and of the Rocky
Mountain region could realize what the
EXPONENT has done, and the influence it
carries abroad, they would certainly take
more pains and make a greater effort to sus-
tain it, and not let it lack for patronage. It
is really a positive necessity for a great or-
ganization like the Relief Society to have
such an organ, and the silk industry needs
it in order to help it forward, and especially
now that women have suffrage, do they
need such an opportunity for expression and
advancement as can only be obtained by
means of a woman's papers. One dollar a
year is very little to help sustain


a paper for your own benefit, or if you
do not need it there are others who do and
the larger the subscription the more can be
done in free distribution, for missionary
work, which is always a consideration. Do
not grow weary in well-doing but help sus-
tain that which will be a history of the wo-
men of this age and period for such cer-
tainly is the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


