MRS. CHAPMAN-CATT.

MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT, nee Carrie
Lane, Chairman of the Organization Com-
mittee of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, was born in Ripon,
Wisconsin, and lived in that state until
seven years old. Then her parents removed
to Charles City, Ia., which was her home
during most of her life. She was educated
at the Iowa State Agricultural College,
after which she took a special course in law.
For three years she served as principal of
the high school and general superintendent
of schools of Mason City, Iowa, at the end
of which period, in 1884, she was married
to Leo Chapman, editor of the Mason City
Republican. They were joint owners and
editors. At the end of the year they sold
this property, and Mr. Chapman went to
the Pacific Coast to find a more active field
of labor. While there he sickened with
typhoid fever, and died in San Francisco.
Mrs. Chapman remained in that city for a
year doing general newspaper work, and
was the first woman reporter in that city.
During her life there, she became familiar
with much of the hardships and privations
of working women in great cities, and for
the first time realized the fearful tempta-
tions which beset the poor girl thrown up-
on her own resources. Many sad cases of
despair which finally led to ruined charac-
ter, came under her direct notice. With the
finale of one particularly distressing circum-
stance of this nature, she resolved that the
remainder of her life, with whatever ability
God endowed her, should be expended in
making the working women of the United
States respectable and respected, and her
right to labor unquestioned. With this in-
tent she went upon the platform as a lec-
turer upon general topics, thinking to gain 
a foothold in this way. It was not long be-
fore the suffrage cause claimed her attention.
For the past six years she has devoted her
service to this cause. In 1891, she married


George W. Catt, president of the New York
Dredging Co. He is as ardent a suffragist
as his wife, and aids her in her work in
every way possible. Ex.


