EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Presidents of the state organizations
of Relief Society in all the Stakes of Zion
are urgently requested to prepare a com-
plete list of their Stake officers, and also of
the Presidents and Secretaries of each ward
in the respective Stake, with Post Office ad-
dresses of each person and forward to this
office for publication. These lists will be
carefully arranged and printed in the
Deseret News; since the request was made
at the Relief Society Conference in April,
two or three lists have been forwarded, but
it is essential that all should be given with-
out further delay. Presidents will also
please state at what time their Stake Con-
ferences are held. Address these com-
munications to E. B. Wells, Office WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	THE setting apart of a day for the plant-
ing of trees, is no less poetical than it is im-
portant, and the observance of this day by
the public schools has a tendency to elevate
the children’s minds with, regard to the use
and the beauty of trees. The season this
year was most unfavorable for out door ex-
ercises by the schcool children, as the day
—the fifteenth of April—was very stormy
and disagreeable however indoor exercises
appropriate to the occasion were held,
though the pretty idea of planting a tree
had to be postponed. In some of the dis-
tricts the trustees set a later day and the full
program was carried out, and very delight-
ful exercises were held in the Fortieth Dis-
trict where the three schools—the Fortieth,
the Waterloo and the Morse—met at the
first named school house, and held their
exercises conjointly on the school grounds.
The music, the essays, the addresses by
Superintendent Van Cott and Mr. Betts
and the class recitations by the children,
were very much enjoyed and after the ex-
ercises a fine Box Elder Tree was planted
on the school grounds, the children all
promising to guard and tend it. As an ex-
ample of the benefit the children derive
from this simple practice, a little girl of
eleven summers recited a poem of her own
composition. It was her remembrance of the
planting of the Arbor tree the previous
year, and the impression it made upon her,
and we take great pleasure in publishing
the childish verses on another page.


