[Column 1]
The glory of Lesbos was that Sappho was 
its citizen, and its chief fame centres in the
fact of her celebrity.
	“Where burning Sappho loved and sung.”
is a quotation familiar to us all; the island is
famous now for its oil and wine, and its
salubrity. Virgil refers to its vines which
trailed like ivy on the ground, and many
authors testify to the wholesomeness of
Lesbos wine.
	Sappho was of the Aeolian race, and Sy-
monds in his Studies of Greek Poets says
“The Aeolians occupied the very fore-
ground of Greek literature, and blazed out
with a brilliance of lyrical splendor that has
never been surpassed. This passion blos-
somed into the most exquisite lyrical poetry
that the world has known.” In this the
Lesbian poets (it is said) were not unlike
the Provencal troubadours, who made a
literature of love. The customs of the Aeo-
lians permitted more social and domestic
freedom than was common in Greece.
Aeolian women were not confined to the
harem like Ionians, or subjected to the
rigorous discipline of the Spartans. While
mixing freely with male society, they were
highly educated, and accustomed to express
their sentiments to an extent unknown else-
where in history—until the present time.
The Lesbian ladies applied themselves
successfu[-]ly to literature; they formed clubs
for the cultivation of poetry and music;
they studied the art of beauty, and sought
to refine metrical forms and diction. Nor
did they confine themselves to the scientific
side of Art. Unrestrained by public opin-
on and passionate for the beautiful, they
cultivated to the extreme their senses and
emotions. All the luxuries and elegancies
of life the rich valleys of Lesbos could afford
were at their disposal; exquisite tropical
gardens, olive groves and fountains, pine
shadowed caves by the sea where bathing
was a delight, fruits such as only the South-
ern sea and sea wind ever mature, mar-
ble cliffs starred with the flowers of spring,
aromatic with the perfume of myrtle and
rosemary; nightingales that sing the sum-
mer nights through, temples dim with
dusky gold and bright with ivory, statues and
frescoes of heroic forms; these are the sur-
roundings, the settings, the environments
of the poets who lived and sung and who
 still live in the memory of the world.
	One writer says the voluptuousness of
Aeolian poetry, is not like that of Persian
or Arabian art. It is Greek in its self-re-
straint, proportion, tact; and there is noth-
ing burdensome in its sweetness. All is so
rhythmically and sublimely ordered in the
poems of Sappho, that supreme art lends
solemnity and grandeur to the expression
of unmitigated passion.
	Sappho seems to have been the centre of a
society in Mytilene where she dwelt, a
kind of aesthetic club, devoted to the Muses.
Maidens gathered around her from even
comparatively distant places, attracted by
her fame, to study under her all that related
to poetry and music; similar to the later age
when students resorted to the philosophers
at Athens. The names of fourteen of her
girl-friends have been preserved, the most
celebrated was Erinna, a poetess of Lesbos;
a poetess of whom an Epigram in the Greek
Anthology says. 
‘These are Erinna songs, how sweet though slight,
	For she was but a girl of nineteen years.—
Yet stronger far than what most men can write,
Had death delayed, whose fame had equalled hers.’

[Column 2]
	Of another Damophylia, of Pamphylia, it
is said she lived in close friendship with
Sappho and wrote poems after her model.
Suidas says Sappho’s companions and
friends were three, Attis Lesippa and
Megara, and her pupils he also names.
Another Greek writer says “What Alcib-
iades aud Charmides and Phaedrus were
to Socrates, Gyrinna and Atthis and Anoc-
toria were to Sappho—she herself praised
Dica for her skill in weaving coronals, and
a daughter of Polyanax is addressed as one
of her maidens; nor can we tell who were
those other hundred maidens. Ovid
makes her say “She blamelessly loved
before Phaon satisfied her heart.” Plato in his
Phaedrus calls Sappho—“Beautiful for the
sweetness of her songs.” Maximns Tyrius
says she was small and dark, une petite bru-
nette. Swinburne says,
	“The small dark body’s Lesbian loveliness,
		That held the fire eternal.”
Aleacus to Sappho in his song says:
“Violet-weaving pure, soft-smiling Sappho.”
	Domachris in the Greek Anthology, in
an Epigram on a statue of Sappho, speaks
of her bright eyes showing her wisdom,
and compares the beauty of her face to that
of Aphrodite. To another writer in the
Greek Anthology she is the pride of “The
lovely-haired Lesbians.” Anacreon as
well as Philoxenus, calls her “Sweet-voic-
ed.” Little is known of her personal ap-
pearance, but the whole testimony of ancient
writers describe the charm of her poetry
with unbounded praise.
	Such was her unique renown, that she
was called “The Poetess,” as Horace was
“The Poet.” Plato numbers her among
the Wise. Phutarch speaks of the grace of
her poems, acting on her listeners like an
enchantment, and says that when he read
them “he set aside the drinking cup in very
shame.”
	A knowledge of her writings was held to
be essential of culture among the Greeks,
and she is called in the Greek Anthology,
the Tenth Muse, child of Aphrodite and
Eros, nursling of the Graces, and Persua-
sion, pride of Hellas, companion of Apollo,
and prophesy her immortality. Many
Greek poets have written of her in the most
passionate style. Plato says
	“Some thoughtlessly proclaim the Muses Nine,
	A tenth is Lesbian Sappho, Maid divine.”
	All the Eipgrammatists uuite in the
same strain calling her “The flower of the
Graces.”
	Aristotle remarks that her image was en-
graved on the coins of Mitylene “though
she was only a woman.” J. C. Wolf de-
scribes six extant coins, which presumably
were struck at different times in honor of
her; however no coins bearing the name or
effigy of Sappho have been discovered
which were current before the Christian era,
so that no conclusion drawn can be of his-
torical importance. The best representa-
tion of what she and her surroundings
might have been, is the Sappho of Alma
Tadema exhibited at the Royal Academy
1881 and etched by C. O. Murray and pho-
tographed by the Berlin Photographic
company; from this J. C. Webb has en-
graved a medallion.
	A large statue of Sappho was splendedly
made by Silanion aud stolen by Verres. ac-
cording to Cicero, from the pyrtaneum at
Syracuse. Christodomus in the Anthology
describes a statue of her as adorning the
gymnasium of the Byzantium, in the fifth

[Column 3]
century. (Pliny says that Leon an artist,
painted a picture of her in the garb of a
lutist.)
	Numerous illustrations of her still exist
upon Greek vases, but they are all said to be
in a debased style, and one would feel more
content not to have seen them. (J. Ad-
dington Symonds says “The world has
suffered no greater literary loss, than the
loss of Sappho’s poems, so perfect are the
smallest fragments preserved, that we
muse in a sad rapture of astonishment to
think what the complete poems must have
been. Of all the poets of the world, of all
the illustrious artists of all literatures,
Sappho is the one whose every word has
a peculiar and unmistakable perfume, a
seal of absolute perfection and illimitable
grace. In her art she was unerring.”)
	The age in which Sappho flourished is
mainly determined by concurrent events.
Athenaeus makes her contemporary with
Alyattes, the father of Crœsus who reigned
over Lydia from 628, to 570, B. C. Euse-
bius mentions her in his Chronicle for the
year 604 B. C. How long she lived no
one of the writers of that day pretend to
determine; to herself in Fragment 75 of her
poems she applies the epithet old, which
may be merely relative. If what Herodo-
tus says is true, Sappho may have reached
the age of fifty years. An inscription on
the famous Parian marbles, a system of
chronology compiled in the third century
B. C., says “When Aristocles reigned over
the Athenians, Sappho fled from Mitylene
and sailed to Sicily, but the exact date is
illegible, though it may be placed between
604 and 592 B. C.
	Balancing all the evidence, Fasti Hellen-
icci takes the years 611 and 592 to be the
years in which Sappho flourished.
	Of the family life of Sappho nothing re-
liable is known. Lindas says “Sappho
married one Cercolas, a man of great wealth,
who sailed from Andros,” and he adds “She
had a daughter by him named Cleis.” In
Fr. 85, Sappho mentions this daughter
Cleis by name, and Ovid in his Epistle also
refers to her; but the existence of such a
husband has been warmly disputed
	“The story of Sappho’s love for Phaon,
and her leap from the Leucadian rock, in
consequence of his disdaining her, though
it has been so long implicitly believed, does
not seem to rest on any historical basis.
Indeed more than one epigrammatist in the
Greek Anthology expressly states that she
was buried in an Aeolic grave.”
	For all the myths or legends that cluster
about Phaon, he may after all have been a
real personage. The traditions which have
been handed down tell of his miraculous
lovelineess, and insensibility to love. He
is said to have been a boatman of Mitylene
who was endowed by Aphrodite with youth
and extrodinary beauty as a reward for be-
ing ferried her for nothing. Servius, who
wrote about 400 A. D., says she gave him
an alabaster box of ointment, the effect of
which was to make all women fall in love
with him, and that one of these (he does
not mention her name) threw herself in des-
pair from the cliff of Leucas. Servius
further states on the authority of Menander,
that the temple was founded by Phaon of
Lesbos. Phaon’s beauty and power of
fascination passed into a proverb. Pliny
however says, he became the object of Sap-
pho’s love because he had found the plant
eryngo, probably our sea-holly, and that it
acted like a love-charm.


