MISS BARTON’S RELIEF WORK.

	CONSTANTINOPLE, April 25.—[Special
correspondence of the Associated Press.]
—Miss Clara Barton has drawn up the fol
lowing statement regarding the progress of
her relief work in Asia Minor. It should
be understood that one object of our ex-
peditions in the field at this time, is the
helping of the people to cultivate their land
and get crops off that they may subsist in

[Column 2]
the near future and through the winter, or
their condition of hunger and threatened
starvation will be as great or greater than
now. To this end our two expeditions
have been for several weeks purchasing in
the cities, the farming implements in gen-
eral use by the people and carrying them to
the villages and farm lands of the country 
where all implements have been either
destroyed or taken.
	It is understood that the government has
expressed a desire to take part in providing
seed for planting. Indian corn is one
article distributed for food by our people and
it can be planted if no other seed is pro-
vided. The two expeditions are en route
for Harpoot by different ways, providing
for the farmers as the go. Money for this
purpose is being freely sent from here.
	The other object and perhaps the one
appealing more directly to the sympathies
of the people is the handling of the medical
relief of the two fever stricken cities of
Zeltoun and Marash, where eight to ten
thousand people are suffering the agonies of
four distinct epidemics raging among them
at once—typhoid and typhus fevers,
dysentery and small-pox. The first three
would naturally follow as the conditions of
starvation and hardships and the putrid
atmosphere of the neglected field of siege
and battle with festering wounds and long
unburied dead. The small-pox must have
been brought from some infected district.
	For the treatment of these thousands
there are no physicians left, if they escaped
one fate they fell by another. A few holy
missionary men and women, with names to
henceforth form a part of the history of this
miserable field, and one worn doctor, divid-
ing himself between three cities seven miles
apart, like poor Cassabianca, stood at their
posts.
	On this state of things we look for the
medical relief of these ill-fated cities.
Physicians must be found who are willing
to risk the double danger of contagious
disease and a country by no means in a
settled condition.
	Through Mr. George Post of Beyrout a
few were drawn from the medical college in
that city, placed under charge of Dr. Ira
Harris and sent on by sea and land with
medical supplies to begin a hospital in
Marash.
	More physicians are on the way and
others are being procured to report to Dr.
Harris, who has taken a part of his men to
Zeltoun, forty miles distant where 3,000
are reported ill. The result of his investi-
gations can only reach us later. In all
Asia Minor there is no other organized body
of medical relief. We have obligated our-
selves for its entire expenses, medical sup-
plies, transportation, hospital arrangements,
salaries and traveling expenses of physicians
and all necessary cost of communication
between the various points.
	Our first order for physicians was for six
in number with two druggists and supplies.
The number of physicians should at least
be doubled and every effort is being made
to that end.
	The reported number of deaths has been
for some time from 75 to 100 daily. No
one so well as ourselves can recognize the
responsibility. But the conditions are here
and we are here alone to meet them. We
can only tell them to the world outside and
stand firm in our work from day to day
trusting by the mercy of heaven to attain
some measure of success.
	(Signed)			CLARA BARTON.


