EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Juvenile Instructor office have now
in type a poem in pamphlet form by Mrs.
Lydia. D. Alder (a story in verse) giving a
description of the visit of the Tabernacle
Choir to California. It is a graphic account
of the tour made and is of historical inter-
est to our people. It is dedicated to Prof.
Evan Stephens. The price per copy will
be 10,cts.,the cover is noticable and title
taking “Mormon Tabernacle Choir” (in
California.)
	THE visit of Mrs. Laura M. Johns’ Na-
tional organizer and lecturer in our City
was a pleasant occurrence. While here she
was the guest of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and
Mrs. Ruth M. Fox gave a reception at her
home the evening of May 13th, in honor of
Mrs. Johns’ and of Dr. Elliott, at which
the guests had the pleasure of hearing from
both these distinguished women. Mrs. F.
S. Richards who is also a National organizer
will go into Idaho with Mrs. Johns, they
expect to leave the 17th of this month.
		MINERVA W. SNOW.
	BIOGRAPHICAL sketch of Minerva White 
Snow, who was born March 22nd, 1822, in
Northbridge, Worcester County, Mas-
sachusetts. Her maternal grand-father,
Jabez Wing, was a direct descendant of the
early Puritan settlers who had left England
to escape religious persecution. Her grand-
mother, Patience Mowry, was also des-
cended from old New England stock and
was born in Providence R. I. 1765.
	Her parents, Alden and Achsah White,
were natives of Northbridge, Mass. They
were moral and religious people but were
not members of any church until the sub-
ject of this sketch was eighteen years of
age, when the family were converted to the
Mormon faith and emigrated to Nauvoo,
Where they resided until their co-religionists
were expelled from the state.
	In January, 1846, the daughter Minerva
was married to Erastus Snow, a man of re-
markable ability and who held the office of
Apostle in the Church. Mr. Snow was
born in Vermont, but his ancestors were
among the Pilgrim settlers of the Masssa-
chusetts colony.
	Directly after their marriage they took up
their line of march through the wilderness
that intervened between the Mississippi and
the haven of rest they expected to find on

[Column 2]
the Western slope of the Rocky Mountains.
Mrs. Snow remained at Winter Quarters
(now called Florence)  while her husband
accomplished the journey to the Salt Lake
Valley with the Pioneers, entering the
valley in company with Orson Pratt, three
days before the arrival of the main body of
the company, on July 21st, 1847.
	The hardships and privations of the next
few years are a matter of history, although
perhaps the half has not been told.
	In 1861 it was thought advisable to
colonize the valleys of the Rio Virgen and
Santa Clara in Southern Utah for the culti-
vation of cotton and semi-tropical fruits.
President Brigham Young, recognizing the
excutive ability of Mr. Snow as a pioneer
and colonizer requested him to take charge
of the enterprise, which he did, Mrs. Snow
accompanying him and sharing his labors
in redeeming the desert. She suffered very
much from the heat of the climate and
other causes, but was uniformly brave and
cheerful and accomplished much good dur-
ing her sojourn in the “Mormon Dixie.”
She was President of all the branches of
the Relief Society in Southern Utah and
held other positions of trust and honor.
Mr. Snow represented the Southern
counties for many years in the upper House
of the Utah Legislature. He was a warm
advocate of equal suffrage and was a
member of the legislature which conferred
this right upon the women of the Territory.
In 1875 Mrs. Snow in company with her
husband visited her childhood’s home in
Northbridge, Massachusetts. Also visited
her sister Mrs. Anna Payne, and some days
later visited her youngest sister Susan
Wade in Medford, Mass. She spent some
time in New England while her husband
was absent in Denmark. (He sailed from
New York three days after their arrival in
Northbridge.) He returned in July and
accompanied by his wife visited his relatives
in Vermont and Canada; started for home
August 25th, and arrived in due time.
For some years after her return from the
East, Mrs. Snow spent the greater part of
her time traveling with her husband visit-
ing Old Mexico, Arizona and various parts
of Utah, until the death of her husband
which occurred May 27th, 1888.
	Mrs. Snow is widely known and univer-
sally respected; is now a vice-president of
one of the most flourishing States in
the National Woman’s Relief Society and
is a firm believer in the principles of equal
suffrage. She is often seen at the bedside
of the sick and the dying and is ever ready
with words of sympathy and consolation
wherever occasion requires. She is pass-
ing the evening of her days in peace and
quietness, hopefully looking forward to a
reunion with the loved ones who have gone
before.
	Minerva White Snow died of Pneu-
monia at Manti, SanPete Co., Utah, April
1st, 1896, Wednesday at 2-40 after this
sketch was written.


