[Column 1]
MYRTLE AND VIOLETS.
’TWAS only an old, faded letter,
	With some violets, pressed between
The folds that were yellow and broken,
	And a sprig of myrtle yet green.
But ’twas breathing of love and springtime,
	Of fields where the primroses grew,
Where buttercups, cowslips and daises,
	Were mingled with violets blue.
Which often in childhood they gathered,
	And under the sweet-scented May.
That so thickly clung to the hawthorne,
	He decked her with garlands so gay.
Sometime too in childish amazement
	They had gazed on the distant hill;
Where giants with eyes big as saucers
	So they said, were roaming at will.

[Column 2]
This letter had no thought of sorrow,
	Nor the slightest breath of a care:
But a glimpse of a rosy future,
	To which Eden alone could compare.
Ah! Well she remembered its coming,
	Why, only a short time ago,
She anxiously watched for the postman,
	So eager its contents to know.
It read, “you’re the best and the dearest,
	When, Oh when! will you name the day?
Your will shall be always my pleasure,
	Your life one long morning of May.”
Was ever a maiden so happy,
	Was ever a letter like this,
Or ever a future that promised,
	Such joy and such unceasing bliss? 
And Will was so tall and so handsome,
	His heart was so tender and true,
His strong arm would always protect her,
	“Good gracious my man is that you?”
“Why Susan I’ve come to my dinner;
	Don’t you hear the clock striking one,
And I’m in a hurry and hungry;
	For my work you know must be done.
I stopped to pick you these violets;
	The first in the meadow I’ve seen,
And here is a wee bit of myrtle,
	That through the long winter kept green.
They took me way back to our childhood;
	Why wife there’s a tear in your eye,
And you know I cannot be happy
	When you have a tear or a sigh.”
“Ah William you’ll have to excuse me;
	I’m sorry that dinner is late:
But you see, I found an old letter—
	Well here, let me give you a plate!
And I had forgotten the dinner,
	Indeed I was thinking of you;
When you had not yet reached the twenties;
	And now you are seventy-two.
I’d forgotten we had been married
	Pretty well on to fifty years;
Yes, I had forgotten our sorrows,
	Aye, even forgotten our tears.”
I did not remember the struggle
	We had that our babes might have bread:
How I felt when I thought I had lost you, 
	When the neighbors said you were dead!
Our children are wedded and settled:
	And I had forgotten their birth,
I remembered not the two darlings
	We laid deep, in the damp, cold earth.
For the time my mem’ry deceived me,
	I was living over again;
The days when we romped in the meadows,
	Or wandered through the green lane.
And William I know I’m provoking.
	But while reading that long-treasured note;
I forgot how terrible angry
	You were when I wanted to vote.
You’ve always been kind to me husband,
	But that was a puzzler for you;
When you found, expressed by the ballot,
	Sometimes our opinions were two.
But after all’s said we are here Will,
	Devoted as lovers could be;
And though our lives have been checkered,
	We still can look forward and see—


The future you wrought in my letter,
	All tinged with a glorious sun;
For William the end is approaching,
	And soon the great battle is won.
And, if the father should call me first dear,
	To cross over the dark ravine;
You’ll place in my hands lying folded,
	Some violets and myrtle so green.
	R.M.F.


