[Column 1]
benefit and preserve the precious child, un
til his father saw him again.
	Here we find him a wise counselor to the
king, able to interpret his dreams and save
his father’s house in time of famine. Such
food is beneficial to humanity; is it not?
	Then another, the King David, when
but a boy tending his father’s sheep. His
brother reproving him said: “Why did
you leave those sheep to come to see the
battle?” He replies, is there not a cause,
and in speaking of Goliah says “Shall he
defy the armies of the living God?” Not if
he could help it. And help it he did, as
you well know. Is not this food for thought
showing us what faithfulness and true in-
tegrity can do for the cause we are engaged
in, I think so.
	This was the food I enjoyed in my youth,
and took pleasure in reading the scriptures;
and now since I have heard the Gospel in
its fulness, and accepted its message, and
listened to its warning, I have greater joy
in the precious book, because I can see
more clearly and better understand our
Father’s designs and purposes concerning
the human family; and I must say now the
food seems better than at first.
	Do not we find the writings of all inspired
men, both ancient and modern, food for
thought; and after reading their history we
can notice from observation, the same re-
sults to-day, especially in reading the rise
and fall of nations; we find they rose when
pursuing an upright and honorable course,
dealing righteously with their fellow-man
but fell when they took the opposite course.
this produced the opposite effect, you know.
	Shall I ever forget the joy I felt when I
found this latter day work was exactly the
same that Jesus taught; also the same or-
ganization, the same gifts and graces. I
felt to exclaim, how could we be prepared for
the Millennium without it! I found it precious
food for the mind, and it ever has been
since that time, which was in the year
1842—I first heard the true and everlasting
Gospel in Oneida Co., N. Y. In 1843 I
went to Nauvoo III., and in 1844 attended
the funeral of the Prophet and his brother,
who were slain by the mob.
	I previously thought if he were slain, I
would lose my faith, but not so; I was much
stronger than ever. Did not Jesus and His
disiples lose their lives in this cause, and
many prophets like John the Baptist etc.
could we expect less?
	It is now over fifty years. I have not
time or space to tell you of the various trials
we have passed through in this time. But
one thing I will tell you is simply this;
when we acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in our trouble as Job did, when he said to
his wife “Has He not a right to chastise as
well as to bless?’’ Yes when we accept it as
a chastisement from God our Father, a
blessing always follows and we prosper
again. Now is not this food for thought?
	Only think of the time Gen. Johnston’s
Army came to Utah, expecting to fight; the
Lord gave us wisdom to defeat the army,
without a drop of bloodshed. Then we
were told we should be forgiven if we
would not hurt the army. Soon after they
were called home to fight in the rebellion of
the Southern States. Here their blood was
shed Gen. Johnston belonged to the South
and joined that side after his return.
	This reminds me of Daniel in the lion’s
den. He was saved but his enemies lost
their lives as they intended he should.
	Is not this food for thought; yes food

[Column 2]
which will teach us humility I think and an
earnest persevering zeal to love God, and
keep his commandments more perfectly.
 	Yet it has been prophesied that the time
will come when we will be tried by riches.
	It is now sixty-six years since the Church
was organized, and our trials have been
numerous. Some are anxious to be tried
by riches, but I am not. I prefer the pro-
phet’s prayer, who said “Give me neither
poverty or riches, but send me work and
comfort me, lest I be poor and steal and take
the name of my God in vain, or be rich and
deny Thee, and say who is the Lord.”
	We find in the Book of Mormon a profit-
able lesson on this subject; It is the his-
tory of the Nephites after the resurrection
of our Savior. These people had survived
the destruction which took place here at the
time of His crucifixion and felt to bless
God for their deliverance.—Only think of
the joy they felt upon seeing the Savior,
whose blood had been shed for them.
	He told them who he was and blessed
them, teaching them how to live to His
honor and glory; they listened and obeyed,
and their hearts rejoiced while keeping his
laws. Yes for three generations they were
prospered and blessed and became rich.
Then in the fourth generation they allowed
pride to take possession of their minds.
Then the good spirit left them, and envy,
hatred and malice proved their destruction.
Is not this food for thought?
	You will find this account in the 30th
book of Nephi, and on page 539 you find
Jesus last words (28th Chap.) to this peo-
ple.
	You will remember our Savior told his
disciples before his death saying “Woe be to
you when all the world speak well of you.”
Now only think that in 66 years we have
passed through many trials, and we are
now divided by politics, which causes an-
other struggle; yet our people feel comfort-
ed because the world at large are more
favorable towards the Mormons. Well
shall we become proud because of this, or
shall we not rather fear the tempter who
knows the weakness of our natures better
than we know them ourselves, and is ever
ready to trip our feet and cause us to fall?
But the precious Book of Mormon gives
us a word of comfort on this subject saying
these weaknesses were given us for a pur-
pose, for without them we would not be
humble. This is new food for thought, and
we find it ever so do we not?
	You know when pride and self-conceit
get the best of us, we are not content to
listen to counsel but go on until we find our
mistake, then we are humble and try again,
for dignity and self-respect will encourage
us to try again, and also to try with care
and caution lest we fall again
	Such is life, yet all things will work to-
gether for good to those who love God and
are called according to His purpose. This
St. Paul tells us.
	Again to-day in taking up the sacred
writings I find food for thought; in Section
90, 17th Verse of Doctrine and Covenants, it
reads thus; “Be not ashamed neither con-
founded, but be admonished in all your
high-mindedness and pride; for it bringeth
a snare upon your souls.” Also says “Set
your houses in order; keep slothfulness and
uncleanness far from you.”
	This we understand. We are not fit for
our Father’s Kingdom unless we are pure,
both mentally and physically pure.—We
must remember also that this high-minded-

[Column 3]
ness and pride bringeth a snare upon our
souls. Now I would ask how shall we de-
fine this. We know that dignity and self-
respect belong to the Deity. Did not our
Savior possess the dignity when He refused
every offer the tempter offered Him? Yet
He gained the victory by humility, even by
fasting and prayer, for forty days and
nights; is not this humility?
	Our Savior said when you pray say our
Father in heaven; Accordingly we believe
the Deity to be our Father, yet he is angry
with the wicked every day. Does He say
we shall not get angry? No He says “Be
angry and sin not.’’
	He then requires us to be patient and
trust the event in His hands, for He says
“Vengeance is mine, I will repay.” Here
we see He requires us to be humble and
have confidence in His promises, teaching
us, it is better to suffer wrong than to do
wrong. Then as obedient children let us
remember we are not to retaliate, knowing
they will be rewarded according to their
works, but we are not the ones to do it.
This is more food for thought.
	I think we find (if I understand the
scriptures correctly) that humility is the
spirit of the Gospel and pride the spirit of
the world and since we came here to learn
both is it not best to meet one at a time, to
become properly acquainted? We find
where both meet in contest, it creates such
confusion that we do not get acquainted
with either properly.
	We are of the earth earthy, and must
know the spirit of the world. Yet the
spirit of the Gospel will enable us to govern
and control that of the world; as the poet
says,
‘‘Govern your passions with absolute sway,
And grow wiser and better as life wears away.”
	And again since we are made in the
image of God, and have His attributes to a
greater or less extent, one would think we
would naturally incline to the good spirit.
Yes truly are not little children naturally
pure and good, so that our Savior blessed
them? Yes indeed, yet how long does it
take to learn the opposite when in company
with those whose whole soul is in the
world? not long. Then comes the struggle
of life to give each of those spirits its
proper value and its proper place.
	It takes a wise parent to do this; one who
has met the struggle himself, and has found
the rule of action given by our Savior the
only true course to pursue. It may well be
called the true riches, because it makes
happy homes, dutiful children and loving
parents. When we arrive at this state of
perfection, for such it is, then we can ac-
knowledge the hand of God in all things
which brought us to this crisis; and re-
member the words of Jesus who said “If
you will keep my laws as I kept my Fath-
er’s laws, you shall share with me in my
glory.” Is not this food for thought, and
the right kind of food? Much might be
said upon this subject from scripture stand-
point.
