our United States Food Administration, concerning the observance of such days. If he sees mother living strictly to her pledges, he will unconsciously begin to attach some importance to the causes and will begin to investigate these causes, thereby learning loyalty and obedience as well as a store of useful information in his efforts.

Children delight in doing the thing that mother and father are doing, and parents should furnish as many opportunities for co-operation with their children as possible, for it develops a child's reasoning power and causes him to feel a personal responsibility in reaching the same goal as mother and father have reached. A child's highest ideal is usually his parents, and it is well if parents prove themselves worthy. Cheerful observance of the rules and regulations of our Food Commissioners will promote patriotism and unity in the home. Children like routine work and repetition and will enjoy the novelty of remembering meatless, wheatless and sugarless days if the subject is tactfully suggested and brought uncomplainingly into effect by the parents. Second. Our children will learn sacrifice, the predominating virtue of our dear Savior and the one that always brings a blessing and brings us nearer to God. Many children fail to learn the principle of sacrifice because their parents have plenty and have not the strength or wisdom to deny their children some of their wants. In fact, the whole of prosperous America is suffering more or less from this cause, and we have but to follow Book of Mormon history, and all the world's history, to find what comes to people who become too prosperous, for throughout the ages they have become lifted up in the pride of their hearts and forgotten that God is the Giver of all. Teach the child, then, to make a sacrifice for we can never be like the Savior till we have learned the principle of sacrifice, and we can never gain our salvation till we learn to be like the Savior; in other words, learn the laws of God (which are the laws of our universe) and how to obey them. Third. Out of obedience comes order, and so our children will learn order and system. There is a fascination in having certain things on certain days. A child likes to feel sure of more delicious Johnny cake, and many an enthusiastic yell has already gone forth in "Wednesday for Johnny cake and corn syrup" even though he might be cheated out of it during the intervening days. Fourth. Our children will learn something of fasting by being deprived occasionally of bread with the underlying thought kept before them that some one needs it worse than they do. Great care should be taken, however, that in these deprivations the child shall receive sufficient wholesome nourishment by wholesome substitutes. Our Government does not intend that our children be the least bit under-nourished; quite the contrary advices are that children shall have wholesome milk, butter and proper amount of fats and sugar, but it is the problem of the mothers to produce and prepare proper substitutes for the things that we are called upon to sacrifice to those who are more in need than we are at the present time, and the child will learn to appreciate his food by an occasional pang of hunger for bread. He will learn how to be sincere when called to ask the blessing at table, thanking God for the food provided. There is a condition to be met, and fathers, mothers and children of prosperous America are the ones to meet it. Are we ready? Are we equipped for teaching our children how to meet the condition? Do we know that this is our glorious opportunity to teach our children obedience? It is easy for the wise father by his example and suggestion to teach the children to love a good mother and for the mother to teach them to love and respect father, and it is easy if father and mother are loyal to themselves, to the Government and to their God to teach their children to be so. It becomes a sort of cooperative unit that all will enjoy and that will bring about the reward of effort. Fifth. Our children can learn honesty. They will observe mother closer than she is aware, to find out if she is strictly honest to her pledge of conservation, and finding her strictly honest and true to her word, they will be stimulated to honest dealings themselves. The manner in which mother observes these things will show her child just how honest she is, so remember, mothers, we're "on our honor." The present needs of our Country are affording us numberless opportunities to teach the principles of truth to our children that would not otherwise have come to us in a way to teach them so effectively. Besides all of these things a child will learn economy, brotherly care, sympathy, love, general knowledge, in fact he will learn the gospel of Christ and how to live it.