Notes from the Field. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary.

Stake Conferences. An innovation was made in the stake conference program for this year in the introduction of a meeting for stake officers and stake board members only. This arrangement has proved to be fairly satisfactory. It has given the visiting member of the General Board an opportunity to talk over the stake problems with the stake officers and stake board members and thus to learn of the details of the local work. It has also given the stake officers an opportunity to ask questions with regard to the general plans and policies of the organization. Each stake has many individual problems due to local conditions and the best opportunity for consideration of these stake problems is at the officers' meeting for stake officers and board members. Excellent reports of the work done in the various stakes are being brought in by General Board members who are visiting stake conferences. It seems there has never been a time when the stake officers have been so anxious to have all their work up to standard and so able to accomplish their desires. They are working and planning early and late and are being loyally supported by ward officers and members, and through their unity and loyalty, phenomenal results are being obtained.

Relief Society Teachers. In South Sanpete stake the teachers are especially appreciated for their service. It is said they are more generally beloved than any other Relief Society or community workers. In Douglas, Arizona, the teachers' work is considered the most interesting and attractive work in the society.

Nebo Stake. On May 25, 1918, Nebo Stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Eliza J. Dixon, who has served as president of the Relief Society in this stake since the stake was organized seventeen years ago, was released on account of ill health and Mrs. Hepsy Sperry Lewis was chosen to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Dixon has been faithful and devoted to the Relief Society cause, giving it her loyal support at all times. Her charming personality and kindly nature have won her a host of friends, not only among the stake and local officers and members, but also among the general officers.

Rigby Stake. Mrs. Ann T. Walker resigned from her position as president of the Relief Society of the Rigby stake on June 2, 1918. Mrs. Walker has been true and faithful in the performance of her duties, and has put forth her best efforts at all times for the advancement of Relief Society work. Mrs. Elizabeth J. Hart, who served as 1st Counselor to Mrs. Walker, was chosen as the new president.

Maricopa Stake. One of the first stakes to send in the Annual Dues for 1918 was the Maricopa stake, with a record of 100 per cent from all the wards except the Papago Indian ward. The Papago ward has an enrollment of thirty-one.

These Indian members like those meetings best at which food demonstrations are held and refreshments served, but as this feature is rather expensive, the stake officers are thinking of outlining some special other work which will be adapted to them. Three new wards have been organized in this stake since the beginning of the year. At the stake officers' meetings, held once a month, the time is spent in discussing stake and ward problems and in the presentation of lessons. At the ward officers' meeting, reports are heard from the ward presidents and at least two lessons for the following month are given. 

Panguitch Stake. In the Panguitch stake, the Relief Society stake visitors accompany the home missionaries in visiting wards. 

St. George Stake. In Pine Valley ward the entire membership subscribe to the Magazine. There are eleven members and eleven copies of the Magazine are taken. 

Summit Stake. In the Third Liberty Loan, each of the sixteen wards in the Summit Stake Relief Society purchased a $50 bond. 

458 . 

California Mission. Oakland. In the recent Red Cross parade held at Oakland, California, the Relief Society float took the second prize. There were 192 floats in all. (See illustration.) 

Gridley. In Gridley, California, we have two very energetic and prosperous branches of the Relief Society. Mrs. Lydia J. Brown is president of the Gridley branch, which has a membership of 52, and Mrs. Harriet Little is president of the Liberty branch, with a membership of 26. These branches take up all of the regular activities of the Relief Society. 

The National Conference of Social Work convened in Kansas City from May 15 to 22, 1918, with 2,000 delegates in attendance. Utah was represented by Elder Stephen L. Richards and wife, of the Social Advisory Committee of the Church; Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, Miss Beth Bradford and Miss Cora Kasius, of the Relief Society; Miss Kate Williams, Miss Claire Smith,