Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Mail rates on second class matter magazines, etc. were increased in the United States on July 1. Three "Mormon" missionaries were fined $50 each at Erie, Pa., in June, for preaching the gospel there. Ambulance No. 2, contributed by the "Mormon" Church, is doing duty on the French war front. Wheat prices in the United States have been raised as a result of the government having increased freight rates. Austria began a great offensive attack on Italy on June 15, but was severely defeated by the Italian, British and French forces in Italy. South American troops, which are mostly of Indian blood, have been accorded the privilege of being trained for war in the United States. Casualties among Utah and Idaho men in the American army in France increased in June, and probably will continue to increase as fighting becomes more general. The United States had practically a million men under arms in Europe on July 1, and not a loaded transport under American convoy had been lost up to that date. The 145th regimental band Utah regiment came to Utah during the month of July, and gave a number of concerts for the benefit of the regimental fund. Utah took out her quota of war savings stamps, but by a bare margin which shows that the masses of the people are being pretty well stripped of money. Registration on June 27, of all young men in the United States who have reached the age of twenty-one years since June 5, 1917, reached nearly three quarters of a million names. Profiteering and fraud in furnishing army supplies are being uncovered to a considerable extent since United States Senators began an agitation for investigation.

American troops were landed in Italy the last week in June, to aid the Italians against the Austrians, although the United States is not technically at war with Austria. German submarines operating off the United States Atlantic coast in June sank twenty-two vessels belonging to different nationalities, with small loss of life; no vessels transporting troops were caught. Threshing machines in Utah have been taken under government license, ostensibly to prevent waste through carelessness, but really to ascertain just how much grain is handled, and for whom. Senator Reed of Missouri, in the U. S. Senate, the last week in June, asserted that certain profiteering in the United States had "multiplied three-fold," and that "every time Mr. Hoover regulated prices for the capitalists he has regulated them up." A MAJESTIC MONUMENT to the memory of Patriarch Hyrum Smith, who was martyred at Carthage, Ill., on June 27, 1844, was dedicated in the Salt Lake City cemetery on June 27, 1918, in the presence of a large concourse of people. All of the First Presidency of the Church took part in the ceremony. Turks destroyed the American mission and hospital at Tabriz, Persia, in June. If the United States takes this as occasion for declaring war against Turkey, the latter act will indicate a material change in the war situation, as to its nearing a close. Mrs. Charles P. Brooks, federal dietician in Salt Lake City, for Utah, has notified the government officials (giving her scientific reasons) that war bread, as made by the regular bakery processes, is indigestible, harmful to the strongest constitutions, positively dangerous for persons having ordinary health, and "a menace to weak constitutions or stomachs," and that "much of the illness now prevailing in Salt Lake is due solely to the indigestibility of the war bread as baked." Since the bakers are operating under license of the national food administration, the complaint, if well founded, must affect other localities than Utah.