No people on the earth, with the exception of the Present Jews themselves, have more cause for rejoicing Condition of and see more clearly the hand of the Lord in the Jerusalem, redemption of Jerusalem from the oppression of the Gentile Turk, than do the Latter-day Saints. Our own promises, prophecies and glorious future would be impossible of fulfilment without the redemption of Jerusalem and the return of the Jews to that land. How the Prophet Joseph Smith and Apostle Orson Hyde must rejoice in the heavens over the present condition in Jerusalem! Elder Hyde was called upon a mission by the Dedication Prophet to go to Jerusalem and dedicate that of the land upon the Mount of Olives, for the opening Holy Land, up of this last dispensation for the Jews. In Elder Hyde's report to the Twelve, dated at Trieste, January 2, 1842, he says: It was by political power and influence that the Jewish nation was broken down and her subjects dispersed abroad, and it will be by political power and influence that they will be gathered and built up;" and further, "that England is destined, in the wisdom and economy of heaven, to stretch forth the arm of political power and advance in the front ranks of this glorious enterprise."

Again, on page 21, in the prayer that was offered by Brother Hyde on the Mount of Olives, on the 24th of October, 1841, you will find the statement that he had gone there for this purpose "to dedicate and consecrate this land for the gathering together of Judah's scattered remnants, according to the predictions of the holy prophets, for the building up of Jerusalem again, after it has been trodden down by the Gentiles so long, and for rearing a temple in honor to Thy name." On the same page, in the prayer, is this utterance: "Let that nation or that people who shall take an active part in behalf of Abraham's children, and in the rising up of Jerusalem, find favor in thy sight. Let not their enemies prevail against them, neither let pestilence nor famine overcome them, but let the glory of Israel overshadow them and the power of the Highest protect them." There is also a prayer for the other side. Later, President George A. Smith, Presiding Prayer.