[Vol16 | November 1929 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Joan of Arc Bronze Equestrian Statue]
The Realistic Dreamer While the saintly conception of Joan of Arc in literature is satisfactory to some, to others it is inadequate.

Writers who conceive Joan as saintly reflect her fundamental quality of spirituality to excess while they slight her practicality.

History shows that Joan of Arc was more than a visionary, for she brought her dreams to fulfilment.

She gave precise directions in regard to her sword and her banner.

At her request the former was brought from St. Catherine's church at Fierbois; the latter she designed herself.

The field of the banner was sown with the lilies of France, the country she was to save.

In the midst of the lilies God, who had sent her, was painted, holding the world and sitting upon clouds.

The motto was "Jesus Maria," her watchword.

As the banner materialized out of her dreams and her purpose, so did the attack on Orleans, where, lance in hand, she led a charge upon the English.

The Goal of Her Life From the beginning her goal was the crowning of the dauphin at Rheims.

During this ceremony she was ever near the king,  holding her standard in her hand.

The great audience was deeply stirred.

Paine comments: "The peasant girl had made good her promise.

Unknown in January, in July she had crowned a king.

They were witnessing an event without counterpart in human.

History." As an award for her services, Joan asked that the people of Domremy and Cruex be forever exempt from taxation.

This was a most practical and impartial way of relieving her heavily burdened people.

In her replies to her tormentors during her trial, the Maid's good sense and clear insight were demonstrated.

Many readers feels that the writers who depict Joan of Arc as merely a saintly Maid rob her of much of her charm.

Was it "the Will of God?" However, the saintly Maid of literature reflects faithfully her prototype in regard to visions and voices.

According to Joan's testimony, her Saints and their Voices were as real as any experience in her life.

A large class of writers accept the Maid at her word in this respect, feeling that she was super-naturally inspired.
