[Vol16 | November 1929 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Fifth Centenary of Joan of Arc Kate Thomas]
11
Fifth Centenary of Joan of Arc By Kate Thomas
Oh, to be in Paris when the guide's eyes glow as he leads you from one to another of the Joan of Arc paintings in the Pantheon! If wishes were horses, beggars might ride; and if they were fishes, beggars might swim. It would not be such a bad sensation to be geysered from the nostril of some obliging porpoise if it landed you where you want to be?in France with the marvelous Maid.
Character of the Maid of Orleans
No more romantic figure exists in history than Joan of Arc. However we look at her: as the result of egotism, fanaticism, plain downright superstition, high-souled mysticism, or pure, spiritual worthiness in the hand of the Divine Discerner of tools, she is still a theme for speculation, an object for the tenderest, most reverential love. Calm, gentle, purposeful, heroic Joan! Unschooled, but gloriously alive little peasant girl with her patriot's heart swelling for the woes of France. Simple, serious, dutifully domestic, young maiden with ears strained for the voices that speak only to her! Keen, determined, full-armored general, raising the siege of Orleans at seventeen years old! Brave, brilliant strategist, following up her victory with a quick line of success (Jargeau, Beaugency, Patay) that in but one week's time had driven the English beyond the Loire! Modest head of the army and exultant subject placing the ruler of her adored country upon the throne! Betrayed, trapped, tricked, and tortured Maid of Orleans, Deliverer of France, still worshipful, still true and still trusting, burned at the stake before she had turned twenty!
The Troublous Time of Her Birth
Who so stilted that he does not thrill through this enchaining story? Let us, from half a dozen references, summarize it briefly:
 
She was born in troublous times. So had been her parents before her. War, as you know, has always been the curse of the earth. In 1338, England and France began what was afterwards called the Hundred Year War. Joan was born in 1412 (at Domremy, January 6). English kings, by marrying French princesses, felt that they were heirs to the throne of France; and the French people had too strong a national spirit to adopt that view. Now in October of 1415, when Joan was about three, the king of France, Charles the sixth, met the invading king of England, Henry the fifth, at Agincourt, and was defeated. At that time France was practically in a civil war; and the Burgundian faction, which favored England, was the real ruling power. "Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown," says Shakespeare. Charles sixth of France might have thought that also if he'd had any head to do it with. But he was mentally unfit. The queen, too, preferred a wide-awake prospective son-in-law as ruler rather than a deranged husband. So four years after this decisive battle of Agincourt the queen and the Burgundians made a treaty with the English at Troyes (May, 1420), through which Henry, by marrying the French princess, should be king of France when Charles sixth died.
Intrigues of Kings
Joan's child life was in all this mix-up. For there was the young dauphin, son of Charles sixth, who had not inherited much strength of character from either his unsound father or his English inclined mother, who, except for this treaty, was next in line to the throne. To make things still more interesting, two years after the Treaty Henry the fifth died, leaving an infant son to inherit both thrones. Two months later of the same year (1422) Charles sixth died also. And there was the nineteen-year-old dauphin. France had two kings! Which one would beat the other to the actual crowning? Joan was only ten now. But it was not the sugar-fed, irresponsible ten of "infantile America." It was the hard-lived, working ten of the peasantry. France was in a turmoil, having no stable government to combat the general system of brigandage that was going on everywhere. The people needed a king badly, but he should not be an interloper! France was in bondage. The peasantry, always the chief sufferer, was greatly excited.
The Life of Joan of Arc
It had been prophesied that a maid should deliver France from bondage. At thirteen, beneath the "enchanted tree" Joan listened to voices that told her she was that maid?the voices of St. Michael, St. Catherine and St. Margaret; and from them she learned
FIFTH CENTENARY OF JOAN OF ARC 581
