LESSON III Literature (Third Week in January) A SON OF THE MIDDLE BORDER By Hamlin Garland Hamlin Garland, author of A Son of the Middle Border and many other novels, poems, and articles, was born in Wisconsin in 1860. His birthplace was a frontier farm; his parents were pioneer people who were wresting from the wilderness a meager living. Before young Garland was eleven years of age, the family had moved three different times ever westward to more thinly populated territory. Like frontier boys of our own state, Garland attended school only a few short months during the winter, but finally graduated from the Cedar Valley Seminary, Iowa, after which he taught school for a few years. Becoming interested in literature, the young man finally went East to Boston, where he met a number of literary men including William Dean Howells. Beginning to write, he soon was making a fair living. His Stories Are Stirring After he had been somewhat weaned from the West, he returned to visit his parents and family. The prairies took on a new light. He saw the drudgery and the hopelessness of farm life as it was then. Returning East, he wrote a book of short stories, which he called ''"Main Traveled Roads." This book was published in 1891. These stories, in the opinion of many people, still rank as Garland's best, for he was at home in them and spoke out of a sore heart. Fred Lewis Patee says: "What Mrs. Freeman did for New England, Hamlin Garland did for the Middle West, the only difference being that Garland was the pioneer depicter of his middle border farm lands and Mrs. Freeman was the last of a long line of story tellers dealing with Yankee life." "His pictures grip the imagination like Zola's," Mr. Patee continues; "they do not depress, they anger, they stir the blood, they call for action." Garland has written a number of strong poems also. Though he is now a man 69 or 70 years of age, he is still at work. Few of the things he ever wrote can be loved for their sweetness, but they can all be admired for their strength and vigor. Anyone who has been reared on a farm any place in the West will find in Garland's A Son of the Middle Border, a partial relation, at least, of the story of his own life. In this story of a pioneer family, Mr. Garland has given us pictures of farm life that in color and realism have never been equaled in any other literature that I have read. Gives Both Sides of Farm Life Usually those who know little about farm life have been the ones who have romanced about it. James Whitcomb Riley, for instance, a youth who never spent a day on the farm in his life except as a visitor or on-looker, gave us "When the Frost Is on the Pumpkin" and other similar poems; true pictures, certainly, but revealing only one side of farm life. Mr. Garland has given us in a masterly manner both sides. On account of his realism, Hamlin Garland has been classed with the writers of protest. His Matin Traveled Roads, a book of short stories mentioned in A Son of the Middle Border, reveals, as no other stories have ever done, the sordid side of farm life, the drudgery, the struggle. In fact, they have been important in bettering conditions on farms. They are the "Uncle Tom's Cabin" of the farmer and his wife and children. So austere were they that even many farmers said they were overdrawn; but they served to hold up before the American people the hopeless condition of the farm folk. Fred Lewis Patee in his American Literature Since 1870, says of A. Son of the Middle Border, "It is an autobiography and it is more; it is a document in the history of the Middle West. It has a value above all his novels, above all else that he has written, saving always those tense short stories of his first inspiration." Typical Pictures of Men and Boys In this book we have an excellent picture of Garland himself, and in addition some epic pictures of his relatives, fearless and fine pioneers of the Middle Border. The Garlands, the McClintocks, and a few of. The neighbors are drawn with a masterly hand, as are the farm scenes that adorn the pages of this most interesting volume. "The Old Soldier," Garland's father, is a typical pioneer such as are found in scores of homes in our own intermountain West, yes, in practically every family. Few of us who read the book will lay it down without saying, "This man Garland was just like father," or Uncle Jim, or some other of our relatives or friends. Ever looking beyond the sunset, ever eager to engage in the struggle with virgin sod, ever determined to make next year pay, Mr. Garland was just like many a "Mormon" pioneer who has written history in the sage and soil. David McClintock, especially, is another picture of a great man that will haunt the reader. Big, brave, but artistic of soul,  he was not especially made for the prairie, where his lot was ever cast and where he played a losing game. A dreamer who could not bring himself steadily to fight the grim battle expected of him, he saw his less talented yet thriftier neighbors increase in property as he declined. That story has been told a thousand times on the frontier, where there never is a variety of employment. The misfits are always pathetic though lovable and fine. Hamlin Garland is called a realist, a writer who sees the romance of life, but penetrates it and tells also of the realties. As is indicated in this book under consideration, he was a worshiper of Howells and Walt Whitman, brief portraits of whom he gives in his masterly manner. The very fact that The Hoosier School Master was so keenly enjoyed by this middle- border boy would indicate, perhaps, that in his own writing he would turn rather to realism than to romance.
"This Land of My Childhood"
The whole gamut of a farm boy's likes and dislikes is run in this book?from Thanksgiving on the farm to milking cows in muddy weather and fanning wheat by hand. Nothing, or very little, at least, is left out. The author's memories are so strong upon him that he bursts out, after describing a country Thanksgiving visit, "It all lies in the unchanging realm of the past?this land of my childhood. Its charm, its strange dominion, cannot return save in the poet's reminiscent dream. No money, no railway train, can take us back to it. It did not in truth exist?it was a magical world born of the vibrant union of youth and firelight, of music and the voice of moaning winds?a union which can never come again to you or me, father, uncle, brother, till the coulee meadows bloom again unscarred of spade or plow."
That nature, surrounding the boy on the prairies, had its effect upon him is indicated by passages like this one taken from Chapter Eight: "Meanwhile above our heads the wild ducks again pursued their northward flight, and the far honking of the geese fell to our ears from the solemn deeps of the windless night. On the first dry warm ridges the prairie cocks began to boom, and then at last came the day when father's imperious voice rang high in familiar command, 'Out with the drags, boys! We start seeding tomorrow'."
In the latter part of the book the budding author and school teacher is more and more in the East with his work; but his heart remains in the West despite the commiseration he feels for his family when he returns to visit them.
Garland's Own Life Is Portrayed
The Son of the Middle Border is his autobiography. It begins with his very early youth when his father, a soldier in the Civil War, returns home at its close to take up life where he had
left it off. The story pictures the Garlands and the McClintocks, a family of which Hamlin's mother was a member. It then goes forward picturing the grim struggle with poverty on one hand and the stubborn virgin soil on the other as the family moves westward, ever westward, until they at length reach North Dakota. Young Garland obtains an education through self-struggle. And with a little help prepares for teaching. Eventually he goes East, where he meets a number of authors whose influence leads him to attempt to write. His first productions were what we would now call feature articles; later he began writing short stories and novels with the farm life of the Middle Border as the backgrounds. With these he was very successful, for the reason that he had struck into a field which had never before been used to any great extent by writers. His parents grew poorer and poorer on their big homestead in Dakota until at last the successful young author returned, induced them to sell their farm and return to Wisconsin to a home he had awaiting them.
"The first question which you have a right to ask me is this: Is it true?" says Mr. Garland in a foreword addressed to "My Young Readers." He replies, "My answer is as direct as your question, It is." Since this book will probably be in every public library and in most high school libraries and since an excellent edition may be obtained for $1, I shall not attempt to quote more from it. My suggestion would be for the one who gives it in the class to have the book with her well-marked in order that she may read striking passages or passages that give good pictures of these pioneers of the Middle West who, after all, are much like our own pioneers. Some of the farm scenes might be read and discussed as well as passages of beauty such as are found at the close of chapter fifteen, in the middle of chapter twenty and elsewhere. This book, as printed in "The Modern Readers Series," has questions and helps at the back which may prove helpful.
Questions and Problems
1. Who is Hamlin Garland? Why has he a right to picture farm life?
2. How does he rank as a writer of short stories and novels?
3. Are his pictures of farm life too grim?
4. Why might his stories be called the "Uncle Tom's Cabin" of farm folk?
5. Read "Under the Lion's Paw" and "Up the Coulee" and "Among the Corn Rows;" then comment upon their pictures of farm life.
6. Read passages that to you were especially impressive.
7. What effect has the life of Hamlin Garland had on the west?