LESSON II Work and Business TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JANUARY (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in January) CHEERFULNESS I. Cheerfulness implies a bright and equable temper and shows itself in the face, the voice, the action. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY ol7 Il. Cheerfulness a Gospel Doctrine. 1. Men are that they might have joy.?III Nephi, 2:25. Faith promotes cheerfulness; repentance assures us of it; the Gift of the Holy Ghost gives utterance through a cheerful heart. Scriptures admonish us to be cheerful. Serve the Lord with cheerful heart and countenance.? Doc. And Cov. Sec. 59:15-18. Be of good cheer, it is I? Matt. 14:27. Be of good cheer, Paul.?Acts 23:11. A merry heart doeth good like a medicine?Proverbs 17:22. Ill. Cheerfulness a Positive Power in Character Building. Be It can be taught and learned. Serenity of mind comes easy to some, hard to others. Teach the duty of happiness as well as the happiness of duty. Let the child feel the joy of doing some kind act each, day for some one else, and to express his feelings to you, his mother. Encourage children to sing and whistle at their work, to see the funny side, to look for and tell a good joke as Abraham Lincoln did. Cheerfulness is as contagious as measles. Children are sensitive to the emotional moods of the family. How essential, then, for parents to be cheerful. Cheerfulness dispels gloom and doubt. Cheerfulness in the home is to children as sunshine is to flowers. If people only knew the medicinal power of laughter, of good cheer, of the constant, unrepressed expression of joy and, gladness, then half the physicians would be out of work IV. Cheerfulness an Asset in Winning Success. It is the bright and cheerful person that wins the final triumph. Everybody avoids the company of those who are always "blue." Be an optimist; cheerful people are welcome in any group. "Fate served me meanly but I looked at her and laughed, That none might know how bitter was the cup I quaffed, Along came Joy and paused beside me where I sat, Saying, 'I came to see what you were laughing at. ? 99  LESSON