LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January)
THE FIELD OF SOCIAL WORK
Lesson 1. THE NATURE AND SCOPE OF SOCIAL WORK
We now begin a consideration of the six lessons devoted to the Field of Social Work. The purpose of this and the five lessons which follow is to acquaint our members with the nature and scope of social work as an endeavor to promote human happiness. We shall, of necessity, have to be brief. Class leaders and others will find the references cited in these lessons helpful in elaborating the subjects treated. The six lessons will include (1) the nature and scope of social work, (2) poverty and dependency, (3) physical and mental diseases, (4) physical and mental defects, (5) crime and delinquency, and (6) the organization and administration of social work.
WHAT IS SOCIAL WORK?
The following definitions are selected from among the best and most representative:
Social work is not a clearly defined single field corresponding to a single need, but includes many diverse occupations which have as their tasks to supplement the work of the other professions. For example, the school visitor supplements the work of the teacher; the public health nurse the work of the physician; the family visitor the work of parents; the Bureau of Personal Service, or Legal Aid Society, or probation officer, and the settlement worker is found on many kinds of committees. (Tufts, Education and Training for Social Work, Russell Sage Foundation, 1923.)
In the United States of America "social work" has come into use in recent years as a comprehensive term, including reformation and all other conscious efforts, whether by the state or on private initiative, to provide for the dependent, the sick, and the criminal; to diminish the amount of poverty, disease, and crime, and to improve general living and working conditions. (Edward T. Devine and Lilian Brandt, American Social Work in the Twentieth Century.)
Social work is the business of producing, changing or adjusting social organizations and procedure in the interests of human welfare according to scientific standards. (L. A. Halbert, What is Professional Social Work? The Survey, New York, 1923, page 25.)
Perhaps the nearest we can come to a definition is to say that social work is the art of adjusting personal relationships, of helping to overcome the difficulties which may arise?for example, between native and foreign born, between employer and employee,
between school and home. (Stuart A. Queen, Social Work in the Light of History, Lippincott, Philadelphia, 1922, page 18.)
WHAT FORMS DOES SOCIAL WORK TAKE?
There are many ways of classifying the various fields of social work. As a matter of fact, there is no one exact way. The following, for instance, is a classification of the fields of social work based on their relation to various institutions and to society as a whole. It is the work of Tufts, in the book cited above, page 24.
1. As related to the Family:
Care for the family as a whole, Family Welfare Societies,* Home Service of Red Cross, Public Welfare Departments doing "case work" in families.
Care for special types of adult or adolescent individuals such as deserted wives, unmarried mothers, the aged; Domestic Relations Courts.
Care for children, in their own homes, through child-placing agencies, through protective agencies, in institutions.
Housing, considered from the point of view of the homes of families, and of men and women not in families.
Visiting housekeeper or visiting dietitian.
2. As related to Government:
Civic agencies designed to organize public opinion for reform or improvement of government or for co-operation with it, reform leagues, city clubs, committees of various sorts with professional executives or secretaries.
Offices of government, particularly in the administrative departments which have to do with giving relief, with mothers' pensions, with factory legislation and child labor laws, with institutions for the care of the blind, the insane, the sick, the dependent and the delinquent. The Children's Bureau, juvenile research bureaus.
The legal field, including especially the juvenile court, with its agents; probation officers, and parole officers; legal aid societies, for aiding discharged prisoners; societies which include both public officials and others interested in penal problems, such as the American Prison Association and its various affiliated societies.
3. As related to Economic Institutions:
Agriculture, county agents, home demonstrators, leaders of boys' and girls' clubs, such as poultry clubs, corn clubs, and the like.
Commerce, associations of commerce, chambers of commerce, in so far as these take an interest in community problems.
*The L. D. S. Relief Society would be classed as a family welfare society.
 
Industry, employment management, arbitration procedure, nurses, recreation leadership, administration of workingmen's compensation, labor unions (in certain aspects.)
4. As related to Hygiene and Medicine:
Public health, including physicians, inspectors, nurses, laboratory workers, and other officials.
Special fields, anti-tuberculosis campaigns, tuberculosis sanitaria, social hygiene committees and leagues.
Visiting nurses.
Hospital social work.
Nutrition work (which might be included also under care for children or under work of home demonstrators in the rural field).
Psychiatric social work.
Mental hygiene.
5. As related to Organized Recreation:
(This is analogous to 3 above in that Recreation like the economic field is supposed to be primarily left to individual initiative, but is found to need attention from the point of view of social and public interests.)
Recreation for children, playgrounds, summer camps.
Recreation for young people and adults, club work, gymnasiums, community music, pageants, dramatic presentations.
(Recreation cannot be sharply defined from the fields of hygiene, of education, and of ministration to the higher community life through the nobler arts.)
6. As related to Education and the Arts:
The school as social center in both rural and urban districts.
The work of school visitor or visiting teacher.
Vocational guidance.
Providing scholarships for children otherwise unable to remain in school.
The public library.
Clubs for study, reading, parliamentary practice, debate.
Boy Scouts, Campfire Girls.
Education of special groups, such as immigrants, workers, illiterate adults, et cetera.
Education in music, and the graphic and plastic arts.
7. As related to Organized Religion:
Work of the church or synagogue along similar lines to those noted under 1, 4, 5, and 6 above.
Work of the Young Men's Christian Association and Young Women's Christian Association, Knights and Ladies of Columbus, and the Young Men's Hebrew Association for young people in cities.*
*The Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary Association naturally fall into this group.
Rural work of the church.
Community work of the Young Men's Christian Association and Young Women's Christian Association.
Industrial work of the Young Men's Christian Association and Young Women's Christian Association.
Work of the Salvation Army, Volunteers of America.
8. As related to Institutions for cultivation of Friendship or Mutual Aid:
Clubs for children and adolescents.
(Certain types of social work are not comprehended under any of the above classes. The reason why they cannot be placed in relation to some one institution may be either because they supplement several institutions, or because they aim to supply some need or to promote some end for which society has not as yet organized any specific institution.)
9. Activities for certain groups, racial, geographic, occupational, which combine several of the fields above named:
Work with immigrants, with the Negro, with the American Indians.
Specially organized work for the mill village, the mining community or the lumber community, or for homeless and migratory groups.
City clubs, community centers, the Country Life movement.
10. The Settlement.
A second method of classifying social work is that of listing the various types of work done in a typical community. The following list, taken from the charities directories of New York and Philadelphia, presents a cross-section of social work. The multiplicity and range of social-work activities will readily be seen.
1920 New York Philadelphia Agencies having to do with health...............412 224 Child welfare agencies..........................233 147 Settlements,* social centers and housekeeping centers...................................227 60 Relief societies...............................180 102 Societies for civic and economic betterment by means of surveys, investigations, education of the public, etc................157 36 Adult homes...................................136 112 Agencies for obtaining or providing employment..................................123 46 Special educational opportunities, agricultural, musical, etc......................118 71
*The Neighborhood House is perhaps the best example of a settlement that we have in this region.
 
Philanthropic agencies with a predominantly religious purpose.............................96 191 Agencies interested in naturalization, colonization and work for immigrants.........91 28 Correctional and protective agencies.........81 54 Societies serving special groups.............81 60 Negroes..................................29 36 Soldiers, sailors, or their dependents....25 10 Clergymen................................8 Medical men..............................7 Indians..................................5 Artists..................................4 Firemen..................................3 Recreational facilities.....................63 88 Banking, loan and saving societies..........23 10 Milk stations, diet kitchens and lunch rooms.20 23 Conferences and federations which include social work agencies......................12 20 Legal Aid societies.........................11 7 Societies for the protection of animals......9 14
A third method is illustrated by the divisions of the National Conference of Social Work, an organization of social workers which meets annually in various parts of the United States to consider the current problems and practices in the field.
Division I?Children. Division II?Delinquents and Correction. Division III?Health. Division IV?The Family. Division V?Industrial and Economic Problems. Division VI?Neighborhood and Community Life. Division VII?Mental Hygiene. Division VIII?Organization of Social Forces. Division IX?Public Officials and Administration. Division X?The Immigrant. Division XI?Professional Standards and Education. Division XII?Educational Publicity.
HOW IS SOCIAL WORK RELATED TO THE OTHER PROFESSIONS?
Measured by the accepted standards of a profession, social work and social workers are truly professional. In the first place social work and social workers have no ulterior purpose in their work. The client in social work, as the patient in medicine, is the center of attention. His interests and his welfare are always uppermost. In the second place the field comprises a definite body
of principles and practice for which training is necessary. In the third place the profession is controlled by its members and all who are identified with it are governed by a democratically-evolved set of ethical standards. In these respects and in many other ways social work is on a par with law, medicine, engineering, nursing, teaching, etc.
Social work is both auxiliary and a separate field of activity. It is auxiliary in the sense that many of its services are the logical extensions of already-existing professional activities. As has already been suggested, the medical social worker, for example, might be viewed as an auxiliary to the physician; the legal aid worker as an auxiliary to the court; the visiting teacher as an auxiliary in the school, etc. And yet, in a very real sense, social work is a distinct profession, coordinate in rank and independence with the traditional professions just mentioned. Thus, the service of the family case worker is altogether unique and is auxiliary to no already-existing profession or field of endeavor. This is also true of many other social workers, such as the community organizer, the public welfare administrator, the social executive, the social investigator, etc. In these respects then we have a new profession calling for education and skill, the equal of that required in law, in teaching, and even in medicine. Proof of this fact is the existence in the United States today of over twenty schools?most of which are connected with colleges and universities?for the professional training of social workers.
To be sure, a great deal of social work has been?and still is?done by intelligent, untrained volunteers. The tendency, however, is more and more in the direction of professional training. There are, however, many forms of social work which can be done by volunteers working under the direction of trained social workers.
One of the outstanding features of Relief Society work is the stupendous service which has been rendered by thousands of intelligent Christian women whose chief equipment for their work is their general education, their common sense and their love for their fellowmen. It is unnecessary to add that this work is greatly appreciated.
Questions
1. In what respect do the definitions for social work given above differ from one another? What is your own (or your class leader's) definition?
2. What are the specific problems attacked by social work?
3. What social and economic conditions have brought social work about?
 
4. How is social work related to alms giving? How does it differ?
5. What are the specific forms of social work in your community?
6. How does the procedure of a trained social worker differ from that of an untrained volunteer?
7. What are some of the commoner objections to professional social work and social workers? How valid are these objections?
8. What, in your opinion, are the qualifications for a social worker, on the side of (a) personality, (b) education, (c) training?
9. What problems in your community might be better solved if the services of trained social workers were available?
References
(In communities where there is a public library, stake officers will do well to ask the local librarian to secure and place on reserve the following books.)
1. Karl De Schweinitz, The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble; Houghton, Boston.
2. Stuart A. Queen, Social Work in the Light of History; J. B. Lippincott and Company, Philadelphia.
3. Alice S. Cheyney, The Nature and Scope of Social Work; American Association of Social Workers, New York, price 50c.
4. The Annual Proceedings of the National Conference of Social Work; University of Chicago Press, Chicago, Illinois.
5. Robert Kelso, The Science of Public Welfare; Henry Holt and Company, New York.
6. The Survey (published twice a month).