EDITORIAL

.

Motto  Charity Never Faileth


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor                 Susa Young Gates
Business Manager       Janette A. Hyde
Assistant Manager      Amy Brown Lyman

Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah

Vol. V.                           JANUARY, 1918.                           No. 


Be kind, our Father, as in long past days, to thy daughters in Zion. Remove from us fear of death and of bodily ills. Plant in our hearts faith and hope in Thee, in place of dread and gloom. Renew the springs of life within our toil-worn bodies, and touch with healing balm our maternal terrors in these last dreadful days upon thy footstool. Shield our sons from sin, and our daughters from vanity. Give wisdom to our husbands; and to all, loving patience. Spread the wings of thy Spirit over our homes, with the peace that follows Thy presence. Let the cords that bind this great Society be strengthened by our unselfish companionship. Increase our powers to serve Thee, through helping oft each other. Balance our daily choice of duty by the scales of wisdom and calm deliberation. Remove excitement and over-zealous enthusiasm far from us. Give us to see the only solution for the sickness of the war-ridden world in the preaching of Thy all-healing word. Help us carefully to train our sons as soldiers of the Cross, ready for life or if need be for death  with the shield of purity, or on it.


Remember mercifully the President of this Society in her unflinching testimony and constant avowal of Thy purposes. Magnify her counselors, inspire all who bear office and responsibility herein that each may be as a light set in the windows where storms rage without. Direct those who hold the destinies of this Nation in their hands. Turn them as Thou wilt. Especially do Thou remember our representatives at Washington who hold the holy priesthood and who stand as beacon lights in the midst of swirling waters. In faith and gratitude we pray for President Joseph F. Smith, who stands as the mouthpiece of divine revelation, between Thee and Thy earthly children. We praise Thee for the gifts of wisdom and leadership with which Thou hast mightily endowed him. Above all men on earth, for we pray him and his associates, especial witnesses of Christ, that their feet may never stumble, their spirits never fail. Likewise be merciful to all who minister in the ordinances of the priesthood for the living and for the dead. Give us victory over despotism and barbarity; sanctify our Country's cause. Strengthen the principle of republican government in every land and clime. Give us all to know that we are citizens of Thy kingdom and pensioners on Thy bounty. Let the light of love and sympathy illumine our lives and shed radiance over all our dark hours. Hasten the day when men shall glorify Thee and seek only to do Thy will. Come, Thou King of kings, rule upon this earth and banish death, sin and all iniquity. We wait upon Thee, Lord.

OLD GLORY.

The stirring and patriotic poem found on our frontispiece page is by George H. Brimhall, president of the Brigham Young University at Provo. The author could have chosen no more opportune time for its presentation than on the occasion of the birthday of the former loyal and honored President Brigham Young. After these verses were written and an audience of several hundred were thrilled with their rhythm and beauty, set to ringing music by Prof. Clare W. Reed, head of the music department of the University, it was decided to send the words and music to Chicago for publication. From the publishers, a leading Chicago newspaper obtained the poem, and from it was copied in one hundred journals and newspapers throughout the country who sent requests for the song. The song can be purchased at any music store, price 25 cents.

Guide Lessons.

LESSON I.
Theology and Testimony,
First Week in February.

WOMEN OF THE BOOK OF MORMON.

(Home Reading: II Nephi, Jacob, Omni, Jarom, Words of Mormon.)

"And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:32).

These words of scripture find marvelous verification in the case of the Hebrew woman from whom the woman of the Book of Mormon is in reality descended. From the first word of history, found in the Bible, to the Greek historian Herodotus, down to the great Italian Ferrero, who has written almost the last word on this subject, historians are agreed that the status of the Hebrew woman as to personal liberty was far above that of any other of her sex, at a corresponding period. Even the Egyptian woman, who enjoyed greater privileges than most other women of her time, had no liberty that approached the liberty the Hebrew woman enjoyed. Contrast the personal liberty of Rebekah, the gallantry of Isaac, the personal liberty of Rachel and Ruth, with the fate of the Greek woman, who was plotted against, and stolen at night by men who wished to possess her; or the Roman woman who had no legal rights, but who might be sold as a slave by her husband. The Mosaic law made the chastity of women imperative; the Greek custom made chastity an impossibility. The Hebrew woman mingled with men in their gatherings and went before them to war with song and dance, and was sometimes a judge in Israel as was Deborah. The life of the Greek woman was the life of the harem.

Now this superior liberty enjoyed by the Hebrew woman came as an inheritance to the woman of the Book of Mormon, by virtue of her descent from that people. Only three women are mentioned by name in the Book of Mormon. The words "woman" and "women" occur about forty-seven times in all, and a goodly number of those references are


to the fact that Christ should be born of woman. The words "mother" and "mothers" occur about forty times; the words "daughter" and "daughters" occur about sixty times. The word "wife" occurs at least thirty times; the word "wives" is to be found about fifty times. Still, any statistics of the sort given are no measure of power and influence; but the fact that the book speaks of mothers rather than mother, of wives rather than wife, of daughters rather than daughter, clearly indicates that we must consider the woman of the Book of Mormon as a group rather than as individuals.

To be sure, there are occasional references to women in the Book of Ether, but so few that our discussion must deal with the women of the Nephites and the Lamanites almost entirely. The three women are, first Sariah, the wife of Lehi, whose name reminds us of nothing so much as the two names borne by the wife of Abraham, whose lot it was to be the mother of all God's chosen people, even as it was the lot of Sariah to be the mother of that branch that ran over the wall.

The second woman called by name is Abish the Lamanitish woman, who lived in the palace of King Lamoni, and was servant maid to the queen, and who long before her had been converted to the gospel. Isabel, a harlot, is the third woman whose name is perpetuated by the sacred record. Perpetuated, to our great regret, for evil; for it was she who by her personal charm lured Corianton into sin, thereby bringing disgrace upon the Church and his honored father's name.

Now to turn to the women who form the group of the women of the Book of Mormon. What do we know of them? First, we know that above all else they were wives and mothers, home makers and home keepers. Many passages in the Book of Mormon bring the fact to the fore, while many other passages make prominent the solicitude felt for the wives and mothers; for the men waged war in defense of their wives, their children, and their families.

Second, we know that like the Puritan granddam, and the pioneer mother, she did spin her own cloth, and fashioned and made the garments worn by herself and her family. We are told that the garments worn by the two thousand young men who went forth to battle with Helaman, were made by their mothers. Both Mosiah and Helaman speak of the women spinning.

Then, too, these women of the Western world were pioneers of two great continents. So, too, were they the daughters and wives of men who did service in many wars. Very likely they knew something of conservation. At all events they must have known something of the art and science of agriculture and other arts, without the

GUIDE LESSONS. 49

cultivation of which it is impossible for man to subsist upon the earth.

Yet it was not all pioneering. Neither was it all battle; for these people grew strong in the land and became very prosperous, possessing much riches. Then the women arrayed themselves in silks and fine linen, in gold and silver, and wore many costly jewels. Again and again the servants of the Lord reminded them of their pride in relation to such matters. This passion for color, this love of jewelry, links them to the past, their Asiatic home; for then as now the far East is the land of beautiful silks and gorgeous colors. This trait seems to have persisted with them even in their degeneracy. Mr. Cyrus E. Dallin, one of America's great sculptors, tells us that as a little ragged urchin, standing in the streets of Springville, he marveled much the first time he saw the American Indian in gala attire. He said, "He seemed to me like a being from another world, and as I looked at the rich coloring of his blankets, and the various ornaments with which he adorned himself, I knew that he possessed an art unknown to us."

The lives of the women, as to faith and good works, righteousness and the lack of righteousness, seem to run parallel with the men. The dark skin, generally so loathed by the white-skinned races, the badge of their disobedience, perchance was harder for the women to bear than the men. It is pretty generally agreed that physical charm and grace are more generally possessed by women than by men, just as men more generally possess superior physical strength than women: hence the great misfortune to the woman that she should have brought upon herself such condemnation. At times the magnificence of the faith of the women, the sublimity of their teachings stands forth in might. It was about the year 66 B. C. when the Nephite forces had suffered defeat at the hands of the Lamanites. The people of Ammon had taken an oath never more to do battle, but their sons had not taken this oath, consequently two thousand young men went forth under Helaman. When necessity forced action, their leader said that they had no fear of death, "for," said they, "our mothers have taught us. that if we do not doubt, that God will deliver us." They told their gallant leader the things their mothers said, saying, "We do not doubt that they knew." With this faith to sustain them they made mighty warriors. The battle won and the roll called showed not a man lost. It was all victory. The Lamanites had been defeated; the young warriors were all living, and above all else the faith of the mothers, and the faith of the sons who had learned this faith from the mothers. had triumphed. Would that the above were the only story we have to relate 
 of the Nephite woman and war. Would that we might conclude by telling you of Christ's visit to this people and how He lifted the burdens of the women and children, and finally how the faith of the women combined with the men made it possible for the establishment of the United Order, the perfect social law, that does away with that friction with which their lives and our lives is so often cursed. But it can not be. We must close with a chapter of war most terrible, for women engaged in deadly combat, of mothers placing weapons in their children's hands with which to fight! But why say more? The story of the capture of their prisoners, the terrible cruelty and barbarity practiced, reminds us of nothing so much as our modern history; only that where they slew tens of thousands we slay millions; and where they fought with the same fierceness and abandonment that we do today, still they had not our engines of war, nor our deadly gases to intensify that fierceness. Under these dreadful conditions the Nephite nation passed away, leaving the Lamanites, a remnant of whom is found upon the land. Their only hope, our only hope, the gospel of Christ that shall in time bring that peace that passeth all understanding. QUESTIONS. 1. Compare the status of the Hebrew woman, as to personal liberty, with that of the status of other women living at the same time. 2. Show that the women of the Book of Mormon are descendants of the Hebrew race. 3. Why did the Mosaic law make the chastity of women imperative, and the Greek custom make it impossible? 4. Tell the story of the conversion of Abish. 5. What occupation was common to the women of the Book of Mormon? The Puritan grandam, and the Pioneer mother? 6. For what tendency have women often been reproved by the prophets in all ages? 7. What Indian trait seems to link the American to Jewish ancestry? 8. Why is the story of the two thousand young men who went forth to battle with Helaman of special significance just now? 9. Compare some of the features of our present war with the last great battle waged by the Nephites. 10. How were the women of the Book of Mormon included in the last great battle? GUIDE LESSONS. 
 Work and Business. Second Week in February. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in February. RACIAL HISTORY. HAM. HIS DESCENDANTS AND TRIBES. The fifth chapter' of Genesis gives us the genealogy of Adam through Cain. The descendants of Cain through one son are carried down six generations as will be there seen. After giving the names of Lamech's children, It is interesting to know that the authors Genesis (Moses) speaks of the fact that the first city was built by Cain and named for his son Enoch; that Cain's son Jabal was the first Nomad herdsman; that Jubal, Jabal's brother, was the inventor of musical instruments both stringed and wind; and that Tubal Cain was the first artificer in brass and metals. Lamech's apostrophe to his wives is the earliest example of poetry extant. All of these facts warrant us in assuming that there was a high state of civilization developed in ante-diluvian times, through the descendants of Cain, and, singular to add. of the arts named, those of literature, music and workers in metals, belonged particularly to the descendants of the rebel Cain. We are told that Cain's blood was taken into the Ark through the wife of Ham. 24482350 B. C, when the Flood occurred, according to the Biblical chronology. Ham's three sons are credited with the fatherhood of the races which inhabited parts of Asia, and nearly all of Africa. We invite a study of Bible history, of Josephus and of any good general history material here given of the so-called Hamitic races. History. Especially do we recommend Dr. Smith's Old Testament Ancient Secular History. When history first open its doors to us outside of the Bible pages we are faced by the chronological conjecture of modern excavators in Egypt, Babylonia and Assyria. The conclusions of these scientists need not alarm us or cause a weakening of our faith, for while they generally unite in an
 announcing" a civilization thousands of years before the accepted time of Adam's birth upon the earth, we may comfort ourselves with the reflection that these same scientists have long refused to accept any Scriptural historical facts until forced to do so in recent times by discoveries in ancient remains. Furthermore, chronology is a study of modern times. The ancient and medieval peoples gave little attention to it. The fragmentary records of ancient times do not enable historians of our time to distinguish contemporary dynasties clearly from consecutive dynasties of kings. Excavations of ancient cities are constantly bringing this condition to light. And hence the chronology of the world is ever (h-awing nearer that of the Bible. Mind you, we refer to historical data and not to the conjectures and theories of men. They generally neglect, too, this sacred historical truth that besides God's being the Father of Adam, He was also his teacher in such things as religion and language. As Enoch wrote "a book of remembrance, we have written among us, according to the pattern given, by the finger of God, and it is given in our language" (See Pearl of Great Price). Therefore, our students will accept the data concerning Egypt, Babylon and Assyria with whatsoever mental reservations may be necessary. In this lesson we will consider the ancient descendants of Ham, the second son of Noah. The Dark Continent. It is generally understood that the continent of Africa was settled by the descendants of Ham, yet this statement requires modification, for there were both Semites and descendants of Japheth who settled in the northern part of Africa and who are referred to under their tribal charters. The history of ancient Africa is the history of the few countries settled along its northern shores, for there was little known of the interior of Africa until the last century, with the exception of Abyssinia which lies at the southern end of the Red Sea. With recent discoveries by travelers and students, the various negro tribes inhabiting darkest Africa have been divided and again subdivided. Among the black races are the Pygmy tribes in central Africa, the Congos. the Bantus, with the Bushmen and Hottentots. There is a considerable difference between this vast race of people, to those who make a study of ethnology. The various languages and the somewhat differing physical conformation of the black peoples is most interesting, if one has the desire to follow it up. The population of Africa at the present day consists of the following elements: the Bushmen, a race of short, yellowish brown nomad hunters. With them may be classed provisionally, the Hottentots, an agricultural people of medium stature and yellowish brown complexion. The Hottentots who live in what is now Cape Colony are a blend of the Bushmen and GUIDE LESSONS. 53 Negroid races. The Negroes inhabit vast tracts of forests, some of them unknown to the white man. The upper country, along the Mediterranean, has always been and still is inhabited by Semite-Hamites, or mixed races from Shem and Ham both. Africa is a country where one may find all gradations of the human race from the very lowest intelligence up through human strata to the most cultured and enlightened peoples of the ancient and modern world. Indeed, Africa is a living refutation of the false conclusions of evolutionists who claim our descent from monkeys and apes; for the living peoples which represent the various stages of mans development throughout the from vast the cave of reaches man the up, Dark are Continent. found today scattered Egypt. Egypt, settled by Egyptus, a female descendant of Ham, is one of the first countries to emerge from the darkness in secular, or what is called profane history. Egypt was called "The Gift of the Nile" by the ancient Greek historian Herodotus, as the 600 miles of fertile country from the head of the Delta to the First Cataract is made fertile entirely through the yearly inundation of the river Nile. Thirty dynasties of the Shepherd kings (who were Semites) were recorded by Manetho, an Egyptian priest, who compiled his list in the Greek language in the third century before Christ. Alexander the Great, who conquered Egypt in 332 B. C, ended these native Egyptian dynasties which had existed as affirmed by Manetho for upwards of 4,000 years. It was in the eighteenth and nineteenth dynasty that Rameses the Second reigned, who is said to be the Pharaoh who oppressed Israel. The Egyptians in the earliest dawn of history were highly cultured in poetry and all forms of literature such as novels, fairy stories (Cinderella being one of these) ; they wrote treatises on medicine, mathematics and astronomy; they were historians both in written forms and through their monoliths and sarcophagi. Their religion in its earliest form recognized a supreme god, Osiris, with his wife Isis, and eldest son Horus, as reigning over the earth. The god Set was their Satan. They believed in a form of resurrection and worshiped animals. Believing that the soul needed the body for a continuation of life after death. they embalmed their bodies, so that they should not permanently decay. This led to the construction of magnificent tombs as the eternal abodes of the dead. The earlier Pharaohs were hidden away in the heart of the pyramids. Egypt finally became subject to the Semite peoples of Assyria in 672 B. C, but again became independent in twenty years. Again in 525 B. C, Persia, which was a Semitic kingdom, began her rule of two centuries when Alexander the Great brought Egypt under his sway. One of the great Egyptian dynasties was that of the Ptolemy of whom Cleopatra was the last, and Egypt finally fell before the power of the 
 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Romans in 30 B. C Since that time Egypt has passed under first one and then another foreign power, until today England controls her destiny. Chaldea. The most ancient Asiatic monarchy was Chaldea. This country was founded by Nimrod, grandson of Ham through Cush, and no doubt was a well established kingdom when the tower of Babel was built by Nimrod, yet like Egypt and Babylonia is a mixed Semito-Hamite-Japhetic nation. It was known to the Greeks and Romans as Mesopotamia. Its splendid ancient fertility was due to the irrigation system installed in the two great rivers which traverse it: the Euphrates and the Tigris. It is a small country, only 130 miles long by 70 miles wide. The climate is moderate, with frost unknown. The fertility of the land is very great indeed. Wheat grew to such proportions that there were two crops a year, and then the cattle were browsed on it to keep the blade from going to stalk. Crops returned from 50 to 100 fold and the date-palm grew everywhere. The date of Chaldea's founding is about 2,500 B. C. Nimrod's name is still famous and the scattered remnants of people are found there. The capital city was Ur. Nimrod built Babylon, Erech, Accad, and Calneh. Many famous kings governed the country and when Hammurabi, an Arab chief mastered Chaldea, he left an imperishable name in the clay tablets which are now being discovered in the ruins of Chaldea. In 1,300 B. C. the Assyrian king Tiglath-Pileser conquered Chaldea and from this time the Chaldean history is lost or swallowed up in that of Assyria. The Assyrians were Semites and their history will be found in that lesson. The Chaldeans were the cultured people of ancient Asia, and they built temples, ancient cities, and maintained a mighty civilization. All races are indebted to them for science, letters, arts, and architecture. Chaldea was the great parent of Asiatic civilization. The religion was Paganism, and human sacrifice was practiced. Much similarity between their polytheism and that of Greece is discovered by students. Chaldea was indeed a great and marvelous country.

The Phoenicians, who were descended from Ham, settled the narrow strip of land extending along the Mediterranean from the Ladder of Tyre to the island of Aradus. The whole length of the country was only 120 miles and its influence on ancient history was remarkable. The Phoenicians were descendants of Ham through Sidon and his father Canaan. They were indefatigable colonizers and they built many powerful cities and established great commercial enterprises by land and by sea. Tyre was one of their ancient cities and attained finally the leadership over all of Phoenicia. The city of Sidon was the oldest of the Phoenician cities and the first to attain wealth and power, but it was con-

GUIDE LESSONS. 55

quered in 1050 B. C. by the Philistines from the southern part of Palestine. The inhabitants took refuge in Tyre, which afterwards became the conquering city. The Phoenician navigators held the ancient monopoly of the trade in tin. They mined it in Spain and finally went to Cornwall in England for it. They manufactured a peculiar dye called Tyrian purple, which was the aristocratic color for the ancient nations. Tyre became the capital of Phoenicia in the eleventh century B. C., and it was the king of Tyre, Hiram, who made a contract with King David of Jerusalem about the year 1025. Jezebel, daughter of Eth-Baal, king of Tyre, married Ahab the Israelitish king and ruled Israel wickedly through her weak husband. These people were pagan worshipers and practiced human sacrifice. Each city had its own king, but all of them united in a confederation in times of war and in great national events. The aristocrats were highly educated and cultured and patronized the arts and sciences. Queen Dido, who inherited the kingdom with her brother Pygmalion rose in revolt against him and when she failed in her seditious attempt she fled to Africa and founded Carthage in the year 871 B. C. Pygmalion's reign ended in 824 B. C. and Phoenicia became a dependent of Assyria when Sennacherib invaded the country in 705 B. C. Again invaded by the Chaldeans under Nebuchadnezzar in 598 B. C. the most of the conquered Phoenicians fled to Egypt and joined their people in Carthage. The remnant remained under Babylonian sway until Babylonia was conquered by the Persians under Cambyses in 527 B. C. Finally Alexander the Great, who was a Grecian, therefore of the tribe of Japheth, conquered the country again and Phoenicia after that is lost as a separate nation, becoming utterly subject to her conquerors.

Ethiopia (Modern) Abyssinia. The lower Nile was occupied in remotest antiquity by savage tribes descended from Ham, but of whom we know nothing. History does not give us any light. Ethiopia, which is the country now called Abyssinia, was peopled by the descendants of Cush, spelled Chus by Josephus, and spelled Kosh or Ekosh, which is found in the hieroglyphic remains of this country. Ethiopia means swarthy face. There were two races described by Herodotus, the Greek historian (about 425 B. C.). One was straight haired, the other woolly haired, both black. The woolly haired were distinguished by broad, flat noses and very thick lips. These people were gradually subjected by the Egyptian kings, but in the middle of the eighth century Ethiopia conquered Egypt, but was again conquered. Cambyses, the Persian, sought to subdue Ethiopia in 520 B. C. but failed. A series of queens ruled for many years under the generic title of Candace. One of them bravely held her cohorts against the Romans in 24 B. C., but was finally defeated. A pyramid still


exists which was built for one of these queens. In the sixth century after Christ the Christian religion was adopted, and from then on the state has been called Abyssinia. Their religion and civil procedure was adapted from the Egyptians.

Carthage, as we have seen in the history of Phoenicia, was founded by Queen Dido. Other Phoenician colonies were already there, such as Utica and Hadrumentum. She chose a peninsula in the Gulf of Tunis on which to build the famous city of Carthage, 869 B. C. The story goes that Queen Dido having obtained "as much land as could be contained by the skin of an ox," proceeded to cut the skin of an ox into strips narrow enough to extend around the whole of the hill upon which the city was founded. The colony prospered through commerce by sea and finally the king of Carthage obtained control over the northern coast of Africa. Native negro tribes were won over, and through intermarriage the Carthaginians became a mixed race, Japhetic and Hamitic. The army and navy were splendidly disciplined with slaves, forming the common soldiers and sailors, with Carthaginian officers. This small but historic city carried on an extensive sea commerce and Greece began to covet the strategic position occupied by this important city state. The Carthaginians inherited and their religion and social customs from the Phoenicians and practiced human sacrifice as did their forefathers. Much local history was made and records have been kept, so that this small nation is more familiar to the school boy today than the story of the great kingdoms of China and India. Wars with the Grecians consumed their time and sharpened their energies for centuries. For 100 years Sicily, Greece and Carthage carried on a constantly varying warfare. The famous Hannibal, the Carthaginian general, carried war into Italy. In 340 B. C. Hannibal invaded Italy through the friendly territory of the Gauls. He crossed the Alps with his army, but met with no success, and the Carthaginians were finally defeated by the Roman general Scipio. Later when Greece was conquered by Rome, Carthage became a tributary to Rome. The Carthaginians, however, retained a semblance of nationality for some centuries after that. She revived from her terrible humiliation, the population of which is said to have numbered 700,000 in 150 B. C. but Rome never ceased to fear the powerful kingdom although it was prostrate.

Alexandria. One of the greatest cities of northern Egypt was Alexandria. It was founded in 332 B. C., by Alexander the Great as a link between Macedonia and the rich Nile Valley. Consequently the inhabitants, at least the ruling classes, were descendants of Japheth. The commerce and trade of ruined Tyre fell into the hands of the Grecians in Alexandria, and in less than