Current Topics.
By James H. Anderson.

Submarine warfare goes steadily on, but the submarine now gets hit oftener than it hits.

British war vessels in the Cattegat, off the North Sea, sank a German cruiser and ten trawlers in a naval engagement in November.

Tar and feathers were applied to I. W. W's. in Oklahoma and in Minnesota in November, by mobs. Such mobs are worse than the I. W. W.

France now has non-sinkable ships, to cope with the submarine menace, and is constructing a large fleet of the new class, 4,800 tons.

Prohibition as a constitutional provision was defeated in Iowa in November, by the small margin of a little over 1,000 votes.

Daggett County is a new political subdivision in Utah, and comprises what was once the northern part of Uintah County.

All surplus wheat of 1917 has been shipped from the United States, and future shipments will be from the supply needed here.

Italy and France both changed cabinet officers in November, but the effort for a material change in Great Britain signally failed.

The Deseret Museum in Salt Lake City is to have a new home, to be constructed just inside the southern entrance to the Temple Block.

Congress met Dec. 3, facing many important problems, not the least of which was the proposed declaration of war against Austria, Turkey and Bulgaria.

The American front on the western battle line in Europe is at and in the vicinity of Parroy, sixty miles southwest of Verdun, toward the Swiss border.


British troops gained victories over the Germans on the western battle line in November, first in Flanders, and then more notably on the Cambrai front in northern France.

Electrically controlled boats are being used by the Germans with but little success as yet, but there is a possibility of great development in this line in the near future.

Three Utah soldiers  band members  were killed in a train collision on the D. & R. G. railway at Cotopaxi, Colorado, from the too ordinary cause of a trainman neglecting his orders.

Tax rules have been issued for the assessors and collectors throughout Utah. The suggestions are for an increase rather than for a modification of the tax-gatherers' demands.

The United States has stopped shipment of supplies to Russia since recent events there have changed Russia into a nation hostile to America.

The sugar famine in the East is being relieved by the shipment of beet sugar from the West. The real sugar shortage, however, is booked for 1918.

A new Sunday law stopped the sale of everything but newspapers at Selma, Alabama. This class of forced Sabbath observance surely "strains at a gnat."

China is theoretically at war with Germany and actually at war with a rebellion in its southern provinces. In such circumstances, Yee Sin does not seem particularly happy.

German and Austrian food riots are reported frequently in American newspapers; but their real seriousness does not seem so apparent when such reports are measured up with other known events.

Liliuokalani, the Hawaiian ex-queen, died on November 11. She was highly respected by Americans and foreigners, and also by the Hawaiian islanders. She was a member of the "Mormon" Church.

America pays 14.3 times as much as does Germany for the support of each soldier. It is safe to say that as heavy a percentage of this expenditure does not go to the American soldier as that from the German fund to the Boche.

CURRENT TOPICS. 41

Jerusalem, closely invested by British troops at the end of November, is now in their hands. This is the most startling development of the present crisis. When it is again besieged by German-Turkish forces Saints must set their houses in order.

A. F. Kerensky, the Socialist and Workmen's dictator of Russia, has been overthrown because of his too gentle treatment of the Russian extremists; and the new regime there is more despotic and brutal than the deposed czar ever was accused of being.

The W. C. T. U. in Utah passed resolutions asking a decrease in the acreage devoted to tobacco-raising in the Southern States, to give room for greater food-production. It does not appear that the South will pay any attention to the request.

Food-hoarding, which is condemned, and food-saving, which is commended, are different things. The wise family saves food and promotes health by having on hand a reasonable supply of food for future needs.

The Bolsheviki in Russia, putting into practice its socialistic theories, not only is looking to the distribution of land among the peasants but is taking from the thrifty what these have saved and disbursing it to the idle and vicious, thus placing northern Russia particularly in the grip of anarchy.

Japan will not send troops into the European war field. The far-seeing Jap knows he has enough on his hands to pacify and assimilate a very large area of Asiatic Russia, and thereby make Japan a continental power in Asia.

The German-Austrian terminal drive into northern Italy, after taking more than 1000 guns and nearly 300,000 Italian prisoners, has been checked on the Piave river front, north and east of Venice. The British and French reinforcements joined the Italians on November 26.

English "tanks," a development of the American agricultural machine, the caterpillar tractor, were more effective in the great battle of Cambrai, in the north of France, on November 21, than was the terrific artillery preparation heretofore indulged in elsewhere. This development is not exactly turning spears into pruning hooks.


Mexico is having still further trouble from the revolutionist Villa, who has now the Yaqui and other Indians on his side. Villa captured Ojinaga, opposite the Texas border, on Nov. 14, but his military movement has not yet developed the headway it is likely to gain.

Fads in fuel and coal administration affairs in the United States are gaining such momentum during recent weeks that protests are being aroused, especially in the Eastern States, against an evident despotism in this country which out-kaisers the German kaiser.

Women suffrage gained a great victory in its triumph at the election in New York State in November. In Ohio, woman suffrage was defeated; but the combined vote in both States was many thousands more for equal suffrage than against it.

Meatless Tuesdays and Wheatless Thursdays are being pretty well established in the Northern, Eastern and Western States of the Union. If there were instituted a few less days in the awful grafting and extravagant use of public and charitable funds now being raised with the war as an excuse, people generally would have less reason than now to complain.

In Palestine, the closing days of November saw Bethlehem, birthplace of the Savior (four miles south of Jerusalem), Ain Karim, traditional birthplace of John the Baptist (five miles southwest of Jerusalem), and Mizpah, birthplace of the Prophet Samuel, (seven miles northwest of Jerusalem), in the possession of British troops  men from Australia, British India, and Great Britain. It will not be until the land northward to Damascus has been occupied that Palestine will be relieved of the Gentile Turkish yoke; but the work to that end goes steadily on.

Great Britain, almost unnoticed by the public, has taken possession of a vast empire in Asia during the past few months. From the Persian Gulf up to a line due east of Damascus, in Syria, the Turk has been driven from the Mesopotamian valleys, and on the west coast of Syria he has been forced back to north of Jaffa. When the British expeditions meet at the intended converging point toward which they are now approaching, which is on the Asiatic mainland due east of the British island of Cyprus, the greater and more fertile portion of the Turk's Asiatic domain will have been wrested from him, in the process of which there is yet considerable hard campaigning.

By Janette A. Hyde

There is no doubt that people are somewhat tired of the word "Conservation," yet it required all the power of the United States press as well as the energy of 20,000 public-spirited workers to impress the rest of the people with the importance and practical meaning of this word. Much good has been accomplished through conservation and preparedness; and yet we must prepare for even greater and more telling results the coming year.

Now is the time to plan for future gardening. Nature yields according to the preparation which is made for crops far in advance of planting, and that preparation is briefly to fertilize and dig. Secure seed catalogues early. Send for bulletins published by the United States Department of Agriculture at Washington. Be willing to try new kinds and varieties of vegetables. Become familiar with all forms of vegetable life by studying their growth and food values. "Man know thyself;" and to paraphrase this "know vegetable life" would be a good motto for housewives.

Next to production of foods comes the cooking and conserving of them. Crisp vegetables that are tender may be eaten raw, such as celery, cabbage, lettuce, tomatoes, etc. Cooking is an art greatly neglected and much of the valuable content of vegetable food is lost and thrown down the sink, thus impairing the flavor. To get the best results, bake such foods as white and sweet potatoes, onions, beets, dried beans, peas, pumpkin, squash. Steaming is a more economical method of cooking vegetables than boiling, as there is no nutritive material lost, though the flavor of the food may not be quite so good as the baked foods. Allow more time for steaming than for stewing or boiling; more for baking than for boiling.

Fifteen minutes is quite sufficient for such vegetables as summer cabbage and sweet corn; thirty minutes for asparagus, peas, potatoes of medium size, summer squash, tomatoes; forty-five minutes for tender beets, carrots, onions, parsnips, medium sized potatoes, sweet potatoes boiled; sixty minutes for stringed and shelled beans, cauliflower, oyster plant, young turnips; two hours for old carrots, beets and turnips; and from six to eight hours for dried beans, or peas. Soak in cold water and


bake in oven, adding more water. Never boil dried corn. Let stand several hours or all night soaking in cold or fairly hot water. Put to boil ten minutes before dinner.

Potatoes may be served boiled, mashed, escalloped, creamed, French fried, made into a puree, etc. Celery may be stewed, creamed, made into a salad, and used for soup, flavorings, etc. Cabbage may be used for slaw, salad; may be creamed, stewed, stuffed, fried, baked, escalloped with cheese, etc. There are 135 different ways of serving apples, and this department will be glad to furnish recipes to any subscriber making a request for the same.

MRS. S. Y. GATES' POPULAR FRUIT CAKE.

For Two Large Cakes.

The inside crumbs of 2 5-cent loaves of white bread.
2 lbs. Blue Ribbon raisins.
2 lbs. seedless raisins.
1 lb. chopped walnuts, more or less.
1 lb. butter. If suet is used this recipe makes a plum pudding.
2 scant lbs. sugar.
2 heaping teaspoons cinnamon.
1 nutmeg.
3 tablespoons essence of lemon.
8 eggs, beaten separately.
1 qt. sour milk and 1 even teaspoon soda or 1 pts. sweet milk, and 2 teaspoons yeast powder.
1 pt. flour with soda or yeast powder sifted in.

Cream butter and sugar, add creamed yolks of eggs, then whites and milk; sift the flour in the raisins and nuts, add bread crumbs to milk, sugar and eggs. At the last add the floured fruit; put at once into pans and bake in a moderate oven over three hours.

TOAST TO MOTHER.

As Yuletide comes to us this year
It fills my mind with thoughts of cheer.
Most blessed is the memory of one
Who caused in me life's blood to run.

So on thee now, sweet Mother of mine
I wish God's blessings for all time,
That the peace and happiness of this hour
Shall come again with the spring time flower.

P. A. Roberts.

God bless the Utah soldier boy who wrote this.