[Vol44 | December 1957 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Testimony | Author: Cotterel]
Testimony of the Stick of Joseph Louise S. Cotterell ND now, after the many testimonies which have been given of it, this is the testimony, last of all, which I give of 'The Book of Mormon: 'That it lives! Thus do I testify of the Nephite scriptures, even as Joseph Smith the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon bore testimony that Jesus lives. No volume is more pulsing with life, more throbbing with the earthly struggles of men, both good and bad. 'The Book of Mormon lifts a magic curtain and grants me imaginative entrance into the remote past. Innumerable times I have felt the cold chill of the wind in my face as I have stood on the top of lonely Mount Shelem with the Brother of Jared and have gazed in ecstatic wonder at the sixteen clear, white, transparent stones illuminated by the touch of the finger of the Lord. Rocking to and fro in her misery, Sariah has often shattered the stillness of the desert air with her Hebraic lament as, helpless to comfort her, I have sat beside her in the tent of Lehi in the valley of Lemuel. Mother-heart has spoken to motherheart; I have comprehended Sariah's anguish in her fear that her four sons had perished in the wilderness on a return trip to Jerusalem. In a thicket of small trees I have listened intently to the words of Alma. I have heard Alma counsel his little band of followers (exiles from the tyranny of wicked King Noah) to be baptized in the name of the Lord. And, with the others, I have clapped my hands for pure Page 820 joy as I have seen Alma take Helam into the waters of Mormon; both men were buried in the fountain of pure water and came forth rejoicing, filled with the spirit. With the light-hearted abandon of joyous youth, I have gayly danced and sung with the daughters of the Lamanites on a sun-flooded green in a place called Shemlon. Our laughter has rung forth clear as bells as we have shyly exchanged secrets about stalwart Lamanite youths who have caused our hearts to flutter and our eyes to shine. Breathlessly, I have run from door to door in the Land of Ishmael with Abish, the Lamanitish woman, making known to the people that Ammon, the Nephite missionary, King Lamoni, his queen, and all their servants lay prostrate on the earth, overpowered by the Spirit of the Lord. Fervently I have prayed with Abish as we have hurried on our way, prayed that the Lamanites would assemble in the house of the king, prayed that the strange sight of those who lay as dead would cause the Lamanite multitude to believe in the power of the living God. While kneeling close to Nephi II on the grounds of the temple in the land Bountiful, I have clutched a corner of the hem of his robe, when, awe-struck and trembling with emotion, I have witnessed the descent of the Glory of Godhood and have heard the pronouncement: "Behold, I am Jesus Christ!" At that breathtaking moment I have felt that sustaining strength flowed to me TESTIMONY OF THE STICK OF JOSEPH through the spiritual power of Nephi the Disciple whose faith in the Lord Jesus was so great that angels ministered to him daily. Such people (and many, many others) from the pages of The Book of Mormon have become my intimate friends. I have shared their lives, suffered with them, rejoiced with them. Though they have long since passed from earthly existence, my heart assures me that they are still alive. And the scriptures confirm that my heart speaks truly: "For he is not a God of the dead, but of the living: for all live unto him" (Luke 20:38).. My mind finds the Nephite record fascinating with its intricacies of plot, its varied character delineations, and its cultural details which slowly but surely are being verified by scientists. My mind appreciates, too, the excellent moral teachings of 'The Book of Mormon; these principles, if applied, would undoubtedly make for more abundant living and a happier social order among all the children of men. But my heart leaps beyond the logical, the human, the intellectual, the social, or even the moral, to recognize the divinity of the record of the Nephites and the Jaredites. Upon Mount Sinai, Moses received two tables of stone written on both sides by the finger of God. 'Though actually engraved by human prophets, the ancient American plates just as surely had divine endorsement, for I know that Nephite and Jaredite fingers were guided in their writing by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit; yet the ancient American historians, in deepest humility, more than once expressed their feelings of 821 inadequacy for the tremendous task assigned them. Moroni, in_ particular, acknowledged his imperfection as a literary man: his awkwardness of hands in writing, his stumbling in the placing of words. Fools may mock, as Moroni feared, but they shall surely mourn. 'Though inscribed by fingers, faltering at times, because of the Christ-like humility of the writers, 'The Book of Mormon rings forth with the living word of God. This knowledge of the divinity of The Book of Mormon came to me neither easily nor miraculously. As the result of an earnest desire to know, as the result of patient study to gain understanding, and as the result of fervent prayer for guidance and enlightenment, the revealing power of the Holy Ghost was gradually exercised in my behalf. One blessed day, I knew that in the early nineteenth century an untutored farm boy (doubtless chosen before the world was, for his tremendous mission) had been raised up by the Lord to restore to the earth the gospel of Jesus Christ in its purity and truth. I knew, as I know that I live, that the ancient Nephite record translated into English by Joseph Smith and published as 'The Book of Mormon was in very truth another witness for Christ. Since that happy day when a sure testimony entered my soul, I have felt flooded with light, light sufficient to brighten my way as I walk through the darkness of mortality, sufficient to cast a reassuring gleam along. The pathway toward eternal life. Nor do I regret that neither mitaculous manifestation nor startling 822 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 discovery proved to be the foundation of my testimony. I can testify to the truthfulness of 'The Book of Mormon far more surely than if one of the Three Nephites had borne witness at my door; more surely than if, somewhere in the Americas, a stela had been unearthed bearing carved figures and decipherable inscriptions which read as follows: Lehi, Sariah, Laman, Lemuel, Sam, Nephi; more surely than if recently in the Hill Cumorah in New York there had been accidentally discovered some gold plates, curiously engraved with characters which scientists had identified as ancient Egyptian. Yes, I have a testimony far stronger than that founded upon miracles or upon the corroborating support of external evidence. 'Through the enlightenment of the Holy Ghost, I feel as if a testimony has permeated every fiber of my being—a testimony that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a true prophet of God, that The Book of Mormon is the Biblical stick of Joseph. Now, the stick of Judah and the stick of Joseph are one in my hand and one in my love. May the Lord graciously look beyond my inadequate words to read the gratitude written in my heart for the testimony which I have gained! Well do I understand the wise words of King Benjamin. Though I should thank the Lord and serve him all the days. Of my life, I should still be an unprofitable servant because of the magnitude of the gifts which he offers me. I can only bow in humble devotion before the glory and the wonder of it all. With the strengthening of my testimony has come a greater peace of soul than I had ever previously enjoyed. A calming realization has dawned. Disappointments and failure to achieve goals set by human ambitions and desires will continue to test my faith, from time to time. But, if I sincerely and prayerfully attempt to obey, all the laws and ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ, I have faith that I shall live to fulfill the mission of my creation in the divine plan of God. More I ask not. New Serial Elizabeth s Children to Begin in Yanuary A new serial "Elizabeth's Children," by Olive Woolley Burt, will begin in the January 1958 issue of The Relief

Society Magazine. 'The questions of woman's work and woman's destiny are considered in this serial, which relates the changes brought about in the life of Carol Wilson when her sister Elizabeth dies and the children want their Aunt Carol. The author will be remembered for her previous serials in the Magazine: "And for Eternity" and "Bitter Medicine," as well as for her many excellent short stories, articles, and poems.