[Vol44 | December 1957 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: New]
[New erial "Elizabeth's Children To Begin in January Marianne . Sharp]

h must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms (D. & C. 88:79). Our knowledge of the forces of nature, of the plants and animals of the earth, the history of men and nations — all the knowledge that we can gain in the wide fields of science and art and industry — these tools, alone, will not give us complete wisdom — for wisdom is knowledge in action; wisdom is that use of knowledge which will best serve us here and hereafter. It is the ability to choose among many things those which have a lasting value for us and our loved ones. It is the understanding to select from many paths those which will lead us most surely to our destination, to that time and place when our possibilities for learning shall be increased, when our sphere of understanding shall be magnified, and when our wisdom will be sufficient for us to understand the light which... Proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space— the light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God... Who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things (D. & C. 88:12-13). 818 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 SPRITZ 1 c. Butter "2 tsp. Salt % c. Sugar 1 tsp. Almond extract 1 egg 2% c. Flour ", tsp. Baking powder Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and unbeaten egg. Sift together flour, salt, and baking powder three times, and add to first mixture. Add extract. Put through cookie press. Bake 10 to 12 minutes in 400° oven. Holly wreaths, Christmas trees, or poinsettias may be decorated with red and green candy decoretts. Honey Tarry 3 Cc. Sugar. 3 tbsp. White vinegar 1 c. Honey 3 tbsp. Butter or margarine 26 c. Water % tsp. Salt Combine and cook, stirring occasionally until very hard ball forms in cold water. Pour into buttered pan until cool enough to handle. Pull until light golden color and porous. Twist and cool on a greased pan. Mark with knife and, when cool, cut or break into pieces. PANOCHE "' c. Sugar (carmelized) 1 c. Canned milk "% c. Water % tsp. Salt 3 ¢c. Sugar 1 c. Nuts (cut up) 2 tbsp. Light corn syrup 1 tsp. Vanilla 2 tbsp. Butter or margarine Caramelize sugar and add % c. Water. Boil until caramelized sugar is dissolved. Add sugar, syrup, butter or margarine, milk, and salt.