[Vol44 | December 1957 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
JLiterature  —  Shakespeare  in  Our  Lives 
Lesson    14— King   Lear 
Elder  Briant  S.  Jacobs 
Text:  Shakespeare  Major  Plays  and  the  Sonnets,  by  G.  B.  Harrison, 
Harcourt,  Brace  &  Company,  1948 
For  Tuesday,  March  18,  1958 
Objective:  To  rise  above  life's  tangible  trivia  and  conceits  and  feel  abiDut  us  the 
sustaining  bonds  of  universal  family  love. 
Oh,  sir,  to  willful  men 
The  injuries  that  they  themselves  procure 
Must  be  their  schoolmasters.  .  .  . 
II.  4.  305-307 
Who  alone  suffers  suffers  most  i'  the  mind  .  .  . 
But  then  the  mind  much  sufferance  doth  o'erskip 
When  grief  hath  mates,  and  bearing  [grief  hath] 
fellowship. 
III.  6.  Ill,  112-114 
IZJNG  Lear  is  perpetual  miracle;  it  tragedy"  ever  written  in  English 
contains  everything.  A  literary  since  it  provides  us  most  purgation 
diamond,  it  flashes  more  brilliantly  within.  Some  of  its  scenes  are  so 
with  use,  repaying  the  owner  in  kind  cruel,  so  pitiful,  that  we  must 
—whatever  the  reader  brings  to  the  strongly  resist  calling  out  to  Shake- 
play,  he  receives  back  in  legion,  speare  for  mercy.  Because  many 
intensified  and  deepened.  Thus,  prefer  to  escape  such  terrors,  and 
within  reason,  King  Lear  is  all  things  choose  not  to  witness  life  being 
to  all  men,  containing  almost  too  scraped  so  near  the  living  bone, 
much  of  God's  plenty,  so  great  is  King  Lear  is  not  Shakespeare's  most 
its  powerful  recoil.  It  is  a  play  to  popular  play;  it  is  merely  his  great- 
be  suffered  rather  than  read  silently  est.  In  very  deed  King  Lear  is  only 
or  talked  about;  once  sounded,  its  for  the  strong-in-heart.  But  for 
accumulate  blow  penetrates  clean  those  so  defined,  it  is  unique,  mag- 
through  the  surfaces  of  things,  poli-  nificent,  and,  above  all,  true, 
tics,  intellect,  to  strike  fully  at  the  From  its  earliest  known  form  as 
heart,  the  spirit.  The  most  delicate-  an  early  fable  or  chronicle  to  the 
ly  constructed,  the  most  complex  in  present,  this  play  has  undergone 
interrelationships,  King  Lear  ex-  many  significant  changes.  The  origi- 
hibits  a  clear  correspondence  be-  nal  King  Lear  is  suffused  with 
tween  inner  meaning  and  outward  Christian  virtues  and  faith  in  the 
event  or  word.  Hamlet  thought  his  hereafter;  in  Shakespeare's  play 
way  into  reality;  Lear  feels  his,  and  Lear's  only  source  of  strength  or 
his  power  is,  therefore,  greater  over  weakness  is  himself,  and  the  codes 
us.  Many  regard  this  ''symphony  of  and  imagery  of  wild  beasts  are  more 
suffering"    as    the    greatest    ''deep  native  to  it  than  are  the  values  of 
Page  848