[Vol44 | December 1957 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Live | Author: Forever]
MERRY,  MERRY  CHRISTMAS! 
805 
in  1854."  Or  "That  is  Great-great- 
great-grandmother  Pernecy  Allen, 
who  lived  in  a  covered  wagon  when 
she  was  first  married.  She  sheared 
her  own  sheep  to  weave  wool  for 
her  little  ones'  clothing,  and  she  was 
only  fifteen  years  old  when  she  was 
married/' 
Thus,  ''The  Family  Tree,"  paint- 
ed freehand  on  a  wide  wall  with 
poster  paint  by  one  of  Florence's 
friends,  Rebecca  Clawson  Smoot, 
tells  the  story  of  generations  by  the 
quaint  pictures  hanging  from  its 
branches.  On  the  back  of  each  pic- 
ture is  the  name,  date  of  birth,  mar- 
riage, and  death,  of  all  those  who 
adorn  the  tree. 
As  Gilbert  and  Florence  Williams' 
family  grows,  more  branches  will  be 
added  to  the  tree,  and  new  faces 
will  appear  among  the  leaves.  What 
a  unique  and  wonderful  way  to 
teach  an  appreciation  for  genealogy! 
The  upstairs  hall  is  long,  the  ceil- 
ing high.  The  roots  of  'The  Family 
Tree"  are  strong  and  deep,  and  the 
new  branches  will  have  space  to 
grow  and  unfold,  adding  new  beauty 
and  strength  to  the  family  life  as  the 
years  go  on. 
And  the  grandfather's  clock  will 
go  ticking  along  as  each  new  mem- 
ber pauses  to  listen  to  its  chimes 
and  to  ask  questions  about  mother, 
father,  grandparents,  and  great- 
grandparents— who  they  were,  where 
they  came  from,  and  where  they  are 
now,  and  "Will  we  ever  see  them 
again?" 
It  is  good  to  be  wellborn  and  to 
be  part  of  a  family  tree  and  to 
listen  to  a  message  that  will  chime 
out  through  all  eternity.  The  clock 
and  "The  Family  Tree"  are  part  of 
the  past  and  will  be  part  of  the  fu- 
ture, holding  a  family  together  in 
love,  tradition,  and  pride.  May  the 
tree  and  the  clock  always  remain  at 
the  head  of  the  stairs  in  Florence's 
house,  as  symbols  of  the  strength 
of  family  ties! 
L^hnstmas  c/s    {jDeing  utoine 
Christie  Lund  Coles 
Christmas  is  being  home;  wherever  you  are, 
You  are  led  backward  through  the  boughs 
Of  evergreen  and  spruce,  over  the  far, 
Firm-crusted,  sequined  snow  to  where  snow  plows 
Have  left  no  mark,  no  pathway;  but  the  feet 
Of  children's  Fox-and-Geese  can  route  again 
The  entrance  to  a  long-famihar  street, 
Where  stars  seem  twined  upon  each  weathervane. 
Christmas  is  seeing  loved  ones'  eyes  more  bright 
In  bauble's  satin  sheen,  in  candle  glow; 
Hearing  Noel's  bell-tone  and  the  quiet  night; 
Kneeling  in  praise  like  shepherds  long  ago. 
Christmas  is  being  home.  .  .  .  The  spirit  yearns 
Backward  forever  .  .  .  and  tonight  returns.