[Vol44 | December 1957 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Jesus | Author: Presidency]
Gesus Gs the Christ TESTIMONIES OF THE FIRST PRESIDENCY President David O. McKay acceptance of the divinity of Christ's mission and compliance with the principles of his gospel, give assurance of immortality and eternal life. I testify that a knowledge of his existence and of the truth of his gospel is the source of the greatest comfort and happiness to man.1 Brethren, I know as I know I am looking into your faces that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true and that he is my Savior, as real as he was when Thomas said, with bowed head, "My Lord and my God!" President Stephen L Richards I know that our Redeemer lives. I know that he is the Savior of mankind. I know he has revealed himself through his chosen prophets, and I know that his divine gospel is the only plan which will bring salvation and exaltation to man and peace to a distracted world. I thank God from the depths of my soul for the transcendent gift of his Son, the Lord of the earth, the supreme Giver of all time in all the world.* President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. And now may I, of the lowliest of the lowly who seek to serve him, and fully acknowledging my own weaknesses and imperfections, bear in deep humility my own testimony, born of the Spint, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God, the Only Begotten in the flesh, chosen before the foundations of the earth were laid to be the Redeemer of the World, the First Fruits of the Resurrection, through and by whom the spirits and bodies of all men will, in the due time of the Lord, be reunited and resurrected from the grave, "they who have done good in the resurrection of the just, and they who have done evil in the resurrection of the unjust." May I be preserved in this testimony till I lay down my body in my last sleep, I pray, in the Lord's name. Amen.' lConference Report, April 1953, pp. 18-19. 2Gospel Ideals, page 45. 8Where Is Wisdom? Page 322. 4On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, page 77. Page 789 Merry Christmas, Mother! Rosa Lee Lloyd 66 OW listen, honey," Joe said, smiling at Shirley over his newspaper. "I think it's a great idea for your mother to come for Christmas. We can afford to show her a good time on her first visit." Shirley felt her nerves tighten. All the lazy, lovely months of living here alone with Joe since their marriage last June, faded away like sunshine before a thunderstorm. "Oh, Joe," she breathed, "if you knew what Christmas means to Mother, you'd run for the nearest desert!" Joe's mild blue eyes crinkled as he folded the paper and put it beside his breakfast plate. "You're making mountains," he teased. "Your mother loves Christmas. Why shouldn't she come down to California and spend it with her only daughter? Perfectly natural, I'd say. Be a good girl," Joe coaxed. "Write back and tell her we'd love to have her for Christmas. We won't make a lot of work about it. We can eat out or we can buy a turkey ready-cooked at Hammond's. They deliver them, stuffing n'everything. Even gravy!" "Gravy!" Shirley scoffed. "Imagine Mother eating restaurant turkey and = gravy on Christmas. Imagine!" She began to laugh, a shaky kind of laugh that made Joe's brows worry together. "What's so funny?" he demanded. "You should be mighty glad your husband wants your mother to Shirley bit her lip. "It's because you don't realize," she told him. "You were a bachelor, living with other bachelors, when you met me at that office party. And you went to a boys' school before that because your parents were dead, and you didn't have a real home. And then you married me, and I'm glad to live free and easy without a schedule of any kind. I like to eat out or have chili and sandwiches while we watch TV. Any old hit or miss way you want to live suits me. But Joe, Mother doesn't live this way. She wants order and planned gracious living, as she calls it. And Christmas! If she had a slipshod Christmas, she'd feel that she was a failure."' Joe groaned. "So it's that bad! Well, she's still your mother, and I like her. I only met her when she met us in Salt Lake City for our wedding. How did she ever have a_pixie-faced daughter, with red hair and wicked little glints in her eyes?" "Tm like my Dad," Shirley answered, trying to force a smile. "No sense of order or responsibility; get up with the sun one morning or sleep till noon the next. You can guess what Mother's life was like with Dad and me, before he was killed in an accident in South America." The clock on the little shelf above the breakfast table chimed the half hour. Joe stood up and reached for his coat. MERRY CHRISTMAS, MOTHER! "Tell her to come down," he concluded. "We can have her kind of Christmas this year." Shirley sighed. Joe couldn't realize what it meant, she thought, dismally. "Okay," she managed, "but don't say I didn't warn you!" AFI ER Joe had kissed her and gone out to the garage, whistling, Shirley wrote a letter to her mother.