[Vol44 | December 1957 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: Social]
[Social Science: Families Have Members John Farr Larson 855]
and  a  happier  social  order  among  all  mission)  had  been  raised  up  by  the 
the  children  of  men.  Lord   to   restore   to   the   earth   the 
But  my  heart  leaps  beyond  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  purity 
logical,  the  human,  the  intellectual,  and  truth.     I  knew,  as  I  know  that 
the  social,   or  even   the   moral,   to  I  live,  that  the  ancient  Nephite  rec- 
recognize  the  divinity  of  the  record  ord  translated  into  English  by  Jo- 
of  the  Nephites  and  the  Jaredites.  seph  Smith  and  published  as  The 
Upon  Mount  Sinai,  Moses  received  Book  of  Mormon  was  in  very  truth 
two  tables  of  stone  written  on  both  another  witness  for  Christ.     Since 
sides  by  the  finger  of  God.  Though  that  happy  day  when  a  sure  testi- 
actually  engraved  by  human  proph-  mony  entered  my  soul,  I  have  felt 
ets,  the  ancient  American  plates  just  flooded  with  light,  hght  sufficient 
as  surely  had  divine  endorsement,  to    brighten    my    way    as    I    walk 
for  I  know  that  Nephite  and  Jared-  through  the  darkness  of  mortality, 
ite  fingers  were  guided  in  their  writ-  sufficient  to  cast  a  reassuring  gleam 
ing  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  along  the  pathway  toward  eternal 
Spirit;  yet  the  ancient  American  his-  life. 
torians,  in  deepest  humility,  more  Nor  do  I  regret  that  neither  mi- 
than  once  expressed  their  feelings  of  raculous  manifestation  nor  startling

822 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1957 
discovery  proved  to  be  the  founda- 
tion of  my  testimony.  I  can  testify 
to  the  truthfulness  of  The  Book  of 
Mormon  far  more  surely  than  if 
one  of  the  Three  Nephites  had 
borne  witness  at  my  door;  more 
surelv  than  if,  somewhere  in  the 
Americas,  a  stela  had  been  un- 
earthed bearing  carved  figures  and 
decipherable  inscriptions  which  read 
as  follows:  Lehi,  Sariah,  Laman, 
Lemuel,  Sam,  Nephi;  more  surely 
than  if  recently  in  the  Hill  Cumorah 
in  New  York  there  had  been  acci- 
dentally discovered  some  gold  plates, 
curiously  engraved  with  characters 
which  scientists  had  identified  as 
ancient  Egyptian.  Yes,  I  have  a 
testimony  far  stronger  than  that 
founded  upon  miracles  or  upon  the 
corroborating  support  of  external 
evidence.  Through  the  enlighten- 
ment of  the  Holy  Ghost,  I  feel  as  if 
a  testimony  has  permeated  every 
fiber  of  my  being— a  testimony  that 
Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  the  Christ,  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  true  prophet  of 
God,  that  The  Book  of  Mormon 
is  the  Biblical  stick  of  Joseph.  Now, 
the  stick  of  Judah  and  the  stick  of 
Joseph  are  one  in  my  hand  and  one 
in  my  love. 
May  the  Lord  graciously  look  be- 
yond my  inadequate  words  to  read 
the  gratitude  written  in  my  heart 
for  the  testimony  which  I  have 
gained!  Well  do  I  understand  the 
wise  words  of  King  Benjamin. 
Though  I  should  thank  the  Lord 
and  serve  him  all  the  days  of  my 
life,  I  should  still  be  an  unprofitable 
servant  because  of  the  magnitude  of 
the  gifts  which  he  offers  me.  I  can 
only  bow  in  humble  devotion  before 
the  glory  and  the  wonder  of  it  all. 
With  the  strengthening  of  my 
testimony  has  come  a  greater  peace 
of  soul  than  I  had  ever  previously 
enjoyed.  A  calming  realization  has 
dawned.  Disappointments  and  fail- 
ure to  achieve  goals  set  by  human 
ambitions  and  desires  will  continue 
to  test  my  faith,  from  time  to  time. 
But,  if  I  sincerely  and  prayerfully 
attempt  to  obey,  aJJ  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  I  have  faith  that  I  shall  live 
to  fulfill  the  mission  of  my  creation 
in  the  divine  plan  of  God.  More 
I  ask  not. 
I  Lew  Serial    iblizaheth  s  (children    to  [Joegin  in  y^anuary^ 
\  new  serial  ''Elizabeth's  Children,"  by  Olive  Woolley  Burt,  will  begin 
in  the  January  1958  issue  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine.    The  ques- 
tions of  woman's  work  and  woman's  destiny  are  considered  in  this  serial, 
which  relates  the  changes  brought  about  in  the  life  of  Carol  Wilson  when 
her  sister  Elizabeth  dies  and  the  children  want  their  Aunt  Carol. 
The  author  will  be  remembered  for  her  previous  serials  in  the  Maga- 
zine: ''And  for  Eternity"  and  ''Bitter  Medicine,"  as  well  as  for  her  many 
excellent  short  stories,  articles,  and  poems.

[Bodell  Lyhnstine  uL.  Jensen   (^rochets 
[Prize-  Vi/inning  iKugs 
TV/IRS.  Bodell  Christine  Hansen  Jensen,  Salt  Lake  City,  makes  rugs  of 
great  beauty  and  durability.  Using  cast-off  clothing  —  house  dresses, 
pajamas,  shirts,  skirts,  and  other  materials,  she  crochets  the  rag  strips  into 
lovely,  colorful  designs,  and,  for  durability,  makes  the  borders  of  new 
materials.  She  is  ninety  years  young  and  has  been  a  Relief  Society  worker 
since  her  young  womanhood.  For  sixty-two  years  she  was  a  visiting  teach- 
er. She  is  the  mother  of  nine  children,  six  of  whom  are  still  living.  She 
has  seventeen  grandchildren  and  thirty-two  great  grandchildren. 
Mrs.  Jensen  was  born  in  a  small,  two-room  adobe  home  which  was 
built  on  27th  South  Street  in  Salt  Lake  City  by  Mary  Fielding  Smith, 
mother  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  her  sons  in  1848.  This  home 
still  stands.  It  is  said  to  be  the  oldest  house  in  the  valley  which  still 
stands  on  its  original  site. 
(^hildnood  dit ome 
Mabel  Law  Atkinson 
How  dear  that  home  whose  shrine  invited  rest; 
With  children's  laughter  its  melodic  chimes; 
Where  twelve  of  us,  the  Master  as  our  guest, 
Stepped  in  and  out  of  heaven  many  times! 
Deserted  now  and  lonely,  still  there  gleams 
Its  light  to  mark  the  pathway  to  our  dreams. 
Page  823