[Vol1 | October 1914 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Home Gardening for Women]

HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN. "Go to the ant, thou sluggard, consider her ways and be wise, which, having no guide, overseer or rules, provideth her meat in summer, and gathereth her food in harvest." Proverbs 6:6 7, 8.
Most women, and especially the Latter-day Saints women, have developed wonderfully the instinct of providing against a day of need and want.
In the early periods of the Church the teachings of the leaders, on this point, was most emphatic and necessary, for being isolated from the other parts of the world, with no means of rapid transportation, people were forced to raise practically everything they consumed, hence they learned the great and valuable lesson of planting, caring for, harvesting and providing for the next season's wants and necessities.
There was never a more opportune time than the present to continue the practice of thrift and industry so wonderfully instituted by our pioneer fathers and mothers.
Fall Planting: Do not neglect the golden opportunity now of putting your next year's garden in proper condition.
Especially have it well drained and fertilized for bulbs.
Rhubarb and asparagus beds should be given proper attention by loosening up the soil around the roots, and giving a good mulching.
Great care should be taken in selecting seeds for next season's planting.
Only those well matured and from choice plants should be chosen, then dry and sack or place in bottles or tin cans, mark and store them away in a cool, dry place where they will not freeze.
Children can be taught to do this work and assist the parents.
They will be more anxious next spring to help in the planting if they are taught the value of caring for the supply of seeds this fall.
For lack of space in our last issue, pickle receipts and table of syrups was omitted.
One pint of sugar to one gill of water makes a syrup of 40 degrees density.
One pint of sugar to one-half pint of water makes a syrup of 32 degrees density.
One pint of sugar to one pint of water makes a syrup of 24 degrees density.
One pint of sugar to one and one-half pints of water makes a syrup of 17 degrees density.
One pint of sugar to two pints of water makes a syrup of 14 degrees density.
12 .
For preserving cherries, strawberries, etc., a syrup of 40 degrees density is used.
For preserving currants, peaches, plums, quinces, etc., a syrup of 24 degrees to 32 degrees density is used.
For canning blackberries, blueberries, cherries, peaches, pears, plums and raspberries, a syrup of 14 degrees to 17 degrees density is used.
Brine.
Ordinary brine is made by dissolving one-half quart of salt in twenty-five quarts of water.
By dissolving one quart of salt in twelve and one-half gallons of water the percentage of salt in the brine is 1 per cent in one pound, 2 per cent in two pounds, etc.
Allowing one-half-pint of water to each quart of fruit. "We are indebted to the Utah Agricultural College for the above table.
In pickle-making use but the best brand of vinegar.
Cider vinegar is considered less liable to have mould accumulate than malt vinegar.
Pickles should be kept in a dark, cool, dry place and examined often for the first few weeks.
If soft white spots appear, drain off the vinegar, add one-half cup sugar to each gallon, scald, and pour over pickles again bits of horse; radish and cloves assist in preserving the life of vinegar.
Select fresh vegetables or fruits for pickling, using only porcelain kettles, never metal. "When giving pickles their first scalding, add to % gallon vinegar pulverized alum size of nutmeg; it will make them crisp.
Do not add too much alum, as it is injurious.
A medium spicing for a quart of pickles is a teaspoon of pepper corns (whole black pepper) same of allspice, a tablespoon of broken cinnamon, 1/2 teaspoon of cloves, mustard seed or horseradish, 1 piece of ginger root an inch long  ginger is the most wholesome of the spices.
Pickles made at home are more desirable than those purchased on the markets, as the latter are usually colored a beautiful green with sulphate of copper, or made in brass kettles, producing same results in an indirect way, and both are deadly poison.
Vinegar should be brought to a boiling point only, as too much heat destroys its strength.
Nasturtium pods make excellent flavor for mixed pickles.
.
13 Oiled Pickles: 50 cucumbers (dill pickle size). 2 tablespoons celery seed. % pint olive oil. % pint ^ salt, lb. brown sugar. 2 tablespoons Utah black mustard. 2 tablespoons white mustard. 1 gallon vinegar. 8 good sized onions.
Peel, slice cucumbers and onions, put them in layers with salt over night, drain in cloth bag until dry, place in stone jar with spices and sugar, pour oil over top, then cover with vinegar.
They are excellent and easy to make.  J.
A.
H.  Green Tomato Pickles: 8 lbs. green tomatoes. 1 qt. vinegar. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 4 lbs. brown sugar. 1 teaspoon mace. % teaspoon cloves.
Chop tomatoes fine, add sugar and boil one hour, then add the other ingredients and boil about 15 minutes.
Try this one, you will not be without it.
J.
A.
H.  Spiced Pickled Grapes: Fill jar with alternate layers of sugar and bunches of nice, fresh grapes (either white or black), put in a few whole spices, fill 1-3 full of good, cold vinegar, cover tightly.
J.
A.
H.
Syrup does not add anything to the keeping qualities of canned fruits and is not necessary.
Sterilization, good jars, good rubbers, lids and cleanliness are the essentials to be relied on.