[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | October | Issue: 4 | Title: NEBO STAKE. | Author: LADIES’ SPECIALIST]

			NEBO STAKE.
	Morning session—Quartarly conference
Nebo Stake held July 20th, 1906, at Pay-
son second ward meeting house, Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presiding. 
	Roll called showed an attendance of
144 officers and members present. 
	President Dixon gave a brief report of
the stake, reported all wards visited once
since last conference; found all doing
well, spoke of storing wheat; 1,021 mem-
bers in stake. 
	Sister Caroline L. Holt of Spanish Fork
first ward gave report of her ward. Sis-
ter Mary L. Zabiska reported Eureka
ward. Mary A. Bradford reported Span-
ish Fork second ward. 
	Song by Sisters Nellie and Rose Pat-
ten, title “Sweet Vision of Childhood.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde of the Gen-
eral Society said she was pleased with re-
ports, our Father in heaven had a day
for everything, spoke of the Nebo stake
report, was pleased with the work of the
stake; sisters doing so much good work,
carrying on the same work that the Savior
did in relieving the sick and caring for the
poor, spoke of the children as the chil-
dren of God, we should not oppress them,
they are precious treasures, spoke of moth-
ers in early days gathering their children
around them and reading the Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants
every day; spoke of so much amuse-
ments, thought we should think of more
than the things of God, spoke of young
women working in Relief Society and
Mothers’ Class, said to think good and
do good, be pleasant when visiting the
sick, spoke of the Word of Wisdom as
being really necessary, even the people of
the world keeping it, spoke of our young
missionaries and what the world think
of them, that they think they are a fine
class of men; be charitable to those that
had made mistakes, our Heavenly Father

[Column 3]
don’t turn us off for our mistakes, “the
kingdom of God or nothing” should be
our motto, the Lord sends us trials to
purify us, we should not return evil for
good. 
	Recitation by Sister Earlensen. 
	Sister Farnsworth, a member of the
General Board, said it was her first time
to visit Payson, there had been great
progress in the Relief Society since first
organized by Joseph Smith, spoke of
the Relief work done in the San
Francisco disaster, spoke of the rights of
the sisters, told that they had all the
rights that our brethren can give them;
we must let our lights shine as true lights
in Zion.
	President Page of Nebo stake said he
was pleased to meet with the large num-
ber of sisters, it showed the good work
that was being done, glad to have the
sisters of the General Board with us,
said it is very necessary that we be
united, spoke of the Savior’s prayer in
the Garden of Gethsemane. We should
be as pillars in the Church to hold it up. 
We should not force our children, but
should use our influence to hold them to
the right. 
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session—President Dixon
presiding. Sister Farnsworth spoke about
the Nurses’ Class; said it was a fine op-
portunity for our sisters to become trained
nurses, wanted some of the girls from 
every stake to be trained nurses, said the
time was past for us to sit down and not
exert ourselves to improve, spoke of
Christ’s sermon on the mount; our chil-
dren should learn the lesson that it
teaches.
	Sister Hyde spoke, said Sister Smith
wished to be remembered to the sisters
and sent her love to all, was the only
woman living that received her endow-
ments in the days of Joseph Smith, said
that Sister Smith never was late at any
appointment, she has set the sisters a
good example. Said the Lord would al-
ways help us in our trials through life. 
Spoke of the Word of Wisdom in tak-
ing care of our bodies, and not work
too hard so that they would wear out be-
fore our spirits had done the work that
they were sent here to do; keep the
faith and cling to the iron rod. 
	Recitation, Sister Annie Tanner, “The
Girl Child.”
	Sister Roberts of Goshen said a mother
in Israel is a great and good name, are
we doing a mother’s part by our offspring,
do we know the responsibility that rests
upon us as fathers and mothers in Israel?
	Recitation by Sister Lavina Done. 
	President Lemmons spoke of the good
instructions we had received, that we
should put them into practice and get the
good out of them. One of the works of
the Relief Society is to take care of the
sick and the poor not only by food and
clothing, but we should help them to take
care of themselves by furnishing them
work. That if we followed the instruc-
tions of the authorities of the Church we
will never go astray. We should teach the
Gospel to our families. 
	Officers of the General and Stake Board
were presented and sustained. 
	Closed by singing “Redeemer of Israel.”
Prayer, Bishop Taylor.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
			Cor. Sec, Nebo Stake.


[Column 1]
			ST. JOSEPH.
	The Relief Society officers of the St.
Joseph Stake met in the Thatcher meet-
ing house September 7, 1906, at 2 p. m.
President Elizabeth Layton presiding.
The General Board was represented by
Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Sarah J.
Cannon. After singing by the congrega-
tion prayer was offered by Patriarch John
Taylor. There was an excellent repre-
sentation from the several wards.
	President Elizabeth Layton welcomed
the visiting sisters also the congregation
in a few words of encouragement and
greeting, and signified the wish of the
visitors that presidents of wards report,
as they should like to hear how the dif-
ferent branches of the society are getting
along, as also how the officers themselves
are feeling, and called upon the presi-
dents of the Pima, Central, Clifton, Gra-
ham and Thatcher wards, who each re-
ported her organization as doing the best
they could under the circumstances in
which they were placed. Some are too
busy or indifferent to attend meetings
much, but on the whole there are enough
faithful workers to keep the Relief So-
ciety work rolling on in the several wards.
	The Pima society was reported as hav-
ing a good house of their own, carpeted
and comfortably fixed up to meet in.
	The president of the Thatcher society,
Sister Olive Kimball, said they had just
turned over to the Bishop one hundred
and one dollars and ninety-five cents to
apply on the ward meeting house, and
that they have 400 bushels of wheat on
hand.
	Sister S. J. Cannon said she had not come
to tell us anything new. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith sent her regards and best
wishes to the sisters. Approved of hav-
ing many officers and not placing two or
more responsible positions upon one per-
son. It was a good thing to get all inter-
ested, and the more that are called into
office the greater interest will be taken.
Keep your children at home; don’t let
them go away to work or for amusements.
Make home so pleasant that they and
their associates will love to be there.
	Sister Emma Woodruff said, “Unity
and respect go hand in hand. If officers
are united they will respect each other.
The duty of the teacher is not always to
furnish financial help, but words of com-
fort and encouragement are often needed.”
Spoke of order in the house, cleanliness
and economy.
	Patriarch John Taylor encouraged the
Relief Society workers to press on in the
noble work which they had begun.
	Adjourned by singing. Prayer Eliza-
beth Moody.
	The Relief Society conference met Sat-
urday, Sept. 8th, conjointly with the
quarterly conference, by the courtesy of
the Stake Presidency; the forenoon was
devoted to Relief Society work. Presi-
dent Elizabeth Layton conducting the
exercises. Roll call showed ten stake
and twenty-three local officers present.

[Column 2]
President Layton reported the members
of her board alive to their duties and
working in unison. Each of the branches
in the stake had been visited once since
last conference, some of them several
times.
	Reports of local presidents continued
from yesterday.
	Sister Emma Woodruff: “Judging from
reports the sisters here are doing about
as they are in the north. A ward with-
out a Relief Society is like a man without
a wife. The Relief Society is the oldest
auxiliary organization in the Church, it is
therefore the mother of the others. The
young people should be taught to respect
the aged. Boys ought to have as much
care and consideration as the girls. Strew
flowers along each other’s paths by deeds
and words of love and kindness, and do
not wait to strew them on their graves.”
Bore testimony to the divinity of the
work.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon thought it nec-
essary for anyone to work for a cause be-
fore they could become really interested
in it, and the more they work the greater
interest they will manifest. “It is as im-
portant to care for the grain you have on
hand as it is to collect more. ” Spoke of the
great good teachers can do, if they have
the spirit of their work. “As we are
judged from the books it is very necessary
that our records should be full and com-
plete, not to have our names enrolled and
then seldom or never attend our meet-
ings.” Read an extract from the sermon
of President Joseph F. Smith upon the
Relief Society, delivered at the last gen-
eral conference, commenting on the
same.
	Sister Woodruff wanted each Relief
Society to consider the sending of sisters
to Dr. Roberts’ class to be instructed in
obstetrics.
	Counselor Salina Phillips hoped all
would do their duty that the Relief So-
ciety might become what it was designed
it should be. Encouraged Mothers’ Work.
	Counselor Olive Kimball was thankful
for the presence of the visiting sisters.
Hoped all would practice upon what they
had heard.
	President Layton was gratified with all
that had been said and done in confer-
ence. Hoped what we had heard would
enthuse us with a renewed determination
to more fully perform our duty.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
				SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
			(Concluded.)
	Afternoon session. Whitney choir fur-
nished the music.
	After singing and prayer, choir sang an
anthem. Instrumental music was given by
Annie and Vera Parkinson, and much en-
joyed.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde addressed the
conference in a spirited manner, touch-
ing the following subjects: Mothers at-
tending Y.L.M.I.A.; temple work, its

[Column 3]
importance to us and to our progenitors;
the teaching of children in regard to the
Word of Wisdom; marriage, and caring
for the amusements of children, also of
gaining and retaining their confidence;
spoke on the magnitude of the Relief So-
ciety work (3500 enrolled), loving our
enemies, despising evil speaking, keeping
the Sabbath day and all the command-
ments.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth spoke of indi-
viduality, of our work, blessings of good
husbands and children, benefits of nurs-
ing classes and knowing how to care for
our bodies; spoke of the Woman’s build-
ing and what Relief Society work in-
cluded.
	Pres. Parkinson addressed the confer-
ence on “Influence of Relief Society work,”
its progress, and spoke of prophecy being
fulfilled that was uttered at its organiza-
tion, how beautiful and ennobling its
mission was, advised kindness, self-sacri-
fice, and gave words of encouragement.
	Sister Hyde related her bearing of testi-
mony to two noted women in regard to
woman’s equality being recognized since
the Prophet uttered those words and
turned the key, which will place woman
side by side with man.
	Pres. Benson thanked the sisters for
their visit; advised the local officers to
pray for wisdom.
	Choir sang an anthem. Benediction by
Bishop H. Geddes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
				R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St, Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

[Column 2]
		DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
		LADIES’ SPECIALIST
			TEACHER OF
		Obstetrics and Nursing
ROOM 417 TEMPLETON BUILDING
Phone 4372y		-	-	Salt Lake City


