CORRESPONDENCE.

	A Sister writing to us from Beaver Jan. 2,
1880. wishes us to publish what the ladies there
have resolved upon doing Viz. petitioning the
present Legislature of Utah to pass some enact-
ment making women eligible to office &c.
This letter we withheld having been advised
to be quiet and publish the petitions as they
were presented in the Legislative Assembly.
However as so much has been said with re-
gard to a few ladies in this city only wanting
any change in the statute and that said ladies
were hankering for office and many other
very disagaeeable things, we will publish
items from the letter which have a direct bear-
ing upon the question.
		BEAVER, Jan. 2, 1880.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister—I have been requested to write

[Column 2]

to the EXPONENT,making known to its readers
what we are trying to do in Beaver Co. or ask-
ing their co-operation. I should have done
this several days ago but have been so unwell,
I did not feel competent. The ladies of Beaver
about 20, in number assembled at a  meeting
for school purposes, to appoint trustees; with a 
view to give to our Schools a new impetus
(considering them at a low ebb) we resolved to
appoint a lady trustee: one for certain, and two
if allowable. We were opposed and defeated:
the argument was, "no law for it, no law for 
it." We argued the point. I remarked that to
our certain knowledge there was a lady Super-
intendent, over Cache Co. schools: * * *
Our argument did not prevail and, we at once
resolved to send a petition to our Legislature
We organized a meeting appointed a chair
man and Cor. Secretary. Who accordingly
commenced writing the different counties,
sending, a copy of our petition and  requesting
the co-operation of both males and females
We have been very sucessful here,all the prin-
cipal gentlemen in the place have signed the
petition. * * * The Mormon brethren with
only one or two exceptions,one very "knowing
man," refused, expressing his views on wo-
man's rights,in this manner. "All the rights a
woman needs is the right to a good husband."
Wonderful wisdom! another remarks after this 
manner,"If the right to hold office could be re-
strtcted to school trustees, I would not object.
* *	We expect large returns from the
several counties, so we shall send a long list
of names, and our delegate, promises to do all
he can to help us. We want Sister E. R. Snow
should sanction what we are doing, we firmly
believe she will. * * We want no party
spirit in the affair; even if decided in our favor
let it never be said that we do things for op-
position, as political men do, we hope to be an
example to all such men; peace on earth and
good will to all is our mission here.
	Now Sister Wells I hope what we are doing
will meet your mind, as also the minds of the
other responsible sisters. The ladies assembled
last evening, I read to them what I had written
to you, which they fully approved. A great
number of names have already been obtained;
it is our united opinion that with few excep-
tions this entire County would sign the peti-
tion, could we have access to them. Our
method has been to send young women to read
the petition, and get signatures. I will men-
tion one thing which stimulated us to act in
this matter. Men teachers are employed and
higher wages given them than would be given a 
woman, equaly well qualiffed,who smoke cigars
and use tobacco setting this example before the
children. Do you believe a lady trustee would
employ one of that type? You would be aston-
ished to see the rage there is for smoking
among the half-grown boys! And I would
mention the habit of drinking liquor, but it
wounds me to think upon it; and I feel hope-
ful about a reformation, continually talked of;
and I try to believe it is not so bad as outward
appearances indicate. Please ask Brother
Wells to lend his influence, to this good wook.
we assure him it is not for any selfish motive,
or desire for popularity; but a humble desire to
do good, by taking measures to improve
the rising generation. We have great faith in
good.men. We check every appearance of a
vindictive spirit towards men who oppose us,
and ridicule the idea of "women holding office:"
they will change their views ere long, when
they see wise women having a voice in public
affairs,and see how matters flurish under their
administration: Pardon me for saying so
much, the subject seemed to demand it.

[Column 3]

	With many good wishes for your success
helping on a brighter future, and asking you
prayers
