SERICULTURE.
	IT will have been seen that an organization
has been  effected  lately,  denominated the
"Utha Silk  Association," for  the  purpose of
giving definite scope  to this  rising  industry
among our people.  A number of our promin-
ent citiz[-]ns have subscribed quite  liberally  to
its stock, and there seems to be a strong desire
manifested that it should be made a success.
	For some time the late President  Brigham
Young encouraged this enterprise, and he was
very efficiently sustained by many of our prom-
inent sisters, who  have  done  all  they  could
to foster and establish it in our midst.  And at
the last bie[-]nial session of the Legislature, the
assembly voted an appropriation  of fifteen
hundred dollars,  "To aid the Utah  Silk Asso-
ciation in purchasing and putting  in  motion
machinery for manufacturing silk."  I under-
stand this appropriation has been mostly  used
for the purpose designtaed in the grant, and
the machinery is now here and ready for use.
It has for years past been practically demon-
strated that in this mountainous country the
natvie silk-producing elements are abundant.
I sincerely hope that the people will take hold
of this industry and work it up with renewed
determination.  To this  end as Trustee-in-
Trust  I have subscribed  stock  therein, and
much more could have been had here, but it
was thought best to have it distributed through
the Territory.  I therefore cheerfully join with
the officers of the Utah Silk Association  in
asking the people to become stockholders, and
cultivate the mulberry as soon as the season
and soil are ready for putting in trees, seed and
cuttings. I also invite the Presidents of Stakes
and Bishops of the Wards to lend  their in-
fluence and aid in behalf of this laudable and 
necessary enterprise, that the labors of our sis-
ters may be brought to a successful issue, and
sericulture, as it should become one of the 
prominent industries of our mountain home.
		JOHN TAYLOR.TO THE FRIENDS OF HOME INDUSTRIES EVERY-
		WHERE.
	Be it known, that on the 17th day of last
month the Utah Silk Association was organ-
ized under Territorial charter.
	The objects of the Association are to promote
the cultivation of silkworms, to manufacture
silk from the raw material, to engage in the
business of buying and selling silk products, to
buy and sell and distribute  silkworm  eggs,  to
encourage the growth of mulberry trees, and to
own and operate a silk factory or factories, and
do all other business connected therewith.  The
capital is $10,000, divided in 1,000 shares of $10
each.
	The directors elected by the stockholders are
Wm. Jennings, Eliza R. Snow, W. H. Hooper,
Zina D. Young, A. M. Musser, M. Isabella
Horne and A. C Pyper.  The officers chosen
by the directors are Wm. Jennings, President;
Eliza R. Snow, Vice President; A. M. Musser,
Secretary; and Paul A. Schet[-]ler, Treasurer.
Over $2,000 of the stock has already been taken,
and the stipulated 25 per cent, paid thereon.
	To enable the Association to carry out the
objects of the  organization, as recited  above,
with zeal and success, additional means are
needed, accordingly a stock book has been
opened in this city, and the  people are hereby
cordially invited to take stock in the institution
and become shareholders therein.  We will be
glad to learn that the leading citizens of the
different sections of the country  will  interest
themselves in this matter and invite subscrib-
ers to this stock and forward the names and
amounts to the secretary without delay, so that
the good work many commence and be conduct-
ed to a successful issue.
	In a short time we hope to be in a position to
advertise for the purchase of cocoons and raw 
silk from the producers, and to give them their 
market value in cash.
	The season to plant young trees and to put in
seed and cuttings will soon be here.  Now is
the time to initiate this work.  Any informa-
tion the people may desire on the subject of 
sericulture, in any or all of its brances, will
be gladly furnished, on application by letter or
otherwise, to the secretary.
		WM. JENNINGS, President.
		A. M. MUSSER, Secretary.
Salt Lake, City, Feb. 6, 1880.


[Column 1]

