		GOODNESS.		

A few evenings ago, as my girl sat by


the stand reading, she evidently  knocked
the lamp off on to the carpet; I sprang for
a woolen  quilt  which  lay on the lounge,
expecting to see a tremondous fire. But
on discovering it to be only a common blaze,
I called to her to blow it out; but instead,
she caught it up as quick as thought, which
sent the blaze down into the oil (there was
about a pint of oil in the bowl of the lamp),
which caused a wonderful torch.  I need
not undertake to describe to you the fright
it gave me, for I expected every second to
see the lamp burst in her face, as she ran
across the room to the door; but instead of
turning the handle she turned the key,
which I consider a very providential thing;
I thought I must open the door and dash
out the lamp, but as I was about to do so
the oil went out as though  something
dropped from above on to it.
 I immediately exclaimed, the Lord says
they that tithe shall not be burned; and He
would not let me be burned, so he has put
that fire out.  The Scripture was fresh in
my mind, as I had paid my tithing that
day. Anyhow, I consider it the safest and
the best way to be on the sure side, pay
our, tithing and obey every other command-
ment which God has given.
	I would recommend to every Latter-day
Saint to read the Book of the Prophet
Joshua, and notice how particular he was
in charging the people of God to keep all
the commandments and observe all the or-
dinances, which, if they did, what great
blessings  they  would  obtain; but if they
neglected these things, what awful scourges
would come upon them.  He speaks  very
particularly  against their letting their sons
and daughters marry outside of the Church,
which if they did they should have thorns
in their sides, and their pillows should be
wet with tears.
	Rest assured, my beloved friends, the
same causes will produce the like effects in
our day as in all others when God has an
organized Church on the earth, to whom
He reveals His will  through  His prophet.
Therefore, let  us  govern  ourselves accord-
ingly, that we may be accounted worthy to
inherit  the blessings of thrones, principali-
ties, powers; and an endless  continuation
of lives in the presence of the Father and
the Son, with all our dear friends who have
gained the crown of life.
	Recently I had a very  singular dream,
and I wished to know what the interpreta-
tion of the dream was, and this is the  in-
terpretation  which came to me:  Our com-
positions and all our conversation must be
holy; they must  not be mixed  up  with
rough  or vulgar words and phrases, or we
would be ashamed to have them  exhibited
in a coming day.  Mothers, while your
children’s minds  are young and  tender,
teach  them  to  abhor  rough  words;  teach
them to use  good  and  proper  language;
teach them to treat everybody with respect;
and in fine, teach them to be gentlemen
and ladies, fearing  God  and  reverencing
His holy name, that they may be a blessing
and comfort to you in your deelining years.
