EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I am rejoiced that the subject of the
equality before the law of women with
men has reached the stage of "respectful
consideration" (I mean no sarcasm) in our
Territorial Legislature; and since nobody
has visited me to ask my signature to the
petition, I hereby authorize and request
you to put my name to it, for although I
neither expect nor wish to hold any office
whatever, I don't relish being forbidden;
and I know some offices which I should like
to see filled by ladies.
	The thanks of the ladies are due to Hon.
C. W. Penrose for his faithful presentation
of our case; and Hon. F. M. Lyman's point
is well taken when he says no man is
obliged to vote for any individual woman
because he helps to amend the statutes so
that a woman would be at liberty to serve,
if others voted her into some office.
	It is admitted on all hands that "self-
preservation is the first law of nature," and
that every man has a natural human right
to use every honorable means of self-pro-
tection, and it is equally clear to my mind
that every woman has that same natural
human right to all fair means of self-pro-
tection. Men claim the right to judge for
themselves what measures would best con-
duce to their welfare, and it seems equally
clear that women themselves are the best
judges of their needs and requirements. It
is a foolish fear, and uncomplimentary to
those who entertain it and to those of whom
it is entertained, that, given the opportu-
nity, many women would run wildly after
those avocations for which obviously men
alone are fitted, to the neglect or scorn of
the more peculiarly feminine pursuits. As
well say that to allow girls to study geogra-
phy would determine them all to become
sailors, or foreign merchants.
	I am glad that no woman, not even the
most foolish of our sex, has ever expressed
a desire to dictate to men, as men have
done and many still do on the other hand—
her moderate and sensible argument is, "I
am not your counterpart, but I am your
equal; my mission on earth is as important,
as high and holy as yours, and I have equal
need of unfettered liberty to choose my
own course in life, and pursue the calling
for which I am best fitted. If you need
safeguards around your liberty, life and
property, I need the same. If you are
anxious to foster all good influences and
suppress all evil ones which may surround
our children, I am at least equally so."
	Man is the Knight on the golden side of
the shield, and woman the Knight on the
silver side; and it is by exchange of ideas
that both may arrive at the whole truth of
any matter under consideration, and even
for this reason alone it seems that the State
needs woman's opinions. The wildest
dreamer cannot suppose that women expect
ever to bear an equal share with men in
the burdens of public life, for dearer and
nearer to most women are their maternal
and hearthside duties; but if one woman
is fit and willing to serve the public in any
honorable calling, it is an oppressive law
which forbids. And consoling and cheer-
ing would it be to faithful and devoted
mothers of future citizens, if their children
might grow up in the knowledge that her
devotion to their infant needs was the fruit
of her own free will and choice—that she
was not driven to rearing men and women
by public opinion and laws which debarred
her from anything else. How much keener
in children would be the sense of obliga-

[Column 2]

tion and gratitude to parents, and how
much more vivid would be their realiza-
tion of a mother's sleepleas vigilance in her
watchcare over their helpless infancy, when
they see with their own eyes that she did
it from choice and might have chosen other
occupation. Then the childless wife, the
unmarried and the widow have each her
peculiar need of room to choose her occu-
pation according to her taste and talents.
	"Ben Nevis," correspondent to the "Her-
ald," says  he "can give no good  reason"
why women's liberties should not be as
broad as man's, only—it would not suit his
ideas. But I know several good reasons in
favor of women's equality in law, and they
suit me passing well.
	First, it would be better for women; and
this fact includes
	Second, it would be better for men; and
both these reasons lead to
	Third, it would be better for children.
	These reasons are so interwoven and re-
actionary in their nature, that it is almost
impossible to give them singly, so it I fail
to do that, don't accuse me of having at-
tempted it.
	Woman, born to an inheritance of noble
responsibilities, educated to be a citizen,
knowing that an even half of the world's
weal or woe lies in her hands, debarred
from no pursuit for which her talents fit
her, treated by her brother man as a friend
and co-worker, instead of at first a goddess
and next a slave—I say women so situated
could not be frivolous, giddy, fickle, and
the long etcetera of kindred adjectives now
so often applied to her. Having a prospec-
tive field for the exercise of all her noblest
powers, in the very nature of things must
tend to develop just those qualities and
give them strength to outgrow the inferior
ones. Added respect must give her added
dignity, and freedom foster her patriotism,
and elevate her whole character above petty
follies and narrowmindedness.
	If it be objected that Republican citizen-
ship has failed to do all this for men, I can-
didly admit the fact, and proceed to state
what I conceive to be the reason.
	I do not for one moment claim that liberty
would greatly ennoble women if it were
possible for her to possess it herself, and at
the same time condemn her brother man to
wear a ball and chain; and this, figuratively
speaking, is just what the man has done.
On emerging from monarchial and other
despotisms he has broken his own manacles
and given his own limbs nature's freedom,
but still assures the woman that nature in-
tended her to wear manacles, and made
her wrists and ankles slender on purpose to
fit them; that they are eminently becom-
ing to her, and that she would look immod-
est and altogether displeasing to him with-
out them; and he beseeches her, in the
name of his approval and the eternal fitness
of things, to wear them gracefully. But
since he cannot leave her behind, his own
liberty loses half its value, and his progress
toward perfection is still very slow. At
best, and in individual cases, he takes her
by the hand and assists her what he can,
deeply pities her weakness and incapability,
and considers her extremely fortunate in
having him for her guide, protector and
owner.
	Oftener, he lays his baggage on her back
and runs lighty on, making frequent pauses
to allow her lagging steps to draw near.
During these pauses he visits the pleasure-
gardens and refreshment-stands on either
hand, but decides compassionately that since
merely walking the straight thoroughfare
makes her so tired, it would be the height

[Column 3]

of folly for her to think of adding to her
already severe tasks, and exerting her al-
ready failing strength in making any of
these detours which do not weary him, be-
cause he is so peculiarly adapted to just that
kind of activity.
	One human being may aggrandize him-
self by oppressing another, but he cannot
thus ennoble himself.
	Every act of injustice to a fellow-creature
recoils upon the perpetrator, warping or
dwarfing his or her nature, and blinding
the spiritual eyes. For these reasous, man
cannot hope to ascend the kingly throne of
excellence while his inseparable companion
remains outside the gate in bonds. Since,
as the laws now stand, man holds the atti-
tude of a despot towards woman, having,
without her co-operation or consent,laid her
under heavy restraints and disabities; to so
alter these laws that all future men and wo-
men may be "born free and equal," would
be an act so just and fair, so brave and noble,
as to elevate him to a standard of excellence
higher than any I have been able to portray,
and advance him in our and his own re-
spect and esteem. Liberty, knowledge
and integrity are three things which are
never lessened by being imparted to others;
so let woman advance all she can in patri-
otism, learning, dignity and every good
word and work, and it will detract nothing
from men's abilities, acquirements, or op-
portunities, but only increase the sum total
of the world's intelligence and worth.
	This brings me to "Third, it will be bet-
ter for children." The children are the
mother's peculiar charge, and freely does
she endow them with whatever is hers to
bestow—her time, strength, manners, mind,
morals and education; if they are little, it
is but little she can give, while if she has
much, much will she bestow.
	When she is a patriot, a vigilant watcher
of national and local policy, and forms in-
telligent opinions concerning "men and
measures," how readily her children may
acquire premises from which to draw just
conclusions for themselves, on the noblest
and best of sciences, human government;
and how early and thoroughly they may
become imbued with the love of humanity,
that best and surest indication of a great
and noble soul. I aver, from the best pro-
curable evidence, both positive and infer-
ential, that children will be born better or-
ganized and endowed both physically and
mentally, when the artificial barriers be-
tween father and mother are swept away;
when the greater contentment, the deeper
cultivation, the broader development, the
higher elevation of mothers—and fathers—
will so richly endow their offspring with
great aspirations and powerful intellects
that the race of to-day will be mere pig-
mies beside them.
	Success to our petition for liberty, and to
every measure which conduces to the pro-
gress of the human race.
		L. L. D.
St. George, Feb. 1, 1880.


THE House of Representatives of the
Iowa Legislature, Chicago, Feb. 7, adopted,
by a vote of 87 to 31, an amendment to the
Constitution to be submitted  to a  vote  of 
the people, making free white women eligi-
ble as members of the Legislature.

	BILLS have been introduced in the Iowa
Legislature making  ladies eligible  to the 
office of County Recorder, Couuty Auditor,
and the right to vote for school directors.


