A CRITICISM OF FRANCIS PARKMAN

	"The reciprocity  between  the two  sepa-
rate halves  of human nature extends over
a wide field, not only in passions and emo-
tions, but in the regions of moral and intel-
lectual life.
	"It is a fructifying  power, with which
neither the world of thought nor the world
of action could well dispense."  So writes
Francis parkman in his essay on the "Wo-


man Question," which is the acknowledged
platform of the Woman Suffragists, the
truth which shall bring to them a complete
victory. Could  the  author  of this  axiom
have drawn his arguments from these pre-
mises, and firmly applied them with an un-
biased judgment, his conclusion would have
been far different.  He evidently goes into
the contest  with  a  prejudiced  eye, and
warps everything to the end he seeks.
	He affirms  Woman has  an "intractable
will" with  which "Man's  resolution cannot
cope in  the  political  arena  or  in the
halls of legislation."  To prove his position
he brings  up  from  the  barbarism  of the
South the falsely educated women  of the
rebellion, and sets up Shakespeare's Lady
Macbeth as a measure of American women,
and then coolly says when Woman is fairly
inside of politics, she will become a Delilah
to 'spread her snares for the  congressional
Samsons; and the power  before which the
wise fail and the mighty fall  will  be in-
voked against the sages and heroes  of the
Capitol.
	Oh! what an impotent conclusion, what a
libel on the mothers, wives, and sister, who
stood, so grandly calm and all sustaining in
the hour of  our conflict, and ensured us the
victory! What an insult to our manhood!
	Again he writes, one of the chief dan-
gers of popular governments is that of in-
considerate and rash legislation.  This dan-
ger would be increased immeasurably if the
most impulsive and excitable  half of hu-
manity had an equal voice in making the
laws.
	Those who are familiar with the society
of Friends will at once see the fallacy of
this conclusion.  For two hundred years
their women have enjoyed this privilege so
far as all rules, regulations and business
transactions are concerned.  They mostly
meet in separate sessions, though occasion-
ally in joint session.  A few years since the
writer was present at one of these held in
New Bedford.  The men discussed  and
passed a measure  which  was of doubtful
expediency and somewhat imperfect in  its
application.  It was sent  over  to  the wo-
men, and in due time came  back  disap-
proved, was laid on the table, and meeting
adjourned.  Where was the rash legislation?
Whoever attends the joint sessions will ob-
serve the men do most of the talking, and
sometimes get  things  somewhat mixed,
causing undue excitement.  At this junc-
ture some woman rises in all the gentleness
of womanhood and in words calmly and
fitly spoken brings the assembly to its prop-
er dignity.  Where does the rashness come
in? So, we might go on to the end, refut-
ing his arguments at almost every point.
T.K. Earle.
- "Woman's Journal."


