	PAPANUI, CANTERBURY,
		NEW ZEALAND Dec 30, 1879.
DEAR EDITOR:
	We feel  truly  thankful  to  God our
heavenly Father, for this  privilege  we en-
joy of expressing  our feelings  in the work
of the Lord, and of being  associated  with
our sisters in Zion, in the great work of the
Latter-days, and though thousands of miles
separate us, and the blue  Pacific rolls  its
billows between us and our home, still we
feel the impulse of that Holy Spirit, which
is working among our sisters, in the far off
land of Zion, where the good, and the true,
the virtuous, and the brave, are  working
out the grand designs of our great  Creator,
and our hearts  long  to see  the  day when
we can assemble with you,in your meetings,
and be  one  with  you  in  all  good  works.
But during  the time  of  our captivity  in
Babylon,  we don’t wish to  be  idle,  or
cowards who dare not stand up in defence
of our holy religion, but we will show to all,
that our colors are nailed to the mast, and
that the motto is “No Surrender;” and as
Latter-day  Saints  we  will try to  set  our
friends and neighbors an example that will
be  worthy of imitation; and that we do in-
deed love all holy and righteous principles,
those which will elevate us in the scale of in-
telligence,and which will enable us to leave
the world better  than we found it, by train-
ing  up  our  children  in  those  principles
which will make them better men and wo-
men, and more  willing to do the mind and
will of the Lord than we are,through many
false  traditions we have inherited from our 
forefathers.
 On Dec. 23th, Elder  Thos.  A. Shreeve,
President  of  the  Canterbury Conference,
called the sisters  together, and laid before
them some of  those  principles  which  are
taught in the Relief Society at home, and
said that  he  felt  impressed  by  the
Spirit to form a Relief Society  in the  Can-
terbury Conference,as it would be a blessing
to the sisters,  and they  would increase in
knowledge, and  understanding, and com-
prehend woman’s great mission  in  the
Church of Jesus Christ.  Many of the sisters
expressed themselves willing to help in the
work, they saw its necessity, and wishing
to be up with their sisters in Zion,in every
good work of the Gospel,were willing to do
their best.  And when  we  tell  you  that
some of them came nine miles and fifteen
miles, and others several  miles,  and  all
feel determined to  be at  every good work
you may have an idea how they feel in the
work of  the  Lord.  And that though we
may be far  from  home, we hail with joy
everything in the Gospel that we are per-
mitted to practice  in  this wicked and cor-
rupt nation.  And we feel that another step
has  been  taken  towards that glorious
work, which is to cover the earth  with the
knowledge and glory of the Lord, and hum-
ble as we may be, and surrounded on every
side, with the powers of darkness, with the
help of Israel's God, we  will stand  by our
brethren in this great cause, and help them
to combat error, and keep our children as
free from the sins and folly  of  this world as
we can.  Sisters in Zion,give us  your faith
and prayers, that we may  be  faithful with
you in the great cause of the Lord.
	The following Sisters were then set apart.
Ann Jones, President.  Johanna Larson and
Agnes Dook Counselors, Rosabela Tregagle
Secratary.  Meetings to be held last Monday
in each month.  Number of members 23.
	After the meeting we had a picnic, and
enjoyed ourselves to  our hearts content, in
games,  and  innocent fun;  plenty of  good
food, and pure cold water was partaken of,
no intoxicating  drinks,  no swearing.  All
was peace, love and joy, gladness beamed
from every face, and when we parted at
night to go to our homes seperated from
each other better prepared  to  meet  with
the trials of life.  It will be a pleasure to
look back upon the day when the Relief
Society of the Canterbury Conference was
organized.  May God our heavenly  Father
watch over, and preserve all Israel is the
prayer of your Sister in the Gospel of peace.
		ROSABELLA TREGAGLE, Sec'y,
	Canterbury Relief Society.


