WOMAN AND HER DUTIES.

	The duties of the gentler sex are a favorite
theme of conversation, and indeed a most im-
portant one, which should be studied and were
it possible be correctly understood. New
light dawns upon this subject, as upon  others,
when one comes to investigate it intelligently
That woman's mission on the earth is a glori-
ous one none can deny who reflect seriously.
upon life and its possibilities. "To bear the
souls of men" and women, immortal souls, is 
something grand and holy. That for this divine
purpose woman should have the most careful
preparation, the largest opportunities for cul-
ture, and the best possible conditions, every
thoughtful person will concede.
	An eminent physician writing upon this
subject says, "when woman permits herself to
bear children she gives bonds to heaven for
their souls." Admitting there is much truth
in this sentiment, though strongly expressed,
then indeed what manner of women ought
mothers, to be and how extremely cautious
should be their choice of fathers for these im-
mortal souls. What then should be the train-
ing of girls, who are to bear these heavy re-
sponsibilities, and to be the mothers of the
races of mankind? Can too much be done to
enlighten their minds, to educate their heads
and their hearts? Girls should be taught from
their earliest years to qualify themselves to
become worthy of the exalted office of mother-
hood,and to choose wisely the companion who
is to be the co-mate in this great work of im-
parting new life to an immortal being. The
power to regulate civil and social conditions
has not yet been equally balanced between
men and women, but has commenced to work
in a small degree and new light is constantly
dawning upon the minds of the people. Should
not woman, the mother, have a voice in what
should be the conditions of the society in which
her sons and daughters are to be ushered? The
government and its regulations,should she not

[Column 2]

have a correct and positive knowledge of,
when so much is at stake? Has not every
mother learned that while crime and
wickedness is countenanced her sons, dearer
far than her own life,are liable to be drawn in-
to the fearful whirlpools of sin and wicked-
ness that are all around? Would not every
intelligent woman be glad to exert an influence
which might be beneficial for the public good?
Single-handed one can do very little, but
united woman's strength might we'gh heavily
in the balance of right. In what way woman
can work most effectually is the question to be
considered?
	That woman's centre is the home-life,that an
inviolate home is her sanctuary, we firmly and
truly believe, but that she should have powe
to exert an instrumentality in all the depart-
ments, whereby her offspring are to be pro-
tected, educated and provided for, seems only
rational and proper.
	If as we have been taught and believe the
Gospel has lifted women to a nobler place than
she occupied before, and the women of this
Church have proved their integrity to its prin-
ciples by practically assisting in working out
a new theory of marriage upon a higher plane,
yet an entire innovation upon the accepted
theory and practise of the countries in which
they were reared, then are they not capable of
having a voice,a positive and well-defined influ-
ence in the education and government which
is to affect in a large sense the posterity born
and reared under these conditions?
	That women who have had large experiences,
especially in this Church are capable of doing
great good in a broad sphere, we do not hesitate
to say; and we candidly believe that when
woman's duties, rights and privileges come to
be more fully understood the way will be more
widely opened, and the glad result will be more
of that finer element of spirituality which wil
strengthen the higher and nobler characteris-
tics of the human soul and aid men and wo-
men in the struggle for victory over sin and
error. Meantime earnest, prayerful women
with steadfast hope and faith will look to the
future, and as prejudice dies out before them
and their work, they will be justly recognized
in their womanly efforts to aid in a higher,
broader and deeper civilization for all mankind,
which will help prepare the way for the Mil-
lennium, the reign of peace on earth.


