NEVER GET ANGRY.

	Anger does no good. Some sins have a
seeming apology, a present gratification of
some sort, but anger has none; a person
who acquires a habit of giving way to pas-
sion, when in that state is without much
sensibility and often bereft of reason; he
speaketh like the piercing of a sword, and
his tougue is like an arrow shot out of the
bow. Heated passion kindles flames of dis-
cord on every hand; an angry person adds
nothing to the welfare of society. Life is
given to us to educate and disciplne our-
selves and not to gratify one's passion, and
when the storm has passed over it leaves
one to see he has been a fool, and has
made a fool of himself in the eyes of
others. A person who gives way to passion
is on the road to ruin, and when angry
will commit many wicked deeds. When
anger was in Cain's breath murder was not
far off; there have been many murders and
much property destroyed in the world by
giving way to heated passion. When we
have learned to govern self we have to a
degree gained power over the evil propen-
sities of our natures; there are besetments
on every hand to draw aside the unwary,
and tempt them from the paths of rectitude
and honor. Then let us cultivate principles
that ennoble our character. A cheerful dis-

[Column 2]

position is an invaluable trait of character
and should be cultivated. It is a far nobler
thing to conquer one's passion than to crush
a foe.The cultivation of the youth, should be
carefully studied and the foundation of good
laid in early life. It is in vain to look for a
real noble character without a cultivated
mind; establish your reputation in youth,
and it will always stand by. It is a happy
memory that remembers kindness and for-
gets offences; if an enemy hunger, feed him,
if he thirst, give him drink.
	"Save when young, to spend when old," is
a very true motto which should be observed
by all; cheerfulness soothes the passions and
keeps them calm. A smile costs the giver
nothing, yet it is beyond price to the erring.
It subdues temper, turns enmity to kindness,
and paves the darkest paths with sunshine.
The highest riches does not consist of
princely income. There is greater wealth
than this. It is the possesion of an honest
cheerful heart and a clear conscience; a
person is truly rich, who has a noble soul
and moral courage enough to withstand the
temptations, that occur in daily life. We
all desire to live long, then practise the
golden rule, "Do as we would be done un-
to." To the aged you are indebted for care 
and attention during infancy and childhood.
They have endured all the pettish humor
in their helpless days of childhood, and
you in return must endure with patience,
and alleviate, as much as in your power lies,
the infirmities of age. We are all frail
creatures and liable to go astray. We ask
God to forgive our weakness; should we not
forgive the short-comings of our compan-
ions? Be charitable one toward another and
when our brother or sister does or says what
is wrong do not tear their names to pieces
or disparage them,by unkind words, but en-
courage them to reform. Remember
the words of our Savior "Judge not lest ye
be judged."
		MARY JANE CROSBY.
	Bountiful Jan. 18, 1880.


