A LITTLE GIRL'S LETTER.
   We publish  below  a  letter dictated by a
little girl just previous to her death.  It was
addressed to the children of the Primary As-
sociation of which she was a member.  Tina
Pearce died January 24,1880. She was greatly
beloved by all who were intimately associated
with her and must have been a child of spiritual
endowments.  She endeared herself to all  who 
were intimately associated with her, and her
President in the Primary Association, Mrs Jo-
phine R. West, was conscious of her rare genius
and great spiritual power.
   On the occasion of the Surprise  of the  Pri-
mary Association to Sister E. R. Snow in Mrs.
Jane' S. Richards' parlor in Ogden, Tina was
present, and contributed her share to the en-
tertainment.  At the  concert  given  by  the
young peopla in Ogden, Tina  sang in a  duet
"Our Grandmother's Arm Chair,", which made
an impression on all present.
 The dear little girl  died of  diphtheria and
suffered very greatly.  The day previous to her
	death she asked if she might  write a letter  to
the Primary Association but when the pen and
ink were brought she was too weak to write, and
her father wrote as she dictated.  We trust
the children of the Primary  Associations
throughout  the  Territory  will  be  impressed
with the last words of this dear child, addressed
to them, and that it may be a powerful incen-
tive for good to the little ones.  We extend
our heartfelt  sympathies to  the  parents  and
friends  of  the  deceased, and trust they will
remember that,  "God knoweth best."
  "DEAR BROTHERS AND SISTERS--I am about
to leave you. Till we meet in heaven, be faith-
ful to the  cause  of  Christ.  My  spirit  shall
watch over you and be around  you  while you
remain on the earth.  I am going to  sing  my
next  song  in  heaven.  Obey  your  president
and council, and all good principles. I am go-
ing to a better place than this, and if you are
faithful you shall come.  Love one another
and try to help one  another  and  you  can.
You may bring me some flowers if you  wish,
or come and see me, Good bye, until we meet
in heaven.  I remain your affectionate sister in
the Gospel of Christ.  TINA PEARCE


