ITEMS.

	A prominent gentleman admitted he had
declared publicly that “no pure and virtu-
ous woman would wish to hold a political
office;” said he would yet say, he did “not
believe God ever intended a woman to hold
an office.” I thought, what of Miriam,
the prophetess; why did not the great
prophet and leader, Moses, cut down her
ambition? And could both he and Aaron
have been duped by a woman, men of God
as they were? Was Deborah, the judge, a
pure and virtuous woman? The Bible does
not record that the court atmosphere pol-
luted her fame. In the New Testament
the Elder sends reverent greeting to the
“elect lady.” Mistaken man!
	Is not Queen Victoria a pure and virtuous
woman? Did not Louis Napoleon and Em-
peror Wilhelm leave their empires in the
charge of their wives, as Regents? They
had more confidence in woman’s ability and
integrity, more confidence in their honor,
than to fear the effect of “political contami-
nation.”
	But what bewilders me is, why, when
our brethren know that Mormon women’s
political efforts are in harmony with coun-
sel, that they should treat the subject with
ridicule. Women did not ask for the bal-
lot in Utah until Pres. Young said they
ought to have it. As to the Police Court,
what woman wants to be a Justice of the
Peace, or a Constable? I know of no aspi-
rant for either office, though it is considered
lucrative (a consideration with gentlemen).
Men talk of the mire of courts and poli-
tics, but they avoid the suggestion that a
woman might be a Chaplain, and remain
“pure and virtuous;” and there are some
ladies we know who we think would make
good clerks, or even Legislators; and should
they even in time attain to Senatorship,
would we, think, be satisfied with their
stated salaries, without “voting themselves


kid gloves, neckties, pocket handkerchiefs," 
etc., as “contingent expenses?"
	Just as fierce a war was waged  against
those unfeminine women who would study
medicine, knowing how many of their own
sex dreaded being  attended by gentlemen
practitioners, preferring for themselves and 
children a woman’s presence, sympathy,
and intuition  of just  what they  felt, “be-
cause she is a woman and knows just what
is meant when told some particular ache.”
And as women  have  proven  themselves
competent M. D's., so also I have no doubt
will some women prove themselves equally
competent and eminent politicians, if wise
and generous men accord them the privi-
lege of equal political rights.
	It looks as though some men said in their
hearts, “You may vote, for I need your
vote, but you can’t have half my privilege
to hold office and earn what you want, pay-
ing for it yourself.” Political rights look a
good deal like this to me:  When I was a
little girl, we frequently went in crowds to
gather wild nuts.  On one occasion, one
girl in the crowd had a hammer, and offered
to crack all the nuts for the crowd.  When
she had done so she gave us each a small
share,  keeping  about  three-fourths  of the
amount for herself.  Her explanation  was,
that she was the girl that cracked the nuts,
and ought to have the largest share;  we
had no hammers, anyhow, and ought to be
satisfied.  But when we each expressed
our willingness to do our own  work, if she
would lend  the  hammer,  she  said she
couldn’t see it.  And so with the gentle-
men (some  of  them);  they don’t wish to
lend us the hammer of political advantage.
