R. S. REPORTS.

	The Eighth Quarterly Conference  of the
Relief Societies in the Juab Stake  of  Zion
was held in Nephi  on  the  16th  of  Jan.
commencing  at 10  o'clock  A. M.  Mrs.
Hannah Grover Stake  Pres.  of the  Young
Ladies presiding.  Most  of the  officers of
the Stake and  the  branches  were  present,
(some absent on account of sickness) also the
officers of the Young  Ladies  and  Primary
Associations, and a goodly number  of the
members. On the stand  with  the  officers
were several  of  the bretheren. After  the
usual  opening  exercises  of  singing and
prayer, the afternoon was occupied  by  the
Young Ladies, and Primary  Associations,
in reading [-]nd giving verbal reports, which
indicated great improvment, and that their
Presidents and  other  officers  were very
much encouraged  with  present  prospects.
The afternoon was occupied by the Relief
Societies, Mrs. Amelia  Goldsbrough, pres-
iding.  The minutes of the last quarterly
conference  were  read  and  accepted,  then
the quarterly reports of the Nephi, Levan,
and Mona branches, were read, which were
quite encouraging,  showing that the sisters
generally  were  alive  to  their  duties and
that a spirit of oneness was on the increase.
Pres.  Goldsbrough  then  stated  that  she
with her counselors and  others had  visited
the different  branches and was happy to
say that she found a spirit of improvement
among the sisters, and a desire  manifested
to perform  every  known  duty,  and,  that
the Presidents of the different  associations
felt greatly blessed in laboring to teach and
instruct the rising generation  in  Zion, re-
alized the  Lord was  pouring out his Spirit
upon the young people and  children.  En-
couraged the sisters to still strive to do  all
they  could for the  advancement  of  the 
kingdom of God on the earth, and to seek
to sustain  the servants  of the Lord and
each other, that we might show  to the 
world that we were a band of sisters, united
for the good of God's people, and mankind
in general.  The time was well occupied by
the Presidents  of  the  branches  and  Mrs.
Goldsbrough's counselors, who spoke many
words of encouragement  to  those present.
Mr. H. H. Brown, Counselor to  President
Teasdale, and others of the brethren, spoke
words that were calculated  to  strengthen
and encourage the sisters  in  every  good
word and work.  Choir sang. Benediction.
		AMELIA GOLDSBROUGH, Pres.
