		CONTINUED.
	And yet we are asked what we want that
we have not already gotten, as if we were
importunate  children  clamoring  for the
sweet meats  that  are supposed  to  be  too
strong for our digestion.
	We want, an open field and no favor; we
want you to decide upon the merits  of  our 
case and not out of a  spirit  of  chivalry  to
our sex, but upon those principles of equali-
ty that grow out of the maxim, “what you
would that others would do unto you, do ye
even so unto them.” We want equal and
exact justice, we want  for  our  girls  the
same chances in the race, that are provided
for our boys.  We want to be allowed  to
dicide,  what  our sphere  is, and not be
advised by every quack in law, or theology,
that, "it is not decent for a woman to speak,
and that if she thirsts for knowledge she
must ask her husband at home.  We want
capacity to be the test of power.  We be-
lieve that "taxation without representation,
is tyranny now, as much as it was, a hund-
red years ago, we want to pay our taxes
like honest citizens, but we want a voice in
the uses to which they are to be put.  We
want all the schools  that  are  supported by
the Government to admit  girls as  well  as
boys.  We want all churches that  claim to
be any thing but Pagan in  their  doctrines
to open their doors  to  women  and men
alike.  We want the right of trail by juries
of our peers, we want our colleges to admit
young women to the same course, and on
the same conditions as they do young men.
All these things,  and  many more,  we ask
in the name of common  humanity,  and we
will not  be  contented  with  the half  loaf
that is being grudgingly offered. The de-
mands of the age, are radical, and there
can be no half way measures.  Belva Lock-
wood, of Washington city, last winter was
admitted  to  practice  law  in  the  U.  S.
Supreme  Courts  after  having waited for
years, the only bar to her admission being
her sex.  The rusty hinges of Harvard Col-
lege are slowly creaking to admit women to
the same course of study, but not the same
honors; the young lady students are not to
be called students, and are not to use the
college library, or be admitted to competi-
tive honors, and not entitled to diplomas
when the course is finished; here is a bit of
fossilized wisdom  worthy  to  be remem-
bered.
	Mrs Van Cotta preacher of marked ability
was refused  the right of being ordained by
the Rev. Bishops of California  because she
had the misfortune to be a woman.  Within
a few weeks a venerable  pious  woman  was
refused a hearing in a  well known  church
in our own  county, because it was not con-
sidered decent for a woman to speak  in  a
church.  In Wisconsin lately Lavinia Good-
ell, was refused admission to  the  Supreme
Court of the state, not  for  lack of qualifica-
tion, but because the learned judge decided
that being a woman she was not a person.
	This might be borne perhaps with some
degree of patience, if all men who are legally
constituted, our representatives, were gen-
erous, just and chivalrous, but the general
reader knows that today a large proportion
of the women who lose  their  lives by vio-
lence, are wives, who are sacrificed by their
affectionate, "divinity ordained" protectors.
One of the quiet streets of Oregon is haunted
by the bloody wailing ghost  of a murdered
wife and mother, who met her  death sud-
denly  and  violently, by  the  hand  of the
man who solemnly promised at the alter to
love and cherish and protect her.  Such trage-
dies are not very  common, and yet they
occur often enough  to convince us  that we
need all the protection  that  our  rights as
citizens entitle us to.  Many a timid  wife
runs the risk of being butchered,  rather
than face the dreadful advertisement, "Left
my bed and board  without  just  cause  or
provocation,"  &c.  &c.  Society  has  many
crimes to atone for in its way of treating
women. A woman surely who is not too
good to be kicked or beaten  to  death  by
her legal head, is not too good to vote.
	All women are, or ought to be, interested
in helping to reform the abuse growing out
of such a slavish system.  Unless husbands
and wives can dwell together in unity, give
the man the bed and the wife the board.
We have on this Continent  every  thing
calculated to make us rich, prosperous and
happy, except freedom but  institutions are
all based upon the  fundamental  principles
of equality, if we make sex a qualification
that must forever bar one half of the people
from any participation in public affairs, we
withhold forever from women and their
female posterity  the blessing  of  liberty.
To them this government has no just powers,
derived from the consent of the governed,
to  them  this  government  is  not  a
democracy it is not a republican.  It  is
an ristocracy a  hateful  oligarchy  of
sex,  the  most  hateful aristocracy
every established on the face of the globe.
This aristocracy which ordains all men sov-
ereigns, all women subjects, can never be
perpetuated, in a land claiming to be  free.
But in the  face  of all  these  humiliating
facts, there are good  omens for the speedy
enfranchisement of woman.


