INTEMPERANCE.

	Intemperance is the foe of sobriety, or-
der, peace, the welfare and the happiness
of the human family. How many have
fallen victims to the deadly enemy? Echo
answers, "How many!" Those alone know
who have battled with this fierce destroyer,
and whose hearts have been wrung with
anguish by the sad fates of their still dear
ones that have rapidly trod the downward
path to the yawning grave.
	Happily, my lot has been so cast that I 
have scarce come into contact with the ine-
briate, and know nothing of the fearful
temptation, the hilarity, and subsequent
suffering those undergo who are destroying
themselves by drink, except that which
imagination supplies.
	But I say to one and all, if you will you
can overcome. Your will-power must con-
quer, if you ask the help of the Lord. It
is by will-power that you can conquer any
evil habit, and when you rise up, in the
majesty and power of your will, saying, "I
will give this habit up, and it shall never
have power more on me," relying on the
help of the Lord, you can conquer, never


fear! And when once the resolution is
taken, when once a covenant has been
made between you and God, then never
taste again the forbidden article, for if you
do, goodby to good resolutions—they vanish
like the morning dew, and again the chains
are riveted upon you tighter than before.
Never say "I'll try," but "I will;" and with
that will, conquer!
	Do I lament the increase of intemper-
ance? I do; and gladly would I see our
young, our middle-aged, and our old, that
are wrecking their lives, stop in their ca-
reer, and turn ere it is too late.

	Mothers, how can we impress upon the
loved ones of our households the impor-
tance of temperance? By setting the ex-
ample and by ourselves never partaking of
anything that will intoxicate. The Lord
has told us what to do and how to use liqour
wisely, what it was designed for, and can
we not believe Him? Can we not abide by
His promise and have faith in what He
says?
	Then let us prove our faith by our works.
