OVER THE SEAS.

	What an "oft told tale" is that of leaving
one's native shore, and sailing away to for-
eign climes! And yet, the surging crowd,
the waving 'kerchiefs and tear-dimmed
eyes, give always a thrill of excitement.
The "Zealandia" moved out at noon on the
17th of July, '79, from San Francisco, and
taking her course Southwest, arrived at
the Hawaiian Islands July 14, '79. The
passage was marked by the same old events
that occur on every trip of the kind—an
intense desire on the part of the passengers
for the first few days to investigate their
cabins, and become intimately acquainted
with the stewardess. I might say, a time
for the ransacking of the various parts of
that useful article, the stomach, and an in-
dignant uprising of the contents thereof to
argue the point; producing quite a fair imi-
tation of a Working-men's Meeting (the
worst coming to the top). After the truce
of peace being ratified, through the agency
of Messrs. Lemon, Sedlitz Powders & Co.,
the patient undulates up on deck, and be-
comes aware of the fact that his head per-
sists in standing still and his feet insist up-
on following the motion of the vessel. A
little practice, however, and then, ho for
dress, dinner, and gossip. There were two
things which impressed themselves particu-
larly on the writer's mind, during the voy-
age, viz.: What astonishingly pretty feet
American girls have, and what pretty hose
are made to add to their attractions! And
what a small amount of music can be heard
when there are two instruments always open,
and a proportion of three to one on board
the ship, who are accomplished musicians
with good voices. Just take, say a ship's
company, out of which two can play a little
and sing a few songs, and the passengers
will, after a few hours steady listening,
silently wander up on deck and murmur to
themselves, "What are the wild waves say-
ing," gazing pensively meanwhile on the
foaming water below, and wishing, oh,
wishing for peace o'er the troubled deep.
The present voyage was, however, a pleas-
ant and speedy one.
	In passing, it might be stated that the
two girl acrobats of California, who were
on board, gave a performance on the tra-
peze. Truly things of the sort are not
pleasing without the pomp, brilliant gas,
and flourish of brass which always accom-
pany them in the "ring." A ripple of ex-

[Column 2]

citement was created by a sham fire, and
the appearance of the seamen who acted as
firemen. About half way across, the splen-
did phenomenon of five suns setting, or
rather dipping in the sea, was witnessed.
No storm, scarcely a cloud seen to vary the
monotony. When passing around the Is-
land of Oahu, it seemed strange to see the
sun hid up by banks of rain-laden clouds.
The scenery around the island is beautiful.
Rounding the point to get into the bay, or
harbor, of Honolulu, one is delighted with
groves of tall cocoanut trees, pretty villages,
suburban villas, tropical vegetation, and
dark, frowning backgrounds of densely
wooded hills. Supper, or dinner, at six
drew us below, and not until the city was
in full view did we again emerge on deck.
As we neared the wharf, the King's band
played the American airs, and actually,
yes, verily struck up selections from Pina-
fore, running on with Nancy Lee. My
blood congealed! I thought these dark-
skinned islanders would never hear of Poor
Little Butter Cup—what—a—Well, well, I
silently devoted the time to introspective
memories.
	The first impressions are always the
deepest—so says the old adage. I think
the first impression made upon my mind
about the Sandwich Islands was made by a 
picture in a very old geography. The sea
was dashing upon the shore, mountains
high, and riding on the waves with narrow
boards were pictures of scores of Indian-
looking creatures apparently being about to
be dashed to pieces on the rocks. Now, I
don't know that I ever thought about this
picture for years, until within a short dis-
tance of Honolulu, when it so suddenly
and clearly rushed into my mind that I
half expected to see the picture a living
reality. Instead, we beheld little dark-
skinned swimmers down by the vessel ea-
gerly beseeching the "haore" to throw "ten
cents dis shide."
	The first view of Honolulu was a very
pretty one, and as we neared the shore
grew fairer every moment. The tropical
trees, the clean white houses, and the back-
ground of rolling hills, made an interesting
sight. The crowd of dark natives on the
shore were neither as noisy nor as rude as
one would expect, but make a path for you
with good-natured politeness. Of course,
outside the gate of the wharf you are ac-
costed by numerous hands and voices, who
noisily entreat your patronage to ride. As
you ride on up through the city, you are
most struck by the narrow, crooked streets.
The compass, its points and use, evidently
entered not into the marking out of these
streets. Some are a half moon and some a
triangle. Take a chart of the war opera-
tions, well, of anywhere will do—they all
look alike—and you have an excellent plan
of Honolulu. The houses are low, and
mostly wood. The dreaded earthquakes
account for this. Very many pretty resi-
dences are scattered throughout the city,
but anything like American elegance,
grandeur, or style seems unknown.
	SUSA.


