[Column 1]

ing together and wildly gesticulating with
their hands as though their very lives de-
pended upon it; while the radiant bloom on
their countenances, indexed the intense ex-
citement they felt, handkerchiefs were ner-
vously yet freely applied to wipe the per-
spiration from their heated brows;—while
the many telegraph operators, who had
posts all around the circular room,kept up
a constant click, click, click, on their instru-
ments, adding to the general hubbub and
confusion. It was quite impossible for us
to distinguish a word they were saying,
and looking down upon this noisy foolish
mass of humanity, we could not refrain
from mentally making use of the words of
that saucy "Puck" and exclaimed, "What
fools we mortals be."
	The scene is changed;—and we are now
fairly launched upon the mysterious deep.
We have bid adieu to the Western world,
the land of our nativity, and watch with
co-mingled feelings of sadness and satis-
faction, the rapidly receding shore.
	How the brilliant rays of the declining
sun, glorify aud bring out as by an illumin-
ation, the stately splendor and surpassing
grandeur of the land we love.
	We view it with swelling hearts, hearts
that o'er flow with gratitude, not all un-
mixed with pride, and we exclaim with
rapture deep—profound—"This is my own,
my native land."
	The sun sinks lower, lower, behind yon
fading western hills, and the shades of
night creep on apace to assume the place of
day. Yet in our recollections that il-
lumination still remains. Our country is en-
circled by a halo of light.
	Tis night; deep, vast, and solemn; and the
myriad lamps of heaven are kindly lighted,
penetrating the darkness that rests upon this
uufathomable world of nature.
	"Shine out, O, friendly stars—O,  won-
drous spheres, shine out in all your splendor;
and leave us not in darkness, with these
hungry lashing waves. Shine out in all
your glory;—telling plainly the sweet story,
of our Father's boundless mercy and our
Savior's wondrous love."
	Encompassed by such solemn grandeur,
such awe inspiring magnificence, we ask
ourselves the momentous question; "what
are we?" The answer comes spontaneously:
"Oh, arrogant mortal, thou art but a tiny
speck, amid God's vast creations:" We are
humiliated; yea,  almost stunned, by the
thought of our utter insignificance; our
nothingness. But soon is applied a soothing
balm, to the wounded spirit, and the still
small voice repeats to us these reassuring
words: "Not a sparrow falleth, but your
Heavenly Father knoweth it, and every
hair of your head is numbered. Fear not,
for are ye not of much more worth than
many sparrows?"
	How our hearts exult with gladness and
rejoicing; with praise and thanksgiving to
our Father and God, for His goodness and
mercy, long suffering and  tender care, that
encircles us, abides with us, day by day.
	I spent many evenings on the deck of the
vessel, which seasons failed not to impress
upon me, useful lessons of humility, and
greater love and reverence for the won-
drousness of God.
	"Oh, a life on the Ocean wave, the man
who wrote it was green" etc. Thus sang
one of our steamer passengers who did not
enjoy sea sickness; and we all felt willing
to join in the chorus. Yes, all our fond
anticipations of the night before, were shat-
tered to smitherines;—and we felt that we

