[Column 2]

ment of the United States is at present half
Republican in form, as the men choose
periodically their representatives, both as to
the law making body and the chief execu-
tive. To be a pure Democratic the whole
body of the people would have to meet to
pass laws, which is not possible in any but a
small state. The government of some of the
early English colonies were of this sort.
	Human beings are social and a law of
their nature compels them to live together
in communities, and being selfish and wick-
ed, must be subject to control and restraint.
When the people in a certain given district
organize themselves for this purpose they
become a State, and the authority which
they exert either directly or through chosen
representatives, is civil government. This
government derives its powers from the
State (which is the people) and is answer-
able to the people; this is true of the gov-
ernment under which we live, with the ex-
ception of Territories, and women; in study-
ing this science of power, many have mis-
taken politics for civil government, and
some of the privileged class of male voters
who think they know enough to make laws
for all humanity, have talked to me as if
they thought parliamentary rules was civil
government.
	A great many of our bright young people
have begun their studies laboring under
various hallucinations, which is greatly to be
deplored as it has a tendency to degrade the
sentiments of purity, honor and even vener-
ation with which the subject should be ap-
proached. Wherever the interests of per-
sons, or parties, are appealed to instead of
patriotism and honor, the tendencies are de-
grading; local elections,or the heated debates
and inflammatory speeches during political
campaigns are not the proper places in which
to imbibe the true spirit and genius of
the greatest government on earth. Men
are influenced by pressures of inherited
opinions sectional prejudice and motives of
sordid interest, and often by individual hate
and malice, according to their different tem-
peraments, teachings and occupations.
Among these the strongest and most lasting
influence is that which a youth imbibes day
after day at the traditional fireside, which is
more often the dining table in his father's
house and over which his mother presides.
If there he learns that a man who owns
sheep must be a Repubiican, because there
is to be undue advantages given to that
particular class, or that the man who labors
with his muscle must be a Democrat be-
cause that party are pledged to squeeze capi-
tal in the interests of the indigent no mat-
ter why they are so; if he hears his father
say he will vote for a base immoral man be-
cause he is smart and can push the interests
of his party, or that he will vote against a
good officer, and a good man because he
differed with him on some trivial question
of, perhaps, a personal nature, indelible
reasons, imprinted on the minds of the chil-
dren who sit silent perhaps, but drinking in
every word, and absorbing the spirit as well.
First they learn that parties are something
like an unarmed banditti preying without
honor on each others interests, that occupa-
tion, and not deep rooted conviction of
principle shall decide party fealty, that per-
sonal interests and even personal prejudices
are to be considered before the conscientious
duty of a citizen. They learn that intellect
is necessary to success but not moral charac-
ter, and that the gratifying of some paltry
personal revenge is far superior to the duty
one owes his fellow citizens and conntry.

[Column 3]

Again our debating schools and clubs of
various kinds are mainly devoted to study-
ing parlimentary rules, and how to conduct
debates, rather than to that class of knowl-
edge which should precede it. Those who
have been observant have here detected a
tendency rather to study such points as
would serve to overreach and harass an
opponent, than to understand how to con-
duct the business of a public meeting with
justice to all, and the greatest possible dis-
patch.
	Studies pursued with these motives in-
stead of broadening and deepening the un-
derstanding, and justifying the judgment,
are oftener a hot-bed in which plots are
propagated, schemes sprouted, and trickery,
chichanery and fraud nourished into ma-
turity.
	Ladies are supposed to know little or
nothing of government or kindred subjects;
but many realize that even if they were never
to vote it would still be necessary for them
to understand a great deal about the gov-
ernment under which they are to live, for
the law like nature, makes no allowance for
ignorance or mistakes. It presumes every
person to be acquainted with its provisions,
which is really a great piece of presumption
when it is remembered that till within a few
years women were excluded from law
schools.
	This government was not a new idea
built up without a precedent, nor yet a com-
plete perfect and finished thought; but those
who laid its broad and strong foundations
were familiar with the theories and results
of other governments, and while from the
rich sources of the past they built the best
possible structure for the present, they look-
ed to future generations, when theory had
become practice to improve, modify and
perfect it.
	There is nothing in the constitution that
a careful study will not reveal in the great
MAGNA CHARTA, wrested by the English
Barons, from King John in A. D. 1215.
And there is nothing in human law, that is
just and meritorious that the seed thought
from where it sprung can not be found in
that great charter, given by God to the
Children of Israel amidst the thunders of
Mt. Sinai.
	If the sacredness of the duty, the grand-
eur of the trust devolving upon each person
is once thoroughly impressed upon the un-
derstanding, it clears the brain of the vapors
and smoke of conflict, lifts the motives out
of the slums and bogs of local personal
matters, and enables the happy possessor to
see the grand results, beyond the depth of
narrower conceptions.
	Again I say if woman were never to have
a vote, or attend a primary meeting, she
should still know a great many things per-
taining to this subject. For instance: why
the United States did not remain under the
rule of Great Britain. Why the great en-
deavor of the patriot fathers seemed to be to
throw the safe guards of government and
privilege around the individual. Why
women were not named as citizens with all
the rights, duties, and privileges which
that word represents in a political sense,
when the United States was first declared
free and independent.
	Why the powers of government and
divided with such nice discrimination
between Congress, the Supreme Court, the
President and the people; so that power
must answer to power for the trust reposed
in it. The relations of States to each other,
and to the general government, and how


their relations differ from those of Ter-
ritories. Our policy toward foreign
countries, the manner of raising money to
meet the enormous expense of keeping the
machinery running smoothly.
	Perhaps the best plan of studying politi-
cal history is to read the biographies of
some of our noblest statesmen, making
them models rather than nearer and living
heroes whose after acts may not be in ac-
cord with ideals.
	When the pupil has progressed thus far
and learned that there is no such thing
whatever as a confered right, that no law
or set of laws, no men or set of men can
originate justice, but can at least only lay
straight lines to prevent the trespass of
private opinion, and ruthless power from
God given rights, then men begin to be fit
to participate in caucuses and women to
teach their children.  "Fair rights are ante-
cedent to constitution and law and are only
protected thereby."
	There is no danger in these broader walks
of falling into narrow and personal channels,
the mud of which clings to so many of our
politicians.  The study of government is
refined, enobling and grand in and of
itself, and do not let the sneers of those who
have befouled the stream, prevent you
from slaking your divine thirst at the crystal
spring of Constitutional Government.
