BABY LOUISA.

	ANOTHER little sweetangel of the house-
hold has gone from our midst to grace a
far more beautiful home; and though she
left aching hearts behind her here, she has
doubtless gladdened the loved ones there
with her charming presence.
			“One less at home!
Chill as the earth-born mist the thought would
	rise,
And wrap our footsteps round and dim our eyes;
But the bright sunbeam darteth from the skies;
			One more in heaven!”

			"One more in heaven!
Another thought to brighten cloudy days,
Another theme for thankfulness and praise,
Another link on high our souls to raise
			To home and heaven.”

	Louisa Hedges infant daughter of Will S.
Hedges and Clara E. Wells Hedges, was
born in Salt Lake City, June 5th 1891 and
died of pleura-pneumonia October 14,1892,
aged one year, four months and nine days.
She was the only daughter and was most


fondly beloved not only by the parents but
the whole Wells household and especially
by her Aunt Emeline (the mother’s sister)
who had been with her from her birth, and
whose grief seemed almost equal to that of
the little one’s mother.
	Little Louie as she was always called was
not only a very beautiful child, but
exceedingly bright and winning in man-
ner and was the idol of the home; but these
trials and sorrows are alike the portion of
all, and through these afflictions we learn
the lessons that prepare us for higher and
better things.
	The presence of scarletina in the house
prevented the funeral being held at the
residence, and on Sunday about noon the
services were conducted at the cemetery,
where the family and friends had gathered
to pay the last tribute to the dear child.
Many floral gifts were brought beautiful and
sweet and all that friendship and love could
add was done in tender sympathy for the
stricken mourners.
	The day was cold and weather gloomy
rendering a still more sad effect to the scene:
the singing by a quartette consisting of H.
G. Whitney, John D. Spencer, Emma Py-
per and Edith Knowlton, rendering pathetic
hymns, was most effective.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney spoke a short time
in his usual comforting and sympathetic
manner offering such consolation as the
Gospel affords to those who are bowed down,
and closed by reciting the poem ever ap-
propriate at such a time entitled “SOME-
TIME,” after singing by the quartette, Elder
Rulon S. Wells thanked the friends for
kindly words and deeds and dedicated the
ground, then the little white casket was
lowered and dust to dust, and the grave was
covered with the floral tributes so emblem-
atic of the purity of the little one whose
spirit had fled to brighter realms.
		‘‘So-by scattered ruins,
			By sweet links unbound,
		By fair blossoms all unheeded
			Trampled on the ground;
		So, He brings them home to Him,
		Where no cloud their joy can dim.”


