THE SPIRIT OF CRITICISM.

	A LITTLE mirror was once given to me on
which was painted, "Be to my faults a lit-
tle blind, and to my virtues ever kind.”
I never see those words, though the proverb
is an old one, that I do not think what a
great deal it means in everyday life. You
think you would not say a disagreeable
word about your friend for anything, and
yet somebody comes up to you and talks
about her talents, or her beauty, or her
goodness, and, almost unconsciously, you
say, “yes, that is true, but” and then you
speak of some minor fault. It is the
wicked spirit of criticism rising up in you.
I wish that all girls, and when I say all
girls I mean girls of all ages, would learn to
subdue this, for I cannot but believe that
these little fault-findings, these little criti-
cisms of dress, of manner of mode of
speech, or of what ever it may be, only tend
to make the mind smaller and the girl her-
self seem envious. And it grows on one
so—one feels so certain after awhile that
one is going to see the disagreeable rather
than the agreeable side of everything.
Nothing human is perfect. Just remember
that.
	Try and think that if you can find faults
in your friend, how many more can she
find in you. Just run over the list on your
own side. Every one of us likes the wo-
man who says pleasant things, and the say-
ing of them really creates the feeling of
them; if you keep at it long enough, you
will grow to see the very best in everybody,
and the faults will be entirely obliterated so
far as you are concerned. I once knew a
girl who had the reputation for possessing a
bad temper; her dearest friends said of her:
“She is a dear girl, but what a quick tem-
per she has.” She seemed to regard this
as a sort of compliment; she spoke of her
quick temper herself, and never realized
that she was encouraging it by continually
talking about and giving it a semi-kindly
criticism. This is only one instance of the
encouragement of faults, and what you and
I want, my dear girl is the encouragement 
of virtues. So use my little motto, and
see if with its help you cannot put down
the little, mean spirit of criticism.—Ex.


MRS. POTTER PALMER said on Columbus
Day that if the discovery of America was
the great event of the fifteenth century,
"the discovery of woman is the great fact of
the nineteenth century."—Ex.


