[Column 2]

were really iu the grasp of that unwelcome
visitant; "generally always" associated with
"life on the Ocean wave."
	In order to try the power of mind over
matter, I had determined that I would not
give in to the disagreeable visitor; but
would condnct myself just as though I
was perfectly free from any squirmishy
feeling, and perhaps if I took no notice of
it, and did not let others guess that any-
thing was wrong, it might leave me. So
with this idea and purpose strong in my
mind, I took my appointed seat at the break-
fast table—with a great deal of assumed
composure; though I noted, that but very,
very few of those who sat down to the din-
ner table the night before, were now to be
seen. My waiter, all attention, inquired
what I would like, at the same time present-
ing me a bill of fare, and venturing to sug-
gest what he thought would be nice. The
very words on the bill signifying food, lit-
erally turned my stomach; and I felt that if
that waiter stood there talking porridge and
milk,ham and eggs, coffee, toast, rolls mar-
malade etc,to me, I must——on the spot.
So keeping my mouth as nearly shut as pos-
sible to admit any sound whatever, I told
him I wonld have a cup of coffee, and some
dry toast. He could tell by the manner in
which the order was given that I should
not care to wait overly long for him to fill
it; so hurried away as lively as possible,
wearing a peculiar smile on his countenance.
	I could feel myself turning pale all over,
and hot and cold alternately. I knew that
the Captain, the Purser, the Docter. and
some of the passengers who were hardened
to sea life, were eyeing me, to see how long
I would stay with it; which knowledge did
not add any to my comfort. Finally the
coffee and toast arrived and I proceeded to
partake thereof—sipping the coffee and
munching the toast—trembling lest any
moment an accident might befall me.
Probably I sat there three minutes trying to
appear as if I was enjoying myself; every
second of which I felt I could not hold out
another second; yet I would choke it down,
determined that I would not be sick; but O,
the agony of that first breakfast on the
Ocean.
	However notwithstanding my heroic re-
solves, when the three or at most four min-
utes had expired, I had concluded that if
I wished to avoid making myself unpleas-
antly conspicuous, I had better leave the
table, and that without much ceremony; I
made a beeline for my state room which
luckily was very near the saloon, and
dejectedly threw myself down upon the
hard little couch, vanquished. I remained
there somefew hours only, as it was not
recommended for my health;and then succed-
ed in scrambling upon deck, where I joined
my companions who were in a similar con-
dition to my own. We tried for sometime
to cheer each other by chatting,singing,etc.
for, from some uaccountable reason, each
one seemed most anxious that each other
one, should not guess that they were afflict-
ed. So we persistently declared that there
was nothing the matter with us. No in-
deed; we were not sick; alas such protes-
tations were idle. The pallor of the face,
the languor of the movement, and the gen-
eral shrinking from even the sound of the
dinner bell, betrayed only too surely the in-
ward feelings of all. It was quite useless
to try to conceal the fact; we must submit
to the inevitable, which wise conclusion
we arrived at sooner or later, and resolved
to make the best of the situation.

[Column 3]

	This state of affairs lasted for nearly a
week, during which time I made the deck
my dining-hall.


