CLEVELAND vs. HARRISON.

	A GREAT political wave seems to have
swept over the country, producing such
changed conditions in the minds of the
people, that appearances indicate that for
the next few years, many wonderful changes
may be wrought and other methods intro-
duced than those that have prevailed of 
late years. The Republicans were con-
fident of the strongholds they held in sever-
al of the States but for some reason, the tide
of public opinion perhaps, have yielded to
the popular cause and helped to make it the
winning one in the race of the election of
the Chief of the nation. The people and
their wishes as expressed by the ballot have
the right because this is the form of govern-
ment which declares, this to be a govern-
ment for the people and by the people;
though in fact it is but half the people, be-
cause women are not counted.
	Leaving that aside however the people
have emphatically expressed their choice
for Grover Cleveland and to all intents
and purposes the whole term of public
affairs is likely to be turned in other chan-
nels than that it has been drifting of late.
The House of Representatives will have a
large Democratic majority and the Senate a
small majority it is said, so that determines
the policy that is likely to prevail for the
coming term however conservative the party
may be, which is not the character borne
by the Democrats; although it has been said
of Mr. Cleveland himself.
	Mrs. Cleveland so won the hearts of the
people during her short term in the White
House that she will likely be exceedingly
popular as its mistress for the second time.
The sad death that has recently occurred in
the family of President Harrison must have
caused him to feel much less enthusiasm in
his own cause of winning the election and
when the champion of a cause loses his en-
thusiasm, or his ambition is lessened the
people grow less enthusiastic in the same
ratio, and in all probability President Har-
rison cares less for it than he would had
Mrs. Harrison been with him to share his
place and the honors confered by the people.
We do not recall any instance in the history

