A TRIP TO ENGLAND.

			[Continued.]
	WHILE waiting for those who were older
and less sprightly than ourselves  reach us,
we sat ourselves down on one of the many
seats which were placed along the railing,for
the convenience of weary climbers like our-
selves, and enjoyed a view of the surround-
ing city, or cities. The Brooklyn Bridge is
certainly  a   wonderful  construction; and,
while looking upon  its huge proportions,
and wonderful advantages, one is led to ex-
claim in the language of the bible: “Man
hath sought out many  inventions.”  And,
after viewing, and reflecting upon the won-
derful works that have been conceived in
the mind, and wrought ont by the hands of
man,  we are better prepared  to  understand
and appreciate the greatness  and power  of
the Almighty.     For if  puny  man in  his
fallen state, is capable of producing such 
wonders, can our imaginations  conceive of
anything too  prodigiously marvelous to  be
accomplished by the Lord.   “For high as 
are  the heavens above  the  earth,  so  are
God’s ways above the ways  of man.”  On
another occasion we availed ourselves of the
opportunity   of mounting   the   Bridge  at
night; that we might obtain a gas light view
of the city and harbor.   There was no moon,
but the myriads  of  stars  shone  brightly,
making the  heavens  appear  like  a  richly
jeweled canopy o'er spreading  the  earth:
while the innumerable lights from the city,
and lights  in  the  harbor  and  rivers, pro-
duced the pleasing  effect  of a gem-inlaid
land.
	Altogether the view from this command-
ing position is rather more than splendid—
and made us feel solemn and  poetically en-
clined; and with the same impulse, we, not
being capable of giving  expression  to our
thoughts in our own language,fell back up-
on our poet Longfellow.
	In like manner we visited nearly all the
places of special interest  in  the  city: but
among the most novel was  one  which we
found on “Wall” Street. This street leads
out from Broadway and is invariably associ-
ated in our minds  with large  fortunes lost
or won, madcap  speculations  and reckless,
ruthless, risking.    After walking up the
street for some little distance our attention
was attracted by a peculiar buzzing  sound,
which we could not directly define. No— 
it was not the wind, it was not the train
coming in—but after walking a little farther,
and listening a little harder, we arrived at
the conclusion that the noise which we
heard was produced by human voices. Yes
we were nearing the “Stock Exchange.”
Entering the building and ascending the
broad stone steps, we were shown into the
visitors gallery; from which position we
could obtain a full view of what was going
on below. That is, we could walk around
the gallery; and from all sides view a lot of
apparently crazy, though highly respectable
looking men, yelling at each other, all yell-


