[Column 2]

of this Republic where both nominees had
previously held the Presidential office. It
is a new phase, and the various questions
that confront the government at the present
time seem to be of a complicated and diffi-
cult character to determine. Possibly the
sagacity and wisdom of the incoming Officers
of the Republic, may solve some of the
problems that have lately appeared so deep
and abstruse as to be beyond the reach of
the most skillful diplomat to solve satis-
factorily to the people most interested in
the solution.
	As to Utah the result seemed very
doubtful beforehand but the people have
given their opinion through the ballot and
the Democratic nominee has received
the largest number of votes and therefore
will be declared the Delegate. In fact has
been honored by the ratification. In view of
the sacred trust reposed in the Delegate from
this particular Territory where there are
too many interests at stake and such a
complication of circumstances past and
present that ought to be adjusted, and also
when the fact is taken into consideration
that Utah is fully entitled to statehood if
the people were given the same privileges
as others ranking similarly in population
and other essential conditions, taking all
these things into consideration the Delegate
from Utah ought to be as able and sound a
man as could be found in the Territory.
	Women have not much to do with these
things as they have no vote, and their voices
do not seem to have been heard much in
this campaign, which perhaps is not a mat-
ter of regret considering the way in which
matters were conducted, but if women had
a vote there would have been a vast differ-
ence in affairs.
	The women of this Territory should have
had the same privilege in this Presidential
election (had Utah becom[-] a state as she
should have done) as the women of Wyom-
ing, and it is only due to the prejudices
brought to bear against this Te[-]ritory in
the past by unprincipled [-]ien who were
looking for office and its emoluments, and
the prejudice created thereby that they
were deprived of their vested rights without
due process of law. But there is a good
time coming it is ardently to be hoped and
even those who do not favor women in
politics see that suffrage for women is in-
evitable.
	While we deplore greatly the lack of op-
portunity to participate in the questions
which involve human rights in this Terri-
tory, and also the condition of affairs that
has kept Utah so long in the background
when she ought to be shining brightly
among the cluster of states, yet we rejoice
in the victory gained for woman in the state
of Wyoming, and congratulate the women
there on being the first in this nineteenth
century to vote for the Chief Executive of
the nation. They have made an opening
in the wall of prejudice that will let in the

[Column 3]

light upon some who sit in darkness, for
however much of theory may be taught
there must always be practise to convince
some timid ones, who are fearful of con-
sequences in new and untried paths.
	The women of Wyoming have worked
out successfuly two or three abstruse prob-
lems, it has been abundantly proved that
women could cast a ballot without destroy-
ing home influence or happiness, also that
women could fill positions of public trust,
and now that women could actually help to
elect the national President and, "the stars
have not fallen," nor the earth been shaken,
nor have we heard of more divorce cases or
more difficulties of a family nature than in
states where women are only reckoned in
the category of idiots, insane, etc.
	And so it is easy to see the world moves,
and women are coming to the front and the
Columbian Exposition will do more to bring
about the enfranchisement of women than
all other causes put together. This may
be a matter of opinion, but in our humble
opinion it will prove a truth.


