[Column 2]
but determined to wait no longer on the in-
difference of Ferdinand but mounting a
mule which he borrowed, journeyed to-
ward Santa Fe and now was Spain in
danger of losing the honor that might have
been hers. But Columbus had left a
friend at Court, and upon the representation
that same Juan Perez Marchena to Isa-
bella that Columbus was leaving Spain,
Isabella at once dispatched a courier entreat-
ing him to return; this he at first refused to
do but on becoming convinced that it was
at the request, and with the pledge of Isa-
bella herself, he gladly returned to her
presence, and how his heart must have re-
joiced when she assured him there should
be no more delay, but pledged her royal
word that she would herself undertake the
responsibility of the expenses of the ex-
pedition, she would do it for her own
crown of Castile, offering to pledge her
jewels rather than fail to fit out the ex-
pedition; for when Isabella had once put her
hand to the plough there was no wavering
or turning back; but she pursued her object
with all the energy of her nature, and so at
last three small vessels were fitted out and
put to sea on the third day of August 1492
only one of which was equipped with one
hundred and twenty men ready to start in
this adventurous enterprise; but with what
were these vessels freighted? with the study
of a life time. With the weight of eighteen
years of weary waiting, with the hopes, and
prayers of Isabella; but above all by the in-
domitable will and courage of Columbus,
and the trust in God which he manifested,
throughout his strange and eventful career.
And they were guided too by that Almighty
power who holdeth the winds and the
waves in his hand and whose spirit inspired
the heart of Columbus and led him on to
his destiny. And so a new world was dis-
covered and a new impetus given to the
nations. And what a triumph for Isabella,
when on the 15th of March 1493 the small
fleet of Columbus sailed into the harbor of
Palos. How different was his reception now
than when an unknown and obscure man
bringing with him undoubted proofs of the
great discovery he had made, than when
he stopped at the door of the Franciscan
convent to ask for bread and water for his
hungry child.
	Now all vied with each other to do him
honor not only Isabella bnt Ferdinand
knew that from henceforth the name of
Columbus, would be known and honored in
every land, for not all the triumphs of
Ferdinand, not when the standards of Cas-
tile and Saint James first waved from the
Capital of Grenada and the Moorish King
delivered to Ferdinand the keys of the
Alhambra, not then was so much honor
conferred upon Spain as when Isabella of-
fered to pawn her jewels, and not the in-
credulity of her consort to fit out three
small vessels arid become a co-discoverer of
a New World. It is necessary to pass over
many events in the life of this great man;
throughout all its vicissitudes Isabella re-
mained his firm friend; and when through
the evil machinations of his enemies on his
third voyage and through the miscon-
struction of the orders of Ferdinand he was
brought back in chains to the land on which
he had conferred so much wealth and honor,
it was the tears of Isabella of Castile that
poured the balm of consolation into his
wounded heart, and bleeding honor.
	He was still under the patronage of his
royal friend that he sailed on his fourth voy-
age in 1502 but he was destined never more

[Column 3]
to meet this true and loyal friend for when
he arrived in Spain on the 7th of November
1504 the great brain and tender heart of
Isabella of Castile, was about to cease to
beat, and her earthly career of usefulness
and power was soon to be closed forever
Isabella expired on the 26th of November
1504 at the age of fifty four years haying
occupied the throne of Castile for thirty
years.
	But Isabella still lives in the hearts of
thousands and as long as this vast Conti-
nent shall be inhabited by the tribes of men
so long as the praises of the generations of
children yet unknown shall ascend to the
Most High for the glorious gift of Liberty
and Freedom. As long as the anniversary
or the discovery of this great country
shall be observed, so long shall we remem-
ber and claim for our own Isabella of Cas-
tile.					PHEBE C.YOUNG.


