APPRECIATION.
	WE feel much credit is due to those who
lent their efforts toward making the mass
meetiug of women recently held in this City
interesting and successful, for such it was
so some good people are kind enough to
say.
	The Board of Directors aimed to have it
so of that we feel assured and the little fel-.
lows who sat in the orchestra and played the
drums and fifes, did their best to help along.
The speakers who came forward and faced
the audience deserve praise for the able
manner in which they presented their sub-
jects, and we are only sorry that there was
not a short hand reporter present to take
full notes from those speakers who did not
have written papers.
	First we would especially thank the Ter-
ritorial President Mrs. Richards for answer-
ing so graciously to the call made upon her
even before she had returned from her trip
to Chicago, and so we trust all our patrons
and the readers of the paper will be inter-
ested in what she has said. Next we mnst ’
thank Mrs. Nebeker for coming on to fill
the place Mrs. Horne expected to have
taken with only a few hours notice; the
sickness in Mrs. Horne’s family making it
not only impossible for her to speak, but it
was not possible to communicate with her 
as to what she had planned to say. There-
fore Mrs. Nebeker out of her own fertile
brain had to collect her thoughts and gather
up a few reminiscences hurriedly, and fill
the first place on the program after the
music. The lady had never been before so
largean audience until then and consequently
felt timid and nervous, but she did bravely,
and withal made a fine appearance, which
speaks well for the pioneer women, after the
toil and hardship encountered.
	Mrs. Allen’s address was effective and
she made some telling points. Her refer-
ence to Victor Hugo’s assertion that the
nineteenth century was woman’s century,
was well put, and also the quotation from
Dr. Stevens that the brotherhood of man
must first include the sisterhood of woman.
	However Mrs. Allen’s strong personality


and originality of thought, and expression
were her best points after all.
	Dr. Hughes it is  generally conceded out-
did herself,she was eloquent and forcible and
lack of self-consciousness gave her the ease
necessary to keep the thread of her subject,
besides she had a fine theme, and one on
which there is much to be said that is al-
ways entertaining. Dr. Hughes had the
enthusiasm needed to carry her audience.
	Mrs. Horne was gracefully timid, and
modestly beautiful,her paper was excellently
well-written and contains much information
and food for thought. She will gain more
courage by practice. She deserves the
highest praise for coming out and helping
the cause along, instead of making flimsy
excuses as some young women do, who might
use their talents in promoting the develop-
ment and uplifting, not only of their own
sex in various lines but of all humanity.
	Mrs. J. B. Thrall evidenced in her speech
that she is a finished scholar and speaker
and an ardent admirer of woman, and she
no doubt convinced her hearers that women
were going to do a very great deal all along
the lines of work and of thought, mentally
morally and intellectually for the World’s
Fair. Dr. Pratt made some strong points
in a business way for women and gave some
facts concerning woman’s efforts here in an
organized capacity. The lady has a good
presence, uses choice language is always
sincere and is considerably accustomed to
speaking, though her many professional
duties preclude her public  speaking;  how-
ever we hope to see her come out more often
in the future than she  has  of late,  feeling
sure she can do great good.
	As to the musicians and singing we cer-
tainly do appreciate their efficient aid, Prof.
Krouse especially, who so kindly  spent  an
afternoon of his  valuable time, we  tender
him here our most hearty thanks, and the
young  women  Miss Hawley  and  Mrs.
Thomas and Grant Hampton also who sang,
created sufficient enthusiasm to assure them
the  audience  were  appreciative  of their
voices; the meeting would have been a fail-
ure we fear without those charming soul-
inspiring notes.
	In behalf of the County Association  of
women we thank these good people one and
all, and especially the ladies who made the
collection with  their  pretty costumes and
dainty baskets, above all their quiet manner
and amiability.


