		REORGANIZATION.
	A SPECIAL meeting was called by the
Bishop at the 6th, Ward Assembly Rooms,
Oct. 5th, 1892; for the purpose of reorganiz-
ing the Relief Society. Bishop J. E. Wat-
son and Counselor Arnold G. Giauque were
present; also Brothers Snarr and Latham.
The meeting was opened by Singing,
"Come, Come ye Saints." Prayer by Bro.
Jas. Latham. Bishop Watson explained the
business of the meeting; owing to the de-
mise of our late President the Bishop had
deemed it wise to reorganize this Society;
said it is now in order for the sisters to elect
a President to preside over this Society and
let her choose two Counselors to assist in
the duties of this office. Counselor Isabella
West was chosen President, and a unani-
mous vote was taken to sustain her, with
Elizabeth Britton and Ellen Watson as
Counselors. Sister I. West was set apart
by Bishop J. E. Watson. Elizabeth Brit-
ton by Counselor Arnold Giauque, Ellen
Watson by Bishop Watson. The remaining
officers and members were sustained by a
unanimous vote.
	Sister May Peterson enrolled as a member.
Sister Alice Butterworth, Bella Pitts, Mary
Peterson appointed as block teachers, also
sustained in that position.
	Bishop J. F. Watson said the Society is
now declared organized, in selecting your
President, it meets with the hearty approval
of the Bishop. Instructed Sister West to
preside in kindness, to create that love
amongst her sisters that emanates from
God. Seek wisdom from Him, be dictated
by His Spirit, said the sisters should be
united, willing and ready to assist President
West, and perform their labors faithfully.
“May the Lord bless, unite and strengthen
those who are called to preside.”
	Counselor A. G. Giauque said“the Relief
Society is one of the grandest institutions on
the earth. The world is patterning after us
in these things. Societies and charitable
instutions are in many parts of the world
for the benefit of the poor. The teachers of
our Relief Society everywhere are like angels
of mercy, speaking words of comfort, minis-
tering to the sick and needy, those who are
sick need the faith and prayers of such, when
the body is weak, the mind is also weak
and such need the faith of those who ad-
minister to them. Those who are called to
preside need our faith and prayers." Gave
much good connsel.
	Bishop J. E. Watson sustained the re-
marks of Counselor Giauque they emanated
from our Heavenly Father. Brother
Giauque was a young man ever ready and
willing to do his duty.
	Pres. Isabella West said, “my heart is to
full for many words. I feel the responsi-
bility of my position, I feel like a little
child, of myself I can do but very little,
my sisters I ask you to be one with me. I
ask the Lord to give me wisdom that I may
be able to fill my position with honor and
integrity. In my choice of Counselors I
feel to love all my sisters, have no fault to
find. May our Heavenly Father bless us
that we may be a band of sisters williug to
do our part.
	Brother Snarr, reminded us that we had
made sacred covenants to sustain those who


are called to preside over us. Spoke of the
teachers who were called to visit the sisters,
instructed them to pray with them when
they visited them on their various blocks.
Take words of kindness with them; get
them to attend their meetings; teach the
young the truths' of the gospel, to be in-
dustrious, economical, as well as as receiv-
ing their offerings for the poor.
	Brother Latham, had known many of the
sisters who were here to day over 30 years,
knew them to be women of God, they have
been faithful to their trust, said "I pray my
Father to bless those who are called to pre-
side, also every officer and member of this
Society. The teachers should carry the
Gospel when they visit, let your mission be
one of peace look after the poor, spiritually
as well as temporally, teach the young, ex-
plain to them the principles of truth that
they may not be led away by the allurements
of youth."
	President Christina Thompson of Eden
being present said, "I was with the sisters
of the 6th Ward at their first organization,
was present at the reorganization and to day
meet with them, to participate in this re-
organization. I was called to preside over
the Primary Association of Eden, which
position I held for seven years; have since
been called to preside over the Relief
Society of that place,still hold that position.
I merely speak of these things, that you may
know I am one with you in the church and
kingdom of God. Meeting adjourned by
singing, "O, my Father." Benediction
pronounced by Counselor Arnold G.
Giauque.
