	﻿WORLD’S FAIR MASS MEETING.

				—
	PURSUANT to a call made by Mrs. E. B.
Wells President of the S. L. Co. World’s
Fair Association a mass meeting of women
was held in the Salt Lake Theatre, on
Thursday Nov. 3rd, 1892. Mrs. Wells call-
ed the meeting to order, and its object as
stated in the call, was read by the Secretary
Mrs. Margaret A. Caine.
	The following program was then render-
ed. Music—“Hail Columbia” by mem-
bers of the Tabernacle Juvenile Drum
Corps. Mrs. Zina D. Young offered prayer.
The chairman introduced Mrs. Maria L.
Nebeker. The subject of whose address
was “The Pioneer women of 1847.” The
speaker entered these valleys at that time,
as a girl of scarcely fourteen years. She
spoke of the hardships that were then en-
dured by the women, living in tents and
wagons in the Fort which was subsequently
built. Their houses were low log
rooms, mud-covered, and by no means
water-proof. The food was of the coarsest
kind, many having had to dig thistles and
segos and use them as a means of subsis-
tence.
	She compared those times with the pres-
ent and said she thought all honor was due
to those brave women who bore those trials
so patiently and did so much in bringing
about this great change.
	A song was given by Mr. Grant Hamp-
ton,Prof. H. L. Krouse accompanist.
	Mrs. Corrine M. Allen spoke upon the
subject “What the World’s Fair will do for
women.” She said we should visit the
World’s Fair, not for amusement simply,
but for educational purposes as the results
of the highest achievements in every line
of woman’s work will there be presented.
She said she thought that as each woman
takes a special pride in having her own lit-
tle home appear to the best advantage and
feels a keen interest in all its surroundings,
so each woman in our own Territory should
strive to have Utah make a creditable pre-
sentation before the world. Effort is the
price of every blessing.
	An ably written article, entitled “What
Literary women can do,” was read by Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne.

	There will be amassed in the World’s Fair
buildings and grounds, for which alone the im-
mense sum of $20,000,000 will be expended, the
largest and most wonderful display of the pro-
ducts and powers of the universe that has ever
been centralized in all the world’s history.
	Universal, because nearly 100 nations and
colonies will participate in the exposition, and
most wonderful in the consummation of 1,800
years of science, art, invention, revelation and
literature.
	Each nation and colony is making the best pos-
sible exhibit, and there we see the whole world in
a day.
	It is scarcely three years since work began, and
so systematically and actively has it been pushed
that the World’s exposition has already assumed
magnificent proportions, and think but a few
months will pass when, like the midday sun in all
its splendor bursting forth upon a dreary world,
the knowledge and enlightenment of each and all
nations will fill the whole universe.
	Think what an epoch it makes for women!
The Gordian knot is at last severed and woman
is set free from the traditions that fettered and
bound her socially, politically and intellectually.
Every avenue is now open to her. For the first
time in history, men and women are working on
the same plane as competitors, and equal justice
is meted out to both. And, dear friends, woman
is doing herself proud in the noble work. Not
only is she serving with success on national and
state committees, but has enlisted, through liter-
ary efforts, enthusiastic interest of eminent and
high minded women abroad. “And it is surpris-
ing that into countries of almost oriental conser-
vatism and limitation this electric current of en-

