	outweigh,
Where law should liberty and life defend,
And tyranny be traitor to the realm;
Where right, not might, should monarch rise and
	reign
O'er all that breathed or blossomed, neath the
	sun;
Where, linked in chain of loving unity—
The only chain that freedom's land could bind—
A sisterhood of empires, hand in hand,
Might time their steps to Truth's triumphal tread,
And march to music of Millennial strains.
Glad harbinger of still more glorious state—
The welding of the nations—world-wide chain—
With Freedom's ensign waving over all.
The brave task thine, bold wrestler with the main,
Europia's pilgrim, Neptune's pioneer!
Tossed not alone on wild Atlantic's crest,
By angry trident of the ocean god,
But on a sea of troubles fiercer still—
The unbelief and envy of thine age,
Whose waves of cold contempt and clouds of
	scorn
And wrathful winds had well nigh overwhelmed
The bark of thy adventurous emprise,
Ere glorious Isabella's friendship beamed,
And Palos saw thy slow-descending sail.
The brave task thine, thou Titan of thy time—
Albeit thy lot to better build than know—
To plow a way for Freedom through the waves,
And plant her standers on a stranger shore—
The banner of the cross, whose law divine
Is love of right and human liberty;
To pioneer a path for Freedom's own,
To pave the way for her great champion—
A mightier e'en than thou—whose patriot arm
Enclothed with thunders of omnipotence,
Wielding the lightnings of omnipotence,
Wielding the lightnings of a righteous cause,
Should cleave the clanking chain of tyranny,
Which bound, as captive to the chariot wheel
Of Britain's power, Columbia's bleeding form.
And then—oh, glorious conquest, grander far
Than burnished steel and battling hosts might
	win!—
To turn from all he was or might have been,
To wave that all but proffered kingly crown,
And seek the sweet seclusion of repose;
Sufficed to reign—where kings too rarely reign—
Without a rival in his country's love.
Yet thou the glory of that deed shalt share,
Which gave to half the world—thy hemisphere—
What all must have and hold ere Time expire;
Since truth proclaims, had no Columbus been,
Our land had never known a Washington.
What though proud Spain witheld they guerdon
	grand—
Viceroyalty’ of realms by thee unveiled,
Vast revenues no coffer e’er contained—
Pledged recompense, of pain and patient toil!
Could aught by man bestowed thy boon repay—
Thy gift to glory and a groaning race?
Wouldst wish the great debt cancelled? Gaze
	again.
Behold what Time hath wrought—the mighty
	tree
That shelters 'neath its broad and bounteous 
	shade,
From fierce oppression's rain or fiery rays,
And feeds with hope's rare fruit, the refugees
Of Freedom's cause in every land and clime!

[Column 3]
That tree was of thy planting—thine and His,
Who wrought by thee Divinity's design;
Though thou dist never live to pluck the fruit 
Which gladdens now a grateful universe.
Nor lived to see—oh, mockery of fame!
What then had made thee weep, had'st thou been
	less
Than thy great self—thy rightful claim ignored;
Another's name upon the monument
Eternal destiny designed for thee.
But lived to eat the bread of penury,
And moist its bitter crust with burning tears,
To wear the chains which envious power had 	
	forged.
In fires of causeless hate; and then to pass
Unpitied to the tomb, unwept, unpraised
And unrequited.  E'en as some brave bark,
'Gainst which to war all angry winds conspire,
Afar by tempest's fury lashed and driven,
Dismantled, shattered, wrecked, on rocky reef
Goes down in raging seas—so sank thy soul,
Thy stalwart soul beneath life's stormy wave;
Thy greatness lost in man's ingratitude.
Lost but to man's, not to thy maker's gaze,
That ship sails on, and it shall sail for aye.
Thy fame Columbus, sank with Europe's sun,
To rise upon the world thy valor won,
Whose teeming myriads now their homage yield.
What glorious walls and glittering towers appear?
For who doth honor rear these radiant domes?
These "villages of nations," where the waves
Of Michigan the shore of Freedom lave?
Why throng these multitudes that eager wend
From Asia's ancient strand—far-famed Cathay,
Where sage K'ung Fu-tse shone and Yaou reign-
	ed;
Or wise Gautama's home, the Hindu land,
For which thy prows pierced ocean's mystery.
Pacific's coral isles and palmy groves 
Send forth their dusky-hued ambassadors. 
O’er occidental seas their course inclines,
Along the bosom of Balboa's wave.
Anon from Europe's coast, whence greatness
	springs
Too plenteous to praise or e'en to name;
Land of illustrious lives and deathless dead,
Whose deeds, like laurel blossoms, crown her
	head;
From Afric's burning waste, Atlantic's isles,
Swift o'er his billowy breast their vessels bound,
Plowing anew the path cleft by the keel
That bore Columbus to Columbia's shore.
These walls and tower are thine, and thine the
	fanes,
Upreared to science, art and industry,
Whose shining fingers point thy place of rest;
these multitudes, thy pilgrim votaries,
Who hither hie to kneel and pour their praise.
Look down, O sainted soul, upon the world,
A world that now divines what thou didst know,
And more than thou didst deem the world might
	Know;
A world that praises where it once profaned,
Adores where then it scoffed, and lauds where
	blamed.
The mystic wheel hath turned; the last is first,
And first is last—Columbus—Ferdinand—:
Which is the king, and which the vassal now?
If fame be wealth, what fabled wealth is thine!
If love be empire, where they realm's confine?
Behold all nations bending at the shrine,
Columbia, loyal to thy name, doth raise!
And thuse the present for the past atones, 
And more than Spain once promised, Earth now
	pays.


