[Vol25 | October 1938 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: home economics]

home economics and similar subjects to girls but not to boys. One of the urgent needs of education at the present time is to reach the boys and men, through church channels, public schools, adult education courses, and general literature,?and to bring them up to par with the girls and women, so that the two sexes will come nearer to speaking the same language and therefore being able to cooperate effectively in the home. We shall then have fewer instances in which the wife tries to apply modern procedures, to be met by the husband's argument that the way he was brought up is the best illustration the world has ever seen, of how a boy should be reared; and that what was good enough for him is good enough for Junior! V. The children in the home, especially as they get into adolescence, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bring in new patterns, standards, and ideals which they have acquired from their teachers and classmates at school, from their contemporaries in the M. I. A., and from a dozen other sources including those omnipresent.
Educational agencies: the newspaper headlines, the movies, the radio crooners, the comic strips, and the billboards. The impact of these novelties on the older patterns of their parents brings about continual change, though often not without some friction as youth voices its ageold complaint that the "old folks" are behind the times, while the parental generation is continually anxious about the supposed radical tendencies of youth. VI. Finally, the parents are continually changing their own patterns, not merely through the give-andtake with the children just mentioned, but because of the necessity of finding ways to meet new problems which they had not previously encountered,?which perhaps no previous generation ever encountered. The privilege of using the automobile is an illustration.
Parents may feel that the young people can not be trusted with the machine; sometimes a man is found who even thinks that his wife is not to be trusted with it!
Such problems as are presented by unchaperoned dances and other social affairs, by the selection of radio programs, by attendance at moving pictures of more than doubtful value, by the wide distribution of books and magazines of more than doubtful value, by the hundreds of millions of dollars spent through commercial agencies to promote in the most insidious ways the use of harmful substances like alcohol and tobacco, by the presence of an immense range of new political, social, and economic questions (some of them such as "communism" and "fascism" being not LESSON DEPARTMENT new at all but as old as history, and yet appealing to the youth of today as novelties and carrying strong emotional implications), ? all of these things keep parents from ever "settling down," either in their relation to each other or in their relation to other members of the family circle, whether of a younger or an older generation.
From this scrambling of the personalities, experiences, and ambitions, first of husband and wife, then of all the other members of the family circle, there arises a chaotic mixture of patterns belonging to (or derived from) several different generations; and the confusion of tongues becomes continually worse confounded.
What should a reasonable person do in such a situation? (1) Be patient and tolerant.
Intolerance is never a virtue. On the other hand, if the opposite of intolerance is indifference, as it is for some people, they have gone from one evil to another. A genuine tolerance involves sympathy with the attempts of others to find the truth; it involves confidence in one's own faith, so that one does not react violently to any novel idea as if it were a personal threat; finally it involves patience and an attitude of love toward the world instead of suspicion, fear, or contempt. (2) Meet the problem not by attacking the other person and denouncing him but by trying to find what his motives are, what need he is really seeking to satisfy, and then helping him to get satisfaction in some more legitimate manner. I have been interested lately in looking over the list of registered voters, to find in how many instances among my neighbors husband and wife are registered as of opposite political parties. I suspect that in some instances the wife has "gone radical" 635 in an attempt to "express herself," to feel that she is an individual, an independent personality, and not merely an echo of her husband.
Perhaps she needs other and more adequate outlets for her own personality all through the year.
Similarly many an adolescent announces that he is an atheist, or a fascist, or a. Socialist, merely as part of the intellectual growing-pains of his age. He is striving to emancipate himself from too great dependence on his parents, and it is essential to his future success in life that he do so. If he is now attacked, either by scorn or by ridicule, he may be driven into a position from which he can not easily escape. If on the other hand he is met sympathetically and if every effort is made, without condescension, to help him get more infor-. Mation, better sources of material, and thus to work through his diffculties, he will end up on _ solid ground. (3) Finally, in attempting to work out the relationships in the home on an intelligent basis, parents must clarify their own minds by accepting a few basic principles and judging the various conflicting views with reference to these principles.
Among many other possible standards of reference, it is suggested that parents must maintain a balance between the necessity for GROWTH and the necessity for SECURITY for each member of the family.
These will be taken up in more detail in the two succeeding lessons.
Questions and Problems 1.
Analyze the happiest home you know.
What in the backgrounds of the partners including such factors as health, education, religion, etc., contributed to making it a happy home?
What factors contribute to making a home unhappy? 636 2.
Analyze your own marriage.
What difficulties have you had to meet that were due mainly to differences in backgrounds of yourself and your husband? (This question is not for group discussion.) 3.
List three possible advantages and three possible disadvantages of marriage between persons of different racial or national background. 4.
Which do you think would be likely to create the most trouble in a home,?wide differences in education of husband and wife, or wide RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE differences in their religious affiliation and outlook? Why? 5. It is notoriously hard to get men to attend, along with women, discussion groups dealing with problems of the family.
What changes in the organization, management, time and place of meeting, method of conducting discussion, or subjects considered in these groups, do you think would be most effective in bringing about the full and free participation of the men?