[Vol25 | October 1938 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Not Without Honor]
Not Without Honor
By Mabel Harmer
ANN BERTON was picking roses from the garden in front of the house. She wore a blue dimity dress as fresh as the June morning itself and her curls of deep bronze hue were partly covered by a large garden hat. Ann, being a very wide awake girl, was not unconscious of the fact that she made a very charming picture among the roses. The basket was almost filled and she was beginning to think that she might have to turn to weeding in order to keep herself occupied in the garden, which was not nearly so pleasant as picking roses and much dirtier, when the modest roadster driven by young Dr. David Ralston came speeding down the road and stopped on her own side rather than by the Billings' cottage across the way. The Billings had but recently become the proud possessors of a very new baby and Dr. Ralston called shortly after nine every morning to see how all were faring.
As the car came to a complete and not too placid stop, he climbed out, bag in hand and called, "Hello, there! Anybody sick at your house?"
Ann put a rose in the last possible space in the basket and called back, "I'm afraid not. We're all frightfully healthy over this way."
"That's too bad," he returned cheerfully, coming up and leaning on the picket fence, "because it would give me such a grand excuse to stay around. As it is, I suppose I'll have to go across the street where I can make myself useful. By the way, do you spend all your time in the garden?"
"Well, hardly," Ann answered, amused.
"You should," he continued, seriously. "It's good for the eyes."
"But my eyes are perfectly all right."
"I'm quite sure that they are," he answered, scrutinizing them closely. "I mean it's good for other folks' eyes."
Ann's cheeks grew as rosy as the flowers in her basket, one of which she thrust toward him, saying, "Such a pretty speech should have a reward. Will you have a rose, guaranteed good quality and picked fresh this morning?"
"Thank you. If I had time, I'd stay and win the whole lot, but Junior Billings might be annoyed so I'll have to be content with just this one. I warn you, however, that if it doesn't prove satisfactory, I'll be back for another."
He fastened the rose carefully in the lapel of his coat and with a cheery parting smile, he was off on his call leaving Ann with a curious tingling sensation in the region of her heart.
DAVID RALSTON was young, personable and very good-looking. It was not at all surprising, Ann reflected, that he had become exceedingly popular during the six months that he had been practicing in Chrystal Springs. So far, her own opportunities for acquaintance had been limited to an occasional dance. She didn't wish Mrs.
Billings any hard luck, but she hoped that it would be necessary for the Doctor to call rather frequently. She turned and walked up the NOT WITHOUT HONOR long path that led to the house and into the trim white cottage. She arranged her roses in a vase near the piano where she could enjoy their beauty and fragrance during the hours of teaching.
Then she removed her hat and washed her hands just in time to greet Sally Morris, the first student of the morning.
Sally was an exceedingly plain child with straw-colored braids and a manner of sitting at the piano as if she were going to arise any moment and finish her playing standing up. Ann admitted very frankly to herself that she found the child far from prepossessing, but this morning the glow within included even plain little Sally and Ann watched her fidgeting on the seat without the usual desire to push her firmly down and hold her there. She heard her through the scales, exercises and final rendition of "The Morning Patrol," with practically unruffled feelings, and said goodbye without the customary sigh of relief. Her next pupil was Adele Warren, the very talkative daughter of the town's leading socialite. Ann had never quite been able to decide whether she was more annoyed by Sally's manner of tentative jumping or Adele's loquaciousness, but her feeling of vast kindliness toward all the world in general made her smile graciously as the child fluffed out her organdy skirt and began playing.
Some of the kindliness vanished the next moment, however, when Adele suddenly lifted her fingers from the keys and said in a skeptical tone of voice, "Did you really go away to study music?" "Certainly. I was away for two years. Why do you ask?" "Because I heard Mama telling Mrs.
Green that you must not have done so very well or you wouldn't 589 have come back to a little town like Chrystal Springs to teach music; you'd have gone on concert tours or stayed in a big city." "I'm afraid your mother did not intend you to listen or to repeat what she said," Ann replied cooly. "As a matter of fact, I came back here because it's my home and I love it. Perhaps, some day you'll understand such a reason." "Well, but Mama says " "Never mind," said Ann firmly. "Let me hear the new piece I gave you last week." She managed to guide Adele through the lesson without any more interruptions, and after seeing her down the path, dropped into an easy chair on the wide front porch. So that was why the townspeople had failed to take any recognition of her as a musician since her return, other than to send her their children as beginning pupils.
They believed that she had come back to Chrystal Springs because she had failed to make a place for herself elsewhere. She, Ann Berton, who had been graduated from the Millard School of Music with honors and had been offered a teaching position in, the school itself.
Evidently it isn't a prophet alone who is "not without honor save in his own country," she thought with a rueful smile. ND then because she was young and spirited and just that morning had discovered a new and delightful reason for the joy of living, Ann jumped up and ran inside to the piano where she dashed off her favorite Chopin waltz.. As she finished the last note and was about to get up from the bench a girlish voice cried out, "Oh, please don't stop! I've been standing here literally holding my breath for fear I'd spoil something." 590
Ann turned to see her best friend, Merle Stewart, in the doorway and answered smiling, "Come in, I was just giving vent to some of my feelings, both good and bad." 'You must have been concentrating entirely on the 'good' from all I heard because it sounded perfectly gorgeous. I was about to dash out and get an audience; it seemed a shame to waste so much beauty on my ears alone."
