[Vol25 | October 1938 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: The Harbor of Truth]
The Harbor of Truth
By Lella Marler Hoggan
"God is not foiled: the drift of the World Will Is stronger than all wrong. Earth and her years, Down Joy's bright way or Sorrow's longer road, Are moving toward the Purpose of the Skies."*
MAN is demanding more from life today than he even dared to request in ages past. He wants more than the necessities of life, more than the comforts and luxuries. He wants security. He wants assurance that not only he and his children, but all humanity, shall have an abundance of the gifts and blessings that make life rich and beautiful. He is coming to realize that physical comfort alone does not satisfy the soul. The heart hungers for something more than the values that are passed across counters in exchange for coins. The world is in quest of fundamentals. Men are beginning to "price-tag the values of life." They are searching for something that will bring permanent satisfaction, enduring joy. Where will they find the answer to their quest? "Is there a logical scheme of government," we ask ourselves, "that will satisfy the human heart? Is there some touch-stone that will bring peace to the soul?" From every field of endeavor comes the cry, "Lo here" and "Lo there." The scientist is searching for the answer that he is assured will come out of the laboratory. The educator is juggling the philosophies of life in hope of securing the right combination. The grafter is marking the lottery ticket for an "easy break." *By Edwin Markham.
MANKIND is in a turmoil of unrest. He is questioning, doubting, fearing, discarding past traditions, searching for new frontiers, listening to blind forebodings of disaster and chaos. Walking in his own strength he is fast outgrowing his own philosophy. His vaunted theories for universal peace and brotherhood, one by one, are meeting failure and being cast on the scrap heap. But out of the maze of confusion and heartache we are gathering dreams of romance, bits of song, fragments of truth that we are building into our temple of dreams. The value we place on our treasures changes with the changing years, and we toss out the old to give room for the new. Thoughts we accept with assurance today, may be labeled a menace to progress tomorrow. We find ourselves all at sea. With troubled spirits and questioning hearts we are hurried along the highway of life to a faltering goal. "By what light," we ask ourselves, "were other generations guided? For great men and good, down the years, have walked with sure feet and a clear vision. Why should we stumble in the darkness?" The answer is written in large letters across the scrolls of the past if we will but open our eyes to read. Life is not a hazardous aim in the darkness. There is purpose back of THE HARBOR OF TRUTH the whole tragic drama, a guiding spirit that is shaping the destiny of man.
