[Vol25 | October 1938 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Scores]

Relief Society Scores
By Esther D. Stephens
SIX years ago the women of the San Francisco Stake planted several beautiful trees in Golden Gate Park in honor of the George Washington Bicentennial. Those who have been in Golden Gate park know what a restful and inspiring place it is and appreciate the great honor conferred upon the Relief Society in being granted such a privilege. A section of the park near the Nineteenth Avenue and Lincoln Way entrance where the trees are planted is known as "Mormon Grove." Large enough to accommodate several hundred people without crowding, the site is very secluded and quiet. The four pines, five redwoods and five blooming Japanese cherries, planted six years ago, show wonderful growth and add their charm to the lovely spot.
Since planting the trees it has been the aim of the women to identify them with a suitable marker and constant effort has been expended in achieving this goal. September 2, saw these efforts rewarded when a handsome copper plaque, a gift of the Utah Copper Company, was placed, and inspiring services held in connection with the occasion.
During the morning heavy fog hung low presaging a cold and disagreeable day, but by twelve o'clock, the time set for ceremonies to begin, the skies were clear and the sun was not only bright but hot. One of the cherry trees, seeming to sense the importance of the occasion, had sent forth five or six beautiful blossoms, although September is not the blooming time of the year. It seemed the day was made for the function.
Although there are many rules and regulations about placing objects of any kind in the park, Mr. John McLaren, founder and builder of the park, along with his fine associates, Captain Lamb, Mr. Schmidt, Mr. Duffy, and Miss Wakefield, were most kind and helpful, assisting in every way possible. Through their guidance the project passed the Park Commission, the Planning Commission and the Art Commission and made possible the accomplishment of the activity.
MR. JOHN McLAREN
Founder and Builder of Golden Gate Park
Mr. McLaren is a kind and sturdy Scotchman with a pioneer determination to build not only for the present but for the future. Under his direction Golden Gate Park has developed from a succession of rolling hills into its present state of beauty. Each flower, shrub and tree has been planted according to his plan. Everybody in San Francisco and the Bay Area loves and admires John McLaren. The world will always be grateful to him for the monuments of living beauty which he has aided in erecting.
Anticipating the large group which would attend the services the Park management placed seats for the congregation to enjoy during the program, also tables and benches for luncheon. A tall flag pole from which floated the colorful American flag was placed in the meadow among the trees. All present felt the spirit of the occasion.
The marker, a Utah copper plate, is set deep into a large natural granite boulder and placed approximately in the center of the grove. Standing between two fine Redwood trees it can be seen easily from the road. It says: "These trees planted in honor of the George Washington Bicentennial by the National Woman's Relief Society of San Francisco, March 17, 1932."
THE ceremony began with a few words of welcome. The reasons for planting the trees and placing the plaque were explained. An appropriate program followed with members of the stake Priesthood presidency, a General Board representative, the stake Relief Society president, ward presidents and others participating. President Winter of San Francisco Stake said that with the placing of this plaque on the Pacific Coast a chain of markers had now been placed by the Latter-day Saints from the Atlantic to the Pacific, a lasting monument to their part in the build-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ing of our great country. A stirring and effective close for the program was the playing of Taps by a United States Army Bugler. His clear tones and beautiful interpretation will always be
U. S. BUGLER PLAYING TAPS
remembered by those who were there.
Grateful appreciation is expressed to the Utah Copper Company, who through Mr. C. M. Brown, donated the handsome copper plaque; to the McGillvary Raymond Corporation of San Francisco who gave the large granite boulder for the base of the plaque; to Mr. Charles Ohran and his son, Carl Ohran, for their part in cutting, hauling and placing the plaque and stone; to Mr. McLaren and his fine staff at the park; to the United States Army for the services of the bugler; to the Relief Society women whose faithfulness brought success and made the day a memorable one.