[Vol7 | August 1920 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: On the Watchtower James H. Anderson]

ON THE WATCHTOWER 471 States had to apologize to Great Britain, in June, for that conduct. Mexican Indian laborers, to the number of more than 1,000, entered Texas in June, through one of the ports of entry on the Mexican line. The other six or seven ports also admitted many such Indians. I. Wilkansky and I. Gutnam, of the Jerusalem agricultural and irrigation departments under the Zionists, arrived in Utah on June 21, to study farming conditions here. Brutal treatment of women, without even the excuse of war, in the parts of Germany occupied by French colored troops, is told of in letters received from there in June, by Utah people. The primary associations of the Church had a highly commendable miniature representation of the "Mormon" Pioneer route on exhibition in the Bishops' building. Salt Lake City, during the week of June 14. Francisco Villa, the Mexican revolutionist, and ten of his generals announced on June 24 that they would resist the newly installed government there, as it savored too much of foreign ruling classes. The Relief Society is entitled to another big credit mark among its many good ones, for instituting, by its action in June, one-year courses in nursing;  this will be a great boon to future wives and mothers. War was raging in Europe during June, from the Mediterranean to the Baltic Sea, including Poland, Russia, Serbia, Italy, Albania, Greece, Turkey, and the British and French forces at Constantinople. Mrs. E. O. Leatherwood, of Salt Lake City, addressed a large audience at Des Moines, Iowa, on June 16, telling what the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs was doing to calm the prevailing industrial unrest. A children's festival in the Salt Lake Tabernacle was conducted on May 30, under the management of Joseph H. Lake, in which 6,000 children took part. The subject outlined was the Restoration of the Gospel.  MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN PROGRAM OF AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS FOR 1920. Held in Connection with the Regular Quarterly Conferences. According to announcement in the May issue of the "Magazine," group conventions of the six auxiliary organizations of the Church will be held in approximately fifty-three stakes during the months of August, September, and October, of 1920. These conventions will be held in connection with the quarterly conferences, and will take the place of the former separate auxiliary conferences in these stakes. The program for group conventions contemplates that there shall be in attendance, all stake and ward workers of six auxiliary organizations;  that presiding authorities and priesthood of stakes and wards, and general public, shall be invited to attend and so participate as to increase their understanding and interest in all auxiliary endeavor;  that representatives of each General Board be in attendance to further the interests of their respective organizations. It is proposed to arrange a program of meetings that will offer practical and definite assistance to each association, such as: General sessions where subjects of equal interest to all may be presented. Separate meetings of stake boards. Departmental meetings where definite and practical help is to be given to ward workers. This does not mean that the quarterly conference will be supplanted by auxiliary conventions, but it does mean that one of these conferences will be devoted to the consideration