[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | September | Issue: 7 | Title: A WOMAN SEVEN TIMES WEDDED. | Author: former marriages]

A WOMAN SEVEN TIMES WEDDED.

	The Symrna (Del.) Times reports the
marriage on the 30th of June of Mr. Benja-
min Abbot to Mrs. Mary Pratt. This is the
seventh time the lady has been married,
each time except the first to a widower, and
she has never borne any children, though
her successive husbands had large families
by former marriages.
	Mrs. Abbott's names have been eight in
all—Miss Williams, Mrs. Truax, Mrs. Fur-
row, Mrs. Riggs, Mrs. Wallace, Mrs, Berry,
Mrs. Pratt, and now Mrs. Abbott. The
lady and her husbands have always lived in
the same locality, and each one knew the
others all their lives. Mrs. Abbott is up-
ward of seventy years of age, and had
been a widow for five years previous to her
last marriage—the longest term of widow-
hood she ever experienced. She always
had a presentiment that she would have
seven husbands, but is doubtful if much
was ever said about this to her former part-
ners, or if they would have liked conversa-
tion on this subject. At all events the pre-
sentiment has come true, but is surely to
be hoped that the lady will not have any
more.


INTELLECTUAL CULTURE—A cultivated
mind may be said to have infinite stores of
innocent gratification.  Everything may be
made interesting to it, by becoming a sub-
ject of thought or inquiry.  Books regarded
merely as a gratification, are worth more
than all the luxuries on earth.  A taste for
literature secures cheerful occupation for
the un-employed and languid hours of life;
and how many persons in these hours, for
want of innocent resources, are now im-
pelled to coarse pleasures? How many
young men can be found who, unaccus-
tomed to find a companion in a book, and
strangers to intellectual activity, are almost
driven, in the long, dull evenings of win-
ter, to haunts of intemperance and vice.—
Floral Cabinet.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
	BRIGHT AND EARLY.
Bright and early is the theme
	We should ever keep in view;
Always hold it as supreme
	This will bear us safely through.
If we're bright and early over,
	In the race through life to run,
When life's thread grini death shall sever,
	The glorious prize is surely won.
Those who are both bright and early
	'Mid the varied scenes of earth:
They can read their title clearly
	Unto a celestial birth.
Bright and early came the woman
	To the Sepulcher to weep;
On the Resurrection morning,
	It was not the time to sleep.
All who have been great or useful,
	In the battle of this life,
They have been both bright and early
	Foremost in the noble strife.
							SOLO.


