[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 419 | PDF Page 440]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 419 (PDF page 440) ---
Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Elliott
Florence J. Madsen
Leone G. Layton
Blanche B. Stoddard
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Josie B. Bay
Alberta H. Christensen
Mildred B. Eyring
Charlotte A. Larsen
Edith P. Backman
Winnifred S. Manwaring
Elna P. Haymond

Mary R. Young
Mary V. Cameron
Afton W. Hunt
Wealtha S. Mendenhall
Pearle M. Olsen
Elsa T. Peterson
Fanny S. Kienitz
Elizabeth B. Winters
LaRue H. Rosell
Jennie R. Scott
Alice L. Wilkinson
LaFriel S. Bunker
Irene W. Buehner
Irene C. Lloyd

Hazel S. Cannon
Hazel S. Love
Fawn H. Sharp
Celestia J. Taylor
Anne R. Gledhill
Relva Barlow
Zola J. McGhie
Oa J. Cannon
Lila B. Walch
Lenore C. Gundersen
Marjorie C. Pingree
Darilene C. Deckekind
Cleone R. Eccles

General Conference

Unlike those whose religious faith is uneasy and precarious in the modern world of expanding scientific knowledge, we are at home with the most advanced truths discovered by scientists and with all competent philosophic thought — with truth wherever found — because our religion enjoins in us a love of knowledge and education; encourages us to seek understanding through broadening our vision and deepening our insight. This is an eternal quest.

In a description of God's dealings with men through his prophets, President Nathan Eldon Tanner declared:

While the prophets in the old land were receiving revelations from God, the people of Lehi on this, the American Continent, were not left without guidance. Prophets were raised up through whom God spoke and directed his people in all their doings as they would listen. He revealed to them, also, 600 years before Christ's coming, that he would come, that he was the Savior of the world, that he would be persecuted and crucified, and that he would be resurrected.

One of the most blessed and heartfelt events of the conference was the farewell message of President McKay, delivered with love and solicitude:

It is a great thing to be a father of boys and girls. I think it is a precious thing for our boys and girls to realize their responsibility to carry their father's name in love and honor. . . . We have had a wonderful conference. . . . Let us take with us appreciation of being a father, appreciation of being a mother. And boys and girls, go with the responsibility that you have to bring comfort and gladness and thankfulness to the hearts of your fathers and mothers.

419
