[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 548 | PDF Page 572]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 548 (PDF page 572) ---
author and the background of the poem. This is often referred to with reference to the name Longinus, a Greek philosopher, and emphasizes research. If we consider the conditions under which a poem is written, we may be able to understand allusions and references which would otherwise be obscure. The author's experience may add richness to our interpretation of his work. If we look at the same poem we have been examining, we need to know immediately that the author is Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and that he is writing in memory of his beloved wife whose dress caught fire from the candles of the Christmas tree. Although Longfellow tried desperately to smother the fire, and received severe burns himself, he was not able to save her. With the possible exception of Nathaniel Hawthorne and Mark Twain, no well-known American writer had a happier marriage than Longfellow. He adored his wife, and her death seemed to him to have a depth of appropriateness in that she died as so many other saints had done—by fire. The fact that it occurred near Christmas was also suggestive to him and probably helped in the choice of his concluding symbol—the cross.

D. Acknowledging the Verdict of Time. The fourth position is a very practical one, after Horace, the Roman. It suggests that you check to see what other people have thought about the work you are examining. If a poem continues to be read and discussed year after year, if it gives pleasure and inspiration to succeeding generations, it cannot be discounted whether it seems to qualify for praise under any other position or not. Unfortunately, this approach cannot be used with much success to evaluate contemporary works. We need the perspective of time to compare and evaluate by this standard. Even the eighty years which have elapsed since Longfellow wrote "The Cross of Snow" are not enough to know whether it will truly last. We do note that it is appearing more and more often in anthologies today, while some other poems of Longfellow like "The Village Blacksmith"—once extremely popular—are rarely reprinted.

Perhaps, in conclusion, the use of these four approaches can be effectively illustrated by considering The Book of Mormon. Under the Platonic method we can check the "message" of this work by standards which we bring from our study of other scripture. No book, not excepting the Bible, is better able to defend itself on the basis of what it has to say to all Christians than The Book of Mormon.

From the Aristotelian point of view, that is evaluation on the basis of form, The Book of Mormon is equally impressive. Its title page states clearly what it claims to be, which is essentially Hebraic history. We need to be aware, however, that Hebraic history is a very different kind of account. To the Hebrew, history is God's dealings with his chosen people, no more, no less. It is not recorded to satisfy curiosity; it is written to change lives, to bring its readers to a knowledge of God. Theology, therefore, is presented in answer to human problems.

549
