[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 118 | PDF Page 123]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 118 (PDF page 123) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

ucts are being used in fairly large amounts.

Wheat may be used in many delightful ways for family meals. It may be used whole, cracked, or ground into flour. If you have eaten in an Armenian restaurant you may have been served a delicious golden pilaf made from pre-cooked and dried wheat called bulgor or bulgur. Bulgur wheat has been a staple in the diets of the peoples of the Middle East for many centuries. It has been produced commercially in the United States for a number of years and is gaining favor with American consumers. It is also being shipped abroad to food-short countries.

When bulgur is used in a variety of dishes it has the advantages of cooking more rapidly than whole or cracked wheat, and it may also have developed a delightful flavor from its precooking and drying process. The Western Regional Research Laboratory at Albany, California, has developed a large number of recipes using bulgur. You may be able to purchase commercially prepared bulgur or, if you are storing your own supply of whole wheat, you may enjoy preparing your own.

To Make Bulgur Wheat

1. Wash wheat in cool water and discard water.

2. Boil wheat in excess water until all water is absorbed and wheat is tender — 35 to 45 minutes, usually.

3. Spread wheat thinly on cookie sheet or shallow pan and dry in oven at 200° F until very dry so that it will crack easily.

4. Wet surface of dried wheat slight-

ly and rub kernels between hands to loosen and remove chaff.

5. Crack wheat in moderate-size pieces, using mill or grinder or even a mortar and pestle. In some cases the wheat may be used whole, giving a very chewy product.

6. This processed bulgur is easily stored and may be used in any of the following recipes. If the recipe calls for cooked bulgur simply boil in water for 5 to 10 minutes, whereby it will approximately double in volume.

If bulgur is not available or you do not care to make it yourself, you may substitute regular cracked wheat with satisfactory results. In either case, try serving wheat pilaf with a meat and vegetable plate. It has a sweet, nutlike flavor and crunchy texture your family should like very much. Or the wheat will make an excellent meal extender when used in the meat loaf, Swedish meat balls, Mexican bulgur chili, or chicken curry pilaf recipes.

Cooked and chilled bulgur may be added to your favorite cole slaw recipe for a most interesting and enjoyable salad. In fact, almost the only limit to its use is your imagination.

Bulgur, soaked overnight in salt water, may be added to yeast rolls for a nut-like flavor and texture. It is also used in the raisin bar recipe.

Using wheat in another form, that of flour, by making bread at home, may mean a savings of food money, especially if flour and yeast are purchased in large quantities and bread is a mainstay of the family fare. If whole wheat is part of your food storage plan, you will undoubtedly

118
