[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 29 | PDF Page 30]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 29 (PDF page 30) ---
LOST
STAR

Hazel K. Todd

[ILLUSTRATION]

WITH strange anticipation the well-dressed young woman stood alone in the falling snow before the old house in the trees. She had come through the sagging gate, down the snow-filled path where, as a child, her dancing feet had sped. The taxi that had brought her from the airport was rapidly disappearing into the white mist down the country road, taking with it the driver who had raised an eyebrow questioningly as he deposited her expensive luggage at the porch. But how could he know by looking at the old house sleeping there, of the Christmas warmth it had held within its ancient walls! The woman stared at the great carved door. How could she hope to find the something of Christmas she had lost, that used to be here in this silent old house! For the parents who had brought her here as a child were gone, and the grandparents who had hung the great tree with tinsel and angels were gone, too, these twelve years. And she, Joan Mason, an accomplished dress designer and owner of the old house, alone, was left.

For a minute she turned and stared back the way she had come. But the taxi had already disappeared in the mist of falling snow. Slowly she opened her purse and fumbled in it to bring out an ancient key tied with a red string. For a few seconds she gazed thoughtfully at it and then she fitted it into the black lock of the door. It turned easily with the generations of years of experience behind it. The door swung open and she stepped inside. Standing there with her back to the door, her eyes traveled expectantly over the old familiar things as if already the lost essence should sing out, "You are here! At last I am found!" But they were silent, the things she had known, the red plush sofa, the bookcase with its glass doors and its rows of books, the elaborately framed pictures of her ancestors on the wall, the mantel where she had hung her Christmas stockings long ago.

In the great fireplace wood lay unkindled. With a warm tingle of old familiarity she turned to the carved bird on the mantel with its match-filled wings.

In a few minutes the fire was blazing comfortably. She had hung her wraps in the hall closet and put away the groceries that she had bought in the village on the way. Now she sat before the fire in the old rocking chair where her grandmother had rocked.

29
