[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 841 | PDF Page 880]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 841 (PDF page 880) ---
THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

the greater part of the congregation. There were also a few tourists and some missionaries, touring Europe on their way home from various countries. She did not see Clay Knowlton and had to acknowledge a slight pang of disappointment. She also had to admit that, if the improving of her English had been her primary objective in coming up, it had not been her entire aim.

She was both pleased and surprised, therefore, to meet him on the steps outside, after the service.

"So, there you are!" he exclaimed. "Here I come to your Sunday School especially to meet you — and you are not there."

Elsa's cheeks colored. She might have convinced herself that she had gone upstairs with no ulterior motives, but he would most certainly believe otherwise. She was rather glad that Maria joined them at that moment and asked with outrageous candor, "Did your friend sleep in again today?"

"No. He has gone to Holland for the week end. He claimed that he had to see the acres of tulips in bloom, whether I was left to walk or not. I did manage to get a ride with one of the other families, however. One of these days I shall have my own car. Then you and I will take a long ride wherever you wish."

"Good! I hope that it will be very soon."

"No more than do I," agreed Clay heartily. "I see that my people are ready to leave now, so I'll have to hurry. See you all later."

HE left, and Karl, who had been talking with Brother Meyer, but constantly casting glances their way, came over to join them. Sister Breinholt, who had been visiting with other friends, also hurried over. "You will come home with us to dinner, I hope?" she said to Karl.

"Thank you very much. I would surely like to," he replied, "but I have been invited home with the Meyers today."

"That is too bad." Her face showed genuine disappointment. "Some other time, then. And how is the work coming?"

"Fine, thank you," Karl replied. "I am going to be kept very busy . . . which is just what I wanted."

The three said their goodbyes and left for home. "I like Brother Knowlton the best," remarked Maria as they walked along. "He looks just like a movie actor. Maybe his hair could be a bit more red, or gold, or something. But his eyes are nice and blue and he is so tall."

"The best of whom?" asked Elsa, pretending innocence.

"The best of your two young men, of course. Karl is nice, too, and he has a gorgeous smile. But Clay is the most fun. Don't you think so?"

"I hadn't even thought about it," answered Elsa coolly. "And they are certainly not my young men."

"Then you had best start thinking," reproved her mother. "A fine young man like Karl will not be left unnoticed for very long. There are too many single girls around."

"But none so beautiful as Elsa," said Maria complacently.

"If he prefers them, that is up to him," smiled Elsa, putting her

841
