[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 305 | PDF Page 318]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 305 (PDF page 318) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

that Belle was to become the wife of his best friend as soon as they arrived in the Valley.

"I knew you'd like Josiah, when you really came to know him," Lon said one afternoon as they followed the wagon road in the mountains, "everyone does. He's a fortunate man, Belle. I wish I were as lucky."

"But you haven't said a word to Selena. How do you hope to learn how she feels if you never tell your own feelings, Lon?"

"I know how she feels all right," said Lon, moving back by the wagon wheel and moving along beside it. "She leaves no doubt about that. I guess I could never measure up to him. He must have been pretty near perfect, Belle, for Selena to have loved him so much."

"That's just it, Lon. He wasn't. He came into Nauvoo as a member of a gang of counterfeiters. It was a pretty good place for that sort of thing for awhile. Everything that happened got blamed on the Mormons. But after the saints moved out he moved on to Winter Quarters. I don't know what his next plan was, but you can be sure that he had one."

Lon stepped up on the wagon tongue and swung himself up beside Belle. His voice was intense. "Belle! Are you sure of all this? How can Selena be so loyal to the memory of a man like that?"

"It's simple. She doesn't know. I never found out about it until after his death, and then, quite by accident, I overheard some talk that wasn't meant for me."

"But why didn't you tell her? Why let her go on tearing her heart out over a rascal?"

"I had no proof. After I heard what I did, I inquired around a little. I was convinced that it was true but Selena would never believe me. Besides, she was so heartbroken, I had no wish to add to the sorrow she already felt."

For a time there was only the sound of the wagon wheels on the rocky creek bed where the road lay at this point. Then Lon said, "Nor shall I tell her. If I can't win her love without that, perhaps I don't deserve to have it."

NOT until the last night on the trail before entering the Valley did Lon say anything to Selena. She had left her own wagon where Josiah and Belle were discussing their own future, in order to give them a measure of privacy, and Lon saw her walking alone past his own camp.

"Selena!" he cried.

"Oh! Hello, Lon," she answered and would have walked on, but he raised his hand for her to stop.

"Is anything wrong?" he asked.

"No. It's just that I'm always there, listening to whatever Belle and Josiah have to say to each other. I just felt they would welcome being alone once in awhile."

Lon looked down at her. Her face was the most beautiful face he had ever seen. His heart pounded.

"Selena, we'll be coming into the Valley tomorrow."

"Yes."

"I'm almost sorry the trip is ending."

He moved near and stood beside her chair. She did not look up.

305
