[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 70 | PDF Page 71]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 70 (PDF page 71) ---
JANUARY 1964

able, soundly uninteresting symbols of prosperity. . . .

In all the town not one building save the Ionic bank which gave pleasure to Carol's eyes; not a dozen buildings which suggested that, in the fifty years of Gopher Prairie's existence, the citizens had realized that it was either desirable or possible to make this, their common home, amusing or attractive (from Main Street, pp. 33-37 passim. Copyright 1920 by Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc.; renewed 1948, by Sinclair Lewis. Reprinted by permission of the publishers).

From the street and all that it symbolizes Carol flees, distraught at the thought of making her home and future in Gopher Prairie. Evoking no responses from her husband, she finds stimulating ideas and conversation with Miles Bjornstam, a drifting jack-of-all trades, and Guy Pollock, the local lawyer, who more fully defined the force which stultifies the village:

She asked impulsively, "You, why do you stay here?"

"I have the Village Virus."

"It sounds dangerous."

"It is, more dangerous than cancer that will certainly get me at fifty unless I stop this smoking. The Village Virus is the germ which — it's extraordinarily like the hook-worm — it infects ambitious people who stay too long in the provinces. You'll find it epidemic among lawyers and doctors and ministers and college-bred merchants — all these people who have had a glimpse of the world that thinks and laughs, but have returned to their swamp. I'm a perfect example. . . . When I first came here I swore I'd 'keep up my interest.' Very lofty! I read Browning and went to Minneapolis for the theaters. I thought I was 'keeping up.' But I guess the Village Virus had me already. I was reading four copies of cheap fiction-magazines to one poem. I'd put off the Minneapolis trips till I simply had to go there on a lot of legal matters. . . . I

decided to leave here. Stern resolution. Grasp the world. Then I found that the Village Virus had me, absolute! I didn't want to face new streets and younger men — real competition. It was too easy to go on making out conveyances and arguing ditch cases. So— That's all of the biography of a living dead man . . ." (Ibid., pp. 155-157).

Chapter XI (text, page 856) details Carol's increasing disillusionment when she joins the Thanatopsis, a women's study club, and attempts to inject into their circle her new ideas about really studying a few great writings and about bringing all forces of the community together to build beneficial projects in a spirit of unselfish cooperation. Rather than listening to Carol, each person speaks in tones of mutual distrust, self-interest, and entrenched prejudice. As she raises her hand to vote for the measure she abhors (pressure of the group being the true mechanical dominance which forces her hypocrisy) she begins to realize how effectively she has been checkmated in her efforts to liberate and improve her community.

Increasingly convinced that she will suffocate if she stays in Gopher Prairie, Carol leaves Will and runs away to Washington, D.C., where for two years she tries in vain to discover or create a set of values to replace those of Minnesota provincialism. Neither glad nor sorry to be back, she is soon expecting her second child but still unwilling to submit to the village, even though she knows she has been beaten. One evening before retiring, Carol leads her husband to the nursery and points to their daughter.

70
