[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 815 | PDF Page 850]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 815 (PDF page 850) ---
"TAKE MY YOKE UPON YOU"

The answers came so fast I could hardly separate them. Swiftly pictures flowed through my mind of the teachings and training I had received in Relief Society from the time I first joined before I was married. Relief Society is used by the Lord, I decided, to give to a daughter, at the proper time, truths and practice in those truths of which she stands in need.

As wives and mothers in our homes we act as individuals in meeting our problems, seeking through prayer the solutions. When we become members of Relief Society, however, we learn and are trained in the midst of our sisters. We have a basis of comparison. For instance, we may feel our own burdens are almost heavier than we can bear. Then we become acquainted with a sister whose burdens are such that ours assume a paler hue. On the other hand, we may hear a sister complain of her burdens which, to us, seem rather paltry. And we learn a lesson — many lessons — from the associations with our sisters: the burden of one of us may seem of small moment to another, but each woman has her burden. When we are in Relief Society, no longer are we alone in our problems — we are one with the sisterhood of the Church and our outlook is broadened.

WHAT if a Latter-day Saint woman is called to serve in the Sunday School, the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, or the Primary? As women, we answer these calls willingly and receive great blessings and joy therein, but service

in no other organization gives to a woman as a woman the light and truth she can gain personally from devotion to Relief Society. This is true because Relief Society was divinely established by our Heavenly Father for his daughters.

How does Relief Society help us to take upon ourselves the yoke of the Savior?

The assistance we receive is manifold. First, we become students of the scriptures on an adult level, through lessons written especially for women. Just during the years since I came in the Presidency we have studied slowly and thoroughly the life of Christ, The Book of Mormon, and, now, the Doctrine and Covenants. As we have studied, we have searched the scriptures. As we study and discuss subjects in a spirit of prayer, enlightenment and understanding swell within us. We strive to follow the admonition of the Prophet Joseph, "When you go home, never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands, but let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforward." We are helped to decide, as mothers, whether Johnny should be given the money he asks for, and if Mary should be allowed to go to the party. All the understanding which comes to us in Relief Society becomes a part of us to help in making our own minute-by-minute decisions.

WE learn to serve others and to increase our talents. Relief Society was divinely established to act upon these words, as the Prophet Joseph instructed, "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'" The service we give in Relief Society

811
