[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 467 | PDF Page 488]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 467 (PDF page 488) ---
JUNE 1964

on how well the citizens of the kingdom of God, male and female, honor the Priesthood are found in this material. Other aspects of the Priesthood are considered, such as the healing of the sick in the true Church.

The loyal saint accepts the interpretations of the revelations from the First Presidency. Several times during this dispensation some interpreters of revelations have been misled in their desire to foster their own interests, and they have departed from the time-tested principles which keep the kingdom of God a house of order. A lesson is devoted to a revelation which has given rise to much speculation. Always the saint has found safety

in heeding the guidance received from the leadership of the Church.

Concluding this year's lessons is one of the most remarkable prophecies of modern times. One of the functions of the Lord's prophet is to warn the world of the consequences of evil-doing. Joseph Smith's mission as a prophet is confirmed in the prophecy on the American Civil War and the other events mentioned in that revelation. If there has ever been a time when the saints should listen to the prophet's voice it is in this day of prophesied war and other calamities.

The 1964-65 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives:

Lesson 57 — The Vision (D&C 76:1-49).

Objective: To study the origin of Section 76; its teachings concerning eternal progression; the vision of God and Christ; and the meaning of Satan's victory and his defeat.

Lesson 58 — The Vision (concluded) (D&C 76:50-119).

Objective: To study God's plan for the salvation of all his children who can be saved.

Lesson 59 — The Church Independent (D&C 78, 83).

Objective: To study some important aspects of the law of consecration and the importance of unity within the Church.

Lesson 60 — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary (D&C 79, 80, 81, 82).

Objective: To show individual missionary responsibility and that the Lord is bound when you do as he says.

Lesson 61 — The Revelation on Priesthood (D&C 84:1-42).

Objective: To understand the importance of the Priesthood in the salvation of man; the special blessings available to this generation of Priesthood bearers; and the importance of the Priesthood as reflected in its oath and covenant.

Lesson 62 — The Revelation on Priesthood (concluded) (D&C 84:43-120).

Objective: To appreciate that the Lord has provided many ways by which man may know and understand the plan of salvation and the place of the Priesthood in the plan.

468
