[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 602 | PDF Page 629]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 602 (PDF page 629) ---
Gleanings from the Summer

Nancy M. Armstrong

So Much for So Little

NOTICING there was unused seed in the cup when I cleaned my parakeet's cage, I began throwing it in the back yard for the birds. When snow arrived, I put a board I could easily sweep over near the door and added extra seed and bread to the diet.

When I go out each morning, no birds are in our tree, nor can I see any nearby, yet the door will scarcely be closed before a colorful variety arrives to reward me. No longer is dishwashing a prosaic task. Through the window while I work, I watch birds happily pecking, hopping, flying; hear their gay chittering, sense their gratitude for my small thoughtfulness.

Often our smallest kindness is manifoldly rewarded. If, in no other way, we are rewarded by a feeling of well-being. Longfellow expressed the idea beautifully in Evangeline: "That which the fountain sends forth returns again to the fountain."

Trifles

"Trifles make the sum of life" (Charles Dickens).

EACH of us has moments of high beauty we would like to live again. Each of us has moments of bitter, black despair when we must seek the only help that can sustain us. Mostly, though, our days are filled with trifles. Let us add the trifles of a day and find what makes the sum of life.

For salutation, take the dew-touched rose you picked this morning to enjoy its fragleness and fragrance, remembering its name is "Peace." For surprise, take the call from a friend who, knowing of a joy that has come to you, just wants to say she shares your happiness. For chuckles, take the words of a precious little boy, just turned six. He haunts the school grounds, a block away from home, so anxious is he for that first great day; yet dashes home to ask excitedly, "Mommy, did you remember to get me in a car pool to ride to school?" For loyalty, take the tiny brown Chihuahua who always looks at you with eyes full of devotion, never seeing faults that human beings do, and yet is ready to forgive your thoughtlessness beyond the "seventy times seven." For satisfaction, take a look at bottles filled this day with sun-gold peaches that make the taste buds tingle in anticipation of wintertime enjoyment. For refreshment, take the gentle soothing rain that covered everything with freshness after weary weeks of dust and heat. For color, take the rainbow arched across the sky at sunset. For benediction, take your evening call to Mother to hear about her day's events and learn tomorrow's plans. To her "goodnight," she adds, "God bless you, dear."

Trifles? The total sum is far from commonplace.

602
