[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 225 | PDF Page 234]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 225 (PDF page 234) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

knew Belle spoke the truth, yet how could she make her understand? It had been a strange sickness that could take a strong man almost overnight in Winter Quarters. If it hadn't come from the Indians, it certainly seemed different from anything she had encountered before, and it had taken away her very reason for living.

Later, when Selena returned to the wagon to get the kettle for the evening meal, Belle sat on the bed, her toes in one of the moccasins, and her face a mask of despair. This was a most unusual sight. Selena hurried to her sister's side.

"Belle!" she cried. "Whatever is the matter? Are you in pain?"

"The moccasins!" moaned Belle. "They're too little. I can hardly get my big toe in them."

"Oh! Is that all! You gave me such a fright!"

"Is that all! Here I go and trade off some of our precious flour and my old wrapper as well, and I get is a pair of moccasins that I can't even get on.

THEN Belle's face brightened as a thought came to her.

"Selena! You could wear them. They might even be a little too big for you! Here. They're yours."

Selena drew back. "I appreciate it, Belle. I know you mean it to be a kindness, but I couldn't take them, really."

"You're being foolish, Selena. These are the most beautiful moccasins I have ever seen. Here. Try them."

"And so they are," said Lon, coming up unexpectedly. "Let me see them. I might take you up on that."

Laughing, he took the moccasins from Belle's outstretched hand.

"Whose are they?" he asked as they looked at the fine piece of handiwork.

"Yours, if you want them," said Belle. "I traded for them, but I can't begin to wear them, and Selena won't even try. Do you think you could wear them, Lon?"

"They look a little small for me, I'm afraid, though I'd like to have them, but I can't be selfish. I know someone who really needs these right now. Josiah."

"Josiah! I'm not about to give these moccasins to him. He'd find something wrong with them to come and tell me about, if he had to wait until they wore out and then complain about that. No, I'll keep them myself first."

"His horse stepped on his toe last night, Belle. He can't get his boot on for a few days. He'd appreciate these. He's spent a lot of time among the Indians and has worn moccasins a lot. You could really help him out, Belle. Do it for the good of the wagon train, if not for Josiah. He can't help much in his stocking feet."

Belle looked at the moccasins for a long moment. Then she handed them to Lon.

"Here they are, Lon. He can have them, but I'm not taking them to him," said Belle.

"That's another thing," said Lon, raising his hand against

225
