[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 503 | PDF Page 527]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 503 (PDF page 527) ---
daughters to live you won't have to cook unless you want to."

Louise paled. "I'd be sure to push the wrong button in those total-gadget kitchens of theirs, and end up frying the laundry and washing the pancakes."

The young woman had giggled, and said flatly, "Well, one thing, you'll never miss this kitchen."

So it wasn't the kitchen. Or the dining room. Or the upstairs bedrooms that must be vacuumed and dusted every week in spite of the fact that nobody ever slept in them. The house was just too big for just one person. So why couldn't she make up her mind to. . . .

She was called from her reverie by the sound of cars driving up to the house. "Goodness," she said, putting her uneaten breakfast away, "they're already here!"

She hurried to the door to be kissed, hugged, smiled over, and loved by her children and grandchildren.

THEN, as her daughters and daughters-in-law bustled about the kitchen, she picked up the invitation to the Miltone Reunion and read it over again. It was nice, with small pen-and-ink drawings of the oxen and covered wagon that had carried the first Miltone into the valley. Her name was first on the list, because she was the oldest. Then there were her sisters, Constance, Ruth, and Madge. Her children were listed with their husbands and wives—Leah, Melinda, Helen, George, and Stanley. There were the children, and all the cousins, nephews and nieces.

So many of them, Louise had decided, that she had insisted on sharing the reunion with several of her old friends from the neighborhood.

"It's nice to share," she had told her daughters, when they questioned her idea. "Some of the older ladies don't get out much. You have plenty of room in your cars."

Because they were nice, generous people, they hadn't objected. Leah had laughed and said, "I can't see what difference a dozen more can possibly make. We'll only need a gallon of salad and a bushel of potato chips, to say nothing of a few hundred sandwiches."

Louise slipped the invitation into a drawer, ready for her scrapbook and went to help with the sandwiches. The first one was lifted gently from her hand. Helen smiled at her.

"There's plenty of help, darling," she said reprovingly. "As the matriarch of the Miltone family, this is your big day. We can't let you get worn out even before we get to the park."

As though putting tuna-salad sandwiches into little waxed bags could wear her out!

Standing there, her hands listless at her sides, she considered that word matriarch. It did make her feel old! She thought whimsically, let's face it, Louise Miltone Avery, you are a Senior Citizen, age sixty-seven.

She giggled a little, remembering something George had said, when, at sixteen, he had brought home his first secondhand car. How proud he had been! How angry when everyone laughed. His brown eyes had shot sparks. "There's a lot of life in that old chassis even yet!"

504
