[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 506 | PDF Page 530]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 506 (PDF page 530) ---
MOMENTOUS DECISION

paper napkin she had put at her place, she felt a little guilty, knowing that Hal didn't like her to skimp on breakfast. Well, she wasn't hungry, perhaps because of the picnic yesterday.

She put the toast crumbs out to the birds, the milk carton back in the refrigerator. A thought crept persistently into her consciousness — It's no fun to eat alone.

SHE had a wishful idea. If there were only some way for old friends and sisters to get together over lunch. . . .

She went to the dining room door and glared at the big table. Why, that awful, inanimate piece of furniture seemed to be coaxing for a white linen cloth, rosesprigged china, fine silver.

She could almost hear her girls saying reprovingly, "But, Mother! All that work. Getting lunch for other people. You mustn't slave over a hot stove. . . ."

She broke off, laughing loudly and clearly. Oh, that silly cliche! Since when has a stove like mine been hot — except under the pots! Besides, she had always loved to cook.

She was sure their next objection would be expense for groceries. Well, she thought about that.

Everyone could contribute to the food, or eat at a nominal expense.

"If it doesn't work," she told herself brightly, "no harm will be done. At least I'll give it a try. I'm sure my sisters will love it."

So would her neighbors. And each could take a turn if she wished!

Her hand went out to phone George. She drew it hastily back. George was inclined to be severe. Stan was the one she would call. He could tell the others.

"It isn't that I'm not grateful to think you all want me, son. I'm sure you'll understand, and so will the others when they think about it. Just tell them I feel gay and happy and excited about having this plan. Someday I may accept your invitations."

She knew by Stan's voice that he was surprised, a little shocked, and even worried. But when he put up the phone she was sure he understood. And, peacemaker that he was, he would pass his own understanding on to the others.

Her finger shook a little as she dialed Constance. As the phone buzzed while she waited, Louise knew a vast delight. Loneliness was flying away. Once more she had something to contribute to the world that had been bent on passing her by.

Alchemy

Vesta N. Fairbairn

The spirit
More easily
Than flesh is bruised and hurt,
And only touch of love can heal
The wound.

507
