[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 912 | PDF Page 955]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 912 (PDF page 955) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

Dr. Elizabeth Eckhardt May, Dean of the School of Home Economics at the University of Connecticut, was the director of a five-year rehabilitation study of handicapped homemakers which has given new hope to thousands of hemiplegics, arthritics, victims of tuberculosis, poliomyelitis, cardiovascular diseases, and those orthopedically disabled. Training films, slides, booklets, and how-to-do-it instructions compiled during the course of study have already been disseminated to rehabilitation centers in each of the fifty States and twenty-three foreign countries. Individuals or groups wishing to secure lists of such available materials are invited to write to: Handicapped Homemaker Research Center, School of Home Economics, University of Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut.

Hanako Tsugaru, on September 30, married Yoshi, younger son of Emperor Hirohito of Japan, in a traditional Shinto ceremony at a shrine on the imperial palace grounds. The emperor, who, traditionally, never attends a court function unless he is the star participant, watched the ceremony on television. Hanako descends from rulers of northern Honshu, Japan's main island.

Attractive Princess Margarita of Sweden was married last June 30 to British businessman John Ambler, in a historic twelfth-century church in Stockholm. This appears to be another genuine romance.

Mrs. Mattie C. Sanford, Salt Lake City, Utah, who was honored several years ago with a gold medal for "unusual civic service," was named a Fellow of the Photographic Society of America, the world's largest photographic society, at their meeting in Montreal, Canada, in August. She was cited for her excellence in color and stereo photography, and for her many contributions to the advancement of photography by teaching and lecturing.

Mrs. Martha Tavian Lincoln, a resident of the Uintah-Ouray Indian Reservation, near Roosevelt, Utah, died September 26, 1964, at the age of 115. Her husband, who was born in 1849 and died in 1925, was named Abe Lincoln. They had no children.

Lovely Princess Anne-Marie of Denmark on September 18 became the bride of King Constantine of Greece. They are obviously deeply in love with each other. He, at twenty-four, is the youngest king reigning today, and Anne-Marie, at eighteen, is the youngest queen. Greece is Europe's newest monarchy, its dynasty being only 100 years old. Denmark is the oldest monarchy, dating back more than a thousand years.

Helen Hayes, United States' first lady of the theater, says she is utterly weary of plays "which deal with the mentally sick and the spiritually infirm," and which display "a great paucity of ideas."

912
