[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 179 | PDF Page 184]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 179 (PDF page 184) ---
SOMEONE TO CHEER FOR JOHNNY

that sliding squeaky voice, and he simply shouts as though I were deaf." Helen clasped both of her hands over her face, as though she were completely baffled.

Martha knew that her face showed her disapproval. She looked away from Helen and choked back her words that hurried to her mind. Maybe I should tell her now what I think. Maybe it is my duty to say something. If he shouts, it is because no one around here pays any attention to him, only to criticize. Johnny seems to be just a thirteen-year-old nuisance, who eats a lot and grows too fast and sometimes says silly things to get a little attention. This was what she wanted to tell Helen now, but she breathed deeply, and after a moment tried to make her voice sound natural and speak lightly. She must not break her resolve already.

"You know, Helen, I've heard that most all boys reach a stage when their voice slips from high C to low G, but maybe you would like Johnny to go through life talking like a girl. And good-looking men like your father were once long-legged, growing boys. His own mother told me how she was afraid he was going all to legs when he was a kid."

"Well, I do hope he turns out as good as Dad and Mark," Helen said a bit more cheerfully.

An hour later, Mark came home from his game of golf. He had gone to play straight from his of-

fice. He was smiling and gave quite a recital of the game.

"Brad Clark says I'm doing so well I'll be in the league play by late summer. I'm sure glad you gave me those golf clubs for my birthday, Helen." Mark went about calling loudly from bathroom to hall to living room talking enthusiastically about his game.

"He shouts every bit as loud as Johnny when he is pleased with himself," Martha told herself.

"Brad Clark is Mark's best friend. He says that the fellows always take their wives along when they go for tournament playoffs. If Mark makes it, just think, I'll get to go to Las Vegas, and California and even Sun Valley." Helen spoke excitedly.

"Don't count your chickens yet, Helen," Mark said. "Is dinner ready? I'm plain starved. Golfing sure make a fellow hungry."

"I told Johnny to be home by six for dinner. It is almost time," Helen told him.

Johnny came in before dinner was on the table. He hurried in to the bathroom to clean up and get out of his ball suit. Helen caught a glimpse of him and exclaimed, "Johnny, you look like you had rolled in the dirt. Don't wear that suit again until I take it to the cleaners."

As Johnny took his place at the table, Martha knew by his solemn face that they had lost their game to the Cubs. For once she was glad that everyone paid little at-

175
