[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 69 | PDF Page 70]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 69 (PDF page 70) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

more and more frequently exploding in violent tantrums at those who, in the slightest, opposed his will or doubted his literary greatness.

Sinclair Lewis inspired genuine love in Grace Hegger, his first wife, and in Dorothy Thompson, his second, though both left him, alcoholism being a contributing factor. He loved jokes and plotting out actions and conversations which amused others. Though stingy at times, he was often most generous, both with his own family and with struggling writers. When he so chose, he had a boyish charm and whimsical warmth which gave those near him delight. Most often in his earlier years he could be tender and gentle to adults; never could he communicate with children, including his own.

Main Street

Everything in Lewis' life was secondary to his writing. His writing he always loved; to the end of his life he frequently lost himself in the intensity of work, successfully using his writing as escape from the personal problems he could neither face nor solve. And when he combined his continuing drive to know life as it really was with Sauk Centre (called Gopher Prairie in the novel) which he loved so fully that after his youth he could not bear living there — only then was such a conflicting combination ready to produce Main Street, which appeared in 1920.

The novel centers about Carol Kennicott, wife of the complaisant village doctor. Having been brought to Gopher Prairie as a new bride by her husband, who knows her talents and her restless desire to improve her world, Carol increasingly feels trapped.

The physical makeup of the town reveals the same clutter, conformity, and subservience to established values which she sees in its inhabitants:

Main Street with its two-story brick shops, its story-and-a-half wooden residences, its muddy expanse from concrete walk to walk, its huddle of Fords and lumber-wagons, was too small to absorb her. . . . The skeleton iron windmill on the farm a few blocks away at the north end of Main Street was like the ribs of a dead cow. She thought of the coming of the Northern winter, when the unprotected houses would crouch together in terror of storms galloping out of that wild waste. They were so small and weak, the little brown houses. They were shelters for sparrows, not homes for warm laughing people. . . .

Dyer's Drug Store, a corner building of regular and unreal blocks of artificial stone. Inside the store, a greasy marble soda-fountain with an electric lamp of red and green and curdled-yellow shade. Pawed-over heaps of toothbrushes and combs and packages of shaving-soap. Shelves of soap-cartons, teething-rings, garden-seeds, and patent medicines in yellow and black packages. . . . notorious mixtures of opium and alcohol, in the very shop to which her husband sent patients for the filling of prescriptions. . . .

A small wooden motion-picture theater called "The Rosebud Movie Palace." Lithographs announcing a film called "Fatty in Love."

Howland & Gould's Grocery. In the display window, black, over-ripe bananas and lettuce on which a cat was sleeping. Shelves lined with red crepe paper which was now faded and torn and concentrically spotted. . . .

A score of similar shops and establishments.

Behind them and mixed with them, the houses, meek cottages or large, comfort-

69
