[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 355 | PDF Page 372]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 355 (PDF page 372) ---
VERDI ON THE FARM

pointing to a big truck coming down the lane. "May I go now?"

"What's the hurry? Maybe he'll need something after he gets here. Don't waste gas. Turn off the engine."

I turned the truck around and headed it toward the gate before I turned off the key. I was ready for a quick getaway.

The big truck turned in at the gate, and the driver got out and slowly let down the tailgate for a ramp. The tractor unloaded in slow motion and the engine tinkered with before it would start.

"Everything seems to be all right," husband said, "come and get me about one thirty, and I'll come up for lunch and bring back a can of gas."

I drove up the road as fast as I dared to in any vehicle with broken in shock absorbers. Leaving the truck in the driveway, I ran into the house. Beautiful music was fading on the ether.

"During the intermission we will hear the opera news of the air," the announcer said.

There was no music while I prepared lunch, just a discussion of things which didn't interest me.

"We are now ready for the second act in which Giorgio Germont arrives and spoils the idyllic, romantic life his son Alfredo and Violetta have been leading," the announcer said, and went on with what would be heard in the second act.

I noticed the clock. I should have been in the field ten minutes ago. As the truck had no radio, I drove it out of the way and got the touring car out of the garage. I turned on the radio and tuned in the station. All I got were moans and buzzes.

When I reached the field, husband was turning the tractor around in the farther end of the stubble patch. He came slowly toward me. He reached the end of the furrow he was plowing and stopped to scrape the mud from the plowshare. After surveying the result, he took a hammer and pounded it.

"Hurry," I said. "I left lunch cooking."

I knew he might hurry to save a stew. He fooled me. It seemed that the plowshares must be removed to be replaced with others he would bring down from the toolshed up by the house. When we reached the house, we ate lunch while listening to very learned people discuss questions about various operas that had been selected. Just as husband pushed back his chair, the announcer came on.

"We are about to hear the third act, the beautiful ballroom scene."

Beautifully sad music began. I knew the climax was approaching. So were husband's orders.

"Come and drive the truck to the field. I'll put in the grain to feed the beef cattle, then I won't have to go around by the corral after I get through plowing tonight."

He was changing his overalls while he spoke. This is important to mention, because the tractor keys were left in the pocket and I was the one who had to return to get them.

I finally reached home and sank into a chair in time to hear Violetta cough delicately and sing exquisitely as she died in Alfredo's arms.

"And the curtain falls on Verdi's masterpiece," the announcer said. "The principals will now take their curtain calls."

I didn't join in the applause of the audience. It grated in my ears.

355
