[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 339 | PDF Page 352]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 339 (PDF page 352) ---
ADJUSTMENT

He grinned. "That, my dear, is one of the remarkable things about your husband. My mind is equipped with a delayed action device. Lots of trouble is averted that way."

Now he was teasing her. This was probably the wrong time to approach him with the subject she had wanted to mention.

He smiled at her. What a little pixie she was. A petite little nose with a snip nose. He sat down beside her. "I'm sorry," he said. "Tell me please what it was you wanted."

"I really did want to talk to you," she said. "We've been married for almost three months. Don't you think it's time that we sat down and had an — an interview?"

"A what?" Jason's voice went up to a peak.

"An interview. You know — like employers and employees do when they've been together for a certain period of time."

He blinked and made as if to speak but uttered no sound.

"There's nothing queer about that," she explained. "I read all about it right here in this magazine. 'How to Make Your Marriage Work,' by Dr. Snodgras. She was very matter of fact.

"Isn't our marriage working?" he asked.

"Of course it is, silly, but Dr. Snodgras says this is supposed to be our adjustment period. He says that both of us do lots of little things that irritate each other, and we should talk it out and then it won't irritate us any more."

"Oh, I see," he said indulgently. "Seems as if I read something like that in a book once."

"You did?" Her enthusiasm rose. "Then you'll understand all about it. Tell me what you remember."

"Let me see." He wrinkled his brow. "I believe it said there are many adjustments to make in marriage — and — oh, yes. I remember now. It said the wives are the ones to do the adjusting. Wives are usually younger than husbands, and sometimes smaller, and naturally more pliable. A husband can't change. He is big and ugly, and set up like hard clay by the time he gets married. I think that's what the book said."

"You must have read the wrong book. I guess the interview idea is not so good after all."

"Quite the contrary. I think it's a fine idea. When do we begin?"

"Are you sure you're interested?" she asked.

"Of course."

"Well —" she said reluctantly. "I have made a few notes."

"On how to conduct an interview?"

She blushed. "No. On things that I should point out to you."

"I see. You mean notes on the things I do that irritate you." He pretended to be wounded.

"Honey," she said apologetically, "there's almost nothing wrong with you. Remember, we aren't discussing big things — like money. I won't even mention the time Jan asked me to go shopping with her and you gave me five dollars and told me not to go hog wild on it and Jan said, 'That's ridiculous. No one can go hog wild with only five dollars.' Dr. Snodgras says big things seldom undermine a marriage, because people always correct them. It's the little things that do it, like tapping a pencil against your teeth all the time when you're trying to think. Little things can be terribly distracting you know."

"I see. And we must be broadminded and understanding and

335
