[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 633 | PDF Page 660]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 633 (PDF page 660) ---
SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government

The Functioning of Church Government

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Lesson 16 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations

For Fourth Meeting, November 1964

Objective: To point out that the place of honor for the Priesthood in the home is claimed on meritorious behavior.

. . . Govern your house in meekness, and be steadfast (D&C 31:9).
I exhort you, masters, fathers, and husbands, to be affectionate and kind to those you preside over. And let them be obedient, let the wife be subject to her husband, and the children to their parents (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses 1:69).

. . . let the father be the head of the family, the master of his own household; and let him treat them as an angel would treat them (Ibid., 4:55).

THE organizational strength of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is found in the authority placed upon worthy male members. The same power, the Priesthood of God, which makes for the success of the Church, is a powerful factor in the health and success of the Latter-day Saint family when this power is properly applied to the life of the holder, and exercised in righteousness for the family as a whole.

By tradition and by the teachings of the Church, the father is the head of the family. The responsibility of control (or direction or authority, whichever term one chooses to use) of the family is, therefore, in the hands of the Priesthood. That alone is not the important point, but the responsibility such a position of leadership demands is of vital concern.

The foundation of the Priesthood power or authority is love. Love is expressed in thoughtful consideration of others and in assuming the responsibility for their well-being and individual expression. The head of the family, then, must be able to justify his leadership by his thoughtful and loving direction, through counsel and patience with each member of his family. In fact, his measure of success in his calling both as a father and as an elder in Israel is found in the success he attains with the members of his own family. Thus, in a period of social change the father becomes a pillar of stability for those about him, a strength in his wisdom and counsel. However, in all phases of his leadership, he and his wife are one, especially in the family responsibility.

Among the important things expected of the Priesthood bearer in the role of a father should be: (1) Full acceptance of the opportunity of teaching and training the children. Too often this has been left solely to the mother who has certainly been

633
