[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 221 | PDF Page 230]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 221 (PDF page 230) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

soever. In fact, quite the contrary. Selena often excused herself when he appeared, going to the wagon and leaving him and Belle alone.

Once Belle chided her for her abruptness toward him.

"How do you think Lon feels, Selena, if every time he comes near our wagon, you get up and leave?"

"Lon?" asked Selena, and it was plain that the thought had never concerned her. "How do I know how he feels, and why should I care? Who, in this whole wagon train, cares how I feel?"

"We all do, Selena," said Belle gently. "Everyone is concerned."

"So concerned that they sing and dance every night. They don't bother to wonder what it does to anyone else."

"Of course they do, Selena. But you can't expect this entire camp to mourn every step of the way for..."

"Don't you mention his name!!" flared Selena. "You never liked him! Though why you didn't, I've never been able to understand. I don't think you could explain, yourself, what you had against him."

Belle opened her mouth to answer, then she stopped. There was no good in adding to the burden her sister was already carrying. She could say nothing that would do any good now, in fact it could not even be proved, and might cause a serious rift between the two of them.

THE only favor Selena accepted from Lon during the long journey was his offer to let her ride his horse. She loved horses, any horse. It had been a great disappointment to her when she had learned that Belle had obtained a pair of oxen to pull their wagon. Riding the horse proved to be a welcome change, and several times during an afternoon she rode behind the wagon while Belle and Lon sat together on the wagon seat.

"It's good to be traveling west with Josiah," said Lon upon one of these occasions. "We've covered a lot of territory together. Had a right good homestead in Missouri. Best place we ever had. Hearing the gospel really changed our lives.

"It was a funny thing, too. I knew it was true right off. Josiah took a bit of convincing. He was right in there with the mob for awhile. Right up until Far West. That was more than he could take.

"There's not a kinder person to be found than Josiah. Oh, I admit he may have a bit of prejudice against women in general, but he's still one of the finest men I have ever known. He isn't a man to use a lot of words, but something must have happened to turn him against the whole female sex."

LON jumped to the ground as they approached a deep waddy. He directed the oxen expertly to one side and then the other. The wagon swayed but stayed upright as it came back to a more level piece of land.

"Josiah taught me that," he

221
