[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 30 | PDF Page 31]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 30 (PDF page 31) ---
JANUARY 1964

Vinson would be surprised if he could see her here. She went over again the words she had scribbled so hurriedly on a sudden impulse:

Dear Vinc,
I won't be able to go on the house party. I hope you'll forgive me. I've gone to find something of Christmas I had once and lost.
                                                —Joan

She never would have thought of writing the note or of coming, if the letter hadn't arrived in the mail yesterday morning from the Grays, the aged couple who were the caretakers of the old home that had come to her as an inheritance from her grandparents. The letter had simply stated that an unexpected opportunity had come for them to spend the winter in Arizona, and they were enclosing the key.

In all the years the old place had belonged to her she had paid no heed to it, except for the checks she mailed for its maintenance. But yesterday, when she opened the letter, the key with the red string unleashed a stream of memories that rushed and tumbled over each other until she wept softly into the folds of the scarf in her hands.

She saw her grandfather placing the great log on the fire. She danced around the Christmas tree while they hung it with wonderful treasures from an old brown box, candles with real fire, popcorn, and homemade chains. And there at the top, a great silver star painted on a smooth board and wound with tinsel and beads. And her grandmother had wrapped it and unwrapped it very carefully each year, because, as she had explained to Joan (who was Joanna then), it represented the

Baby Jesus when he was born in Bethlehem.

So deep in the midst of clamoring memories was she, that the knocking at the door might have been her grandfather, his arms filled with the Yule log, demanding admittance. As in a dream, Joan rose and started across the room. Then she halted. This was not her grandfather! Someone to see the Grays. She was about to return to her chair when the knock came again. It roused a curious impulse, and she found herself at the door looking down into the small, heart-shaped face of a child. She was a quaint little girl with long dark braids hanging from a queer little knitted cap with a peaked top. She wore a long gray coat and heavy overshoes. In her mittened hand she carried a bright-colored sand pail that might have been from a different world. At sight of Joan the child's brow puckered in a puzzled expression, and she brushed her free hand over her cheek in an odd little mannerism.

Joan looked at the child with curiosity. At least this was something new and different. "Won't you come in?" she asked, still holding the door.

The child hesitated. "But where is Mrs. Gray? I wanted her to help me find the star."

Joan looked at the bucket, wondering. "I am very sorry," she said, "Mrs. Gray isn't here any more."

The child's face fell. For a moment Joan thought she was going to cry. Quickly she tried to make amends. "Perhaps — perhaps I could help you." She looked at the bucket again. "Did you say a star?"

30
