[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 655 | PDF Page 682]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 655 (PDF page 682) ---
NURSING AND NURSE TRAINING IN RELIEF SOCIETY

Woodruff emphasized "that only women of courage, determination and abundant energy need apply, for they must be willing to endure hard work, long hours, and have the strength to battle the elements in their travels to the homes of those who needed aid." It was hoped that three women from each ward would be able to attend this school.

ON May 14, 1898, a special meeting of Relief Society presidents of the Salt Lake State was called to consider the organization of a Relief Society Nurse Training School. Stake Relief Society President Mary Isabella Horne told the sisters assembled that the proposed class had the approbation and blessing of the First Presidency and of the presidency of the Salt Lake Stake. It was suggested that the Relief Society presidents select four students from each ward, ranging in ages from eighteen to forty. The course would take from six to eight months and those who took it would be expected to devote some of their time to nursing the poor, when sick, in their respective wards.

Relief Society General President Zina D. H. Young and her counselor Bathsheba W. Smith were present at this meeting. President Young "heartily endorsed the movement looking to the betterment of the poor and the suffering." Bathsheba W. Smith said "I hope this class will rally to the call and be a ray of sunshine in the home of the sick, good nursing will be sought for and I pray God's blessings on the class." Dr. Roberts, who was to teach the class free of charge, said she believed the day would come "when you will be proud to wear the cap and apron of the Relief Society corps of nurses." Relief Society presidents of eighteen city wards and five county wards heartily endorsed the movement and promised aid and support in the matter.

This Relief Society Nurse School, which was placed under the direction of the General Board of Relief Society on September 13, 1902, was conducted until 1920, a period of over twenty-one years. A report on the progress of the work was given in the Woman's Exponent of March 1903. It stated that the Nurse Class

... has been doing good work and the ladies are making excellent progress in their studies .... It is of great satisfaction to the general officers of the Relief Society to know that such favorable advancement is being made because the first duty of the society is to care for the poor, the needy and unfortunate, and in order to be equipped for this work there is need of competent nurses, not only in large cities, but in country places, and almost more in new colonies.

In this class of 1903 there were eighty-seven students from twenty-six stakes in Utah, Idaho, Arizona, Wyoming, New Mexico, and Oregon.

The Relief Society Nurse Classes were conducted annually on an eight-month basis for students ranging in ages from eighteen to forty-five. One stipulation in the contract was that the students devote a specified number of days to charity nursing, under the direction of Relief Society, during the first year after their graduation.

651
