[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 272 | PDF Page 285]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_04_12_GenFt_Womans_Cannon.txt (308 bytes)]

--- PAGE 271 (PDF page 284) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman figure standing behind/embracing a globe showing the continents]

Lt. Colonel Harriet W. Worley of the United States Army Nurse Corps, received the Legion of Merit award, the Nation's second highest peacetime award, at Fort Douglas, Utah, in January. Authorized by the President of the United States, the citation reads: "With rare foresight, mature judgment, keen and analytical ability and resourcefulness, she developed the first Army Nurse Corps Career Management program, and was the innovator of formal nursing research and development in the Army."

Mothers in Utah have the lowest infant mortality rate (20.3 per 1,000 live births) in the United States, according to Dr. Joseph P. Kesler, Director, Department of Children's Services, Utah State Department of Health. Among the factors involved in this record, Dr. Kesler lists the following: a higher educational level of the mothers, resulting in better infant care; a relatively low rate of cigarette smoking by mothers; relatively good hygienic and sanitary standards in the home; and the birth of more than ninety-nine per cent of all Utah babies in hospitals.

Mary G. Roebling, who is a bank president, predicts, "Within the next decade we will see a tremendous increase in the number of women occupying top managerial positions."

Queen Frederika of Greece and her daughter, Princess Irene, twenty-two, arrived in New York January 22, for a brief visit in the United States. The Queen, a highly intelligent and well educated woman, received an honorary doctor of laws degree from Columbia University, and observed American television programs.

Margaret Chase Smith, senior Senator from Maine, on January 27, entered the race for the Republican nomination for President of the United States. First woman to enter actively such a campaign in a major party, her name will be presented in primaries in New Hampshire and Illinois and probably in the District of Columbia and Oregon. Mrs. Smith served in the House of Representatives from 1940-1948 and in the Senate since 1948. She is noted for faithful attendance at Senate sessions and committee meetings, being a member of two powerful committees, the Aeronautical and Space Sciences Committee and the Armed Services and Appropriations Committee.

There are 57,926,000 women of voting age in the United States. That is approximately 3,828,000 more than the men of voting age in the country. Women could actually control political situations, but they rarely vote as a block. Polls show that more men than women are favorable to the idea of having a woman president.

271

--- PAGE 272 (PDF page 285) ---
EDITORIAL

Volume 51    April 1964    Number 4

• Belle S. Spafford, President
• Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
• Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
• Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer

Relief Society Time at the New York World's Fair
June 24-25, 1964

As the Church has moved out of the wilderness since it was organized in 1830 so, under the guidance of the Priesthood, Relief Society has moved with it. As the gospel is brought to different nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, the divine organization for women — the Relief Society — is also constituted to do the work assigned by the Church to Church women.

With the great impetus today from the inspired plans of acceleration in Church government, Relief Society, as the companion organization to the Priesthood, moves forward in like tempo with expanded programs. Its Singing Mothers have won signal recognition in many parts of the Church, none greater than the 1961 International Chorus of Singing Mothers which combined singers from Utah with singers from the British Isles under the leadership of Sister Florence J. Madsen. Now, at the New York World's Fair, Singing Mothers Concerts are to be given under the direction of the General Board on the afternoons of June 24 and 25, 1964. The Singing Mothers will all be from the New York, New Jersey, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, and Potomac Stakes. Mrs. Ellen Neilson Barnes, chorister of the Washington Stake Relief Society, will conduct the two concerts. Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, chairman of the General Board's music committee, will be associated with Mrs. Barnes in presenting numbers at the concerts. Mrs. Barnes and Mrs. Madsen are both graduates of the New England Conservatory of Music and both are experienced in conducting Singing

272

--- PAGE 273 (PDF page 286) ---
Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Elliott
Florence J. Madsen
Leone G. Layton
Blanche P. Stoddard
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Joan B. Bay
Alberta H. Christensen
Mildred B. Eyring
Charlotte A. Larsen
Edith P. Blackman
Winnelfred S. Manwaring
Elma P. Haymond

Mary R. Young
Mary Y. Cameron
Afton W. Hunt
Wealtha S. Mendenhall
Pearle M. Olsen
Elsa T. Peterson
Fanny S. Klemtz
Elizabeth S. Winters
LaRue H. Rosell
Jennie R. Scott
Alice L. Wilkinson
LaFriel S. Bunker
Irene M. Buchner
Irene C. Lloyd

Hazel S. Cannon
Hazel S. Lowe
Fawn H. Sharp
Celestia C. Taylor
Anne R. Gledhill
Belva Barlow
Zola J. McChie
Osa J. Cannon
Lilia B. Walch
Lenore C. Gundersen
Marjorie C. Pingree
Darlene C. Dedekind
Cleone R. Eccles

Mothers Choruses. This activity sets a new pattern in General Board direction wherein the major responsibility is placed upon a geographic unit of the Church. Two concerts will take place on each of the afternoons of June 24 and 25 at the World's Fair Pavilion. This would seem a propitious time for Relief Society women everywhere who plan to attend the Fair with their families to make their visit to the Fair include these dates.

Relief Society women will serve as hostesses at the Better Living Center at the Women's Hospitality Center under the direction of Anna Laura Stohl Cannon for the week of June 22-27. June 24 has been designated as Relief Society Day at the Better Living Center, at which time the Relief Society General Presidency will receive guests of national and international renown. This Center will serve as the official headquarters for national and international women's organizations. Colonial Williamsburg is doing the interior decorating of this 5,000 square foot space which has been assigned to the Center.

President Belle S. Spafford is a member of the Board of the Women's Advisory Council to the 1964-65 New York World's Fair. She works also under the direction of the World's Fair Committee of our Church.

It is hoped that Relief Society sisters everywhere will converge on the New York World's Fair June 24 or 25 to enjoy the Singing Mothers Concerts.

—M. C. S.

273

--- PAGE 274 (PDF page 287) ---
[ILLUSTRATION: Woman in orange jacket sitting at desk writing, with flowers on the desk]

Notes to the Field

THE previews for the 1964-65 lessons will appear in the June 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the lessons for October will be in the July 1964 issue. In order to obtain the June issue of the Magazine it will be necessary for renewals and new subscriptions to reach the General Offices by the first of May 1964. It is suggested that Magazine representatives check their lists immediately so that all Relief Society members will receive all of the issues containing the lessons. It is suggested that ward presidents make this announcement in the April meetings.

The Warblers
Dorothy J. Roberts

They brought a song, a wisp of thread,
They scanned the pine outside my sill
For nesting a perennial mate,
And something moved my wintering will.

Song grew until a symphony
Rose from the neighborhood of trees,
And something, listening, aroused
My waning wonder, hearing these

Who weave their hopes above the street,
Paired for flight into songful teams,
Who build the bits I throw away
Into a dwelling for their dreams.

274