[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 322 | PDF Page 339]
[Title: Frontispiece (p321) + From Near and Far (p322)]

--- PAGE 321 (PDF page 338) ---
I Am Crowded Within

Margery S. Stewart

I am crowded within
With lilies and new oranges
Green as jade on the beloved bough.
Stars flow through me, for I have
Made room for stars, a space
For suns. I have grown out
Of myself, this morning.
I have grown out of the knotted
Gourd grieved bone,
Broken bowl,
Out of intolerable pain
I grew into this tall self,
This self who knows what
Mocking birds are crying
Upon the morning, for I,
Like them, am become notes
Of music.
I can be placed in any melody,
Movement, in symphony or lullaby,
Or the deep singing of the
Field woman, gathering apples
In September.

The Cover: Roses on a White Fence, Cape Cod, Massachusetts
          Transparency by Josef Muench
          Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Trees That Lean Over Water, Lake Mempremagog, Vermont
             Photograph by H. Armstrong Roberts

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

--- PAGE 322 (PDF page 339) ---
From Near and Far

The Magazine is now an integral part of my life, and I look forward so much to receiving my copies. I pass them on to my Relief Society sisters so that they may enjoy the lessons, and then they always manage to read the Magazine from cover to cover. May you go from strength to strength with this wonderful Magazine, and continue to bring joy to us all.
    Olive M. Evans
    Lichfield, Staffordshire
    England

My heart went out to Sister Lundgren when I read her article in the January issue of the Magazine — "What Is a Work Meeting Leader?" She put into words what I have felt in my heart. Thanks to the wonderful counselors and stake leaders I had while serving as a work leader, and also my work leader, while I was work director counselor, that I have this warm feeling for Relief Society.
    Mrs. Donaldine J. Boase
    Salt Lake City, Utah

As each March 10th arrives, a white card is placed in my mailbox announcing the renewal of subscription for the most interesting Magazine I have ever read — a gift from my wonderful mother, for many years — The Relief Society Magazine. From its pages have come comforting thoughts and truths, which stand as a witness for the salvation of men.
    Irene Carrigan Winn
    Ogden, Utah

I want to thank you for our beautiful, inspiring Magazine. I wait impatiently each month for the Magazine and the words of love and advice it contains.
    Shirley Woolf
    Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia
    South Africa

I want to let you know how very much I do enjoy reading the Magazine. Each article holds so much meaning and seems to give me an extra extra special lift. I was married last September, and my mother gave me a year's subscription to the Magazine as a Christmas present. I cannot think of a better gift.
    Mrs. Dale Hamp
    Soda Springs, Idaho

This little booklet (The Relief Society Magazine) has been appreciated so much. When I have failed to make any headway with my friends in putting forward the Latter-day Saint story, I find the Magazine speaks to them in the lovely stories and the articles.
    Margaret McLintock
    Rutherglen, Scotland

Over the years, as a Relief Society worker, I have used the thoughts of Celia Luce (a frequent contributor to The Relief Society Magazine) many times in conducting a class.
    Venice M. Crosby
    Phoenix, Arizona

I was delighted to read in the March issue of the Magazine the article (by Myrtle E. Henderson) on the proper use of language. Some of the mistakes most often made were considered. Please give us more such helps. We should take more pride in speaking correctly. Perhaps, if our errors are pointed out, and the reasons why they are not correct are explained, we will improve more rapidly. As a Magazine representative, I find it easy to get new subscriptions, as well as renewals, to our Magazine because of the excellent helps and the wide range and interest of those helps.
    Olive H. Fox
    Salt Lake City, Utah

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. Phone EMpire 4-2511. Subscriptions 2642, Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

--- PAGE 323 (PDF page 340) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

VOLUME 51    MAY 1964    NUMBER 5

Editor  Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor  Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager  Belle S. Spafford

Special Features
324  The Family Goes Back to School  Elaine Reiser Alder
328  Literary Contest Announcements 1964
331  Your Poem and You  Eva Willes Wangsgaard
339  Art As a Hobby  Myrtle E. Henderson
376  Magazine Honor Roll for 1963  Marianne C. Sharp

Fiction
334  Adjustment  Alice Gubler Sabin
342  Gramps and Beanie  Shirley Thulin
370  Your Heart to Understanding—Chapter 4  Hazel M. Thomson

General Features
322  From Near and Far
347  Woman's Sphere  Ramona W. Cannon
348  Editorial: The Lighted Window  Vesta P. Crawford
390  Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities  Hulda Parker
400  Birthday Congratulations

The Home - Inside and Out
What Is a Mother? by Margaret Richards, 351; Mother—Pioneer of the Present, by Hazel
Sowrads Cannon, 352; Thanks, Mom, for Everything, by Sara O. Moss, 353; Verdi on
the Farm, by Winona F. Thomas, 354; Ask Mrs. Braithwaite, by Janice Dixon, 356;
A Letter From Grandma, by Violet Nimmo, 358; A Call in the Night, by Mary E.
Gallamore, 359; Cuddly Crib Quilts, by Adelle Ashby, 360; Sewing Time, by Dorothy
C. Little, 362; Potpourri of Handy Hints, by Jo M. Stock, 362; Recipes From the South-
west, by Romaine R. Cooksey, 363; Appetite Teasers for Preschoolers, by Margaret
Maxwell, 364; Oatmeal Date Bread, by Anne Marie Astle, 366; Select Your Own Dessert,
by Patricia M. Faas, 367; Transfers for Children's Clothing, by Janet W. Breeze, 367;
From the Dear Windows of Home, by Leona Fetzer Wintch, 368; Alma A. Fernelius—
"Lady of Lovely Crocheting," 369; The Right Key, by Luella Foster, 388; Whom
Should I Seek? by Blanche Briggs, 388; Joy, by Olive Sharp, 389; Double Your
Pleasure—Double Your Subscription, by Ouida Johns Pedersen, 389; Life Is Beautiful,
by Ida G. Hepworth, 397.

Poetry
321  I Am Crowded Within — Frontispiece  Margery S. Stewart
Secret, by Ida Elaine James, 330; Spring Lambs, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 333; My Neighbor,
by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 337; Valley Sky at Sunrise, by Pearle M. Olsen, 338; Renewal, by Caroline Byring Minor, 350; Prayer for My Daughter, by Carolle Denton, 375; Prayer for People, by Gilean Douglas, 381; Memory, by Grace Barker Wilson, 393; Summer Song, Prayer
of a Robinson, 398; We Pass But Once, by Catherine B. Bowles, 399; Unsaid Words,
by Zara Sabin, 399; Shape of Time, by Thelma J. Lund, 399; My Mother, by Christie
Lund Coles, 400.

323

--- PAGE 324 (PDF page 341) ---
The Egg Carton Castle
Eugene, Oregon
September 1963

Dear Sharon:

WHAT fun it has been, thinking of all the things about which to write you. Ever since you asked me to tell you some of the secrets of being a happy "student wife," I have had a chance to think back over the five years Doug and I are concluding as graduate student and wife. As you know, he will receive his Ph.D. in the spring, and I must confess that getting my P.H.T. (Putting Husband Through), along with him has been equally as challenging, if not more so. Let's chat about some aspects of married student life.

Having a small baby, as you do and I did, and moving to a new town into barracks-type housing, may present demands on your marriage which you haven't expected. We readily admit that the early years of our schooling presented some adjustment for both of us. Doug was at school all day until suppertime, but he enjoyed his two hours at home then, playing with the baby. He returned to the library nearly every evening until it closed at 10 P.M. — and our thin-walled apartment, with its creaky floors, didn't make me feel very much at home.

But I soon realized that all the other student wives around me enjoyed friendships during those long afternoons and evenings, at least as much as I. I tried to find opportunities to meet some of them and found the time rewarding. As our friendships grew, we enjoyed visiting in each other's homes, sharing ideas, helping with sewing or knitting projects, trading magazines, and even having "potluck" suppers to the surprise of our husbands every month or so. As our children grew older, we took turns tending each

The Family Goes Back to School

Elaine Reiser Alder

324