[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 737 | PDF Page 768]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 737 (PDF page 768) ---
THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

utes of five. Karl came almost immediately behind her. As they left and she handed him the lunch basket, he said, "Surely this is not just for two!"

"I could join you," said Maria quickly. Then, with a mischievous grin, she added, "But I won't."

They both walked over to the funicular railroad. Elsa wondered if Karl had the money for the ride and suggested, "We could walk up, you know. It isn't such a hard climb — and it's a lovely evening."

"Oh, no! I want to try this straight-up railroad," he replied. "Perhaps, if it is still light enough, we can walk down."

He bought tickets and they settled themselves in the straight-up railroad car. It took only a few minutes to reach the top, and from there they took a path along the side of the mountain until they came to a lovely spot where there was a clear view of the river and the valley below.

"Will this do?" asked Elsa.

Karl took a deep breath. "Ah, this would do to stay forever! Never have I seen so much beauty."

"We can't very well stay forever," she replied, smiling. "Although, from the looks of this lunch, that is what Mother had in mind. However, we can come back again."

"Oh, I do hope so. I hope that we can come often."

Elsa laid papers on the grass and the snowy cloth over them. She drew forth sandwiches made from crusty rolls and leftovers from yesterday's meat. There were pickles, cheese, and some small fancy pastries.

THEY ate almost in silence. Below the Neckar River wound its way through the lush valley to join the Rhine. The sweep of the mountainsides was broken near the base by the spacious grounds and dull red battlements of the ancient castle.

"You were very fortunate during the war," observed Karl. "Your city was not hurt."

"Yes," Elsa agreed. "In that we were fortunate."

"In other ways—not so much?" he asked gently.

"I was too young to remember much about it. We lost our father. Maria does not remember him at all. He was a good and kind man."

"Yes. It is well to remember always the good — and to have the good to remember." Turning to look down at the Neckar again, he said, "I should like to take a trip some day up the river. It must be most enchanting."

"Yes," Elsa agreed. "But I want to go the other way. I want to go down where the Neckar joins the Rhine and then on to the ocean."

"And then . . . ?"

"Oh, on across the ocean, of course."

"And on around the world and back to Heidelberg," he went on, as if it were all a fantasy.

"Of course," she answered lightly.

After finishing lunch, they walked up the path a short distance. Then Elsa said, "If we start now, we can take one of the roads back to town. It is a delightful walk — when one is going downhill."

"Then let us go." He stopped where they had lunched and gathered a dozen small stones.

733
