[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 92 | PDF Page 93]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 92 (PDF page 93) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

have known have not been the people of great worldly wealth, achievements, or accomplishments. They have been the simple people who are happily married, enjoying good health, and enjoying good family life."

I remember some while ago riding on a subway in lower Manhattan. There was a poster that showed a beautiful little girl, maybe six or seven, looking up into the face of a young father. They were both of them just laughing their hearts out. She apparently had told him something, and he was enjoying it, and it wasn't advertising anything. And as I looked at that happy picture, my eyes wandered down below where it asked: "Are you too old to laugh at a kid stuff?" Well, the answer was obvious. If you are, then don't try to teach children. And then the poster declared: "Where family life ends, child delinquency begins." It has been well said that the richest soil, if uncultivated, produces the rankest weeds.

Elder Adam S. Bennion told us about a survey that he made over years of experience with honor students at various graduation exercises, the valedictorians. And, to his amazement, he found that in the great majority of cases, those who had been thus honored, were the sons and daughters of widowed mothers, in large part. That achievement in no small part is due to the great influence of wonderful mothers.

I came across a statistical study that was made of happy marriages and divorces, where it

was found that the following factors have a very high statistical correlation with successful marriages. Note these: first, age twenty or more for both partners at the time of marriage; second, first date alone for both partners occurred in the late teens; third, courtship for at least nine months; fourth, no pre-marital petting or sexual relations; fifth, religious and sex instructions from parents and teachers; sixth, church membership and attendance at least three times a month.

Now this was made by someone other than members of the Church. Factors that had high statistical correlation with divorce were: first, teenage marriages; second, early dating alone, often as early as thirteen years; third, little or no religious instruction in the home or poor church attendance; fourth, most sex instruction from friends; fifth, heavy petting and sexual relations before marriage, often with persons other than the one whom they later married (a pretty shaky foundation on which to found a home).

I heard a lovely mother, she may be here, who quoted this beautiful verse:

Father, between Thy strong hands,
    Thou hast bent
The clay but roughly into shape, and lent
To me the task of smoothing where
    I may
And fashioning to a gentler form Thy clay—
To see some hidden beauty Thou
    hadst planned
Slowly revealed beneath my laboring hand;

88
