[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 48 | PDF Page 49]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 48 (PDF page 49) ---
JANUARY 1964

gled Banner," and tears glistened in Margaret's eyes as she looked from one face to another, Hawaiian, Japanese, Filipino, Chinese, and Haole.

"Such devotion," she murmured.

"All Americans," Luana answered. "They know all five verses. Listen!"

As the sun turned coral in the west, they went happily homeward. Philip led the way. They were still singing as they rode down the valley road.

GAILY colored lanterns were lighted in the garden, where the table was set for the birthday cake. There were thirteen candles for each boy. Family presents were piled high on two little tables beside the big one.

Benjy jumped for joy when he saw his new steel guitar. He gave everyone a hug and a kiss. But Bo was very quiet as he unwrapped his large painting set.

Luana, watching him closely, wanted him to be pleased with it. She hoped he would understand that they had given him an expensive set because they appreciated his talent and wanted him to develop it.

His fingers moved across the pallet, then he carefully lifted each tube of paint and each box of crayons. He felt the quality of the drawing paper. At last he looked at Luana and Ben and his blue eyes were luminous.

"Thanks," he said in a quiet voice. "How did you know . . . I . . . wanted this?"

"We know what you need,"

Luana answered. "You have a wonderful talent. Bo, we are so glad you are pleased with your present."

"It's — the — greatest!" he said with a kind of rapture in his eyes.

"Anybody home?" a strong, manly voice called from the lanai.

Everyone turned to greet Elder Farnsworth, the branch president. He was a tall, slender, kindly man with gray hair streaked by the sun. His dark eyes were deep set and sincere. Everyone in the branch loved him dearly. He had an understanding heart and seemed able to discern what troubled people without questioning them.

"Happy birthday, boys," he said, smiling at Benjy and Bo. "I'm not really an uninvited guest. Your brother Philip invited me."

"I surely did!" Philip said, coming forward to stand beside Elder Farnsworth. "I thought this would be a good time to tell my family, when we're all together. You see, Mother and Dad," his eyes met theirs, "I have been asked about going on a mission. Elder Farnsworth has come to talk to you about it."

LUANA was not sure how she got through the next half hour. She was gracious and cordial to Elder Farnsworth. She was humbly grateful that Philip was worthy to be called, but, later, she lay in bed wide-eyed and sleepless. Where was the money coming from to send Philip on his mission?

48
