[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 507 | PDF Page 531]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 507 (PDF page 531) ---
A Tribute to Relief Society Presidents

Lois Tanner

RELIEF Society Presidents come in assorted sizes and shapes. Bishops revere them, stake presidents honor them—husbands put up with them.

One of the prime requisites for her job is a strong back and a pair of willing hands. She is endlessly toting things like turkeys, boxes—always full—chairs, dishes, trees, casseroles—and occasionally—babies.

The trunk of her car rotates between looking like the inside of a supermarket, a moving van, a china closet, a junk collector, and a rag bag.

Some Relief Society presidents are well-organized, some are half-organized, and some just "play it by ear." All end up with approximately the same results.

Relief Society presidents probably appreciate their families more than any other women on earth—because their moments are so precious. Each day is a challenge, to accomplish the impossible and still be home in time to meet that 2:45 school bus.

All Relief Society presidents are most comfortable on their knees. And few there are who are not on very intimate terms with their Heavenly Father.

Discouragement is her greatest enemy. Faith, her best friend.

She is qualified for nothing in particular and everything in general.

She is part business executive, janitor, teacher, psychologist, speech maker, counselor, cook, and defender.

Her chief feminine virtues must be compassion, wisdom, enthusiasm, and courage.

Relief Society presidents are a peculiar breed of womanhood. To them, a confidence is a sacred trust, a problem, something that can be overcome.

No Relief Society president ever concerns herself with the prestige of her position; she is much too busy working.

Once in a while, a Relief Society president gets tired, but she never allows it to show. To do so is fatal. Rather, she quietly finds a day off and spends it praying for strength.

Her rewards are treasures unperceived by others. These she stores in the very depths of her soul to draw out in quiet moments and enjoy. A sister's humble testimony, a project well done, a witness of renewed faith, a few grateful tears, the touch of a dear hand, the love she has earned from her faithful sisters.

508
