[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 325 | PDF Page 342]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 325 (PDF page 342) ---
THE FAMILY GOES BACK TO SCHOOL

other's children so that each of us could have an afternoon off.

The friendships we have cultivated in our student living have remained as choice as any we hope to have. Most of us have moved from our barracks community, but we still delight in hearing of graduations, births, and progress of each child. We long to visit each other in different parts of the world.

Though the days are long — and must be if the husband is to get all his studying, writing, and part-time work done — you will no doubt find the time you spend with Tom is so precious that you enjoy every minute of it. Doug and I even enjoyed grocery shopping once a week — because it was our Friday night date and a chance to get away from the books! Sundays were our special days of rest from schoolwork with Church activities and visits from friends and quiet relaxation in the evening, listening to the rebroadcast of the Tabernacle Choir, 1000 miles away.

During the long days and evenings, you can keep busy doing many things which will make the hours productive and Tom proud of you — learning to cook special dishes and surprising him with them at supper, sewing for yourself, Tom, and the children (a real money-saver), making Christmas cards and gifts, embroidering, knitting, making a baby book or scrapbook, writing letters or reading. You may have other hobbies I am not aware of, but this is a good opportunity to enjoy them. The time can be wasted or used — depending on what you wish. While Tom is progressing mentally in his schooling, you will realize that you can come closer together if you engage in some kind of mental activity similar

to his studies. An often-used library card is an inexpensive avenue toward keeping your mind alert.

Above all, don't begrudge or apologize for the time you spend in school. It is a privilege to attend school, and nowadays if it is so common for young couples with families to be in school that there is no need for embarrassment. Learn to laugh about the odd things you may have to do — seating guests on the floor because there aren't enough chairs, eating with odd kinds of utensils because you don't have complete table service, or eating beans for a week because your food money didn't quite hold out! Many of your neighbors are probably doing the same. Now that we are nearly through with school, we feel pangs for the fun and funny things about barracks living.

We decided, when we moved away from our parents and lifelong friends, that our chief sources of entertainment would be our children, Church activities, and our new friends. Since we knew no one at first, we began making friends and soon had scores of guests to invite to our home. Our favorite activity with friends was to invite them to our apartment "for dessert." We would serve punch and cookies or brownies and spend the evening visiting, sharing our collected slides, listening to music, or playing Scrabble. Our guests brought their children and put them to sleep on our bed. The next time we took Scott with us to their apartment nearby to enjoy a similar evening.

It would be unfair to underestimate the value of the Young Marrieds program and Relief Society. Both gave us friends of all ages, and the opportunity to keep busy by serving others. I never lacked for a "mother

325
