[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 242 | PDF Page 255]
[Title: Frontispiece (p241) + From Near and Far (p242)]

--- PAGE 241 (PDF page 254) ---
Quest

Lucille Rampton Perry

Brown roads in April lead where uplands lie
Uncovered by the sudden warmth of spring;
Brown roads in April wander where the high
Ridges of the hills are blossoming.
They thrust through thickets laced with green,
And stretch their length along the lazy field;
Steeply up the wrinkled slope they lean
Their rutted path, nor do their yearnings yield
To snows that signal winter's last protest,
But up they wander, and they bid our feet
To follow them upon the joyous quest
For life renewed where earth and heaven meet.

The Cover: Bright Pinnacle in Red Canyon, Utah
         Transparency by Claire W. Noall
         Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: South Fork, Provo River, Utah
            Photograph by Willard Luce

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

--- PAGE 242 (PDF page 255) ---
From Near and Far

May I congratulate you on our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. I can hardly wait each month to get my copy — each one with such a beautiful cover. The lovely inspiring talks, stories, and poems not to mention the wonderful lessons, are appreciated by me.
Mrs. Tena V. Dorp Van der Ende
Redondo Beach, California

I want to thank you for The Relief Society Magazine and its guidance for the Relief Society program. I am sure our Father is pleased with the wonderful inspirational lessons and the uplift the whole program gives to the sisters. I am a young mother of four and I certainly look forward to Relief Society meeting. It really inspires me in my dealings with my husband and family.
Mrs. Kaye Sims
Seattle, Washington

I just had to drop you a note and tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. It is a real inspiration. I was especially thrilled with the conclusion of Rosa Lee Lloyd's serial "Kiss of the Wind" (February 1964). It was such a sweet, inspiring story. I feel as if I had been to Hawaii. I look forward to more of Mrs. Lloyd's stories. I loved her serial about Alaska, too.
Claire Farrer
Salt Lake City, Utah

I just had to sit down and tell you how much I enjoyed reading "Kiss of the Wind," by Rosa Lee Lloyd. It was a wonderful story. The Magazine is a helpmeet in my life.
Mrs. Carol Kemple
North Las Vegas, Nevada

I simply must write and tell you how outstanding our little Magazine is. I love the color added to each page — it makes the Magazine even more beautiful. Each cover is a collector's item in itself. So thanks so much for a clean, wholesome, edifying Magazine — a true gem in our times.
Nora O. Caldwell
Corvallis, Montana

What a wonderful story just concluded in the February issue of the Magazine, such a splendid picture of Hawaiian life ("Kiss of the Wind," by Rosa Lee Lloyd). I love the lesson material very much, and the recipes are delightful.
Helen H. Stickler
Salt Lake City, Utah

Of all the contents of the February Magazine, I enjoyed the editorial most ("The Words That Women Write," by Vesta P. Crawford). It touched me where I live. The new serial ("Your Heart to Understanding," by Hazel M. Thomson) got off to a good start. The characterization of Belle is good, and the action moves in a straight line. The second prize story ("Mama Lives in the Kitchen," by Lael J. Littke), I thought good, except for the fact that a woman with three children, ages three, ten, and sixteen, should not have been so overwhelmed with kitchen work, unless she really wanted to do it, which, I suppose, is the point of the story. The frontispiece poem ("Sonnet to the Sea," by Alice Morrey Bailey) I love, and I am thankful I have had the delight of being on that very spot in Monterey.
Dorothy Clapp Robinson
Boise, Idaho

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

--- PAGE 243 (PDF page 256) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

APRIL 1964    VOLUME 51    NUMBER 4

Editor    Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor    Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager    Belle S. Spafford

Special Features
244    Exalting the Poor    John H. Vandenberg
250    Marjorie C. Pingree Appointed to the General Board    Elizabeth B. Winters
251    Darlene C. Dedekind Appointed to the General Board    Irene W. Buchner
252    Cleone R. Eccles Appointed to the General Board    Jeanette M. Morrell
253    The Worth of The Relief Society Magazine    T. Bowring Woodbury
270    Springtime Thoughts of a Happy Woman    Caroline Eyring Miner
275    Cancer's Two Deadly Gaps    American Cancer Society

Fiction - Special April Short Stories
256    The Storm    Lila Spencer
263    More Blessed to Receive    Nita Ellis
276    Please, Not This One    Merle E. Feriante
283    Be Yourself    Betty G. Spencer
303    Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 3    Hazel M. Thomson

General Features
242    From Near and Far
271    Woman's Sphere    Ramona W. Cannon
272    Editorial: Relief Society Time at the New York World's Fair
       Marianne C. Sharp
274    Notes to the Field: Lesson Previews to Appear in the June Issue of
       The Relief Society Magazine
310    Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities    Hulda Parker
320    Birthday Congratulations

The Home - Inside and Out
289    Application    Louise Murray
291    Stretching the Food Budget
       Part VI — Make the Most of Economical Cuts of Meat    Sadie O. Morris
295    The Other Day    Christie Land Coles
296    How About a "Get It Done Day"?    Vera Stocker
297    It Was Springtime    Evelyn Fjeldsted
298    Round-Table Togetherness    Violet Nimmo
300    Cover-Ups for Older Tots    Adelle Ashby
302    Sara C. Bowles Makes Many Quilts and Quilted Bedspreads

Poetry
241    Quest — Frontispiece    Lucille Rampton Perry
Neighbor Child, by Margery S. Stewart, 249; Enchanted Valley, by Sylvia Probst Young, 261; Spring's Impulse, by Thelma J. Lund, 262; Quintet for Spring, by Hazel Loomis, 269; The Warblers, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 274; Earth Renewed, by Grace Barker Wilson, 275; Desert in Springtime, by Ethel Jacobson, 281; His Forgiving Way, by Viola Ashton Candland, 282; Gift Apron, by Beulah Huish Sadler, 288; The Heavens Proclaim, by Veda G. Linford, 289; Spring Fashion, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 290; Stimulus, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 290; Empty Nest, by Ida Elaine James, 294; An Evening Thought, by Catherine B. Bowles, 295; Halfway, by Zara Sabin, 299; Deserted Farm House, by Annie Atkin Tanner, 309; Sleep, by Iris W. Schow, 317; Thank You, by Lorretta Hanson, 318; Zaccheus, by Linnie Fisher Robinson, 319.

--- PAGE 244 (PDF page 257) ---
Exalting
the Poor

Presiding Bishop John H. Vandenberg

[Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference,
October 3, 1963]

I feel very humble and grateful, my dear sisters, to participate with you in this conference of Relief Society leaders. It has been suggested that I say something concerning the Relief Society's responsibility toward the welfare program in the wards and stakes of the Church.

One of the distinguishing features of the Church is organization of which the Relief Society is one of the strong facets. The Prophet Joseph Smith said, "I will organize the sisters under the priesthood after a pattern of the priesthood," and then later he said, "This church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized."

One never thinks of welfare work in the Church without thinking of the Relief Society. Elder Albert E. Bowen once said, "A church is an organization for the orderly carrying out of practices enjoined. Organization means order. Lack of it means frustration and chaos. It is important to note that for every command God has given he has provided means for carrying it out."

The Savior was deeply concerned about those in need and gave particular attention to the requirement of taking care of the poor, to those who would serve him. "If thou wilt be perfect," he said to the rich young man, "go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor."

His apostles continued his doctrine. "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world."

In this latter day, a special injunction has come to the bishop in "Searching after the poor to administer to their wants." Further, "and it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it needs be in mine own way."

The welfare plan is the Lord's own way and encompasses all the instructions that have just been referred to.

President Heber J. Grant declared, "This is one of the greatest and most important things the Church has ever undertaken to put over, and it will be put over because we have the ability and the power to do it."

I like to think that when President Grant spoke of the "ability" he was thinking of the devoted women in the Relief Society with their characteristics of tenderness, mercy, warmth, love, understanding, and ability to "provoke the brethren to good works." When he spoke of the "power" he was thinking of the Priesthood, its organization, and

244