[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 892 | PDF Page 931]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 892 (PDF page 931) ---
DECEMBER 1964

AMERICAN MOTHERS RESOLUTION

Now, I should like to read a resolution. This resolution was passed by the American Mothers Committee Incorporated, at the Waldorf-Astoria and signed by Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, the President of this organization:

Whereas the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints contributed most generously to the success and pleasure of the annual conference of the American Mothers Committee Incorporated, Waldorf-Astoria, New York, May 3-8, 1964.

Be it resolved that the American Mothers Committee in convention assembled expresses its sincere appreciation for the inspiring presentation of the New York Singing Mothers at the 1964 Awards Luncheon at the Waldorf Astoria, which markedly moved the audience, and which furnished the highlight of the occasion.

I should like to read an excerpt from a letter from Mr. Ralf Brent, who is president of the World-Wide Broadcasting Association, which is addressed to Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, a copy of which was sent to Sister Spafford:

At your American Mothers Committee luncheon at the Waldorf, I saw something which happens all too rarely these days in the United States. I saw an audience of a thousand people become emotionally involved in some simple basics of life which are often forgotten or ignored. Our veneer of sophistication about our way of life has become so thick that we rarely dare to dig into the strength of the great underneath. When the Singing Mothers sang Emma Lazarus' magnificent words, taken from the base of the Statue of Liberty, I realized how many of us no longer believe that this is the country of "the poor, the tired, and the tempest tossed." This magnificent experience made those of us who were there believe again. It must be done over and over. Everyone in America should have been able to

share this renewal of the true American spirit.

Then he goes on to say to the President:

"Dorothy, you are without doubt one of the great women in America and in the world. I cannot tell you how tremendous your American Mothers luncheon was. I cannot explain to myself why we did not broadcast it. Is there a tape available?"

THE INFLUENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Now the work that the Relief Society organization is doing and all that will be done can only be accomplished by the individual members doing their part, and, in fact, one of the great strengths of this Church is the individual testimonies of its members and the lives they live. The old saying that "the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world" is certainly true to the extent that the influence in the home determines more than anything else the ideals, the ambitions, the attitudes, the vision and success of that individual.

I should like to quote from a talk given by President McKay at the time of the dedication of your lovely Relief Society Building:

In more than one instance in the life of fiery youth, this lingering influence has proved a safeguard in the hour of temptation — an influence in its restraining power greater than the threat of the law of the land, the ostracism of society, or the fear of violating a command of God. In a moment of youthful recklessness the youth might defy one or all of these forces, and do what his hot blood bade, but at the critical moment, the flash of a mother's confiding trust, the realization of her sorrow if he fail to be true to it have given him power to refrain from indulgence that might blight his entire career.

888
