[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 292 | PDF Page 305]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 292 (PDF page 305) ---
APRIL 1964

SWISS STEAK

2 lbs. round or chuck steak, cut into 1-inch thick pieces
½ c. sifted flour
2 tsp. salt
½ tsp. pepper
¼ c. fat
2 c. canned tomatoes
½ c. onion, chopped
¼ tsp. paprika

Combine flour, salt, and pepper; pound into steak, using edge of knife. Slowly brown steak in hot fat in Dutch oven or deep skillet. Combine tomatoes, chopped onion, and paprika in a small boiler; heat to a boil; pour over steak. Cover. Simmer or cook in a moderate oven (350°) for 1½ hours.
Yield: 6-8 servings

SHORT RIBS AND GRAVY

2¼ lbs. short ribs
¼ c. flour
½ tsp. salt
¼ tsp. pepper
2 tbsp. fat
¼ c. onions, minced
1 bay leaf
¼ c. water
¾ c. milk

Roll the short ribs in the flour, seasoned with the salt and pepper. Brown the short ribs and onions in the fat. Add the water and bay leaf and simmer slowly for 1 hour. Add the milk for gravy and simmer about 10 minutes more. Season gravy to taste.
Yield: 4 servings

SWEET-SOUR SHORT RIBS

2¼ lbs. short ribs
2 tbsp. cornstarch
1 c. beef broth from a beef bouillon cube
½ c. cider vinegar
½ c. brown sugar
2 tbsp. vegetable oil
1 tbsp. ground ginger
1 tsp. accent
1 tbsp. soy sauce
½ tsp. salt

Brown the short ribs in fat and arrange in a deep baking dish. Combine the remaining ingredients and pour over the short ribs. Bake in a moderately slow oven (350°F) until the meat is tender — about 1½ hours.
Yield: 4 servings

PORCUPINE MEAT BALLS

1 lb. ground beef
½ c. rice, cooked for 5 minutes
1 tbsp. minced onion
1 tsp. salt
1 can tomato soup
1 c. water
1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce

Combine meat, cooked rice, onion, and salt. Mix well and form into balls. Place in a deep baking dish. Combine tomato soup, water, and Worcestershire sauce. Pour over meat balls. Cover dish, bake at 350°F for 1½ hours. Serve hot and pour tomato sauce over the balls.
Yield: 5-6 servings

TATER-BURGERS

½ lb. hamburger
1 c. shredded raw potatoes
3 tbsp. finely chopped onion
1 tsp. salt
1 tbsp. fat

Mix together the hamburger, potatoes, onion, and salt. Form into 4 patties. Fry in hot fat about 10 minutes on each side. Serve hot.
Yield: 4 patties

CASSEROLE OF BARBECUED HAMBURGER AND LIMA BEANS

1 lb. hamburger
½ lb. (2 cups) dried lima beans
¼ tsp. salt
3 tbsp. fat

Barbecue Sauce:
¼ c. onion, sliced
2 tbsp. sugar
2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
2 tsp. salt
½ tsp. chili powder
¼ c. catsup
¾ c. water

Soak lima beans by boiling for 2 minutes, removing from the heat, and soaking for 1 hour (or soak the beans overnight). Cook the beans in boiling salted (¼ tsp.) water until tender, about 2 hours.
Combine barbecue sauce ingredients and simmer 15 minutes. Brown the hamburger in the hot fat. Place cooked lima beans, hamburger, and sauce in alternate layers in a 2-quart casserole. Bake in moderate oven (350°) 45 minutes.
Yield: 6-8 servings

292
