[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 731 | PDF Page 762]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 731 (PDF page 762) ---
SO GRATEFUL THAT YOU TAUGHT ME

Our girls should follow rules of etiquette which will create for them an atmosphere of "ease" and "know how."

A large percentage of our boys and girls will be called on missions in various parts of the world. Courtesy is one of the chief ingredients for successful proselyting. Cleanliness, pleasant personality, interest in people, knowledge about their assigned field of activity, knowledge of the gospel message, respect for authority, dignified congeniality are all essential elements of good manners.

Parents should send their sons and daughters into the mission field with all the training possible to meet their assignments and with attributes and attitudes which will ultimately bring about the successful fruition of their efforts. Missionaries reflect their home training. As representatives of their home and Church, they need all the fortification that parents and teachers can give.

Mothers, who usually spend more time with the children than fathers do, could make it a point to teach and emphasize the rules of behavior. Repetition is a significant factor in teaching. A mother with several children should ask each one, in turn, how he would act under a given circumstance. It could become a game and be great fun. Different situations could be acted out. Children love stage play. Father's help is always necessary whenever his time is available. But father's best teaching is by example. His kindness, politeness, thoughtfulness, and helpfulness are all different shades of courteous demeanor.

Parents could make up a list of courtesy projects for their families and set a special time for their consideration and study. A part of each Family Home would be an ideal time for a reorganized program with discussion and assignment as part of it. A list of subjects might be provided to help each child feel at ease under certain general conditions. When a child makes a mistake the embarrassment he suffers sometimes is harder on him than pain. To teach a child how to act on these general occasions will help him also to adapt to related ones with poise and self-confidence.

Each parent's study list may be different, but some general subjects to work on could be: politeness in the home, the neighborhood, at church, at a party, at a picnic, out camping, in public places, among friends, in school, table manners, manners on the telephone, answering the door, greeting friends and strangers, and introductions. There are, of course, many more. See how the list grows! There is no phase of life but what the display of good manners can improve. Children need to be taught and disciplined in the ways of social behavior in order to protect themselves under trying and awkward situations.

It is heartwarming to parents to see their child perform well in the realm of courtesy and to hear him say, "I feel that I handled what could have been an embarrassing situation quite well. Thanks for your training. So grateful that you taught me."

NOTE: See also the Work Meeting Lessons for 1961-62 "Attitudes and Manners," by Elaine Anderson Cannon.

727
