[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 308 | PDF Page 321]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 308 (PDF page 321) ---
APRIL 1964

had never seen anything so beautiful. At that moment he felt that if he should ask her to marry him, she would accept.

Yet, this was not what he wanted. He wanted Selena for his wife, yes. But he wanted the laughter, the gaiety, stored up within her; and most of all he wanted her love.

THE organization of the wagon train was the same as that used in crossing the plains; that is, there were divisions of ten wagons, each with its commander; divisions of fifty, having a commander, and Brother Rich and Brother Lyman acting as general overseers of the entire company of one hundred fifty wagons. There were 588 oxen, 336 cows, 21 young stock, 107 horses, 52 mules, and 437 men, women, and children.

"We'll have our own city as soon as we arrive," said Belle, looking back along the line of wagons, stretching miles behind them.

"They won't all be staying in California, you know," replied Josiah. "Brother Parley Pratt and his group of missionaries will want to be on their way to the ocean and on to the South Sea Islands as soon as possible."

"Still, it won't be a lonesome kind of life, with so many of the saints there. At least it will not be so for us, Josiah. We'll have a good life together, but it's Selena that bothers me. She hasn't attempted to make one friend yet in the entire wagon train."

Josiah looked at his wife out of the corner of his eye. He waited as the wagon rode over some rather large boulders before he spoke.

"I've been meaning to tell you this, Belle," he said. "You know that young chap in the wagon just behind Lon's? Well, he has been mighty curious about Selena, almost from the first day out. Wanted to know whether she was married or promised or anything."

"So!" exclaimed Belle. "That's why he's been spending so much time around our camp these last few evenings! He has his eyes on Selena! I might have known! Seems like it's been so long since she took any interest in a young man that I've become accustomed to having things that way."

Belle reached out a hand to the lines Josiah held and pulled the team to a halt. "I've decided that my sister is not going to marry a complete stranger!"

"Marry him! For goodness sake, Belle. As yet she doesn't even know the young man."

"That's what I said. A stranger. You know how she is, Josiah. She just doesn't care — not about anything these days. And if he proposed to her tomorrow, like as not she'd say yes. Well, I'm not taking the chance."

BELLE moved on to the wagon behind Josiah's. He spoke to his team and they moved forward. Belle's mind was made up. There was no need in saying more and perhaps down deep Josiah agreed with what his wife planned to do. He realized his protest had been somewhat feeble.

"Lon," said Belle, as she took his hand and climbed from the wagon tongue to the front of the wagon and took her seat beside

308
