[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 693 | PDF Page 724]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 693 (PDF page 724) ---
SNAKES, SNAILS, AND PUPPY DOG TAILS

"What do you have?" I queried, seeing a boulder in the wagon.

"It's just a rock for my rock collection," Charles announced. His shirt was dirty and torn. "I decided to have this one (indicating the boulder) instead of this one" (indicating a pebble).

Then I noticed his two little friends, also with dirty shirts.

"We had to dig to get this beautiful rock," Charles explained.

The three boys worked hard and finally got the rock out of the wagon and into the rock collection basket. It nearly filled the basket.

What to do now? We had given our word that he could have twenty-five rocks, but I had no idea that he would choose such large ones. I thought there weren't many large rocks around the neighborhood, but he found them all. His father objected, especially when the rocks and sticks in the collection made their way to the backyard and had to be cleared off before he dared mow the lawns.

Again I hoped for winter. This had been a hard summer. Steven, our second son, was collecting grasshoppers. I cleaned out fifteen bottles of dead grasshoppers the day the first snow fell.

WINTER came, and with it came kindergarten with all of the lovely pictures that a five-year-old can draw. I didn't mind the portrait of myself (cross-eyed and bald), but the thought of six fingers on one hand and four fingers on the other slightly unnerved me. One picture was nice, two were nice, but they kept coming, one-two-three pictures a day.

"Hang them on the wall," suggested Charles, "so that everybody can see them."

I tried to throw a few away, but my son kept track of every one.

"We'll make a book of your pictures," I said, after all the walls were covered. "We'll choose only the nicest pictures to save." We threw bundles of papers away and narrowed them down to only sixty-nine pictures.

Where shall I put these? I wondered. I got a cardboard box and put them away for the time being.

Then the teacher, as a special surprise, outlined my son fullsize on paper. This life-sized paper doll stared at us from the wall for several months until I suggested we save it for posterity.

SUMMER is coming. The warm air is bringing the flowers and the insects.

I was making the bed the other day when a snake slithered in front of me. It looked like a rattler. "Charles," I screamed, running out of the room and closing the door, "where did you get that snake?"

"From Jerome," he said.

"Don't touch that snake!" I ordered.

"It's only a garter snake," he explained, loftily. He picked up the snake and watched it coil and recoil.

"Why did you get a snake?" I gasped.

"To be a friend for my turtle," he answered.

"What turtle?"

"The one Jerome gave me."

I explained that the animals

693
