[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 3 | PDF Page 16]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_04_01_Fict_Your_Chapter.txt (307 bytes)]

--- PAGE 2 (PDF page 15) ---
Moment of Trust

Mary Ek Knowles

First Prize-Winning Story
Annual Relief Society
Short Story Contest

[PHOTOGRAPH]

BUD came to Donna while she was fixing Patti's hair in rollers and listening to her read from the third grade reader. He asked, "Mom, can you let me have five bucks tomorrow?"

Donna had hoped that this moment would not come. She was aware of her son towering over her, tall and handsome with his brown eyes and crew cut. Bud was only sixteen but he had always acted quite adult and sensible—until he fell in love with pretty Candy Thompson.

"Five dollars!" she cried, stalling for time, wishing that Sheldon was not in Portland on business. He would handle this problem calmly. She was inclined to become emotional. Her head was already beginning to ache.

"Whatever for, Bud?"

"The Spring Hop is tomorrow night and I'm broke." There was almost a note of surprise in Bud's voice.

Donna remembered that for over a month, ever since Bud

earned fifteen dollars helping Mr. Brown move to his new hardware store, both she and Sheldon had been warning him, "Remember to save your money for the big dance."

And she remembered with a hot rush of anger the way Bud had said casually, "Ah, don't worry, Mom. I know what I'm doing," as he continued to spend and spend money on popular Candy.

Now she said firmly, "Your father and I warned you that if you spent your money foolishly, you would have to take the consequences."

"But, Mom!" his voice cracked a little. "Things came up...."

"Like malts and hamburgers at Hoddy's," she interrupted, "and sessions at the bowling alley and two trips to the city."

"But, Mom, if you want to keep a popular girl like Candy, you have to show her a good time!"

She remembered that this was

14

--- PAGE 3 (PDF page 16) ---
[ILLUSTRATION]

Bud's first girl and she felt herself weakening. Then she shook her head. "Candy knows you aren't the son of a millionaire but you have acted like one. In addition to the fifteen dollars, you have spent your weekly allowance. . . ."

"You won't let me have the five bucks, then?"

"No, Bud." She turned her head because she could not stand to see the white stricken look on his face, and there was a pounding in her forehead.

"I've got to get five bucks somewhere!" There was desperation in his voice as he walked out of the room.

Patti asked, "Isn't Bud going to take Candy to the dance?"

"He can't, Patti. He has spent all of his money."

"But, Mommy, Candy has a new dress for the dance. Joy told me." Joy was Candy's nine-year-old sister. "A white dress with yards and yards of fluffy white stuff in the skirt." Patti sighed. "Candy's awfully beautiful and popular."

And Bud is so completely daffy about her that he's knocked off his even keel, Donna worried. Maybe Candy would never date him again; and Bud — he had always taken discipline like a man, but this was different. Now someone would have to suffer because of him.

She finished the last roller. "Off to bed, darling," she said.

"Did I read all right, Mommy?" she asked.

"You read beautifully." She kissed her small daughter, thinking how uncomplicated were problems with a nine-year-old.

IT was after eleven when she went to bed, but she couldn't sleep. Once she almost telephoned

15

--- PAGE 4 (PDF page 17) ---
JANUARY 1964

Sheldon in Portland, but he would not relent, either. They had always been firm with Bud, knowing he was in that difficult age where he was constantly testing them, demanding more and more that they give in to him, yet unconsciously, inconsistently, hoping they wouldn't give in, so that in a world where true values are taken lightly, he could depend on their unshakeable discipline.

At breakfast Bud looked so worried that her heart ached for him. She wanted desperately to give him the money. What was five dollars! But she knew it wasn't the money involved. He must take the consequences of his mistakes to become a mature, responsible adult.

Bud got up from the table and a few minutes later when she lifted the receiver to telephone her grocery order, she heard him talking to Freddie Smith. She heard Freddie say, "So I charge high interest!" The gang resented Freddie. They called him Shylock because he demanded his pound of flesh for each penny loaned. Bud was really desperate if he would appeal to Freddie for a loan!

Mrs. Olafson, the cleaning woman, came then and Donna went with her to the basement to give instructions. When she came back upstairs, Bud had his jacket on. He said, "Mom, listen. I . . ." And then Mrs. Olafson called from the basement. Donna went to the top of the stairs to see what she wanted, and when she returned Bud was gone.

She was extremely busy after that. She was in the presidency of the Relief Society, and she called the members of the luncheon committee in regards to the opening luncheon and social. At eleven she was going to the ward to quilt, and so she prepared an oven meal for dinner, but busy or not, all the time she was hurrying and working she worried about Bud. How would he handle the situation with Candy!

SHE was quilting when she discovered her coin purse was missing. Marge Griffin asked if someone had change for a dollar. Donna said, "I have twenty dollars worth of change," and reached into her black leather bag. There was no coin purse.

She began a frantic search, taking everything out of the large bag. Marge said, "Never mind, Sister Stacey has it." Donna said, "Oh . . . fine." And she sat there, a sinking feeling in the pit of her stomach, retracing her movements since the day before.

She had gone to town and shopped. As she neared home she remembered that the cleaner would be returning Sheldon's slacks. She had stopped at Carter's grocery store and had the twenty dollar bill changed.

She could remember hastily cramming the bills and small change into her large coin purse. The cleaner had driven up just as she stopped the car. She had

16

--- PAGE 5 (PDF page 18) ---
MOMENT OF TRUST

paid him a dollar bill and forty cents. Then she had gone into the house, carried her handbag to the bedroom. Then Sister Landley had telephoned to ask the name of the poem that the Stake Relief Society president had read at the monthly leadership meeting.

Donna could see herself carrying the bag into the hallway, placing it on the table, and taking out the slip of paper on which she had written the name and author of the poem. She had left the bag there while she had checked a book of poems in the library to see if she had that particular poem. The purse was still on the hallway table until she left this noon. She thought, Bud would have seen it when he telephoned Freddie. The contents were tumbled about, the money quite visible in the transparent plastic coin purse.

But Bud would never steal from me! She quickly pushed the thought out of her mind, horrified at such disloyalty.

But where was the coin purse! Her handbag was one of the new, large carry-all type, with straps, open at the top. Her arms had been loaded with bundles. Maybe after she paid the cleaner she had thought she was dropping the coin purse into her handbag, but instead had dropped it on the ground.

She hurried from the ward to her home, and once there she looked carefully from the curb to the front steps but found nothing. And then, as she took her door key out of her handbag, she remembered seeing the plastic coin purse in her handbag when she had gone through the same motions the day before.

Maybe, absent-mindedly, once she was in the house, she had put the purse somewhere else. She began a thorough search through drawers, coat pockets, jackets, cupboards, the linen closet.

She pushed back her dark hair with a trembling hand. Maybe her memory was playing tricks. She could have thought she put the coin purse in her bag, but instead had left it at Carter's. She could even have paid the cleaner with loose change from the bottom of her handbag.

She hurried out and walked the half block to the store. Mrs. Carter distinctly remembered her putting the coin purse in her bag. It had been a crazy hope. She had known all the time she had paid the cleaner with loose change from the coin purse in her handbag.

She walked slowly home. Candy Thompson came towards her. Candy was so young and pretty with her glossy blond hair and blue eyes. "Mrs. Gardner," she said gaily, "will you please tell Bud to call for me at seven tonight? We're going to double date with Betty and Archie."

"I'll tell him, Candy." Donna smiled stiffly and hurried home, afraid she was going to burst into tears, remembering Bud saying

17