[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 952 | PDF Page 995]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 83% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 952 (PDF page 995) ---
DECEMBER 1964

quotation, "be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only. . . ."

The spirit of the gospel is service tempered with love, faith, and integrity. The effective functioning of Church organization is dependent upon a participating membership. It is the active member who grows in belief and faith. The real joy and satisfaction that come from missionary work for the Church come from the complete dedication of the missionary to the work of the Lord. Every moment in the missionary's day in the field is devoted to the advancing of the plan of life and salvation, giving freely of himself for the welfare and improvement of others. The challenge is for every member to apply the principles of the gospel with a zeal equal to the missionary work and with equal enthusiasm to his daily activities, thus demonstrating to all the truths of our teachings.

Church service implies more than filling an assignment or merely doing something for someone. Basic to service is the attitude of mind as demonstrated by the Savior. It has many facets of expression. Among them are: (1) the voluntary desire to do good; (2) performance for the love of doing good without thought of reward; (3) the thought of the welfare of others; and (4) assistance in the building of the kingdom. The main implication in this kind of service is to establish peace in the hearts of men. In this light, service becomes a blessing to mankind.

ACTIVITY AND SPIRITUAL GROWTH

Our Church leadership has pointed out that officers in The Church of Jesus Christ are called for two distinct purposes: First and foremost, service to the people; and secondly, the personal development and enlarged understanding which always follow earnest service in responsible positions. It is an honorable privilege and a personal benefit to be allowed to serve in an official position in the Church; and an office, whatever it may be, should be accepted in a spirit of grateful appreciation.

As stated above, an office in the Church is a call to service. Frequently we hear people say, "I am not well enough prepared to fill such an assignment." It is good to be modest and humble, but the better attitude would be, "I am willing to do my best," and then do just that.

Doing one's best includes the following: (1) Humility; one must be humble to enjoy the assistance of the Spirit of God. In all callings in the Church, one must recognize that what he is called to do is the Lord's work and he can be effective in his calling only when he works in harmony with the Spirit of the Lord. Prayer is the means of communication with the Lord, and the Holy Ghost can be the source of enlightenment and understanding. (2) Work; it is necessary for one to use the intelligence he has been blessed with and be willing to work long and hard in preparation for the performance of his duties. One very successful inventor has observed that his genius is ninety-nine per cent perspiration and one per cent inspiration. The point is that one must be willing to pay the price of success in any calling in terms of energy expended and hard

952
