[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 64 | PDF Page 65]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 64 (PDF page 65) ---
WORK MEETING

The Latter-day Saint Home

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

Discussion 15 — Planning the Family Wardrobe

Dr. Virginia F. Cutler

For Second Meeting, April 1964.

Objective: To help each family member feel well dressed regardless of family income.

MOTHER, I need a dress for next Saturday night, and there is a lovely one in the shop window that I'd like to buy. May I have it?"

Are you ever confronted with such problems? If so, what is the wisest thing to do? To say yes, and try to adjust other expenditures through the month, or does such a question cause you to stop and think and wonder how you can do some intelligent planning to avoid such emergency calls?

I hope the latter is the case, because wardrobe planning is the theme for this discussion. Many people spend too much for clothes and still "have nothing to wear." The percentage of the family income spent for clothing may be as low as five per cent and go as high as twenty-five per cent, but the amount spent does not alone determine how well dressed the family will be. People sometimes buy clothing because it looks well on the model in the shop window, because of sales persuasion, because of high style, because they think it a bargain, or because they need it immediately and have no time to look further.

Such unwise ways of spending the clothes budget do not bring the satisfaction possible where buying is done according to a previous plan. Cowper described the results of such buying thus:

Dress drains our cellar dry
And keeps our larder lean; puts out our fires
And introduces hunger, frost, and woe,
Where peace and hospitality might reign.

But apparel oft proclaims the man, so you had better have a carefully worked out plan. A full larder and tranquility will be your reward, and you will have the consciousness that everyone in the family is well dressed.

How do you start? Here is the first step: go through every closet and drawer that contains clothing to be sure you know what each member of the family has. The older members of the family might help in this by going through theirs with you. Sort the contents as you look them over in three piles. Keep those that are in good condition that will be worn and enjoyed. Put aside those which would be worn if they were mended or dyed or re-

64
