[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 427 | PDF Page 448]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 427 (PDF page 448) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

being the hottest of the trip to date.

"I'm glad we're not traveling today, Belle," said Selena as they finished their wash at the creek the men had dug away from the spring. "I think we needed the rest as much as the cattle and horses did." She looked away toward the clump of trees by which they had stopped their wagon. The shade looked very inviting.

"I know what you're thinking, Selena," said Belle, following her gaze. "I'd enjoy lying around in the shade a bit myself on a day like this, but Josiah says there's no time to waste, that we've got to get to California and get some crops in as soon as possible."

"I realize that," answered Selena, "but at least we can rest in the shade for awhile this morning. We've finished the wash. What's left that needs doing right now?"

"Hay," answered Belle, picking up the pile of wet clothes.

"Hay?"

"Yes. This tall grass that the cattle have been enjoying so. Josiah says we'll never find any more of it until we get across the desert. Lon was there at the wagon this morning, after you left to go to the spring. He suggested that we repack the wagon, putting the things we must have every day near the back where we can get at them, then fill every wagon with the grass. The men have scythes to cut it, but the cattle have eaten it so far back away from camp that all the women and children will help carry it to the wagons and tramp it in."

Selena sighed, her hopes for a pleasant, restful day vanishing. She went alongside of Belle, doing her share, though Belle cheerfully offered to carry it for her. Back at the wagon she climbed in and tramped it down as firmly as she could, after it reached too near the wagon cover for Belle to get in and help. There were stickers among the grasses that clung to her dress and scratched her legs through her heavy stockings. Late in the afternoon they stopped for a bite to eat and Alfred came by. He peered into the wagon and laughed heartily.

"What is this? A haystack? You going to take it with you and set it down in your field in California? You won't need half that much to cross this little desert."

He walked on, still chuckling. Selena, hot and tired and dirty, sat trying to pull the stickers and burrs from her clothing.

This was like Lon, she decided bitterly. Always going to extra lengths of precaution, when half as much prudence would probably have been enough. Hadn't they followed the trail many weeks and never been without grass yet? There was no room now for her to sleep in the wagon, so she moved her quilts out under the stars. She was completely exhausted and slept soundly through the oppressive heat of the night.

SELENA awakened after Belle and Josiah were up, and as Belle opened the back flap on the wagon she called, "That grass really sank low in the night. We've only got half a load."

"Half a load?" Selena watched Josiah come up and look into the wagon. "That grass didn't sink anywhere. Someone stole it!"

She saw the look of anger on

427
