[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 169 | PDF Page 174]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 169 (PDF page 174) ---
TRAIN UP A CHILD

not taught our children light and truth.

THE Lord did not leave Brother Williams in any doubt as to his responsibility in the matter, for, he continued, "And now a commandment I give unto you — if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house . . . (D&C 93:43).

He then said that Sidney Rigdon had "not kept the commandments concerning his children" (verse 44) and commanded him to do so. He reproved Bishop Whitney for the misconduct of his children, saying of him he ". . . hath need to . . . set in order his family, and see that they are more diligent and concerned at home . . . (D&C 93:50).

Even the Prophet Joseph himself was reprimanded for failing properly to train his children.

PARENTS today are under the same obligation as were these early brethren. The consequences of failing to train our children are just as serious now as they were then. Although in the revelation the Lord spoke to fathers, the obligation rests just as heavily upon mothers. In fact, some of the brethren have said that mothers, having a greater influence upon their children, bear the major responsibility.

President Brigham Young, for example, said:

The duty of the mother is to watch over her children and give them their early education, for impressions received in infancy are lasting. . . . if mothers would take proper pains,

they can instill into the hearts of their children what they please. You will, no doubt, recollect reading, in the Book of Mormon, of two thousand young men, who were brought up to believe that, if they put their whole trust in God, and served him, no power could overcome them. You also recollect of them going out to fight, and so bold were they, and so mighty their faith, that it was impossible for their enemies to slay them. This power and faith they obtained through the teachings of their mothers. . . .

These duties and responsibilities devolve upon mothers far more than upon fathers (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 201, 1951 edition).

Bearing this great responsibility, we must not be so busy with the urgent things pressed upon us in feeding, clothing, housing, and otherwise looking after the temporal needs of our children that we neglect the important things, the things calculated to fortify them against the evils of the world and prepare them for eternal life. We must not, as someone has said, have our minds and efforts so intent upon climbing the mountain that in our exhaustion we fail to see the view from the top.

PERHAPS a look at some of the conduct which must be corrected will suggest things we must teach. Consider, for instance, vandalism, which is one of the things in which juvenile delinquents specialize — pounding down drinking fountain heads, chopping new hardwood floors in unfinished houses, breaking windows, slashing furniture, stripping cars of hub caps and dashboard gadgets, for example.

165
