[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 625 | PDF Page 652]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 625 (PDF page 652) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

so much to those to whom it is expressed. If we want the rich blessings that come with thankfulness, we should develop the habit of expressing gratitude to our loved ones in the home, to our friends and associates, as well as to our Father in heaven for his many blessings to us.

Henry Ward Beecher portrayed the influence and contagion of thankfulness with this illustration: "If one should give me a dish of sand and tell me there were particles of iron in it, I might look for them with my eyes, and search for them with my clumsy fingers, and be unable to detect them; but let me take a magnet and sweep through it, and how it would draw to itself the almost invisible particles by the mere power of attraction.—The unthankful heart, like my finger in the sand, discovers no mercies; but let the thankful heart sweep the day, and as the magnet finds the iron, so it will find, in every hour, some heavenly blessings" (as quoted by President Hugh B. Brown in Continuing the Quest, page 450).

If we would be worthy of our Father in heaven's love, an essential aspect of our thankfulness must be our expression of gratitude to him for his countless blessings. All that we have—our lives, our talents, our health, the material things we enjoy, our assurance of salvation and our hope for exaltation—are his gracious gifts to us.

The prophet Alma, in The Book of Mormon, admonished, "And now I would that ye should be humble . . . asking for whatsoever things ye stand in need, both spiritual and temporal; always returning thanks unto God for whatsoever things ye do receive" (Alma 7:23).

Thankfulness to our Father in heaven for his many blessings lays the foundation for the development of a thankful heart in all our relationships with one another. This is the key to abundant and glorious living.

Lonely

Catherine B. Bowles

Just a touch of human kindness
To know that someone is near
Would fill the heart with sunshine
That brings love and hope and cheer.
Not worldly goods are needed
But a love that makes one glad,
A little bit of something
That will fill the heart when sad.

625
