[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 635 | PDF Page 662]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 635 (PDF page 662) ---
The home is the anchor spot for establishing in the minds of the children the truths of the gospel. It is true that all men have their free agency. Each person must make his own decision from knowledge, experience, faith, and understanding. Knowing the law is important, but the blessings come from living the law. Performance is what counts. God never fails to recognize right living. The head of the family, if he is in tune with the Spirit of God, can receive special enlightenment in the direction of his family.

To the honest and true Latter-day Saint, the only real restriction and restraining influence in the function of Church government is the restraining influence that comes from knowing, and being fully aware of the damaging results of wrong decisions. As has been said before, true virtue is knowing the good and the evil and choosing the good.

The great challenge to the Priesthood bearer and his wife is expressed in the two questions: Are you teaching your family the truths of the gospel in an effective manner? How does your performance measure up to the standards taught by the Church?

Every day parents are setting the pattern of living that will automatically become the pattern of their children. What they do overpowers what they say. Daily decisions, actions, and even thoughts become influences on children from their birth to adulthood.

SOME COMMON AREAS OF PATTERN SETTING

1. Respect for law and order

HAWAII
Tours to October 12th

TOURS TO 
OAKLAND TEMPLE
Preview and Dedication
October through November

TOURS TO THE
ROSE PARADE
in Pasadena, California
December through January

Margaret Lund Tours
3021 South 23d East
P. O. Box 2065
Salt Lake City, Utah 84109
HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337
Idaho Falls 522-2581

is fundamentally established in the home environment. When a parent boasts to the family that he broke a traffic law without being caught, he is suggesting to young ears that the evil is in being caught. Irreparable damage may be done to the child's attitude toward honoring, obeying, and sustaining the law.

2. If in teaching the Word of Wisdom in the home, the emphasis is placed upon careful selection of wholesome foods, the use of wisdom in all these things, the child will learn through a positive approach to such teachings that good results from healthful living. Contrast the above situation with the example of having on your shelves or even sometimes on the table, things not in harmony with the revealed word. This last situation raises questions in the minds of grow-

635
