[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 71 | PDF Page 72]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 71 (PDF page 72) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

"... Do you see that object on the pillow? Do you know what it is? It's a bomb to blow up smugness. ... Think what that baby will see and meddle with before she dies in the year 2,000! She may see an industrial union of the whole world, she may see aeroplanes going to Mars."

"Yump, probably be changes all right," yawned Kennicott.

She sat on the edge of his bed while he hunted through his bureau for a collar which ought to be there and persistently wasn't. ... "I do not admit that Main Street is as beautiful as it should be! I do not admit that Gopher Prairie is greater or more generous than Europe! I do not admit that dish-washing is enough to satisfy all women! I may not have fought the good fight, but I have kept the faith."

"Sure. You bet you have," said Kennicott. "Well good night. Sort of feels to me like it might snow tomorrow. Have to be thinking about putting up the storm-windows pretty soon. Say, did you notice whether the girl put that screwdriver back?" (Ibid., pp. 450-451).

And the subduing of Carol is complete.

Of What Value, Sinclair Lewis?

As stated by T. K. Whipple, "Sinclair Lewis is the most successful critic of American society because he is himself the best proof that his charges are just." At his own true and idealistic core Sinclair Lewis was a typical middle-class American who passionately opposed all forms of tyranny over men's minds and spirits. Though his sympathies for oppressed minority groups is revealed elsewhere, his best novels reveal and expose the most widespread, most dangerous threat to basic freedoms: the self-tyranny of established prejudice and smugness, hypocritical lip service to the enduring economic, social, and religious ideals, while at the same time worshipping bigness, quantity, and material "success." Most ironically, Lewis himself loved these very proofs of boosterism and measurable success which he satirized most brilliantly. Though Sinclair Lewis idealized Thoreau's economic simplicity and integrity, in his inner heart's immediate worldly desire, Lewis loved best what he satirized. Lewis had a sensitive ear which allowed him to catch the idioms of American speech as no writer has done since Mark Twain. The speech of his characters is loaded with cliches rarely found in the dictionary but still alive and current: "you tightwad," "roughneck," "why sure, you bet," "I feel punk," "I work like the dickens," "common as mud," "that takes the cake," "I stuck to it through thick and thin." Sometimes sentimental, at times overly caustic, Lewis had a remarkable ability to mirror architecture, detail of decor and design, to lampoon and reveal folkways of American middle class.

But always behind the irony of Lewis there is an idealism which conceives of a better society than the one his writings reveal. Out of this gap between what was and what should be came the endless torrent of nervous energy which, controlled and directed, produced his best works, but when applied to social problems not entirely absorbed by his imagination, yielded inferior writings.

71
