[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 26 | PDF Page 27]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 26 (PDF page 27) ---
EDITORIAL

VOLUME 51    JANUARY 1964    NUMBER 1

The Day of the Lamanite

The work of the Lord among the Lamanites must not be postponed, if we desire to retain the approval of God. Thus far we have been content simply to baptize them and let them run wild again, but this must continue no longer; the same devoted effort, the same care in instructing, the same organization of priesthood must be introduced and maintained among the house of Lehi as amongst those of Israel gathered from gentile nations. As yet, God has been doing all, and we comparatively nothing. He has led many of them to us, and they have been baptized, and now we must instruct them further, and organize them into churches with proper presidencies, attach them to our stakes, organizations, etc. In one word, treat them exactly, in these respects as we would and do treat our white brethren. (Gospel Kingdom, page 247).

These words of President John Taylor, in 1882, are seeing fulfillment today, and, in the instructing, Relief Society women may and are taking a prominent part. The Nephite prophets loved the Lamanites. Enos plead with the Lord that if the Nephites were destroyed and the Lamanites survived, that the Lord would preserve the record of the Nephites "that it might be brought forth at some future day unto the Lamanites, that, perhaps, they might be brought unto salvation." Then Enos said, after the Lord covenanted with him to do so "wherefore my soul did rest."

If mothers in Zion today would have their souls rest, they will heed the teachings of The Book of Mormon and extend toward the Lamanites that charity which never faileth. Our prophets today reveal that now is the time for loving service and guidance to the Lamanites. This generation has been offered this blessing. Relief Society has been asked to be an advocate of the Indians — to foster enlightenment to Indian women, to assist, work with, and encourage them both by teaching and training them. But, as the gift without the giver is bare, so Relief Society members must do all they do in the spirit of true charity. One will recall the wonderful promises made to the Lamanites and strive humbly to be instrumental in the Lord's hand to assist in preparing the Lamanites for their

26
