[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 744 | PDF Page 779]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 744 (PDF page 779) ---
OCTOBER 1964

night air, perspiration trickled again, softly to herself, as she poked the fire with a stick. To her down her face.

"Maddening little bits of fire," she muttered when the sparks flew everywhere but onto the shavings. Then, amazingly, one fell into the pile in her hand, and she watched in anxious suspense as the point of redness brightened. With great tenderness, she breathed onto it, and as if she had breathed the breath of life, the point separated and sprang into a circle, igniting the pieces of bark. When she at last saw the healthy yellow flame licking toward her hand, she knew she had succeeded.

She pushed together a ring of stones with her foot and set her growing fire-child in the center. With its small illumination, Rita was able to find more dry sticks, which she shaved into her hungry fire. In the darkness she found some large branches, which she laid crosswise in the fire. She could already feel the heat of the flames warming her. Looking up from her labors, Rita saw Mrs. Harding bending over her husband, pulling him close to the fire. She hurried to help her, and soon they had placed him near the circle, and the older woman had cushioned his head in her lap.

"He's all right," Mrs. Harding said after awhile. "The fire has stopped his trembling."

Wonderful fire, Rita thought. "I think it's put a little courage in us all," she said. The older woman nodded, smiling down at her husband.

Rita thought of the hymn she and Don had been singing earlier. "Lead, kindly Light, amid th' encircling gloom; lead thou me on!"

Rita began to sing the words

surprise, Mrs. Harding's quavering high voice joined in with hers. "The night is dark and I am far from home; Lead thou me on!"

Suddenly, behind her, she heard a movement among the rocks, and Don's grinning face came out of the mountain blackness.

"Hi! Did you think I wasn't coming back?" Rita fell into his open arms and hugged him, happily.

"Oh, Don, you've been gone so long. It got cold, and I had to make a fire, and..."

She noticed the men standing behind her husband.

"Sheriff Gunther, Deputy Walsh, this is my wife, Rita. There's the injured man," he said pointing to Mr. Harding.

"Thank you, Mr. Gardner. I think Frank and I can get him down all right, if you'll see that the ladies get down safely."

"Right," said Don, gripping Rita's shoulder. "Hey," he whispered. "How did you get that fire started? I didn't know you were a boy scout!"

"There are lots of things you don't know about me yet," Rita replied, laughing.

"If we hadn't seen that fire and heard you singing, we might not have found you until dawn," said Sheriff Gunther. "It's pitch black."

As the sheriff and Deputy Walsh made Mr. Harding comfortable on the back of the officers' station wagon, Mrs. Harding turned to Rita and took her hand.

"We did a foolish thing, climbing alone up there. When James fell and I tried to stop the bleeding, I prayed that God would

744
