[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 44 | PDF Page 45]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 44 (PDF page 45) ---
JANUARY 1964

"No — not that!" Luana said. "This plantation is our home. I don't want you to work under pressure. I want to live here always. I want to make our living here."

Ben bent his head. He was quiet for a moment. When he looked at her again, his eyes were steady and confident.

"We'll get along," he said. "We always do, sweetheart. I'll talk to Pixie now."

Luana touched his cheek. "Be gentle with her. She loves you dearly and wants to please you."

His brows puckered together, thoughtfully.

"I want to say something that will make her realize that it's not the color of her hair that wins love — it's what she radiates — it's what she really is."

"She needs to know that."

Luana said, "but now — we must do something about her hair. We could take her to a good beauty salon."

"Could they change it to her own color?" he asked, hopefully.

"I think so. . . . They retouch it some way, but it's expensive," she added.

"It won't break us," he smiled, "but she needs a lesson. Something that will remind her that mistakes cost money sometimes."

"How about making her pay for it out of her baby-sitting money? She has been saving for a camping trip."

"That's it!" Ben said. "Call the beauty salon and see if they can take her right away. I'll drive her there. I don't want anyone to see her with hair like that!"

THE twins were up at five o'clock on their birthday. They came romping to Luana's and Ben's bedroom, their ruddy faces glowing with joy.

"Look, Mama," Benjy whispered, snuggling his face against hers. "We're thirteen, Mama. Are you awake?"

"Yes, dear," Luana answered, as she pulled Bo down beside her, too. "Happy birthday, my darlings."

"Can we start on the picnic early?" Bo asked. "We told Sam Henri and Hiki and all the others we invited that we would start at six."

Luana sat up.

"Well! That is early. You boys take your swim right away. Then you can help with the lunch. Let's see — we decided on peanut butter and coconut sandwiches and big red apples. . . ."

"And tuna sandwiches, too," Bo added.

"And bananas and grapes so Toki can eat, too," Benjy said.

"That's right," Luana agreed. "Toki is part of our family now. We'll need a big jug of poi and potato chips."

"And one of our birthday cakes," Bo chimed in. "We have two cakes, Mama."

"Yes — we'll have the other one for our family. You remember that Daddy likes our family dinner after party guests have gone home."

"Are we having a luau, too, Mama?" Bo wanted to know.

"Not a real luau," she explained. "Our pig will be roasted in the roaster — not cooked

44
