[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 138 | PDF Page 143]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 138 (PDF page 143) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

meddle with the visions of beasts and subjects you do not understand (Ibid., page 344).

It is declared "The Book of Revelation is one of the grandest books in sacred literature, and the Lord clearly designs that the Saints should become familiar with it. Else, why this Revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants?" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 478).

The Earth

Latter-day Saints believe that the creation of the earth was purposeful in that it was to be the home for man. In an earlier revelation, the Lord made known that marriage is designed to bring the spirit sons and daughters of God to earth where they may continue their eternal advancement. By doing so "the earth might answer the end of its creation" (D & C 49:16).

In answer to the question, "What is the sea of glass?" of Revelation 4:6, the Prophet answered that: "It is the earth, in its sanctified, immortal, and eternal state" (Ibid., 77:1). This will be the condition of the earth when final judgment has been rendered to its inhabitants, and it becomes the abiding place of celestial beings. In this condition another revelation declares that it will be as a Urim and Thummim to enable its occupants to know of kingdoms inferior to the celestial state. (D & C 130:9.) Before this time, however, the earth will die and undergo a change equivalent to the resurrection. (Ibid., 88:25-26.) These thoughts suggest a belief of the Latter-day Saint that the earth is a living organism. (Moses 7:48-49.)

There are three conditions of the earth spoken of in the inspired writings, —the present, in which everything pertaining to it must go through a change which we call death; the millennial condition, in which it will be sanctified for the residence of purer intelligences, some mortal and some immortal; and the celestial condition, spoken of in the twenty-first and twenty-second chapters of Revelation, which will be one of immortality and eternal life (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Articles of Faith, page 517).

Man and Animal

In the second verse of Section 77 a question is raised relative to the four beasts spoken of in Revelation 4:6. (See Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 472 for further information.) After saying that these are figurative expressions to describe heaven, and the happiness of man, beasts, and the fowls of the air, the Prophet gives some light on the spirit of man and animal. A salient thought is expressed in the observation that the temporal has its spiritual counterpart. This gives background for the truth that "the spirit of man (is) in the likeness of his person, as also the spirit of the beast, and every other creature which God has created." As stated in an earlier lesson (Lesson 20, Relief Society Magazine, October 1959), the truth is that not only spirit-man existed before mortal birth, but also the rest of God's creation, including vegetation, was in spirit. (Moses 3:5.) As the First Presidency, composed of Presidents Joseph F. Smith, John R. Winder, and Anthon H. Lund, wrote:

By His almighty power He organized the earth, and all that it contains, from spirit and element, which exist co-eternally with Himself. He formed every plant that grows, and every animal that breathes,

138
