[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 872 | PDF Page 911]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 872 (PDF page 911) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

Today, we are still struggling with the economics of life; but also we are faced with intensified serious social problems. Many of these problems have always existed, but today there are new ones, and both the new and the old have been intensified.

In the gospel of Jesus Christ, we have the direct influence of the Creator expressed in the instruction, organization, and the incentive of perfection to assist us in effectively meeting all of the problems of life. We need to apply what we know in every phase of our experience.

THE IMPORTANCE OF APPLICATION

In modern warfare, no effort is spared in teaching the personnel every technique in the execution of war activities. As an example, consider the air-borne troopers. On the ground they are given every possible experience in the performance of their duties. They are drilled in all maneuvers that they are expected to execute upon landing. They are given all the training possible on the ground about successful parachute jumping. Finally, they must go into the air and actually jump from the plane to test the value and effectiveness of their ground training. There can be no mistakes in this action; they must pull the cord at the right moment so that their parachute will open and carry them safely to the ground.

The importance of this example is that all the knowledge in the world will not bring the paratrooper safely to the earth without the application of his instructions. He must do something, in this case, pull the cord that releases his parachute.

We must do something. The gospel impels us to action. The influence of the divine constantly challenges us to discover, learn, and apply truth to the solution of the problems of life. As President Brigham Young has pointed out, one cannot separate the spiritual from the temporal, we must apply the principles of the gospel to every undertaking in life.

A MAJOR QUORUM OBJECTIVE

One of the major objectives of the Priesthood quorum is "to care for the temporal, intellectual, and spiritual welfare of all quorum members and their families" (1964 Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook, page 19). This is an inclusive objective. No part of the well-developed personality is neglected. But to accomplish this, the Priesthood activity must be extended beyond the study class on Sunday morning, or the filling of an occasional Priesthood assignment. Our religion is a full way of life. It requires a constant effort on our part to assist in overcoming the problems common to mankind. The Lord will do nothing for us that we can do for ourselves. His intelligence and wisdom are available to enlighten our minds when making a decision, if we properly seek them.

CREATING A GOOD ENVIRONMENT

To fulfill the above stated objective, the Priesthood members must take an interest in developing a healthful atmosphere and environment in the community in which they live. Let us look at the possibilities they have in the development of a good community. We will make our examination under the following head-

872
