[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 306 | PDF Page 319]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 306 (PDF page 319) ---
APRIL 1964

"I love you, Selena. When we reach the Valley I should like to have the privilege of calling."

She did not answer and he waited, wondering if she had even heard.

"Selena?" he said softly.

"If you like," she said again, still not looking at him.

A feeling of hopelessness swept over Lon. He had the impression that, had he even asked her to marry him, she would have said the same thing.

HE was to find himself confronted many times during that first winter in the Great Salt Lake City by her icy indifference. He continued to live in the wagon, while Josiah and Belle, after their marriage, which took place almost immediately after their arrival, were successful in obtaining a two-room log cabin that had been vacated.

"How did we happen to be so lucky?" Belle asked when Josiah told her about getting a cabin without having to build.

"There are lots of cabins empty right now," Josiah answered. "A goodly number of the saints have been called to make settlements in other places. The newest one, I hear, is to be named Petectneet. How would you like it if we happened to be called?"

The wagon trip west had been the happiest time of Belle's life. The thought of another one would be very agreeable to her.

With the arrival of early spring time Josiah and Belle became interested in joining the groups who were going to California.

"Looks like we'll be going on, Selena," said Josiah, when the decision had been made. "You will go with us?"

Selena did not protest. If this was what Belle and Josiah wanted, it was not her place to interfere. Life held so little promise for her. After all, what difference would it make, here or there?

"Where is the settlement to be made?" It was Belle, not Selena, who asked the question.

"I don't exactly know," Josiah answered, "but Captain Jefferson Hunt and others who were in the Battalion have seen the land. They say it's the most beautiful place on earth. Belle! Sunshine and growing weather the whole year around. Why, we'll have a better farm than we could ever have, here in this desert."

"But don't you even know the direction we will be traveling?" asked his wife.

"Oh, I read the official bulletin from the First Presidency: 'A settlement is to be made at no great distance from San Diego, near Chino Rancho, close by the Cajon Pass.' That's the instructions. It won't be west from here. We'll be taking a southern route. Those that have seen it love the country down there. Some of them seem to feel that President Young made a mistake in stopping here in this place."

JOSIAH found Lon to be a bit skeptical on more than one point of argument.

"This is the place," he said. "President Young said so himself, and if this is where the Lord wants this people to be, then it seems to me that this is where we ought to stay. Besides, I've heard a little about that trail

306
