[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 541 | PDF Page 565]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 541 (PDF page 565) ---
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Message 57 — "Leave Judgment Alone With Me, For It Is Mine and I Will Repay . . ." (D&C 82:23).

Christine H. Robinson

For First Meeting, October 1964

Objective: To emphasize the importance to us of conscientiously and consistently avoiding the temptation to judge others.

THE tendency to pass quick judgment on others is one of the most common of our human weaknesses. It is so easy to observe the actions of others and to come to quick conclusions regarding their motives and intentions. Consequently, all of us are prone to fall into the error of quick, unqualified and, certainly, unjustified judgments.

This is a human frailty against which we have been frequently warned and about which we should be constantly on guard. As the Lord says, we must leave judgment alone with him, for he alone can know the reasons for human actions and what lies in the human heart.

President McKay in discussing our proneness to judge told the story of "A poor old Frenchwoman who was walking along the banks of the Seine River. She had a threadbare shawl around her shoulders. She stooped and picked up something and put it under her shawl. A policeman a short distance away saw the act. He hurried over to her and said, 'Let me see what you are holding under your shawl.'

"She drew out a piece of glass, saying, 'It is only a broken piece of glass. I picked it up because, perhaps, some barefoot boy might cut his foot on it.'

"What a lesson to the policeman who misjudged her! Yes, I know he was doing his duty, but he thought she was taking something which did not belong to her, when her act reflected the nobility of a great soul" (Pathways to Happiness, page 148).

What a lesson to all of us! How often in observing an action or an attitude on the part of one of our neighbors or friends have we been prone to impute motives and reasons which, because of our lack of full information, are wrong and misguided. Let us remember,

542
