[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 412 | PDF Page 433]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 100% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 412 (PDF page 433) ---
[ILLUSTRATION: Simple black and white drawing of a sheep lying in grass with trees in background]

The Sheep That Strayed on Sunday
Helen Nielson

IT was a beautiful spring day. We had shed our itchy winter woolen clothes and felt good. Mama, especially, seemed radiant because Papa was taking his family to church. It was a proud well-groomed family that Lizzie, clean and polished, conveyed to early morning Sabbath School. Mama looked stunning in her new white outfit. She had spent many hours during the past winter months sewing the tucks and frills that were to make the prettiest dress in town. She had planned this outfit very carefully, and not being adept with the crochet hook had prevailed upon a friend to help her with the hat.

The crochet brim was like a wide doily of solid white petals, caught in a spider's web fastened to a round wire hoop. The crown, not more than four inches high, was made of folded white satin over stiffening. A rhinestone buckle, in front, held three large white plumes which draped over the top and down the side. The hat was indeed a masterpiece. No one copied it because no one could compete with the most beautiful lady around.

A catalog had furnished her with the very latest in white kid gloves, and high, laced, white leather, high-heeled, pointed-toed shoes, which were a little too small. But rather than send them back, causing a delay of many weeks, Mama wore them, even though they pinched her feet.

Papa looked handsome in his brown suit and derby hat, perched cockily on the side to show his reddish blond hair. A gold nugget taken from the "Bully Boy" mine adorned a tie pin, and a long gold chain dangled from his vest pocket, which concealed the big gold watch his father had given him. He carried a look of distinction which hardly fit his personality, for he was more on the sporty side.

My brothers, James and Peter, wore loose white blouses with black bow ties, and knickers which were getting a bit too tight. They would do for this summer Mama had said, then James who was the older of the two, could have a new pair, and Peter could finish the old ones. Peter's, if they were not worn out, would be given to some needy little boy.

My new white embroidered dress was pretty, with puffy sleeves

412
