[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 235 | PDF Page 244]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_03_20_SpFt_What_Henderson.txt (303 bytes)]

--- PAGE 234 (PDF page 243) ---
MARCH 1964

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Rarotongan Mission (Cook Islands), Avarua Branch Work Meeting
August 13, 1963

Front row, left to right: Metua Jones; Tauri Taroro; Tuo Ngati; Pauline Mitchel.

Back row, left to right: Alice Vahua; Della Howard; Ngametira Tuaputa; Inez S. Moody, President, Rarotongan Mission Relief Society; Rongo Kea; Ina Taroro; Rau Tai; Ngaupoko Papera; Teei Ngatokoa; Metua Kura.

Sister Moody reports that the women in the picture are making Pareu skirts for the Polynesian Village opening at Laie. Around the table is a sample of the skirts. In the background are Taewaiwai quilts made by the sisters.

"They have seventy-six skirts to make. It is quite a difficult, long process to prepare the Kirau (grass), for they have to cut the young trees from the hills and take them to the beach, skin the outer layer of bark, and bury the limbs in the sea under heavy rocks, where the sea keeps them wet. They stay there for from five to ten days, then they are taken out of the water, and the inner bark is taken off. This is the bark they use for the skirts. It has to dry thoroughly for a day or two, then long strips are cut and tied onto heavier bark to make the skirt. It takes about twenty stalks to make one skirt. After the skirts are made, the seeds and beads and shells must be gathered and cleaned to decorate the waistbands of the skirts. If there is to be any coloring in the skirt, then the material must be dyed before the skirt is made. To make seventy-six is a long, tedious job."

234

--- PAGE 235 (PDF page 244) ---
My Father's Violin

Afton Brown

APRIL means spring. Spring means house cleaning. So Tuesday of last week found me surveying my attic storeroom with distaste. Nevertheless, the unpleasant task must be done, so I flew into it with forced vigor. The room had not been invaded for several years, and soon I was surrounded by a cloud of dust which aggravated my hay fever. As I groped, coughing and sneezing, toward the window, I stumbled over the narrow end of a coffin-shaped box partially concealed under an ancient washstand. It was my father's old violin case. The battle-scarred leather covering, its color obliterated by dust, was tattered and worn, and the wooden frame could be seen through a hole at the end. As I tenderly picked it up, dusted it off, and placed it on a packing box, my eyes filled with tears. I could hardly see my fingers as they fumbled with the lock, and only after several clumsy attempts was I able to open the case. There, protected by a worn, faded, red velvet wrapper, was my father's violin, the treasured possession that had been one of his great loves — second only to his family.

The aged instrument showed signs of usage, but the golden luster of the wood was still evident; a luster created by many hours of careful polishing with a soft cloth held in strong but gentle hands. The same hands that could either capably rope a steer or soothe a fevered brow. The slight discoloration of the finish surrounding the graceful sound holes indicated antiquity. Four strings, three loosened and one still taut, were drawn from the frog over the slender black ebony fingerboard. The strings were then fastened to the pegs near the end of the neck, which was adorned by a handsome hand-carved scroll.

As I lifted the instrument and plucked the untuned strings with my thumb, I could see the slight dullness of the fingerboard; a dullness caused by countless journeys of sensitive, though calloused, fingers up and down the strings searching for the clear, sweet, melodious tones pleasant to hear. Gay tunes, sad tunes, ballads, jigs, classics, and hymns — each had at one time or another revealed the mood of the maestro. I then ran my fingertips caressingly over the worn chin rest that had time and time again nestled in a silken black beard which had framed a smiling mouth, enhanced a fine Grecian nose, and complemented two merry blue eyes.

"Is it a Stradivarius?" you ask. No, it is an instrument fashioned from a piece of applewood by my grandfather for his son's eleventh birthday. "Oh, just a fiddle," is your comment. I would never hesitate to give honored credit for great violin making to the master from Cremona, but more love never existed than the love that went into the creation of this humble instrument.

Then came the day when the violin was put away for the last time. It was the day the trembling rheumatic fingers had searched blindly and unsuccessfully for the clear true tones of former, more youthful years. Over and over again, the campaign was waged, but finally, with a sigh of defeat, the grand old man was forced to succumb to the one enemy over which he could gain no victory — time.

235

--- PAGE 236 (PDF page 245) ---
MARCH 1964

[PHOTOGRAPH]

BEAUTIFUL
SACRED
MUSIC
FOR
THREE PART
WOMEN'S CHORUSES

FORTH IN THY NAME, O
LORD I GO ................Schumann .20

GOD IS LOVE ..................Shelley .20

HEAVENS ARE TELLING ....Haydn .25

IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY
COMMMANDMENTS ....Madsen .25

IN THY FORM ..................Madsen .20

LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT
FOR JOY ......................Stephens .20

LO, MY SHEPHERD IS DIVINE
................................................Haydn .22

LORD'S PRAYER ....................Gates .20

LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS
HOUSE TO THEE ..........Madsen .20

MY REDEEMER LIVES ..........Gates .20

O DAY OF REST AND
GLADNESS ..................Schumann .20

OMNIPOTENCE ..................Schubert .20

Use this advertisement as your
order blank
Music Sent on Approval

DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City 11, Utah
Please send the music indicated
above.
☐ On Approval    ☐ Charge
☐ Money Enclosed
Name ................................................
Address ............................................
City and State ..................................

[LOGO: Daynes Music Company with piano keyboard design]
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City 11, Utah

WORLD'S FAIR — APRIL
TO OCTOBER — 1964
Both Individual and
Group Tours

There will be several tours to the
World's Fair including the Hill
Cumorah Pageant.

MEXICO — MARCH and
JUNE, 1964

EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964

HAWAII — MONTHLY
TOURS

Margaret Lund Tours
3021 South 23rd East
P. O. Box 2065
Salt Lake City, Utah 84109
HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337
Idaho Falls 522-2581

Feather Grief
Ida Elaine James

Your shattered sphere made whole
With a bit of glue,
I played the goddess-role
To little you.
You with the simple goal
Of toys mended,
I cannot help but wonder
Of the long days when,
Small panic of tears and thunder
Stilled — I can't restore again
The heart asunder —
Such joys ended.
And no one sees my own tear shed
For the hours, days, years
That you may go uncomforted
With undried tears
Be I alive or dead.
So if I hold you overlong
While you strain away
Recovering your April-song
Forgetful in play,
My feather-grief is for that day —
My love-word said.

236

--- PAGE 237 (PDF page 246) ---
Pathway
Catherine B. Bowles

We walk the path of life but once
As we journey down the way;
We do not pass this way again
As we travel day by day.

Shall we plant seeds of happiness
Or strew the path with flowers
And sow the seed of gratitude
For rich blessings that are ours?

Send a song along the highway,
Push a stone from off the road,
Make a beaten path for others,
Help them carry a heavy load.

If we have helped, in some small way,
To give another a brighter day,
Then life has not been lived in vain;
Blessings will come back again.

The fragrance of a life well spent
Smooths the pathway we have trod
That will bring us richest blessings
In our pathway back to God.

GOLD
MEDALLION
HOME

[ILLUSTRATION: Circular logo with text "GOLD MEDALLION HOME" around the perimeter, "LIVE BETTER ELECTRICALLY" at the bottom, and figures of people in the center]

A wonderful new
way to live

UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
Buy now from your dealer [small logo]

WORLD'S FAIR TOURS

21 days — June 21 to July 11;
World's Fair, Church historical places
(does not include pageant).

27 days — July 13 to August 8;
World's Fair, Church historical places.
Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also,
Quebec and Montreal, Canada.

24 days — July 23 to August 15;
World's Fair, Church historical places,
including Hill Cumorah Pageant.

All tours include: Show at Jones'
Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway
Show and a special event ticket at
World's Fair, etc.

Esther James Tours
460 7th Avenue
Salt Lake City, Utah 84103
Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051

237