[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 269 | PDF Page 282]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_04_42_Poem_Quintet_Loomis.txt (419 bytes)]

--- PAGE 268 (PDF page 281) ---
APRIL 1964

what's left? Oh, I'm sorry, dear. I'm behaving badly, but I can't seem to help it."

"You must, Susan," he told her calmly. "You've got to work this out for yourself. You know that." But as he bent over her, feeling the softness of her cheek, he doubted whether she ever would.

THE tension of inner conflict hung over the entire house. Its central point was the naked-looking garden that none of them dared touch. It would have been their contribution to Susan's defeat.

Kenny was too young to understand that, but the bare stretch beyond the French door fretted him. He said to his father one day, "Aren't we ever going to put any flowers in the garden?"

"I expect Mum will do something about it, when she feels better, Ken," Douglas replied, guardedly.

Kenny frowned over his homework, thinking about something one of the boys at school had told him. A party held in the garden instead of the house, being where everyone brought a plant to put in the ground. Thoughts soon shaped into an idea that was both wonderful and simple. If his mother didn't feel like making the garden pretty, they could all get together and do it for her. It was just a question of getting enough people, and he knew most of those she worked with. The important thing was to keep it a secret from her.

His mother was sewing in the living room. "What kind of flowers do you like best, Mum?" he inquired.

"I like them all," she told him. "Why?"

"Oh, I just wondered. What sort would you like in your garden?"

"Ken!" his father said, hurriedly, "isn't it almost your bedtime?"

After Kenny had gone, thoughtfully, upstairs, Susan said, "Poor old Ken. He can't be expected to know how I feel."

"Are you going to leave it as it is?" Douglas asked.

"I suppose I shall have to have something done," she conceded, reluctantly. "But I don't mind what. It isn't important."

"It was, once, Susan."

"Yes, but that was my garden, then. If was to have been my own achievement, and I suppose I just don't want to give it up."

IF she had been less preoccupied, she would have noticed the banded-together look that enclosed her family.

"Somebody's got to do something to wake Mum up, and make her realize how selfish she's being," Cathy had said to her father.

"Selfish, Cath? Is that fair?"

"Yes. How would she have felt if all the people she has helped had refused to accept anything from her?"

The relationship between Cathy and her mother had changed, Douglas thought. Cathy was no longer the wondering housewife, needing support and advice. He doubted, suddenly, whether that Cathy had existed, except in Susan's imagination. But it must be hard to realize that one was no longer indispensable, he

268

--- PAGE 269 (PDF page 282) ---
MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE

thought, with a flash of compass-
ion.

Some days later, Douglas took
Susan out for the afternoon and
when they returned, it was to
find people, busy with trowels
and boxes of plants, crowding the
garden.

"What's this?" Susan de-
manded, her face tight with dis-
may.

Douglas turned her round to
face him. "This was Ken's idea.
We thought it a good one. These
are the folks you've helped for
years. This is their way of thank-
ing you — the labor of their
hands. Are you going to tell them
to leave, because it's your place,
or accept the gifts we've brought,
and will go on bringing as long
as you'll let us?"

Susan's expression altered. Her
eyes shone as she watched her
friends. "I've been stupid to want
to be independent. See how
happy they look!"

Walking towards them, her
voice lifted, joyously, "Douglas
has just told me what you have
planned. It's a wonderful sur-
prise, and the best present I've
had in my whole life."

Kenny, disheveled and earnest,
appeared. "Is it a good garden
party, Mum?"

Susan's laugh held the old
merry ring. "It's the best idea
you ever had, Ken," she assured
him, and, sensing that his Mum
was herself again, he beamed.

"Where d'you want these rose
trees put?" he asked, important-
ly.

Quintet for Spring

Hazel Loomis

He came with spring full in his face.
Gone autumn's doubt, gone winter's seal.
Spring's garlands wove a path of lace,
A petaled spring was warm to feel.

The earth was bright and garden-green
Around about him where he knelt
Within a maple-wooded scene.
Oh, prayer, pierce sky! Oh, heaven, melt.

And forge from rock a holy stream
Of promise for a crying void
Or wisdom's lack!
Who was he to doubt the word?

A blackness — battle-pitched until
Spring burst, fire-opal bright,
With words so clean
They covered all the earth.

Oh, many springs are woven there —
A gentle path — a quiet wood —
Where he came alone for prayer. . . .
Tread lightly, lightly where he stood.

269

--- PAGE 270 (PDF page 283) ---
Springtime Thoughts
of a Happy Woman

Caroline Eyring Miner

To Be Happy

EVERYTHING has its beauty, but not everyone sees it," said Confucius. This idea is akin to the one of "taking your good time with you," in which case you are sure to have it. It is one of the great sins to have had the potential for happiness, which we all have, but to have failed in its realization.

The older I grow, and the more people I meet who carry grudges against this person and that, against this circumstance and that, with innumerable alibis for not being happier, the more wonderful I think my mother was.

Mother was an optimist. Some criticized her for her undiscriminating tastes, as they labeled them. She thought there was no lovelier house than hers that just grew like Topsy at no time. She loved the time. She loved farming community in which she lived. She loved all the people in that town, just for their particular peculiarities and qualities. She loved each of her children, together with all their faults, of which she seemed strangely unaware.

She enjoyed every little thing: golden dandelions, no matter in what annoying place they might be growing; spicy yellow roses that grew wild all over the place and were a detestable nuisance to everyone else. She had a moving picture of color TV, long before the invention, in the magnificent Arizona sunsets, which she so extravagantly praised. She was one person on whom "nothing was lost" that could bring her happiness.

The Listener's Part

AS a speaker in your service, I have a duty to deliver to you the speech I have prepared for you. You have a duty, too," the speaker continued. "Your responsibility is to listen and absorb and apply. Now, if you get through listening, just raise your hands and I'll stop."

It worked like magic. With such a challenge, people listened and didn't get through before the speaker did. The very fact that they listened motivated them to gain from the talk.

The listener's part is less dramatic than that of the speaker, but it is every bit as significant. When we are speaking we are only giving forth what we already know, but when we listen we may learn something new.

Being Educated

BEING educated means to prefer the best not only to the worst but to the second best," said the philosopher, William Lyon Phelps. Often we are put on the spot to justify an education for a person if he does not make more money than an uneducated person, and surprisingly enough, many do not.

The above quotation is one good reason for having an education — to raise one's tastes; to lift standards; to help one be satisfied with only the best — the best literature, the best homemaking, the best performance in any art. Especially is it necessary for one to set a high standard in Church service. Only excellence is worthy of the Lord.

270

--- PAGE 271 (PDF page 284) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman figure standing behind/embracing a globe of the Earth]

Lt. Colonel Harriet W. Worley of the United States Army Nurse Corps, received the Legion of Merit award, the Nation's second highest peacetime award, at Fort Douglas, Utah, in January. Authorized by the President of the United States, the citation reads: "With rare foresight, mature judgment, keen and analytical ability and resourcefulness, she developed the first Army Nurse Corps Career Management program, and was the innovator of formal nursing research and development in the Army."

Mothers in Utah have the lowest infant mortality rate (20.3 per 1,000 live births) in the United States, according to Dr. Joseph P. Kesler, Director, Department of Children's Services, Utah State Department of Health. Among the factors involved in this record, Dr. Kesler lists the following: a higher educational level of the mothers, resulting in better infant care; a relatively low rate of cigarette smoking by mothers; relatively good hygienic and sanitary standards in the home; and the birth of more than ninety-nine per cent of all Utah babies in hospitals.

Mary G. Roebling, who is a bank president, predicts, "Within the next decade we will see a tremendous increase in the number of women occupying top managerial positions."

Queen Frederika of Greece and her daughter, Princess Irene, twenty-two, arrived in New York January 22, for a brief visit in the United States. The Queen, a highly intelligent and well educated woman, received an honorary doctor of laws degree from Columbia University, and observed American television programs.

Margaret Chase Smith, senior Senator from Maine, on January 27, entered the race for the Republican nomination for President of the United States. First woman to enter actively such a campaign in a major party, her name will be presented in primaries in New Hampshire and Illinois and probably in the District of Columbia and Oregon. Mrs. Smith served in the House of Representatives from 1940-1948 and in the Senate since 1948. She is noted for faithful attendance at Senate sessions and committee meetings, being a member of two powerful committees, the Aeronautical and Space Sciences Committee and the Armed Services and Appropriations Committee.

There are 57,926,000 women of voting age in the United States. That is approximately 3,828,000 more than the men of voting age in the country. Women could actually control political situations, but they rarely vote as a block. Polls show that more men than women are favorable to the idea of having a woman president.

271