[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 937 | PDF Page 980]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 84% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 937 (PDF page 980) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

who participated or received such a blessing.

But a commandment I give unto them, that they shall not boast themselves of these things, neither speak them before the world; for these things are given unto you for your profit and for salvation (Verse 73).

Miracles have been in the Church of Jesus Christ in all dispensations. The spiritual gifts of the Holy Ghost, one of which is miracles, are a part of the fulness of the gospel. (D&C 46:21.) That signs follow the believer is well known to the Latter-day Saint for thousands of saints can testify that these blessings have been received. We may correctly say that miracles (signs) are a characteristic of the true Church. Miracles in and of themselves, however, are not evidences of the truth. Men are not saved in the kingdom of God by miracles. As stated by President Brigham Young:

The Latter-day Saints and every other person who is entitled to salvation, and all except those who have sinned against the Holy Ghost, may know that Jesus is the Christ in the same way that Peter knew it. Miracles do not give this knowledge to mankind, though they may serve as collateral evidence to strengthen the believer. The miracles of Jesus were known to the Jews, yet they suffered him to be put to death as a deceiver of mankind and one possessed of a devil (Journal of Discourses 10:193).

What means are at the disposal of the saint that he may tell his friends how to distinguish between the genuine and the spurious representative of God? Healing is only one of the many parts of the gospel of Jesus Christ. To say that any one of the principles or ordinances is the gospel would be erroneous, and to believe that because an organization has an ordinance, such as baptism, that it is the true church would be equally false. The key to discerning which is the true church may be stated thus: When all of the principles and ordinances, as taught by Christ, are combined in the one organization, there the true Church exists. For our present purpose, if a healing is effected in an organization where all of the truths of the gospel are not taught, then that organization does not have the power of salvation in it. The purpose of the gospel of Christ is to make exaltation in the celestial kingdom possible. If the authority to administer the saving principles and ordinances of the gospel is not present, then there is no exaltation possible.

THE LABORER IS WORTHY OF HIS HIRE

With the command that the entire world should have the message of salvation taught to them (D&C 84:75-76), the Lord counseled his servants that they become as his "friends" of old, to preach the gospel with power. (Verse 77.) As of old, they were to travel without purse or scrip (baggage) to prove the world, for the laborer was worthy of his hire. All of those who would take this commission, if faithful in the discharge of their duties, would neither be weary in mind nor in body, and they would not go hungry or without water. They were not to be concerned with the material things of life.

For, consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither

937
