[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 62 | PDF Page 63]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 62 (PDF page 63) ---
JANUARY 1964

In keeping with the commandment to provide for one's family, the virtue of industry is demanded. Idleness is a sin. There is always something for the person to do in the Church; there is always opportunity to improve one's mind by study; idleness means neglect and waste, both of which are opposed to the spirit and letter of the gospel. (Ibid., verse 29.)

Section 74 — Background
While translating the Bible, a question was raised about one of Paul's statements concerning an aspect of marriage relations. Section 74 is an interpretation of I Corinthians 7:14. It appears that in the Corinth Branch of the Church there arose the question of whether or not the convert should leave the nonmember husband or wife. Paul's counsel was that this should not be done because a sanctifying effect was brought into the home by the member of the Church. It was maintained by some that if the wife should leave her husband because of his not being a member, she should also leave the children. Paul declared against such a doctrine, which brings us to the real message of the Section — "little children are holy, being sanctified through the atonement of Jesus Christ" (Ibid., 74:7).

This passage and others in our modern books of scripture (Ibid., 29:46-48) have cleared away some of the false doctrines that grew up during the period of apostasy regarding the salvation of little children. By revelation to Joseph Smith, children who die before the age of accountability — eight years — are saved in the celestial kingdom through the atonement of Jesus Christ. (Lesson 20, Relief Society Magazine, October 1959.)

Questions for Discussion
1. Explain: "There is no weapon that is formed against you that shall prosper."
2. Discuss: Truth will triumph, and it must be lived for one to receive eternal life.
3. Define the gospel as the power of God unto salvation.
4. Why is it necessary for the missionary to seek divine guidance in his work?
5. What responsibility is attached to the missionary work?

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE

Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Message 55 — "Wherefore, Be Not Weary in Well-Doing" (D & C 64:33).
Christine H. Robinson
For First Meeting, April 1964
Objective: To show that great accomplishments come through doing small things well.

WHEN the Lord gave the instruction "Be not weary in well-doing," he emphasized the fact that great accomplishments come out of doing small things well. In the same verse in the Doctrine and Covenants, he

62
