[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 9 | PDF Page 10]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_01_06_SpFt_Award_Contest.txt (333 bytes)]

--- PAGE 8 (PDF page 9) ---
THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1963 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1963 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15,1963.

The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "The First to Go." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Hazel Loomis, Casper, Wyoming, for her poem "Verdure." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Margery S. Stewart, Pacific Palisades, California, for her poem "Quo Vadis."

This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader.

The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry.

award winners ELIZA R. SNOW POEM CONTEST

Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

Mrs. Bailey appears for the fifth time as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest; Mrs. Loomis is a first-time winner; and Mrs. Stewart is a third-time winner.

There were 330 poems entered in the contest for 1963. Entries were received from thirty-six of the fifty states, including Hawaii, with the largest number, in order, coming from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Oregon, and Washington. England, Canada, Australia, Wales, Scotland, and Peru were also represented among the entries.

The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated.

The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine.

8

--- PAGE 9 (PDF page 10) ---
FIRST PRIZE POEM

THE CALL TO GO

I

The valiant one has gone ahead, alone,
Against all wisdom, out beyond the known,
Since Adam drew the first cold, mortal breath
And drank the air which yields both life and death —
The first to see or feel, the first to know
The answer to some quest, the first to go
Driven by some dream, some will to learn,
Along some path which may have no return.
What boon does he require, what priceless lures
Are greater than his life, that he endures
The desert's stretching thirst, the arctic's ice,
The scorn of learned ones, the sacrifice
Of dedication? What is so sublime
He burns in full his precious oil of time?

II

The bold adventurer has combed the earth
And spanned its oceans, circumscribed its girth,
Sailing out beyond the dragon belt.
He planted altars where his sons have knelt,
And raised his nation's flag upon the poles,
Each gain revealing newer, farther goals.
He battered down tradition's ancient bars
And looked with fear and longing on the stars.
What restless blood impels a man to stand
Where man has never stood, some far-off land,
A towering mountain peak, an ocean floor?
What instinct leads him to an unmarked door
To pick and pry, to fumble and to knock
Until the grudging stores of truth unlock?

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Alice Morrey Bailey

III

The seeker after truth proclaims his find
Among the bright adventures of the mind.
He measures, weighs, and bends his scrutiny
On unseen continents, his mutiny
Is stirred by failure, death, disease and pain
And one by one these enemies are slain.
He forms his theories and tests their flaws
And proves the mighty ways of nature's laws.
His silhouette is bold against the light
Of brighter dawn, and he the shining knight
Whose sharp stiletto point can slit the tent
Of ignorance, and through its widened rent
All men may pour. And soon they, too, shall fly
Among the stars for he has pierced the sky.

9

--- PAGE 10 (PDF page 11) ---
SECOND PRIZE POEM

Verdure

So small between the pink pearls
The fire opal clouds and the mare's tail swishing high,
I ran barefoot in the curling sands.
Every part of me was Sabbath then.

Praise rose from the flesh — cool shadows
Fanning sun . . . the bleeding currant bushes
Where I came
To mother's singing steps.

Father close on prophet wheels,
Blue dancing from his eyes
To pleasant sheets of green . . . falling in swathes
With each purring round.

I ran, the sun safe in my arms,
To father's chuckling boost on Jetta's back
Fast strapped — I now was Sweeper of the Sky
Chief Rider of the Dappled Mare!

The lamb — soft days with Jetta —
She was Jute and David — Jubilee
Of hooves and hair — of clinging mane — my horse
And I lived there.

Time wore ribbons as I swung
From cliff to cliff
Below the green valley where weasels raced,
Snakes grew long, and dragon flies
Fanned willow fronds.

Four fingers young, I wrote my name
And sifted rocks the ants had made. I watched
The stovepipe for the reindeer swoop. Awaited
The lingering orange and the doll with hair.

The world grew and I, too,
With barns stuffed green —
With cows and buckets and milk foam
Washing the golden paths.

Night came purring on lion's feet — until
A coyote's siren ripped the shrouds apart
And morning broke as bulls locked horns
To fight it out on crimson sod,
While I stood puny on the green lawn.

Ample squaws with smiling teeth
And midnight eyes
Clothed in blankets striped with fire, came
And going carried the sun . . . the stars . . . and me
To the slender road . . . up the giant hill . . . .

Farewell, my green and gallant freedom
Farewell.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Hazel Loomis

--- PAGE 11 (PDF page 12) ---
THIRD PRIZE POEM

Quo Vadis?

They say that Peter
Fleeing his cross,
Plodding through midnight
On the Appian Way,
Was halted by an angel,
Who asked gently, "Quo Vadis?
Quo Vadis, Peter?" and the words
Made a gate.

When I was a child
Pondering this story
I was resolute,
No two words would keep me
Or hold me from going
Where the cross was not,
Would send me to the
Irrefutable hammer and the
Splintering wood.

With all my childish strength
I leaned down years
Urging Peter on, past angel,
Past anguish . . . slow blood
Rusting on the nails . . . .
Oh, hurry, hurry, Peter!
What manner of angel
Brings a riddle at the hour
Of one's death?

But I have learned
That all disciples come
Soon or late
To that same midnight and
The angel's cry . . .
Even I
Most shabby follower.

Quo Vadis is a gate
Opening to a touch . . . to where?
To what?
Without him what way is there?
Peter's answer was his turning back.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Margery S. Stewart

11