[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 786 | PDF Page 821]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 786 (PDF page 821) ---
LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values
as Seen Through Literature

Elder Bruce B. Clark

Lesson 4 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man — Part II
(Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 71-90)
For Third Meeting, January 1965
Objective: To show further how spiritual values and faith
in God and man have been expressed through poetry.

LAST month we examined several poems by William Wordsworth as evidences of the poets' traditional affirmation of spiritual values and traditional faith in God and man. This month we turn to another English poet, Robert Browning (1812-1889), to explore further the poetry of faith.

Browning was equal to Wordsworth as an affirmer of lofty ideals, and even greater as a poet—possibly the greatest English poet since Milton. His brilliant dramatic monologues, dramatic soliloquies, and psychological soul-studies probe as meaningfully into human personality and character as any poems ever written; and his long masterpiece, The Ring and the Book, is one of the great poems of the world. Browning's writing is complex and difficult, but wonderfully rewarding.

The words "robust optimist" have so often been used to describe Browning that they now seem almost part of his name.

Fortunately, they fit this great man whose total affirmation of life both here and hereafter is so vigorous that it is attractive even to readers who may not share it. Strangely, his most widely known statement of optimism, "God's in his Heaven—All's right with the world," spoken by a naive little girl in his drama Pippa Passes, is an extreme view that Browning recognized as unrealistic. Although Browning knew that there is much wrong with man's present world, he firmly believed that God is in heaven ultimately controlling the universe and that the potentiality of man in this life is great and the confidence with which he can look forward to life beyond death is equally great.

Occasionally Browning speaks of himself and his views, as in the "Epilogue to Asolando" when he describes himself as

One who never turned his back
but marched breast forward,

786
