[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: Vegetables | Author: Gardner]
[Vegetables— A Different Way Every Day— Part II Rhea H. Gardner]
Vegetables  -  •«-/!    JJtfferent    vi/ay   (overy   'J)ay 
Part  II 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
Extension  Service  Home  Management  and  Furnishings  Specialist 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College 
T7*EW  foods  are  more  pleasing  to  the  taste  or  more  appealing  to  the  eye  than  are  garden- 
■■■  fresh  or  fresh  frozen  vegetables  cooked  just  right  and  seasoned  just  enough  to  bring 
out  the  good,  sweet  natural  flavors.  However,  the  serving  of  three  vegetables  every  day, 
does  call  for  variety  in  both  selection  and  methods  of  preparation,  if  there  is  to  be  no 
monotony. 
Here  are  just  a  few  recipes  to  start  you  thinking  up  new  and  interesting  ways  to 
prepare  vegetables  for  your  family. 
Lima  Bean  Casserole 
2  Vi    cups  lima  beans,  home-cooked  1   tablespoon  butter  or  drippings 
or  canned  1   tablespoon  flour 
1  tablespoon  brown  sugar  Vi    teaspoon  salt 
Ys    teaspoon  pepper  2  teaspoons  dry  mustard 
2  teaspoons  lemon  juice  Vz    cup  buttered  crumbs 
!4    cup  cheese,  grated  4  or  5  bacon  strips  or  frankfurters 
Place  drained  lima  beans  in  a  casserole.  Save  liquid.  Heat  butter  or  drippings 
over  low.  heat;  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended.  Slowly  add  Vt  cup  liquid  from 
the  beans,  stirring  until  smooth;  cook  over  low  heat  until  thickened.  Add  brown  sugar, 
salt,  pepper,  mustard,  and  lemon  juice.  Pour  sauce  over  lima  beans;  sprinkle  with  but- 
tered crumbs  and  grated  cheese.  Place  strips  of  bacon  or  frankfurters  on  top.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  (375°F)  25  to  35  minutes  or  until  lightly  browned. 
Vegetable  Souffle 
Vegetable  souffle  is  an  excellent  way  to  use  left-over  vegetables.  It  needs  only  a 
crisp  salad  as  an  accompaniment.    To  make  a  serving  for  six,  you  will  need: 
1   cup  cooked  vegetables  2   teaspoons  grated  onion 
1   cup  thick  white  sauce*  4  eggs  separated 
1   tablespoon  lemon  juice  %    teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
Finely  chop  or  sieve  the  vegetable.  To  the  white  sauce  add  the  prepared  vegetable, 
lemon  juice,  grated  onion,  and  beaten  egg  yolks.    Cool. 
Beat  egg  whites  until  frothy;  add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  stiff  but  not  dry. 
Fold  into  the  above  mixture. 
Put  into  a  casserole  that  has  been  coated  with  a  light  film  of  melted  butter.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven   (325^)  about  one  hour. 
Carrots,  spinach,  peas,  green  beans,  or  corn  are  delicious  in  souffles. 
The  use  of  sauces  on  vegetables  can  create  new  interest  and  appetite  appeal  in  veg- 
etable dishes.  Her  are  a  few  sauces  that  help  to  make  good  vegetables  better.  Each 
makes  four  average  servings. 
1.  Cream  sauce  base:     To  1  cup  of  medium  thick  white  sauce  add: 
a.  Three  or  4  tablespoons  horseradish,  \  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  and  Vz  teaspoon 
paprika.  Fold  into  sauce  and  serve  hot  over  string  beans,  asparagus,  cablxige, 
or  cauliflower. 
b.  One  cup  grated  cheese  and  Vz  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce.  Mix  with  sauce 
*  Recipe  page  59. 
Page  46

VEGETABLES 
47 
until  cheese  is  all  melted.     Serve  at  once  over  spinach,  string  beans,  cauli- 
flower, or  asparagus, 
c.  Two  chopped  hard-cooked  eggs  and   1   tablespoon  chopped  parsley.     If  de- 
sired, add  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard.     Serve  over  broccoli,  spinach,  asparagus, 
or  string  beans. 
2.  Easy  Holhndaise  Sauce:  Cut  %  pound  butter  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  top  part 
of  double  boiler  with  3  egg  yolks  and  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  Let  stand  at 
room  temperature  for  one-half  hour.  Just  before  serving,  place  over  gently  boil- 
ing water  for  1  Vi  minutes,  stirring  briskly.  Serve  over  freshly  cooked  asparagus, 
carrots,  broccoli,  or  cauliflower. 
3.  Almond  Butter  Sauce:  Melt  Vi  cup  butter  in  a  heavy  pan  and  heat  carefully  to 
a  golden  brown.  Add  Vz  cup  toasted  almonds  slivered  and  3  tablespoons  lemon 
juice.     Pour  over  hot  broccoli,  cauliflower,  or  string  beans  and  serve  at  once. 
LKeba  cJurner,  oLadt/  of  Lshcmtt[ 
"DEBA  Turner,  Loa,  Utah,  sixty-nine  years  old,  is  never  idle.  She  works  for  anyone 
**•  who  asks  her,  and  has  never  taken  a  penny  for  any  of  it.  People  ask  her  to 
work  on  gifts  for  their  loved  ones,  and  although  she  will  never  see  some  of  the  re- 
cipients, she  freely  gives  of  her  time  and  talents.  She  seems  always  to  know  of  some- 
one who  would  like  something  really  lovely,  so  she  makes  gifts  for  all  occasions  and 
for  no  particular  occasion — just  gifts.  She  has  made  seventy-five  doilies,  hundreds  of 
handkerchiefs,  many  lovely  quilts,  dozens  of  embroidered  towels.  During  the  second 
world  war  she  knitted  hundreds  of  pairs  of  sox  and  made  many  good  warm  sweaters. 
Sister  Turner  has  served  as  an  executive  officer  in  the  Primary  Association,  as  a 
Sunday  School  teacher,  a  ward  president  in  Relief  Society  for  six  years,  and  has  been 
a  visiting  teacher  for  forty  years,  a  service  which  she  still  enjoys.  She  has  three  living 
children,  ten  grandchildren,  and  nine  great-grandchildren.  In  commenting  upon  the 
charity  and  love  which  are  so  much  a  part  of  all  that  Sister  Turner  accomplishes,  her
