[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Parsons]
The Closed Circle Beatrice Rordame Parsons IGHT-year-old Kenny rushing into the kitchen from outdoors. His galoshes dripped messily on Sybil's newly scrubbed linoleum. His face was alight with eagerness. "Can we buy a Christmas tree? They've got 'em in over at the store! Can we Mother?" There was a tiny, uncertain pause before the word. Sybil's heart twisted. She wasn't the children's mother. Not their real mother. But she so wanted to be. Not that she wanted to take their mother's place in their hearts. She only wanted to earn a love of her own. Kenny was already on his way into the living room. "I'll ask Daddy," cried Kenny, and in another moment Sybil heard his voice urging his father to buy a tree before they were all picked over. Sybil shivered with sudden cold, knowing what Paul was about to tell the children. He'd called them all into the living room to tell them. Yet Sybil knew how reluctant he was to speak. Dan and Danielle, Paul's sixteenyear-old twins were making gay plans for the holidays. "Skiing!" Jaughed Danielle, and through the archway Sybil could see her blue eyes brighten as she tossed her shining blond hair back from her face. "Skating!" shouted Dan, and his eyes matched his sister's. His blond hair was cut into a very short crew, and his long legs moved like pistons as he walked about the room. Page 38 came I'welve-year-old Elna had other plans. "I'm going to all the movies! With Helen. We've got a crush on Boyd Lawson. He's smooth!" I Kenny tugged at his father's sleeve. "Can we buy a tree? Can we?" Paul's face was pale, tense as he sat in his wheel chair, the cast he was wearing heavy and uncomfortable about his body. His voice was strained. "Before we talk about the tree, Kenny, there's something I want to discuss." His voice was low, and Sybil could not hear the exact words. But she knew them by heart. She and Paul had talked it over that very afternoon. Paul hated to dash his children's plans, but Paul wasn't a man to shirk his duty. He was a commercial airline pilot. An accident had put him in the hospital for weeks, then at home in a wheel chair and cast. Paul was worried with expenses. Now that his tone was less muffled, she could hear what he was saying. "It's not that we're broke. Just bent. My accident wasn't entirely covered by my insurance. You know how I feel about debt. I can't afford to send Dan and Danielle to Brighton for the Christmas Hollidays " Kenny broke in shrilly: "Can't we have a tree?" Paul's smile tried to reassure them. "Of course we'll have a tree. And a merry Christmas!" "Without presents?" insisted THE CLOSED CIRCLE Kenny, and his voice sounded hollow. "A few," promised Paul, and his own voice sounded strange. 'LNA'S face was stricken. "But I was planning! " She was close to tears. "Oh, Daddy, isn't there some way we can have all the things we want?" Paul shook his head slowly. "Not this Christmas, darling." He burst out: "It makes me feel." He skipped that and said quietly: "Maybe there is a way. All of you worked at odd jobs during the sumMGW.. Aes "You mean our piggy banks!" squealed EIna, rushing to hug him in spite of the cast. Kenny's shout was triumphant. "Then I can still buy my 'lectric train." EIna's face was wreathed in smiles. "Just oodles of skirts and blouses for my money!" Dan and Danielle caught the spirit. Danielle said laughingly: "That blue frock in Rogers' window. Warren's taking me to the Christmas Prom. He thinks I look keen in blue!" Dan spread his legs wide apart, and his eyes sparkled. "I'll bet I've enough for a down payment on that swect little chassis over on the used car lot." Kenny squealed: "'Let's put together and buy the biggest tree at the grocery store." His face fell, and he said uncertainly: "What about Christmas dinner? Are we going to have a turkey?' Paul smiled. He saw Sybil standing quietly in the background. "Your mother will see to the tur- 39 key," he promised. He put out his hand to draw Sybil into the circle. It widened. But it didn't close. Sybil sat at Paul's side, and knew that she had spoiled things once again. Fora moment no one spoke. Then Kenny headed for the kitchen with his piggy bank. "Where's the hammer?" He shouted, and the others went to help him find it. There was the loud sound of shattered plaster, laughter, as nickles, pennies, and quarters spilled over the kitchen table. Paul put out his good arm and pulled Sybil closer. He was very relieved. "Well, that's over," he said, and let his breath out in a big sigh. Sybil leaned her head against his arm. She loved him too deeply to remind him that the children had acted very selfishly. Not a word about gifts for each other, for their father, for Sybil. They had thought only of what they wanted. She hoped Paul wouldn't see. Her voice was gay, excited. "We'll have lots of packages under the tree, Paul. ITI talk with the children, Make plans. I can sew." She was as excited as a child, and her brown eyes glowed happily. Paul put his lips tenderly against her warm cheek and kissed her. His own eyes were shining happily as he told her: "The doctor's promised Pil be out of this cast in time to help trim the tree." Like Elna, she hugged him fervently, laughing because his cast was so unyielding. 'Tears and stars were mixed together in her eyes, and her voice was gentle. 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 "Oh, Paul! Merry Christmas! Having you well and strong again is all the Christmas I want." She giggled a little, and forgave the children. She was being selfish, too. Couple of days later when the children came tramping through the snow after school, they went straight to the living room for a conference with their father. Sybil, knowing that she did not belong, stayed quietly in the background, reading her magazine. But she could not fail to hear, for EIna's tone was shrill, stricken. "Oh, Daddy! I can only buy one skirt, and one blouse with my piggy (oem! Danielle soundel just as miserable. "I can't afford that blue dress." She bit her lip, then burst out furiously: "I've told Warren ''m not going to the Prom. I'd rather die than be seen in my old green dress." Kennys lip trembled. "That 'lectric train costs more'n I've got." Dan paced the room, not looking at his father. ""he man at the used car lot says you'll have to sign the contract, Dad." Sybil saw how tense and strained Paul looked. Yet he lifted his head and spoke quietly. "Tm sorry. It's against my principles to go into debt." When they would have interrupted, each intent on his or her own problem, Paul lifted trembling hands, and spoke soberly: "We'll all just have to make the best of it." "The best!' cried Elna, then burst into tears and rushed away to her room. 'The others followed silently. Sybil crept close to Paul's wheel chair. She tried to make her voice light, unworried as she said: "Paul, darling, I've got a little money saved. I meant to use it to send for my mother and father. They've never met you or the children. I wanted them for Christmas..." her voice wobbled, but she made it firm and added: "'maybe I can send for them next year." She saw Paul's hands turning and twisting in his lap. She knew how helpless he felt. She wanted to help him. She put her own hands over his and said with a tender smile: "I'll tell the children right this minute." Before he could prevent her, she was on her way upstairs. As usual all of them were in Danielle's room, for it was biggest, and boasted more chairs. 'The door was closed, and the children's voices rose and fell behind it. When Sybil knocked, the voices stopped, and when Danielle opened the door, Sybil knew just how unwelcome she really was. Her legs trembled a little as she stepped inside. She hated herself for feeling shy and tongue-tied before Paul's children. But from the first — three months ago — they had built a wall against her. Not that they were rude. Unkind. Just that they were strangers. As she was a stranger in their home. 'They resented her intrusion. Danielle's voice was quietly uninterested. "Did you want something... Mother?" The wotd tagged along. Not with any desire to hurt. But as an afterthought. From the first Sybil had wanted the children to think THE CLOSED CIRCLE of her as a sort of second mother. She hadn't wanted to take anything from Paul's first wife. Lula had been the children's mother. Paul's first love. She belonged in this house. In all their hearts. Sybil, shy, retiring, had never wanted to usurp her place. If only she could make the children know. UT she found a lump in her throat as she tried to speak, and instead of telling of her mother and father, she tried to make them interested in the plans she had formed. She made her voice gay, excited, but deep inside she was shaking with pain and loneliness. "Tve a little money. My very own. I thought perhaps you'd let me put it with what you have and " She stopped. They were staring at her with cold suspicion. As though she might be trying to buy herself a place in their lives. She hurried on, stammering a little, because her shyness had made _ her cheeks too pink. "Td like to sew for Elna and Danielle. Remnants at Rogers' aren't too awfully expensive. Blouses can be made out of very little material. Perhaps I can copy that frock." She could not go on in the face of their unresponsive stares. She managed something light, foolish, before she withdrew and closed the door. 'Though Paul called to her, she did not go back downstairs for a little while. She had to have time to compose herself. Even scold herself for being presumptuous. Instead of making the children happier, she had 41 made them uncomfortable. Instead of drawing the children closer, she had pushed them further away. Yet, she couldn't abandon her plans. 'There was a certain stubbornness, a deep desire to make the children love her, that made her tell Paul what she had in her mind. She hoped he would not find traces of her tears in her voice as they sat together, side by side, hands clasped, happy in their companionship. She swallowed painfully, but she made herself speak. "I'm going to give the children a nice Christmas, Paul. I know how they feel. Kenny's just a baby..." she broke off, seeing the wistful frown on Paul's face. He spoke almost angrily. "Sybil, if I could, I'd give him the biggest, longest train that ever wheeled a track." His voice failed, he lifted his pale hands in a helpless little gesture that twisted Sybil's heart. She couldn't bother Paul further with her plans. She couldn't let him know how the desire to be a real part of the family was churning within her. She pretended to be busy with her grocery list. She wrote: Turkey, and found Paul grinning down at her. "Don't forget stuffin," he re minded her teasingly, and when he took away her pencil and kissed her, she felt better. "Paul," she said, returning his kiss, "even in that wheel chair you're my pillar of strength." His smile was one-sided. He confessed: "I'm just a phony, darling. Deep down inside I'm scared. But I know how blessed I am to have you. And the children." Her smile was tender. "Darling, 42 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 a man is twice blessed if he know's he's blessed." HE, next morning Sybil was first down to the kitchen. Someone — she suspected Kenny — had ringed the 25th with bright red crayon. It gave her hope until the children assembled. A dark curtain of gloom hung over the table as she served breakfast, went to take Paul his tray. As she came back into the kitchen, she heard Dan say angrily: "Lately, everything's come unglued! Things were all right untile." Sybil's fingers flew to her ears so that she might not hear the end of the sentence. She realized that in some obscure way the children were blaming her for spoiling Christmas. She stood there in the hallway, leaning weakly against the wall, while she looked at the situation as the children saw it. They had been happy with their father after their mother died. Just having him there, close, dependable, had eased the pain of their loss. For over a year the little family had been a unit. Then Paul and Sybil had met. Paul had flown a cargo into the city where Sybil worked. 'They had met when he came to her office. He had come several times. And on his last visit he had asked her to have dinner with him before he returned home. Over white linen and gleaming silver, Paul had talked of his home and children. Of Lula. Sybil had known his loneliness. His need for a woman's understanding and love. Yet, when he came again, and asked her to marry him, she had not said yes. 'There were Paul's children.