[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 19 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes]
[Notes to the Field: Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March]
NOTES  TO  THE  FIELD  35 
Relief  Society  lessons  published  over  the  years  have  dealt  with  a  great 
variety  of  subject  matter  prepared  for  use  in  both  stake  and  mission  organ- 
izations. 
KjLvoara  Subscriptions  ^Presented  in  ^yLpril 
HTHE  award  subscriptions  presented  to  Magazine  representatives  for  hav- 
ing obtained  75  per  cent  or  more  subscriptions  to  the  Magazine  in  re- 
lation to  their  enrolled  Relief  Society  members,  are  not  awarded  until 
after  the  stake  Magazine  representatives'  annual  reports  have  been  audited. 
Award  cards  for  these  subscriptions  for  the  year  1955  will  be  mailed  to 
ward  and  stake  Magazine  representatives  about  April  1,  1956. 
{Bound   volumes  of  1Q55  IRelief  Society    f/Lagazines 
"DELIEF  Society  officers  and  members  who  wish  to  have  their  1955 
issues  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  bound  may  do  so  through  The 
Deseret  News  Press,  31  Richards  Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  1,  Utah.  The 
cost  for  binding  the  twelve  issues  in  a  permanent  cloth  binding  is  $2.50, 
including  the  index.  If  a  leather  binding  is  preferred,  the  cost  is  $3.50. 
See  schedules  of  postage  rates  in  this  issue  of  the  Magazine,  page  72.  If 
bound  volumes  are  desired,  and  the  Magazine  cannot  be  supplied  by  the 
person  making  the  request,  the  Magazines  will  be  supplied  for  $1.50  by  the 
Magazine  Department,  General  Board  of  Relief  Society,  40  North  Main 
Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  Only  a  limited  number  of  Magazines  are 
available  for  binding. 
It  is  recommended  that  wards  and  stakes  have  one  volume  of  the  1955 
Magazines  bound  for  preservation  in  ward  and  stake  Relief  Society  li- 
braries. 
isLt    1 1 lidnight,    ^Juecember  Q/hirtu-first 
Katherine  F.  Larsen 
White  in  the  chime-begun  year
