[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
Sixty    LJears  S/igo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  January  1,  and  January  15,  1896 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  all  Nations" 
THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  IN  BUNKERVILLE,  NEVADA:  On  the  23rd  of 
Nov.,  we  left  for  Bunkerville,  crossing  the  Rio  Virgin  a  great  number  of  times.  When 
we  were  nearing  Bunkerville,  the  braces  on  our  carriage  tongue  broke  and  left  us  in  the 
river;  through  the  kindness  of  our  esteemed  friend  George  F.  Jarvis,  we  were  carried 
out  and  landed  on  terra  firma  ....  We  met  with  the  Relief  Society  sisters.  They  own 
a  lot  containing  an  almond  orchard  also  a  granary,  and  something  over  a  hundred  bush- 
els of  wheat.  We  advised  them  to  make  what  improvements  they  could  and  turn 
their  almonds  into  grain,  and  store  it  against  the  time  of  need  .... 
— Ann  C.  Woodbury 
TO  MRS.  ZINA  D.  H.  YOUNG 
(on  Her  Birthday) 
From  ev'ry  saint  that  dwelleth  here, 
From  saints  that  long  this  land  to  see, 
This  day  is  wafted  heavenward 
Remembrances  and  prayers  for  thee. 
From  weary  march  and  roofless  camp 
Unto  the  temples  famed  and  grand 
Thy  feet  trod  first  the  barrenness 
And  to  His  houses  lent  thy  hand. 
— Augusta  Joyce  Crocheron 
WOMAN'S  SUFFRAGE  ASSOCIATION:  The  W.S.A.  of  Parowan  held  an 
exultation  meeting  the  evening  of  the  seventh.  It  was  a  general  time  of  rejoicing.  The 
house  was  filled  to  o'er  flowing  as  it  generally  is  at  the  meetings  of  the  W.S.A.  The 
room  was  neatly  decorated  for  the  occasion.  After  the  opening  exercises  yellow  ribbon 
badges  were  passed  to  all  present.  The  program  consisted  of  speeches,  songs,  music 
from  the  orchestra  and  band.    Many  were  called  on  for  sentiments  or  expressions  of  their 
feelings  on  this  joyful  occasion  (the  granting  of  statehood  to  Utah)   
—J.  M.  L. 
DYING,  YET  LIVING 
After  seasons  of  storm-cloud  and  sunshine 
Close  the  year  with  unerring  pace, 
The  traces  of  pleasure  or  trial 
Are  written  on  mind,  heart  and  face. 
Again  we  pause  for  a  reckoning — 
Contrition,  and  solemn  resolve; 
Sweet  conscience  silently  beckoning 
While  many  new  plans  we  evolve, 
That  will  chasten,  uplift,  and  inspire 
To  feelings  more  pure  and  divine  .  .  . 
— E.  R.  Shipp 
Page  30

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
HTHE  women  of  the  Philippines 
are  extraordinarily  progressive. 
Usually  the  business  managers  in 
their  households,  they  are  often  also 
joint  managers  with  their  husbands, 
of  business  enterprises.  The  percent- 
age of  women  physicians,  surgeons, 
dentists,  pharmacists,  lawyers,  and 
professors  is  much  higher  than  in 
the  United  States.  In  the  College 
of  Liberal  Arts,  University  of  the 
Philippines,  thirty-five  per  cent  of 
the  faculty  are  women— a  three  or 
four  times  higher  percentage  than 
in  most  co-educational  institutions 
in  the  United  States.  Although  it 
was  1937  before  female  suffrage 
came  to  the  Philippines,  two-fifths 
of  the  voters  in  1953  were  women. 
A  LICIA  PATTERSON,  publish- 
er of  Long  Island's  Newsday,  is 
a  brilliant  journalist.  She  represents 
the  fourth  generation  of  the  Medill, 
Patterson,  McCormick  journalistic 
dynasty.  Stormy  Colonel  Robert  R. 
McCormick,  recently  deceased,  and 
his  cousin,  Joseph  Patterson,  pub- 
lished the  Chicago  Tribune  upon 
the  death  of  their  famous  grand- 
father, Joseph  Medill,  a  great 
journalist.  "Bazy"  Miller  Tankers- 
ley,  former  Washington  Times-Her- 
ald editor,  another  woman-of-the- 
family  newspaper  star,  is  a  niece  of 
Colonel  McCormick. 
MRS.  PANSY  H.  POWELL,  of 
Salt  Lake  City,  a  frequent  con- 
tributor to  The  Relief  Society  Mag- 
azine, has  been  awarded  first  place 
in  a  recent  national  contest  of  the 
American  Poetry  League,  with  the 
poem  "Greenwich:  1390  a.d." 
jyt RS.  AGNES  JUST  REID,  long 
a  contributor  to  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine,  is  one  of  twenty- 
five  women  photographed  and 
quoted  in  Lite  Magazine  (October 
3,  1955)  as  responding  to  Anne 
Morrow  Lindbergh's  philosophy,  ex- 
pressed in  her  recent  book,  Gift 
from  the  Sea.  Each  explains  her 
own  method  of  finding  inner  peace 
and   satisfaction. 
Birthday  congratulations  are  ex- 
tended to:  Mrs.  Emma  Bandley, 
Salt  Lake  Cify,  one  hundred;  Mrs. 
Eliza  Drake  McManus,  Ogden, 
Utah,  one  hundred;  Mrs.  Janet  Bu- 
chanan Evans,  Salt  Lake  City, 
ninety-three;  Mrs.  Mary  Ann  Reese, 
Paragonah,  Utah,  ninety-three;  Mrs. 
Annie  M.  Whitehead,  Logan,  Utah, 
ninety-two;  Mrs.  Mary  Eliza  James, 
Phoenix,  Arizona,  ninety-two;  Mrs. 
Stene  Christiansen  Jensen,  Salt 
Lake  City,  ninety-one;  Mrs.  Agnes 
Power  Vincent,  Salt  Lake  City, 
ninety;  Mrs.  Carrie  A.  Niccolls, 
Phoenix,  Arizona,  ninety;  Mrs. 
Mary  Ellen  McElroy  Hawthorne, 
Salt  Lake  City,  ninety. 
Page  31
