[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 16 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Simonsen]
[Editorial: Greetings for the New Year Velma N. Simonsen]
After their temple marriage, and a short honeymoon, they had flown to Paul's home. Home! How Sybil had dreamed of going home with Paul. Of sharing that home with Paul's children. But the children had shut her away. They were fine people — Paul's young brood. They were not deliberately impolite. But the wall they raised between themselves and Sybil was insurmountable. Paul did not guess, nor know. Sybil did not tell him. She knew how hurt he would be. She tucked her secret pain deep in her heart, and knew she was pretending that everything would turn out all right. Now, as she stood there, her fingers pressing her ears so that she could not hear, she knew that in some odd way Paul's children were packaging all their disappointments about Christmas with the fact that Sybil was part of the cause for their unhappiness. When she stepped back into the kitchen with its tangy smell of crisp bacon and browned toast, her face was pale and strained, but the children paid her small attention. 'Taut nerves showed in the way they bickered with each other. Danielle said sharply: "Those fingernails, Dan! 'They look like you've been cleaning chimneys!"' He gave her a scathing glance, THE CLOSED CIRCLE and said, too sweetly: "All the better for Santa Claus!" "Well, he's not coming down our chimney,' cried Kenny darkly. "Once we used to get lots of gifts. Our stockings used to be stuffed with candy, oranges, and nuts!" "Nuts!" Dan said the word deep under his breath. But it did not lose any of the bitterness that burned in Dan's heart. That car had been the dream of his young life. Like every other going-onseventeen-year-old fellow, Dan needed that chassis. No wonder his world had come unglued! THERE were unshed tears behind Sybil's lashes as she washed the breakfast dishes after the children had left for school. She kept thinking of Kenny's train. An ad she had read in the newspaper popped into. Her mind: "Buy now, pay next year!" Maybe she could talk to Paul about it. But she was sure he would not approve. Paul hated to be in debt, and there were plenty of doctor's and hospital bills to be settled by the first of the year. She thought about the savings bonds she had bought before she and: Paul were married. From the first Paul had refused to touch them, saying that they were hers. She had wanted to share her possessions and had had them made out in his name, too. They were hoarding them for an emergency. Sybil swished the dishcloth angrily through her detergent suds and mumbled loudly, "If this isn't an emergency I don't know what is!" Paul, hearing her voice, called out from the living room to know if she'd been talking to him. She answered laughingly, "To my- 43 self, darling. Just grumbling through my long, white beard!" Here she was, anxious to become Santa Claus, and she was completely stumped as to how to go about it. While Paul read, she sat at her desk and got out her budget book and her grocery list. Her pretty forehead was concentrated into a deep frown as she went through her list trying to see if there wasn't some way she could economize.