[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Now is | Author: Woolsey]
["Now is a Man Grown" First Prize Story Maryhale Woolsey]
Now they must fail him, his Mommadee and Poppadee, in the most important desire he had expressed. Poppadee came to help her out of her coat; his arms lingered at her shoulders in a gesture of comforting. "We can stand by, Mommadee. The Boy will not be — alone, while he needs us. 'That is something we can do. Is not so?" "Not — enough!" she protested. "Almost I wish he was a_ child again, happy with small toys — and to be healed his bruises with kisses." "Shame on you, Mommadee! Now is a man grown from our son, 1"' and you would keep him a child! She smiled at him, blinking. "I only said, almost I wish so, Poppadee." "That," he said, "is better. Let the tears come if they will; they help you, my Lena. But not The Boy, you see." "The tears I have finished with! But my heart it aches for The Boy. Love can hurt so terribly. She stood back suddenly, looked 21 searchingly into his gentle gaze. "You — you do not grieve for him, Gustaf! How is?" "Oh, a little, Mommadee," he answered. "There is no need. The Boy will be all right. 'This Gloria Jean is not the right girl for him; you will see, will come the right one, soon maybe." "How can you know so surely?" she exclaimed. "Sometimes there is only one, and always a loncly heart." He shook his head. "No," he said patiently. "The Boy is like me. For me there was one like Gloria Jean; a burgomeister's daughter, she was. The hurt — oh, it was soon over, my Lena." "So?. You never told me this, Gustaf." "Pshaw," he said. "It was not important. I forgot all about her, after I found you, my Lena. Only then, did I know truly what was love, and how to live. Now cease the fretting, Mommadee. Everything will be fine." "I. Like a man " she murmured. Not with disapproval, but gently and with a sort of wonder. She started about the business of preparing for the night; she would say a special prayer for The Boy, that he would bear his hurt bravely and be the better for it when the new, the true love, came along. Now is a man grown, The Boy, she repeated softly to herself. When his mother and father can no longer fulfill his wishes for him, cannot shield him from hurts, nor cure them with their love and kisses like small-boy bumps... Oh, now is a man grown — when he must stand by himself with life, and learn what grown men know. die Gt gentine Wiksian Preston Nibley N the fall of 1924, Wilhelm Fredricks and Emil Hoppe, members of the Church from Germany, who had moved to Argentina, wrote to the Church Authorities in Salt Lake City, asking that missionaries be sent to Buenos Aires, as there were a number of converts in that city awaiting baptism. In September 1925, announcement was made by the First Presidency that Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve had been appointed to open a mission in South America, and that he would proceed to Buenos Aires, after the October Conference, accompanied by Rulon S. Wells and Rey L. Pratt of the First Council of Seventy. Elder Wells spoke the German language and Elder Pratt the Spanish. The above named brethren arrived in Buenos Aires on Sunday, December 6, 1925, and were met by Brothers Fredricks and Hoppe. One week later Elder Ballard baptized six persons in the Rio de la Plata. They were "the first fruits of the restored Gospel in South America." On December 25, 1925 (Christmas day) the three brethren from Salt Lake City, together with eight members of the Church, met in the Park 3 De Febrero at Buenos Aires, and Elder Ballard offered a prayer, dedicating the land of South America to the preaching of the gospel. Oh aes BR: Photograph submitted by Amy Y. Valentine ISCHILIN A small village in the northern part of the Sierra Chicas (small hills) of Cordoba, Argentina, Page 22 THE ARGENTINE MISSION 23 Photograph submitted by Amy Y. Valentine ENTRANCE TO THE LUJAN MUSEUM In the Province of Buenos Aires, Argentina Elder Ballard returned to Utah in 1926 and was succeeded by Elder Reinhold Stoof, as president of the South American Mission, with headquarters in Buenos Aires. A separate mission was formed in Argentina in 1935, with W. Ernest Young as president. He was succeeded by F. S. Williams in 1938; President Williams was succeeded by James L. Barker in 1942; President Barker was succeeded by W. Ernest Young in 1944. President Young presided until 1949, and was succeeded by Harold Brown who presided until 1952; he was succeeded by Lee B. Valentine, who presides at the present time. 'There are now twenty-nine branches of the Church in Argentina with approximately 1,400 members. 'Twenty-one Relief Society organizations were reported in 1954. Amy Y. Valentine is now president of the Argentine Mission Relief Society. The Living Gifts Dorothy Boys Kilian ICK Extrom stood at the R front window looking gloom- ' ily out past the bare black trees and the snowy slope to the silent sawmill on the river bank. "If I could only get a few odd jobs somewhere," he sighed, "so I could pick up a little extra cash." His wife, Greta, came in from the adjoining kitchen, broom in hand, and laid a warm hand on his arm. "IT know what you're thinking, Rick," she said softly. "But you mustn't to~ture yourself because we don't have money for Pete's Christmas presents this year. He knows that, with the mill closed down temporarily, it's a hard winter for all of us." Rick turned unhappy eyes to her. "Maybe he knows, yes, Greta, but you can't expect a five-year-old really to understand an empty stocking "Tosh, it won't be empty," Greta protested. "There's that bushel basket of Winesaps we got from the lodge orchard, and the nuts you gathered along Old Mill Road. And I'm going to bake gingerbread men tonight, such nice, plump, big >? Ones Her voice trembled to a stop. "Greta, don't!" Rick groaned. "Td almost feel better if you'd whack me over the head with that broom, for being such a fool." "I don't happen to think you are a fool, Mr. Extrom... Else why would I have married you?" Greta returned with spirit. Rick grinned and squeezed her 24 hand. "You know what I mean, though," he insisted. "If I hadn't been such a pighead about staying ~ here in Woodville when Uncle Gus offered me that janitor's job in Chicago." "You said you'd rather stay in the village where we've always lived, you and I, Rick, and where we know how, with the Lord's help, to bring up our boy to be a fine, strong man. You said," Greta reminded him, "that with your job as caretaker for the lodge, we'd probably get along better and be happier than with a full-time job in the city, living in a tiny, dark apartment." "Oh, sure," Rick interrupted, "I had fine, brave ideas. But it wasn't Christmas Eve then." "Since when is Christmas Eve a time to stop being fine and brave?" Greta asked indignantly. "You go along now, Rick, before it gets dark. Take Pete's sled and get that fir they promised you from the lodge grounds. At least the boy'll have a tree... And maybe something more." She looked over at the little wooden creche figures carefully set up on the living-room table. "Somehow," she said, smiling at her husband, "it's just not in me to feel hopeless about anything on Christmas Eve." S Rick strode down the lane towards the lodge, the crunch, crunch of his boots on the hardpacked snow seemed to be saying "fool—fool—soft-hearted fool." He knew that it wasn't just for THE LIVING GIFTS Pete's sake that he'd stayed on here. It was also because he loved the sound of the river-wind sighing, as it was now, through the pines, loved the glittering beauty of white fields touched by the slanting rays of the late afternoon sun, would miss, painfully, the quiet peacefulness of a man alone on a road in his very own countryside. He shrugged his shoulders and opened the gates of the lodge grounds. 'Through the trees he saw the building itself ablaze with lights as the December day drew in. Several families, he knew, had come up with their children for a country holiday. What would Peter think tomorrow when he saw the elaborate gifts those youngsters would surely receive! Well, he'd at least have a Christmas tree; the grove behind the lodge needed thinning. Rick picked up the axe from the sled and looked around him. Deciding on a shapely balsam fir about his own height, he began, with his foot, to scrape the snow away from the base of its trunk. 'Then he pulled the mitten off his right hand and ran his fingers carefully along the blade of the axe. As he raised the gleaming tool to swing, and faced the tree directly, he stared at its lustrous green needles, its dark purple cones standing erect like candles on its upper branches. 'Then, in a flash, he saw that same tree a month from now, lying forlornly on the ash heap by the back fence, brittle, brown, lifeless. Slowly he lowered the axe, laid it on the sled and scuffed off through the grove to get a shovel from the shed back of the lodge. It took some time to get the fir 25 on to the sled in just the condition he wanted it; the sun had now gone down and the winter dusk was rapidly turning to night. Just as he was ready to leave, he heard a rustling sound nearby. Peering through the gloom he saw a rabbit huddled under a bush, its eyes glazed with fear, one hind leg stretched out unnaturally straight. Apparently, it had gotten loose from _a trap, with a broken leg. ICK himself had often snared rabbits. But, somehow, this was different... It was Christmas Eve, and the little animal had made a brave escape. 'Tenderly and carefully, he picked it wp and tucked it under one arm. 'Then, pulling the sled rope with his other hand, he started home. At the bend of the road, near the river, a gray shadow crossed his path, then stopped at his feet. A tiny, thin kitten, meowing piteously, rubbed its back against his boots. "You been deserted on a cold night like this?" Rick asked softly. He _ hesitated a moment, then dropped the sled rope and scooped the furry little thing up into his jacket pocket. The lights of his own cottage, usually so warm and_ beckoning, this time only reminded him of his problem. As he opened the kitchen door he sniffed the fresh, tangy odor of newly popped corn. 'That would be Greta preparing trimmings for the tree. She never failed to do her part. If only he might have come through with something "I got the tree all right," he said, standing motionless on the gray and red braided rug just inside the door. "And see," he looked down ruefully 26 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 at the animals, "two more mouths to feed. Don't bother to say it, I know I'm hopeless." "They won't eat much," Greta said lightly, putting an old towel down behind the wood stove for the kitten to cuddle on. She stayed on her knees for a long moment, gently stroking the tiny animal's back. When she got up she said eagerly, "Did Peter see you when you came in just now?" "No, why?" "Rick," Greta's eyes were shining, ae.? ») do you realize what's happened? 66 WArrLe you see what I got!" Rick heard Peter shout excitedly late Christmas morning as he brought two little boys from the lodge out into the kitchen. "What'd you get?" the boys echoed. "Present number one," crowed Peter, pointing behind the stove where the kitten, with a huge, slightly chewed, red bow around its neck, slumbered peacefully. The boys stooped down to pat the cuddly little animal, but Peter was already at the back door. "Come on," he called impatiently, "this way for number two." He led the way out to the back porch where stood a wooden cage made from two apple crates and some wire screen. Dozing contentedly in a corner, a splint tied with red and green ribbon to one hind leg, a carrot between its front paws, was the rabbit. "Boy!" Peter's friends breathed in unison. "Even. Our Christmas tree is alive," Peter finished exultantly. "Come look." Rick followed the children into the living room and looked with them at the little fir set in a washtub full of dirt, its cones touched with silver paint, its branches decorated with red cranberry chains and dazzling white popcorn balls. "We're going to plant it out in the front yard next week, so we'll have it always," Peter explained happily. "See what I meant when I told you I had a very special Christmas this year? A living Christmas, that's what Mommy called it." Rick moved close to Greta, who was standing by the table, smilingly fingering the little figures at the creche. "Peter's right," he said gratefully. "This was your idea." "But it was you who brought home these things," Greta answered warmly. "See what Christmas Eve brings to people with soft, foolish hearts!"
