[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bound | Author: Magazines]
[Bound Volumes of 1955 Relief Society Magazines]
ward  and  stake  Magazine  representatives  about  April  1,  1956. 
{Bound   volumes  of  1Q55  IRelief  Society    f/Lagazines 
"DELIEF  Society  officers  and  members  who  wish  to  have  their  1955 
issues  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  bound  may  do  so  through  The 
Deseret  News  Press,  31  Richards  Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  1,  Utah.  The 
cost  for  binding  the  twelve  issues  in  a  permanent  cloth  binding  is  $2.50, 
including  the  index.  If  a  leather  binding  is  preferred,  the  cost  is  $3.50. 
See  schedules  of  postage  rates  in  this  issue  of  the  Magazine,  page  72.  If 
bound  volumes  are  desired,  and  the  Magazine  cannot  be  supplied  by  the 
person  making  the  request,  the  Magazines  will  be  supplied  for  $1.50  by  the 
Magazine  Department,  General  Board  of  Relief  Society,  40  North  Main 
Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  Only  a  limited  number  of  Magazines  are 
available  for  binding. 
It  is  recommended  that  wards  and  stakes  have  one  volume  of  the  1955 
Magazines  bound  for  preservation  in  ward  and  stake  Relief  Society  li- 
braries. 
isLt    1 1 lidnight,    ^Juecember  Q/hirtu-first 
Katherine  F.  Larsen 
White  in  the  chime-begun  year 
Snow  swirls  incessantly,  silently  there 
Beyond  the  glass,  covering  mistakes,  softening  harsh  fact 
To  make  an  ideal  world.     Lean  on  my  shoulder,  dear, 
Let  us  look  together  out  into  the  whorl  of  storm. 
If  I  have  in  that  spent  year  of  days 
Done  other  than  I  should  have,  or  in  any  act 
Or  word  offended,  let  your  forgiveness  cover  it 
As  does  this  snow  all  bleakness,  all  raw  forms. 
Take  my  hand;  let  us  begin  as  if  over  again, 
Telling  each  other  silently  by  our  nearness 
How  far  we  have  come,  together; 
And  how  our  hearth's  fire  we  knelt  and  lit  together, 
Tongues  of  fire  crackling  at  our  backs, 
And  warming.
