[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Article | Title: New Year's Greetings | Author: Belle S. Spafford, Marianne C. Sharp, Velma N. Simonsen]
New Year s Greetings Wii the advent of another New Year, the general board sends love and greetings to the more than 156,000 Relief Society members living in many parts of the world. We are grateful for the abiding testimonies of Relief Society members as to the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. We acknowledge with deep appreciation the devoted service continuously given to the work of the Society and the love that exists in the hearts of the sisters everywhere for Relief Society and for one another. Relief Society work is the work of the Master. It calls for love of God on the part of its members, with hearts attuned to his will; it calls for love of his children characterized by the free and ready exercise of compassion toward them. As we look forward to the New Year, each of us desires for this Society an abundance of blessings from the Father; we wish to meet more fully our individual responsibilities toward the Society. It is the season when each of us is imbued with the deep desire better to conduct her own life so as to bring about greater personal blessings and a higher degree of happiness. It is but natural that those of us who love Relief Society would wish for its continued well-being. It is but natural that each one would desire and hope for herself and her loved ones as high a degree of peace, happiness, and security as is possible in a world filled with trials and uncertainties. It is comforting to know that, regardless of the impact of evil and the strains and stresses of life, the continued well-being of Relief Society is assured and the blessings of personal peace and happiness as well as eternal well-being are attainable for each of us, if we but follow the path simply and clearly defined for us by the Master: "And one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, Which is the first commandment of all? "And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord: "And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment. "And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. "And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth: for there is one God; and there is none other but he: "And to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbour as himself, is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. "And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God..." (Mark 12:28-34). One who is not far from the kingdom of God enjoys an incomparable sense of peace, joy, and well-being. The dominant principle of Relief Socicty work has always been and must continue to be love of God and love and 'compassion for his children. Therein lies its hope of continued blessings from the Father and the full realization of its mission. Obedience to the first two great commandments is the greatest guarantee of carthly and eternal blessings for each of us as individuals. The sister who will give to Relief Socicty through the new year a full measure of devotion will be an instrument in bringing about the desired blessings for Relief Society, and she will find herself on the pathway that leads toward the earthly and eternal blessings she deserves for herself. May the New Year bring to Relief Society women everywhere the love, approbation, and blessings of our Heavenly Father is our earnest prayer. Belle S. Spafford Marianne C. Sharp Velma N. Simonsen