[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Lesson | Title: Lesson]
[Lesson Work for Spanish-Speaking Relief Societies and Other Minority Groups in Stakes]
"Because you were trying to make a nice Christmas for us, Mother," finished Danielle eagerly. Sybil was glad that Paul's arm was tight about her shm_ waist. Why, she needn't have worried about Paul's children. 'They had seen the true meaning of Christmas much plainer than she had. Sybil's eyes were clear and shining blue as they reached out to encompass everyone in the room. 'The glow in her heart was a_ steady blaze. "Merry Christmas, darling,' she said, meeting Paul's proud glance. Dan had turned on the tree, and it shone with a soft, beautiful radiance over all the room, as Sybil watched the children getting acquainted with their grandmother and grandfather. Why, she thought, we're a real family now, and knew, deep in her soul, that fears and doubts had fled. From that minute on, she belonged. The children had given her love for Christmas. Vegetables - A Different Way &very Day Part II Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist Utah State Agricultural College I gai foods are more pleasing to the taste or more appealing to the eye than are gardenfresh or fresh frozen vegetables cooked just right and seasoned just enough to bring out the good, sweet natural flavors. However, the serving of three vegetables every day, does call for variety in both selection and methods of preparation, if there is to be no monotony. Here are just a few recipes to start you thinking up new and interesting ways to prepare vegetables for your family. Lima BEAN CASSEROLE 2% cups lima beans, home-cooked 1 tablespoon butter or drippings or canned 1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon brown sugar "2 teaspoon salt % teaspoon pepper 2 _ teaspoons lemon juice "4 cup cheese, grated 2 teaspoons dry mustard 4 cup buttered crumbs I 4 or 5 bacon strips or frankfurters Place drained lima beans in a casserole. Save liquid. Heat butter or drippings over low. Heat; add flour and stir until well blended. Slowly add % cup liquid from the beans, stirring until smooth; cook over low heat until thickened. Add brown sugar, salt, pepper, mustard, and lemon juice. Pour sauce over lima beans; sprinkle with buttered crumbs and grated cheese. Place strips of bacon or frankfurters on top. Bake in a moderate oven (375°F) 25 to 35 minutes or until lightly browned. VEGETABLE SOUFFLE Vegetable souffle is an excellent way to use left-over vegetables. It needs only a crisp salad as an accompaniment. 'To make a serving for six, you will need: 1 cup cooked vegetables 2 teaspoons grated onion 1 cup thick white sauce* 4 eggs separated 1 tablespoon lemon juice % teaspoon cream of tartar Finely chop or sieve the vegetable. To the white sauce add the prepared vegetable, lemon juice, grated onion, and beaten egg yolks. Cool. Beat egg whites until frothy; add cream of tartar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold into the above mixture, Put into a casserole that has been coated with a light film of melted butter. Bake in a moderate oven (325°F) about one hour. Carrots, spinach, peas, green beans, or corn are delicious in souffles. The use of sauces on vegetables can create new interest and appetite appeal in vegetable dishes. Her are a few sauces that help to make good vegetables better. Each makes four average servings. 1. Cream sauce base: To 1 cup of medium thick white sauce add: a. Three or 4 tablespoons horseradish, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, and % teaspoon paprika. Fold into sauce and serve hot over string beans, asparagus, cabbage, or cauliflower.. B. One cup grated cheese and % teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. Mix with sauce "Recipe page 59. Page 46 I VEGETABLES 47 until cheese is all melted. Serve at once over spinach, string beans, cauliflower, or asparagus. C. Two chopped hard-cooked eggs and 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. If desired, add 1 teaspoon dry mustard. Serve over broccoli, spinach, asparagus, or string beans. 2. Easy Hollandaise Sauce: Cut 4 pound butter in small pieces. Put in top part of double boiler with 3 egg yolks and 3 tablespoons lemon juice. Let stand at room temperature for one-half hour. Just before serving, place over gently boiling water for 1% minutes, stirring briskly. Serve over freshly cooked asparagus, carrots, broccoli, or 2 Mesias 3. Almond Butter Sauce: pe Ys cup butter in a heavy pan and heat carefully to a golden brown. Add % cup toasted almonds slivered and 3 tablespoons lemon juice. Pour over hot broccoli, cauliflower, or string beans and serve at once. Reba Jurner, Lady of Charity ne Turner, Loa, Utah, sixty-nine years old, is never idle. She works for anyone who asks her, and has never taken a penny for any of it. People ask her to work on gifts for their loved ones, and although she will never see some of the recipients, she freely gives of her time and talents. She seems always to know of someone who would like something really lovely, so she makes gifts for all occasions and for no particular occasion—just gifts. She has made seventy-five doilies, hundreds of handkerchiefs, many lovely quilts, dozens of embroidered towels. During the second world war she knitted hundreds of pairs of sox and made many good warm sweaters. Sister Turner has served as an executive officer in the Primary Association, as a Sunday School teacher, a ward president in Relief Society for six years, and has been a visiting teacher for forty years, a service which she still enjoys. She has three living children, ten grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren. In commenting upon the charity and love which are so much a part of all that Sister Turner accomplishes, her friend Mrs. Nell Ekker characterizes her as a most exemplary Relief Society woman: "When I think of charity or Relief Society, I think of Sister Reba Turner. Perhaps her many years of association with this fine organization have interwoven love and thoughtfulness and service into her being until she is indeed a part of all that Relief Society work symbolizes." Hermanas CHAPTER 7 Fay Tarlock Synopsis: The story "Hermanas'' (sisters) is narrated by an American woman living temporarily in Mexico. She has befriended Lolita, a widow, and her lovely daughter Graciela.