[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science: The Constitution and World Affairs | Author: Albert R. Bowen]
Saar Sctence— The Constitution of the United States Lesson 20—The Constitution and World Affairs Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, April 24, 1956 Objective: To show how the United States evolved and developed from weakness to strength under a policy inaugurated by Washington, and to consider our country in relation to world affairs since World War I. Transition of the Nation From Weakness to Strength URING the first century and a quarter of her constitutional history, the United States developed from a position of perilous weakness to become the mightiest Nation the world has ever seen. 'This transition from weakness to strength is one of the greatest political miracles of the modern world. It is not to be supposed that the position of the United States among the nations is the result of fortuitous accident. It has come about because of wise and statesmanlike leadership aided by Divine Providence. It often happens, not only in the affairs of men but likewise of nations, that the beginnings are of crucial importance. In order to gain a better understanding of our national beginnings it should be useful to review the circumstances of our national birth. America did not arrive upon the world scene a strong and robust infant. The contrary was the fact. In all categories by which greatness in nations is measured, except one, we were terribly weak and vulnerable. Our population was small, about four million, Page 66 by 1789. We possessed no great cities nor centers of population and industry. 'The Nation was virtually without money or credit. We had no armed strength which deserved mention measured in terms of world power. Such population as we possessed was widely scattered with difficulties of travel and communication between each widely separated section almost insurmountable. It is difficult to imagine in what way foreign invasion could have been successfully defended against in those early years, if undertaken by a strong, well-armed, and determined power. 'Threats of such attacks were very narrowly averted on many occasions. —~ ", Wisdom of Early Leaders In one quality, however, the United States possessed an abundant superiority. 'That superiority was founded in the wisdom of her great early leaders, headed by Washington. Beginning with Washington, the United States launched upon her world journey, carefully steering a course the results of which bear eloquent testimony to the greatness of her leadership. It should not be LESSON DEPARTMENT deemed out of place to suggest at this point that we have not always followed as wisely as we were led. It should likewise not be considered out of place to suggest that the perils of our day are as great as those of Washington's day, and require as enlightened a leadership as in any period of our hi