[Vol7 | July 1920 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The Official Round Table]

OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 417 Women As Fire Lookouts. Women forest fire lookouts in Oregon forests proved so successful that a large number will be employed for this summer's work. In 1919 five women were employed at high stations in the forest to report by telephone any indications of fire. Each of the women lived alone, camping out in the open a great part of the summer. Next summer the forest service will employ forty additional fire patrols, and many of them are expected to be women. Women in the Churches. Women are still knocking at the doors of the churches for equality in holding what priestly rights accrue in such churches. The Presbyterian church is still debating the report of the special committee on whether women should hold official positions in the church organizations. While the Methodist conference of May 9th is also wrestling with the woman problem. It is impossible to find sufficient men to fill country pulpits with the present wage scale for country pastors, and the problem is a very lively and up-to-date one. How these people thrash around in the dark without the light of the Gospel to guide them on their way! Baby Week in East India. Maternity and infant welfare exhibition was held in Delhi, India, in February, at which the proper care of mothers and babies was shown by means of models, charts, slides, pictures, leaflets, lectures, etc. The topics discussed were: pre-maternity, maternity, infant welfare, childhood, domestic hygiene and sanitation, first aid, and home nursing. A baby show day was also held on which more than 2,000 babies were presented. Swiss Women Forge Ahead. (From Liverpool Post.) Mile. Marie Prodhom, who has been appointed director of the Bank of Geneva, and will sign the notes and script issued by that bank, is only 28 years of age. She proved herself an excellent financier during the war, and is the first woman in Europe to hold such an important position. There are now two judges, nine barristers, three engineers and a number of university professors and doctors of the fair sex in Switzerland. The Eugenic Bearing of Taxation. Assessment of an income tax by dividing the total income 
 of a family among all the members, old or young, and taxing each separately, is recommended by a committee of the Eugenics Education Society, (London), headed by the president, Leonard Darwin, which has been submitted to Parliament. As a conclusion to the discussion, which is printed in the January, 1920, Eugenics Review, Major Darwin prints the following summary: "Taxation should fall on parents and on the childless in proportion to their ability to bear the strain. To make the incidence of the income tax just, the amount thus now obtained from the childless should be increased and that from parents decreased, the transfer of wealth thus affected should bear some relationship to the income taxed, and consideration should be given to the distinction between wealth which has been won by the individual taxed and wealth which he has inherited. Smaller incomes being less taxed, to allow the family income to count as several separate incomes would produce the desired differential result, though, in order not to diminish the revenue, the rate per pound would have to be raised in all grades. If such a reform cannot now be fully adopted, the principles involved should, we urge, be authoritatively sanctioned, and when in the future taxation can be lowered, it should first be materially lowered on parents before any burden is taken off the childless. The winning of a moderate income by their own work, the saving and conversion into capital of some of this income, a saving needing care and self-sacrifice, the preservation of this capital in succeeding generations in consequence of thrift, temperance, and perseverance   these have been different steps in the history of the part of the nation which would be affected by such a reform. Where any of these conditions exist, there the stock must generally be sound, and the nation demands a relatively more rapid multiplication of its soundest stocks." NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Northwestern States Mission. Mrs. Anna B. Iverson has been appointed to preside over the Relief Societies of the Northwestern States Mission. She was set apart on November 4, 1919, by Elder Melvin J. Ballard. Mrs. Iverson is a woman of rare faith and broad experience in church work, having served efficiently in many capacities. She brings to her new position not only interest and enthusiasm, but capabilities which will insure success. Mrs. Iverson succeeds Mrs. Mattie J. Ballard, who served OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 419 ably and faithfully as Relief Society president during her husband's appointment as president of this mission. Bingham Stake. The Relief Society women of the Bingham stake have been asked to furnish thirteen rooms in the new L. D. S. Hospital, which is being built in Idaho Falls. This will mean that each of the thirteen wards will be expected to furnish a room. It is estimated that the cost to each ward will be from $150 to $200 each. Twin Falls. In the March number of the "Magazine," an error was made in the report from Twin Falls. It was stated that $27 was dispersed for Thanksgiving cheer. The amount was $97. We regret that this error was made in the general office, and are pleased to correct the same. Union Stake. Interesting items from the Union stake report are as follows: One hundred per cent dues;  100 per cent magazines taken. This means that every woman in the stake is a subscriber to the Relief Society "Magazine." Some wards take more magazines than they have enrolled members. For example, LeGrande ward has 61 members and subscribes for 65 magazines;  Union ward has 35 members and subscriber for 39 magazines. The ward officers and magazine agents in the Union stake are to be congratulated for this splendid showing, for it is due to their efforts that the stake is able to reach this high standard. The Union stake board is now carrying temple and burial clothing, and are equipped to supply this need through the stake. A campaign is now on to raise funds to have work done in the temple. After the funds are raised, the stake officers will arrange for a Union stake week, when, with the funds collected, work will be done. Due to the great distance, it is not feasible to arrange an excursion, but the earnest workers there feel that they can plan to have their share of work done by substitutes. During the winter the Boise stake sent a list of 107 names to the Loan temple. These names were accompanied by funds sufficient to cover the expense of having the work done. At a conference held in the Boise stake in March, the following subjects were discussed at the stake and local officers' meeting: What constitutes a good class leader? The division of responsibility among officers. 
 Necessity of accuracy and neatness in record keeping and report making.. Responsibility of Relief Society ward teachers. Unity   the keynote of success. Requirements for social welfare activities. Methods used in increasing membership. How to create interest in Relief Society work. The women committed themselves to a rigid campaign against social errors, particularly the cigarette evil, and each officer pledged herself to report, within the next three months, at least one person saved from the use of tobacco. Social welfare work relative to the correction of juvenile delinquency and the bringing about of a better co-operation between parents and children, and between parents and the schools and officers of the law, as also the education of mother in child welfare work, feeding of children, etc., were themes of special consideration. A feature of special interest along this line was a lecture delivered before the Relief Society session of the convention Sunday afternoon, by Mrs. R. L. Bennett, of the extension department of the University of Idaho. Malad Stake. In addition to the 499 days spent in temple work, this society has sent $75 to the Logan temple for additional service. Sevier Stake. On March 17, 1920, a most enjoyable time was had by Relief Society members of Sevier stake, who united in celebrating the 78th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. The entertainment was held in the Richfield high school building. Meeting commenced at 3:30 p. m. A very interesting program was presented. "Organization and growth of Relief Societies," "Gathering and disbursing of wheat," and "Woman's suffrage," were themes handled by various speakers. Pleasing musical numbers were furnished by Richfield Junior high school band, and individuals from various wards. At 5 p. m., a most refreshing luncheon was served to all present. At 7:30 p. m., Mr. Smith, of the high school faculty, demonstrated their recently purchased movie machine to a crowded house. The evening was spent in dancing, excellent music being furnished by the Elsinore orchestra. The entertainment was pronounced a decided success. It brought together Relief Society and Church workers who enjoyed the association of their co-laborers and the privilege of renewing acquaintances and friendship. Sixteen OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 421 out of twenty-one wards were represented and the attendance was near the five hundred mark. St. George Stake. On March 14, 1920, the St. George stake Relief Society was reorganized. President Emily C. Brooks, who has served faithfully for six years as a ward president, and fourteen years as stake president, resigned because of poor health. Mrs. Josephine Miles was appointed to succeed Mrs. Brooks in the stake presidency. Mrs. Agnes E. Winsor has been made first counsellor, and Mrs. Emma L. Burgess, second counsellor. Mrs. Isabella W. Prince was chosen secretary, to succeed Mrs. Zaidee W. Miles, who has given faithful and efficient service as secretary. European Mission. The Dublin Relief Society has sent a draft to President George Albert Smith for ninety pounds, or about $450, to be given for relief to the Swiss and German Saints, who have suffered great hardships since the war. The Dublin Relief Society is small, and this effort on their part is surely most commendable. Many of the members of the Dublin Relief Society are of German origin, and their sympathies have naturally gone to the members of the Swiss and German mission, who have undergone sore trials. Mrs. Marie Yonkstetar is the president of the Dublin Relief Society. Cache Stake. On March 17, the Relief Society women of the Cache stake spent the day in temple service. There were 700 in all in attendance. On Tuesday, May 18, the Cache stake Relief Society celebrated its fifty-second anniversary, by holding conference on that date. Two of the original ward officers were in attendance, and were asked to give reminiscences. Blackfoot Stake. During the last six months of 1919, the Relief Society of the Blackfoot stake donated $1,150 to the stake tabernacle. In February, an excursion was made to the Logan temple, 60 persons participating. At this time, $63 was paid for charity work. Membership Dues. Among the stakes to send one hundred per cent membership dues, are Snowflake, Lost River, and Oneida;  Snowflake sending a little more than one hundred per cent. 
 North Davis Stake. On March 17, every ward in the North Davis stake celebrated the anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. The Kaysville ward gave a chicken dinner in the opera house, at 12 o'clock, for men, women and children. Four large tables were filled to capacity four times. They served 720 people at table, and sent out 40 tray luncheons. All of the food was donated by members of the organization. In the afternoon, a program, consisting of literary and musical numbers, was rendered, with an address by President Henry H. Blood;  and in the evening a Relief Society ball was held. Most of the dances were those of other days, but the younger people enjoyed them equally with the older members. San Luis Stake. The San Luis stake raised $139 with Sunday eggs, in six weeks. The money was used to place electric lights in the stake amusement hall. Snowflake. During the past year, Mrs. Lulu J. Smith resigned as secretary of the Snowflake stake, due to home duties. Mrs. Smith was one of the most competent and faithful secretaries in the Relief Society, and it is with regret that she was unable to continue her services. Mrs. Pearl N. Fish has been appointed to succeed Mrs. Smith. We welcome Mrs. Fish, and what we have already learned of her work, we find that she is a worthy successor to Mrs. Smith. In Memorial. Mrs. Elizabeth C. Larkins, one of the faithful Relief Society women, of Kaysville, recently passed away. For thirty-seven years she was a resident of Kaysville, where she held many positions of trust in the Y. L. M. I. A., and in the Relief Society, where she served faithfully and well. In the passing of Miss Jessie Alice Young, of Snowflake stake board of Relief Society, is lost a very charming young woman, a brilliant worker, and a class leader in genealogy par excellence. Miss Young began her public service very early. At the age of twelve, she was made secretary of the primary association, and a member of the ward choir. She was active in the Mutual, in the Sunday school, and finally in the Relief Society. In order to prepare herself for her work, she took special correspondence courses in missionary work and home economics. Miss Young was the daughter of Apostle Brigham and Rhoda Perkins Young. OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 423 Tongan Mission. The following interesting letter and report have been received from Willard L. Smith, president of the Tongan Mission: Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams, Salt Lake City, Utah. Dear Sister: I am enclosing a brief report of the Relief Society work of our mission for the past year. At the present we have organized five societies, the fifth one being organized at our last October conference. I am not including a report of the society as it has been organized for a short time. The primary value of a Relief Society organization here is the teaching of the gospel to the sisters. The converts being reared in the other churches, it takes considerable time for them to become acquainted to the teachings of the gospel. In the branches where we have a Relief Society organized, the sisters get a much better understanding of the gospel which strengthens greatly the work in the branches. They have a great desire to be worthy some day of entering into the temples, to perform the work for their dead ancestors, and the Relief Society will be the greatest factor here to assist them in becoming worthy of that privilege. Our sisters are a great support to the elders, caring for them when they are sick, and looking after their wants when well. The past year there has been considerable sickness among the elders here and the Relief Society members have provided suitable food, as well as means, to assist us in these trying times. Our laundry is all done by the Relief Society. I omitted to mention the donation of $100 sent this year to the Canadian and Hawaiian temples by these devoted women;  this money was raised by the sale of fancy work done by the Relief Society sisters. We feel greatly the need of a few good lady missionaries from Zion to assist in the Relief Society work. Sister Smith is the only sister we have. She travels from island to island to assist in the work, when she is able to travel, and being so short of elders, she has to perform the same labor as an elder;  she has charge of the branch and school at headquarters. It is impossible here for the society to store food or wheat as is done in Zion, as there are no foods that will permit being stored. The Haalaufuli Relief Society has undertaken to have each member plant 500 taros. This food, if left 
 in the ground ten years, is still edible, and is not damaged by drouth or hurricanes, which this country is so subject to. The variety of taro planted here is different from the taro of Samoa or the Sandwich Islands, it being a plant common only to these islands. The Neiafu sisters have a large yam garden, planted for the purpose of raising funds and also to assist in providing food for the elders from Zion. They recently raised $240 for an organ in their branch. In three of the societies we have the following statistics: Number of meetings held, 148;  average attendance at meetings, 31;  number enrolled, 52;  number of officers, 12;  cash on hand, $277.32. Praying the blessings of the gospel to ever be with you in your many efforts for the sisters of Zion, Your brothers, WILLARD L. SMITH, Mission President. RICHES. Mrs. Parley Nelson, I sit and sew by the window. And out in the garden I see A little plaid bonnet, bobbing about In the shade of the old apple tree;  I hear little feet softly patter, A sweet, rosy face I behold: I am richer by far Than most millionaires are, For my treasure is better than gold. Rexburg, Idaho. MYTH OF THE MANUSCRIPT FOUND The Deseret News Book Store are entirely out of the "Myth of the Manuscript Found," and, under present conditions, of shortage of paper, etc., the book cannot be reprinted at the present time. Orders will have to be returned.