[Vol7 | July 1920 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: My Son Jane Howard]
Smith, Jane S. Richards, Ellen B. Ferguson, M. D. ;  secretary, E. M. Wells;  treasurer, Matilda M. Barrett;  chairman visiting committee, Elizabeth Howard;  finance committee, Mesdames Sarah i\I. Kimball, Priscilla j\I. Staines, Priscilla P. Jennings, Annie G. Sharp, Sarah Jenne Cannon, Hannah T. King. Elizabeth Groesbeck, Ellen Dinwoodey, Elizabeth H. Goddard, Sophia W. Taylor;  resident physician and surgeon, Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson;  visiting board. Dr. Seymour B. Young, Dr. W. F. Anderson;  visiting surgeon, eye and ear, Dr. Romania B. Pratt;  clinical registrar and dis Mc Lean pensary The clerk, Mary stake E. Presidents Ian Schoonhoven;  matron, of the Relief Mary were Societies Ann members of the honorary committee, each one representing the interests in their respective localities. The circular of the hospital said further: Any lady member of the Church of the Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in good standing, may become a member of this association by the payment of $1 annually;  such name and amount to be sent to any member of the committee, to be voted upon at the next monthly meeting. The board of managers expect to establish in connection with the hospital, a school for the purpose of educating mid-wives and training nurses for the sick, in order that the people in all the stakes of Zion may be better supplied with efficient help in the hour of extreme need. The dedication of the Deseret Hospital on Fifth East street, Salt Lake City, occurred July 17, 1882, at 11 o'clock a. m. Of the first presidency of the Church, who were present, there were John Taylor and Joseph F. Smith;  also President Wilford Woodruff, and Apostle F. D. Richards;  of the stake presidency, Angus M. Cannon and Joseph E. Taylor;  mayor of the city, William Jennings, with Elders C. W. Penrose, L. John Nuttall, Joseph Home. The president and officers of the institution were present, also physicians in charge, matron and others. Dr. Seymour B. Young read the program of the services. Prof. C. J. Thomas had charge of the music. Prayer was offered by President Woodruff, after singing and prayer, Dr. Young read the circular and appeal. Addresses were given by Presidents John Taylor, Joseph F. Smith, Wilford Woodruff, Angus M. Cannon, Mayor 
 William Jennings, and C. W. Penrose. The dedicatory prayer was offered by Apostle F. D. Richards;  the next business in order was the setting apart of the physicians and matron by Presidents John Taylor, Joseph F. Smith, and others. Benediction was offered by Joseph E. Taylor. Mayor William Jennings manifested his interest in this benevolent institution by handing over to* the president a check for $500. As the quarterly conference of the Relief Society of the Salt Lake stake, held on the 16th day of June, 1882, Pres. Eliza R. Snow presided. The secretary read the financial report of all the money received by membership, donations, and from the concert. Total amount, cash $3,290.80 Total amount, orders 170.30 Total amount, expenditure $1,569.05 $3,461.10 Orders on tithing 53.80 Balance on hand, cash and orders 1,838.25 Donations were reported of bedding, bedsteads, $3,461.10 bleached material and from the Old Folks Committee, $40.00;  other donations were toweling, cutlery, crockery and many other things for use and household purposes, also books and groceries. The medical report of the Deseret Hospital, from July 31 to August 31: Patients remaining at hospital at date of last report, 6;  received during the month of August, 8;  discharged, 6; died, none;  total remaining, 8;  visits of medical board, Dr. Young, 28, Dr. Anderson, 6;  prescriptions and treatment by the house surgeon, to outside patients, 17;  to indoor patients, 151;  Ellen B. Ferguson, house surgeon. The annual meeting of the Deseret Hospital Association was held on the 12th of May, 1883, and presided over by President Eliza R. Snow. From the report given it was clearly shown that everything was being done by the executive committee of the board and other acting committees, that could be done for the interest of the hospital, but the expenses so far were greater than the receipts. Up to 1883, the association had enrolled 845 members who were "supposed" to pay an annual fee of $1.00 per year. After the reading of the report, President Smith expressed her thanks to all who had so liberally aided in gathering means, referred gratefully to the bishops of wards, to the different associations and to the L. D. S. R. S. CLASS FOR TRAINING NURSES' AIDS 381 Unity Club;  acknowledged many personal contributions;  she also expressed her appreciation of the wise counsel received from President John Taylor. Dr. Elvira S. Barney offered to teach a class free of charge in Obstetrics, Anatomy and Physiology, if they would provide the room and necessary equipment. It was also decided to give a grand concert in the tabernacle on the 24th of July for the benefit of the hospital. Meeting adjourned for one year. The following is the financial report: Deseret Hospital, report to April conference, 1883. Financial report of the Deseret Hospital from October 6, 1882, to April 6, 1883: Balance on hand at date of last report   Groceries Cash Orders & Produce $1,858.00 $103.20 $17.60 Receipts _..... _ 1,815.25 37.25 Receipts from patients 488.10 385.70 66.62 Total cash expense _ ..$4,161.35 $410.80 $84.12 3,143.63 385.70 43.90 Balance __   $1,017.72 $ 25.10 $40.22 Average expanses per month, $595.55;  fees to physicians, $490;  matron and helps, $734;  rent, $360. In addition to amounts donated in cash, orders, etc., there have been donations in coal, stoves, wines, brandies, all kinds of bedding, cow, calf, pigs, chickens, beef, venison, and many other useful articles. Emmeline B. Wells, Secretary. It may be well to explain here that classes for training nurses as nurses only is a modern development. The first real nursing undertaken professionally was in the Crimean war by Florence Nightingale and her associates. The nursing done by Catholic sisterhoods was in a sense professional, but not at all public in its character, while nursing as a profession is a development entirely of the 19th century. Midwifery isas ancient as birth and death, for women have ministed to women with consecrated labors and with an inherited fitness for their profession. Nursing as a business in the modern sense is differentiated from the tender ministering services rendered by relatives, friends and neighbors to each other;  while that class of service which requires modern 
 technical training in a hospital or a school has its sharply marked limitations and set boundaries. The first Utah school for nursing, as has been remarked in this article, was a development of the pioneer classes in the study of general hygiene and medical information. We note in this report of the Deseret Hospital that the Relief Society board, in 1882, contemplated opening a school for the purpose of educating mid-wives and training nurses for the sick, while Dr. Elvira Barney offers to teach a class in obstetrics and nurses free of charge, in 1883. Aunt Zina and the various lady physicians taught many and various classes between the years 1878 and 1898, but in 1898 began the formal nurse class which again connected the Relief Society with nursing school work after the closing of the Deseret Hospital. Regular reports were given of the nurse work and hospital from 1883, and annual jubilee meetings were held, while benefits to assist in the financing of the institution were given by various associations and clubs. All of the graduate women physicians were members of the staff of the hospital. In 1884, the hospital was removed from the 12th to the 17th ward, and in 1885, Dr. Shipp's class of nurses and mid-wives were taken to visit the hospital once a week for practical hospital work. On July 15, 1887, Dr. Penrose succeeded Dr. Mattie Hughes (Cannon) as resident physician of the hospital, where she remained until the hospital was discontinued, in 1896. An interesting development of this activity was the publishing, by Dr. Shipp, in 1888, of a medical paper called "The Sanitarium." In 1889, Dr. Hughes (Cannon) opened a school for nurses alone, and this was, perhaps, the first Nurse School established strictly for that purpose, as both obstetrics and nursing were combined in the early classes. In 1893 a Scandinavian nurse, of fine training and good abilities, Mrs. Hannah Sorensen, taught a number of classes in the central towns of Utah in physiology and hygiene. She was very anxious to associate her work formally with the Relief Society, but the project failed. In August, 1896, the doors of the Deseret Hospital were closed for lack of financial support. Woman physicians were becoming unpopular, men were crowding them aside, and the hospital had gone through a series of struggles which would have daunted any less faithful and devoted women. In 1898, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts had the inspiration to organize a Relief Society nurse school and she related her views on the subject to President Wilford Woodruff who encouraged her to go on with her work. It was thought wise to associate this work in connection with the Salt L. D. S. R. S. CLASS FOR TRAINING NURSES' AIDS 383 Lake stake Relief Society, and Mrs. Annie Taylor Hyde at once became its active sponsor and advocate. It is interesting to know that Dr. Margaret C. Roberts' first class, 1899, graduated 48 nurses, who spent 1.345 days in nursing the sick and needy poor. Mrs. Priscilla Jennings Riter was superintendent of this class until 1900, when Mrs. Emma A. Empey was elected superintendent, which position she occupied continuously for many years. In 1907 this Relief Society nurse class had done 3,540 days of charity work in which 109 nurses had participated;  124 nurses, not residents of Salt Lake City, did their charity work in their own respective wards throughout Utah, and neighboring states. The careful books kept by Superintendent Emma A. Empey shows some interesting items. For years the work done by herself, as by all associated with it, was without charge, but at length a system of registration with fee was adopted and the expenses of the work was met in this way. Sometimes nurses preferred to pay full fees rather than do the charity nursing required and that was allowed by the superintendent and board of managers. In 1904 the General Board of the Relief Society assumed direct charge of the nurse class work, although not yet taking over the financial and management details which were still left with Dr. Roberts. The excellent work of superintending the nurse work, begun by Sister Riter, has been ably carried forward by Mrs. Empey, who was assisted for years by Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie. Mrs. Beatie was both sympathetic, generous and open-handed with all of the girls who applied for boarding places, temporary sleeping quarters, financial help or news from home. Instead of receiving pay, her means were as freely offered as her affectionate sympathy and kindly help. From that day onward Dr. Roberts continued her valuable work with growing success and popularity. She is a magnetic teacher and eminently qualified for the work which she then undertook. The following account is taken from the report made by Mrs. E. B. Wells, in 1900, of the nurse work then going forward under the Relief Society: "In the report made in 1899, casual mention was made of the nurses class or classes;  since then much has been done in this line of charity work, and should receive special mention on account of its great value to the Relief Society and the public weal. A call was made in Salt Lake City and county for girls and young women volunteers to study nursing and receive training under the auspices of the Relief Society, so that they would be qualified to give skilled attendance to the sick poor. One hundred or more responded to the call, they were also instructed in cooking and serving food for invalids. At the close of the term about one hundred young women received certificates to practice in the profession of nurses from the medical
