[Vol7 | March 1920 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The White Begonia Lucy May Green]

The White Begonia Lucy May Green. The white begonia was indeed a beauty, with its shining bronze-green leaves, its delicate, pinky buds, and feathery sprays of white, waxy flowers. It occupied the place of honor in my neighbor's window garden, was prized dearly by her and universally admired by all. One day I modestly asked its owner for a slip, and as you know there is no shorter route to a country neighbor's heart than a common love of flowers, my big-hearted friend immediately cut me a generous slip of her choice plant. "Start it in a deep saucer filled with clean sand, keep it damp all the time, and it will take root in a couple of weeks. In about a month it may be potted," said she, "I raised mine from a small cutting, and just look at it now, — isn't it beautiful? I would not part with it for anything, and besides it reminds me of — " "Oh, do tell me," I returned, as I sensed a forthcoming story, "I'll run over home and get my knitting, and then — " "I'll tell you all about it," promised my neighbor, who loved to talk, especially about her flower hobby. A few minutes later, as we drew our chairs into the shade of the rose arbor, my neighbor told me this story: Among the many friends, in the little village where I was born, was my dearest school chum, Louise Archer. Lou, as we called her, was an orphan who lived with her aunt at the post office and general store. She was a merry madcap of a girl, being the ringleader of our sports and frolics at school, and a general favorite. Lou was ambitious, too, and after we had completed our course at the county high school, she went away to the big city to college. We corresponded for a while during her freshman year, then she stopped writing. Later we heard that she had married Robert Pearson, who was a successful young surgeon, and an officer in the State National Guard. When the Spanish-American war broke out, he immediately volunteered for service, and was ordered to the Philippines; and he did not come back. He received a slight scratch on the hand, and owing to the pressure of duties in the field hospital, with so many operations to perform, he did not give his own injury the careful attention that he gave to his patients blood;  poison developed, and Robert Pearson laid down his life on foreign soil, a martyr to duty. THE WHITE BEGONIA 139 Lou came back to our village, bought a small tract of land, built a neat modern bungalow, with a tiny conservatory attached, and settled down with her dog, cat and her flowers. She had no children, and her aunt was dead, but her flowers, you should have seen them. Every window was filled with plants in bloom. She had porch boxes and hanging baskets galore, and in a year or two her lawn and flower borders were the pride of the village and the envy of her neighbors. Her old friends called on her at first, but we found her a silent, reserved woman, very different from the merry, light-hearted girl of days past;  and so, after a few attempts to regain her friendship, we left her alone. Still, many of the folks were envious of her dainty home, her neatly tailored dresses, and her lovely flowers. You know how we always exchange slips and plants, but none of us ever got up courage to ask her for anything, nor even offer her a plant of ours, she had such a way with her. Her favorite plant was a large, white begonia. Yes, it was a great-grandmother to this plant of mine. I was one of her close neighbors and I had often admired the plant. "But you got a piece," said I. "How?" I'll tell you, she continued. I said Louise made a. few friends, but there was one who found the way to her heart, and that was little Winnie Ashton. Winnie was a delicate maid of thirteen, with auburn hair, and that pale, transparent complexion that sometimes accompanies it. She, too, was very fond of the white begonia and, in fact, she looked like a white, waxy flower herself. One day, as Winnie was returning from school, she accidentally fell into the creek. She was rescued and carried home, but in spite of all loving care and the best doctors could do, pneumonia developed, and after a few days the lovely child died. She was mourned by all, and especially by Louise. Among the flowers, at the funeral services, was a wreath composed entirely of sprays of white begonia and ferns. Then the fact dawned on us all. Louise had sacrificed her dearest-loved flowers for her little friend's funeral. Well, that somehow broke down the icy barrier between Louise and the rest of us, and soon there was no one more universally loved and admired than she was. In a few months she married our bishop, and became not only mother to his large family, but friend and confident to all of us. The white begonia soon regained its former beauty (it really does them good to be cut down sometimes), and Louise divided it and potted the slips and in a short time many of us received a plant. One found its way to a home where poverty held its sway, where there were many little ones, and another coming soon. 
 The poor mother told me herself that the sight of the lovely flower in the room helped her through her long and dangerous illness, and whispered hope and comfort through her time of trial. "Keep yourself pure and clean, even as the white begonia," whispered a mother to her girl, as she dressed in her dainty, pink dancing dress, and tucked a few sprays of the flower into her belt. At the ball, temptation came, but the silent influence of her mother's last words kept her from evil and brought her safely home again. Another cutting was given to a heart-broken woman who had buried her only child, and it found a place on the grave all summer, and then was taken up in the fall by the mother who now treasures it in memory of her girl. Other pieces from the same plant were given as birthday and wedding gifts, and so the white begonia came to us. Still it lives on, bringing its message of consolation and hope;  its white blossoms speak of purity and innocence, and that is why I treasure it so, and share it whenever 1 can. "Many thanks for your story, neighbor dear," said I, as I hurried home to plant my new-found treasure — my white begonia. Insite: The fibrous-rooted begonias are easily propagated from seed, slip or root division. There are several shades of crimson, rose and pink, as well as the white. I have a lovely plant which came from one of those mentioned, for the story in all its principal details is a true one. WILD SUN-FLOWERS. Maud Baggarley. Neglected fields and sere gray deserts, ('Neath the opalescent sky Of Utah, cupped among the mountain). In enchanting splendor lie — For, o'er barren wastes the Summer A magic cloth of gold hath spread. Where the sun-flower's hosts barbaric Pass with regal, knightly tread;  Till the valley seems a tourney Where brave knights together joust! Or a plain where Trojan armies, Lances gleaming, pause to see it! So gorgeous, radiant, enthralling. Is that marvelous brilliant band, With its shining, far-flung banners, Marching o'er the arid land!