SALT LAKE CITY,	NOVEMBER 15, 1890.


[column 1]
THE INDUSTRIAL HOME AN EXPERI-
			MENT.
	We sincerely hope that all "Mormon" women
have read or will read the report of Mrs. Jeannette
H. Ferry, President of the Industrial Christian
Home Association in this City, published Nov. 7,
in full in the Deseret News. A meeting to elect
officers for the ensuing year was held Nov. 5, at
which time the President's report for the year
past was submitted. The report includes the fol-
lowing preamble and resolution adopted by the
Association in Feburary last.
	Whereas, The Industrial Christian Home
building is nearly completed, thereby affording
opportunity for the opening of industrial depart-
ments in accordance with the original plan of the
association, therefore,
	Resolved, That a committee of four be ap-
pointed of which Mrs. Angie F. Newman shall be
chairman, to co-operate with the Utah Commis-
sion in securing from Congress an appropriation
of $20,000 with which to obtain the necessary in-
structors and equipments for opening the various
industrial departments contemplated by this asso-
ciation and by Congress in the construction of the
Home building."
	So Congress is to be beseeched again for an
appropriation of $20,000 this time to aid in estab-
lishing industries to make "Mormon" women who
have renounced their faith self-supporting.
	Congress seems to have kind of an elephant on
its hands in the Industrial Home. It is so
exercised over the subject of polygamy that it
wants to provide for all those who will deny the
principle, industrial training. "Mormon" women
with very few exceptions have had industrial
training in homes of their own; and it is a fact
that cannot be denied that there are not women
enough in this Territory to fill the positions open
to them if housekeeping be included.
	There is scarcely a day that the writer is not
asked the question over and over, "where can I
get help?" "Do you know of any one wanting a
situation?" As for the home being a factor in
the solution of the problem of polygamy, or its
suppression we fail to see or comprehend it. Mrs.
Ferry in her report says,
	"Able statesmen in Congress considered this
movement an effective and essential factor in the
solution of questions involving the purity of wo-
man, the sacredness of the home and the peace and
safety of the American Republic."
	The consciences of Congressmen have been
terribly wrought upon because a few women from
religious conviction had consented to enter into a
marriage relation such as the ancient patriarchs
practised and become the mothers of children
and enjoy the privileges of a home—their righteous
souls are sorely vexed—while hundreds of women
without homes, protection or shelter, wander
[column 2]
through the streets of their great cities, desolate,
forsaken and abandoned to a fate worse than
death.
	Mormon women voted in the public assembly
in the Tabernacle on the 6th of October last to
obey the law of the land, and that vote from such
women can be relied upon; notwithstanding Mrs.
Ferry's insinuation that polygamy still exists.
But these same "Mormon" women are a very in-
dependent class, and are not at all likely to take
advantage of the situation the Industrial home
proposes.
	The whole concern is a ridiculous farce from
first to last, it is an experiment that has so far
proved a failure; it has been in operation four
years and reports at the present time nine inmates,
rather an expensive experiment indeed. The
Industrial Home might with all propriety be
called "An Experiment Station."


