TODAY.

	I am glad to be once more able to express
my thoughts through our friend the EXPONENT.
It has been a long time since I felt able to
write or to mingle with those whose interests
are mine, and are engaged in the same great
work of redemption of the human race,looking
forward to the grand and glorious victory of
the righteous. But it has been my prayer that
our faith might be equal to the trials that are
necessary to the proving,and separating the gold
from the dross. That we might overcome, all
instead of being overcome especially the young
and inexperienced who may not see God in the
sudden and unlooked for turn that things
have taken. I refer to the late Declaration of
President Woodruff which was sustained by
the Conference without an opposing vote.
When I perused the minutes I did so with a
prayerful heart and desire for the right spirit
and understanding to judge of its true source.
And the testimony, and spirit that came to me
was strong enough to convince me that this
step was right, and I was more strongly im-
pressed that Joseph Smith was inspired in all
that he uttered as the word of the Lord. I was
satisfied that the Spirit of God burned in the
bosoms of those who spoke, and rested upon the
congregation which was visible upon all with
whom I conversed- and more especially after
the Sunday morning session. I readily dis-
cerned this to be a most glorious era, one that
had been long looked forward to by the saints.
So mysteriously had the Lord worked and
brought about His plans,bringing to pass His
own purposes independent of man's all of
which fall in such utter insignificance before
Him that one is brought to realize one's own
nothingness as it were, and sink in humble
submission to His will or pleasure as it seemeth
Him good. I know that these trials will bring
to us their precious fruits and that all that
the wicked have done, or will do against this
work can never hurt nor hinder its onward
course. Through the late action of Congress
against this Church they have unwittingly
pushed it forward into a higher and more
favorable position before the world than it
ever previously held. While the government
that has consented to and favored the unjust,
unconstitutional measures that have been en-
acted for the purpose of robbing and breaking
up a peacable people who are hated for their
virtues that were once the pridə of this nation,
has sounded its own death-knell, instead of
that of "Mormonism." Many doubt their
sincerity in ceasing the practice of Polygamy,
some think they may be honest now, but are
likely to change in a future time and might
become a terror to this nation. We will ad-
mit that were the principles of the Gospel
lived up to by this or any other community,
as it was taught by Christ, and His disciples,
and accepted as the "Mormon's" standard, they
would become a terror to the ungodly. Many
Gentiles who have settled in Utah, and others
who have come here and taken the time to
study the main characteristics of this "peculiar
people" have paid them the highest compli-
ments. A late writer upon the "Mormon"
problem says "they are noted for their dignity
cleanliness and observance of the Sunday


[Column 1]

"That they are intelligent and industrious
and model citizens in every respect". Many
more equally flattering compliments have
been paid them but which of course is agoniz-
ing to their political and religious foes to hear
the "Mormons" paaised for virtues that are so
necessary to make up a temperate and thriv-
ing community but of which they have proven
themselves so little deserving.
	Here is a paragraph frrm the Milwaukee
Wisconsin" commenting upon the "Mormons,"
etc. taken from the Deseret News of Oct. 15.
"The great body of the American people will
have no fault to find with Mormondom when
Mormondom obeys the laws of the land, and
conforms its marriage system to the require-
ments of morality and modern civilization.
The clashing of Gentile and Mormon interests
in the past will soon be forgotten. Mormon
thrift and sobriety will be recognized as the
virtues which they are, and Utah, the teeming
Territory which has so long by her own social
perverseness stood outside the pale will be joy-
fully welcomed into the "sisterhood of states."
	The "Mormons" have little cause at present
to believe that "That the great American
people" would welcome them "into the sister-
hood of states" no matter how much they did
to prove their loyalty to the laws of this
government. Their worst accusers and would
be usurpers, and conscience-binders and public
advocaters of immortality, dishonesty und
crime, and the lowest of vices, claim to be
"Americnn citizens". Such are the kind that
have been appointed and sustained in this
wholesale thieving scheme in Utah and in
which they are encouraged, and assisted by
preachers of morality and "modern civilization."
	Of course the writer of the above article
meant kindly but is unacquainted, like the
world in general, with the lives and early ex-
perience of the Latter-day Saints, that they
were always hated and persecuted from the
hour that they joined the church called "Mor-
monites." There were always a few honorable
exceptions who were willing to credit them with
virtues such as they deserved. but they were not
generally professers of Christianity.
	The most inhuman and barborous cruel-
ties that were ever inflicted upon them were
instigated and lead on by sectarian ministers
in the states of Ohio, Missouri and Illinois,
and this was before they had been accused of
practicing Polygamy. The most serious
accusations brought against them then was
the teaching of perverse and blasphemous
doctrines though they were scriptural, and
the same as were taught by Christ and His
disciples, for which they suffered and laid
down their lives, and the same fate has befallen
so many of the Christian reformers who have
dared to face the hatred and fury of self-
righteous, sectarian dignitaries from that day
to this.
	Another bitter accusation against the Latter-
day Saints was their gathering together and
seeking to be one, etc., after the pattern laid
down by the Redeemer. All those things were
condemned as the most heinous of delusions
and which must be renounced or the people
suffer the penalties that were then and there
pronounced upon them. But, how long was
it before those "heinous delusions" were picked
up and taught as "new lights" by some of the
professed ministers who had rejected the same
and joined in the hue and cry against "old Joe
Smith," and his deluded followers? What has
been laid to them that has not been followed
after in one way or another by their 'Christian'
neighbors I am at a loss to know. For this,
and other reasons we may look for a reaction
upon this polygamous question, and among the
ardent will be found those who have made it
appear such a low and heinous sin in the
"Mormons" and brought upon them the wrath
of this nation, with the hope of their speedy

[Column 2]

extermination or banishment to some other far
off, uninviting waste such as they found Utah
some forty years ago. Although they have
yielded one point to the powers that be, no
true saint will renounce a truth or a doctrine
of this faith for which Joseph Smith and many
more have laid down their lives to establish.
Any man or woman who would stop and think
a little more of the natural laws of nature if
they are not grossly wicked, ignorant or blind
to the present corrupt and rotten condition of
the civilized world, which is standing in the
way of the elevation of human kind, would be
silent upon the degrading and pernicious
effects of Polygamy among the "Mormons."
Instead of boasting of their own superiority
they would see the necessity of a radical change
and would find a broad field for their missionary
labors among some of the more popular
churches whose feathery, luxuriant nests have
become tainted and befouled till virtue and
morality are but by-words from their lips and a
burlesque on true civilization.
	"The tree is known by its fruits," and the
"Mormons" would like to be better known by
"The great body of the American people," and
all other peoples, and to have them judge be-
tween the fruits of "Mormonism" and their
boasted institutions which are held up as ex-
amples for the "Mormons" to follow. No, none
who have honored the principles of "Mor-
monisra" need feel humiliated before them.
	"Mormon" fathers cannot shift their respon-
sibilities as is customary in more highly ad-
vanced civilization, but are required to
acknowledge and provide for their offspring as
honorable heirs to their name, and every
mother who is worthy of the title is honored
as wife, such as those so highly favored
anciently, who received such great promises,
and whom even the Almighty was not above
blessing with His presence.
	And what of the Great Redeemer whom all
Christians profess to worship. Did He not
come through a Polygamous lineage? Have
they any greater source to apply to for the
glory that they are anticipating in the great Be-
yond? What of the predictions of holy men
of old concerning the scenes that were to tran-
spire in the last days? How about the gates
of Zion—(America) that Isaiah said "Shall
lament and mourn," "And in that day seven
women shall take hold of the skirts of one man
saying' we will eat our own bread, and wear
our own apparel; only let us be called by thy
name to take away our reproach. In that day
shall the branch of the Lord be beautiful and
glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be ex-
cellent and comely for them that are escaped
of Israel."
	This can have no reference to "Mormon"
women who have obeyed and honored the
plural wife order, there will be no "reproach"
upon them. They have proven the principle,and
know it to be a promoter of virtue, and a
higher type of purity and true civilization, and
that it would overturn and crush out of ex-
istence the pet institutions that modern society
permits and upholds, and which they know
would be jeopardized by the practice of plural
marriage. There are religious restraints upon
the members of this Church which they must
abide or lose their membership, and the re-
spect, and confidence of the people. They
have higher aims and aspirations, and too
great a reverence for virtue and Godliness and
their marriage vows to accept of anything in-
ferior, and again tread the old and crooked
paths of ignorance and degradation from which
they have made a happy escape.
	The Christian professors, or the unbelieving
are all at liberty to deride and deny, and pass
laws against what the Holy Bible teaches, and
sustains, but they will have to yield the palm
when they see the predictions of the ancient
prophets fulfilled. Could "The great body

[Column 3]

of the American people" be influenced by the
truth as easily as they are by the falsehoods that
are sent broadcast by the traducers of the
"Mormons" they might learn that the relin-
quishing of their "pet-hobby"—Polygamy—
was a more bitter disappointment to the re-
ligious, political clique that have gathered up
their forces to plunder the "Mormons" than it
has been to those whom they are seeking to
victimize. And that this "scare-crow" was
their great stronghold behind which they
could best work upon the feelings of the out-
side public and gain their assistance to carry
out their thieving scheme and other dark tricks
that would not stand the sunlight of truth.
Had this not been their only plausible excuse
to offer the world they would not have clung
to it as with a death grip, but would have
thrown it to the dogs long ago.
	They have sought by every means fair and
foul to lead the young "Mormons" to follow in
their paths of vice and corruption, all of which
they have boasted over, doing after Hades
familiar and most approved patterns. It
would be wonderful indeed to be mingled with
the characters that Utah and other Territories
have been so long cursed with if all came out
unscathed.
	It was predicted by prophets of old that all
nations would unite against Zion and say:
"Let her be defiled." The Prophet Joseph
Smith made similar predictions, and this peo-
ple ought to be prepared to meet these things
and to unite together as one man and let the
wicked rail against it as this is their mission.
They have put it in black and white that
man's first allegiance is to earthly powers. But
they will soon find out who rules the universe.
And that the religion called "Morminism" is
the grand stepping stone to honor, fame, and
all the glory that is to be obtained upon this
globe, and in the great future laying before
them where progression and power will have
no end. Though floods of falsehood and
blasphemy against it and those who have
rendered obedience to its mandates, and storm
of hate have howled and rolled mountains high
threatening to overwhelm the lone Ark, they
have but borne it up while those who assailed
it have been swallowed up, and forever lost in
the dark floods of death and oblivion. The
Pharaohs of to day are performing similar acts
and they will find that the same disastrous
effects will follow them, while the faithful who
hold to the promises of Him who has borne
them onward and upward, and is still standing
at the Helm,will find He will take them safely
into harbor.
