AUNT LU'S STORY.

	But it was not altogether smooth sailing,
there were many things to contend with which
you, young folks would not fully understand
in these modern times, during the Winter ses-
sion several large boys were added. Capital
fellows too, for work! they could wield an ax
with unerring stroke upon a log or tree, hold

[Column 2]

a breaking up plough all day, but their appre-
ciation of words, often happened to be ludi-
crously imperfect,—Fancy one of these over-
grown boys reading this scripture about the
rich man in his torment, and he looked up
and saw, Catherears, (Lazarus) in Boston; (in
his bosom) blunders of this kind frequently
occured in the first part of their attendance,
then a suppressed titter would run through the
school which brought reproof as well as
chagrin to the reader. There were some new
books introduced that Winter that brought
hard work for many a young learner. But the
teacher was equal to the occasion giving each
such attention and incentive for action—desire
to learn and understand various subjects that
after awhile it became a delight for even the
dullest among them to study and search out
any subject given for explanation. Our little
Dama with the kind assistance of her teacher,
made rapid progress in her studies, she thought
she had studied before; but now found that she
had but made a beginning she was fully
aroused to the deep importance of application,
close and continued to a thorough understand-
ing of her studies and with diligence prosecuted
her researches after knowledge.
	But I must tell you of the "Merry Christ-
mas," time, for old Winter came on with all
his train of frost and snow,while Dame Autumn
had quietly retired with her dresses of green
and gold. The big boys, searched the woods
the week before for trees and evergreens to
decorate the schoolroom. They placed a fine
spruce tree in each of the four corners and a
large pine in front of the teachers desk on
the platform all were elaborately trimmed with
pop-corn balls, colored egg-shells, paper and
feather flowers, nuts, etc. The gift tree was
gorgeously decorated and all (were more or
less) brilliantly lighted with golden colored
(tallow) candles while three large reflector
lamps were placed on the wall back of the gift
tree giving forth a dazzling effect. The long
narrow tables were temptingly laden with good
things enough for all, and to satisfy the
voracious appetites of even growing boys. But
the presentation of gifts by "Santa Claus," was
too funny for anything! I couldn’t begin to de-
scribe it so I must leave it for your imagina-
tion to supply the deficiency. Robert, however
was the master of ceremonies. To commence
with, the teacher had a tame bear presented
her from one of her big boy pupils. There
were trained dogs, tame squirrels, rabbits,
kittens, guinea fowls and guinea-pigs, white
mice, several kinds of birds among the curious
variety of other things. Dama was the re-
cipient of a beautiful white dove the gift of
Master Henry Hinsdale. The teacher was
well supplied with gifts the black bear, how-
ever was given over to the care and keeping of
Master Henry to his extreme joy and satisfac-
tion. I think the gift most prized by Blanche
was the one from Robert (whose esteem had
been daily increasing) for it showed his appre-
ciation of her love of mental culture. Robert
was not forgotten, nor neither his good mother,
all went home satisfied feeling that they had,
had a jolly happy time, many wishing it could
last forever.
	But nothing lasts forever here! School has
closed for the Summer vacation. Miss Blanche
received an unanimous call to teach another
year which she readily accepted, she had a
comfortable pleasant home at "Alby Lodge,"
and was not required to walk to and from
school in bad weather, Robert was ever def-
erential and respectful towards Blanche. Yet
from his easy manner she knew from the first
that he was heart free, Robert however made
the discovery before the "Merry Christmas"
time that therewas certainly much congeniality
between them.
	One evening the latter part of Summer, as
they were returning from a walk Dama sent

[Column 3]

her white dove fluttering from her hand to-
wards them, repeating in a playful manner
"Let the spirit of love descend with the dove,"
it alighted npon the arm of Robert, conveying
an awakening in heart swift and sudden; and
a glance transient as a meteor, and almost as
bright, directed towards Blanche gave expres-
sion to his new-found joy.—And through
the faintly shadowed air,one pure star trembled
into sight.
	One clear morning in the Autumn following,
Robert started out with dogs and gun for a
grand day's hunt, he had not been gone over
an hour when he returned in haste for his
mother to go back with him to visit some sick
people who were encamped some two miles
distant and who on account of sickness were
unable to follow the train that had preceded
them. The necessary preparation was made
as speedily as possible and in a short time
they were administering to the weary travelers;
many were suffering from chills and fever, and
to Mrs. Alby's surprise and grief she found
among these emigrant pilgrims one whom she
had known and loved as a sister in former
years, and now of the same faith embraced by
herself, one also, whom Blanche had visited
on her journey and in whom, and her family
of young people, she had been greatly in-
terested.
	Everything that spmpathizing hearts and
willing hands could do was done for the suf-
ferers. But who can protray the inexpressibly
sorrowful scene of a mother dying in a wagon-
bed by the roadside, surrounded by her weep-
ing grief-stricken children? she who had en-
dured everything for them—these children of
her love and hope, she must now leave; to turn
away from her grave among strangers,orphaned
indeed to go forth into untried scenes of life,
neglected, forlorn, desolate, nevermore to know
a mother's love and tender protecting care. A
tongue of eloquence and the most brilliant
pen would not be able to recount all the deeds
of loving kindness, and of sweet patient
charity this dying mother had performed, and
not from the hingeless doors of old age must
she enter the dark valley but hewn down by
the cruelty of a merciless foe in the early even-
tide of life's journey.
	And now the wailing cry goes out, in ago-
nizing grief from bleeding wounded hearts
that echo's back through the far-away Eastern
hills into other hearts, to mourn and bewail the
sorrowful scene of a dearly beloved mother's
death by the wayside.
	O, the anguish of that terrible bercavment !
verily we need a Baptism from on high to en-
dure the thought of its crucifying agony,
or partake of its bitter asphaltum draught,—
This is a sorrowful part of my story and I fain
would pass it over, but it is necessary that you
should know something of the "Red Sea" of
trial, this people were made to pass through.
This noble loving mother and her children,
with scores of others were turned out from their
houses,by a ruthless mob, in a pitiless storm of
rain exposed for days upon the river banks,
(until teams could be procured or sent back
to take them away) obliged to lie upon beds
soaked through with the rain storms,blankets,
quilts, all their clothing completely saturated.
Many contracted diseases from which they
could never recover, though they might linger
for years in weakness and pain,—and this
sainted mother, who forgot self, in striving to
protect her children from destruction as well
as from exposure to the pitiless rain-storm,
was a victim quickened to death at the hands
of a murderous mob.
	All this in our own fair land, (Free land, as
it is called) in sight of, and under the flag of
American Liberty which must have appeared
like a hollow mockery to the poor fugitives, as
it had hitherto afforded them no protection or
shelter against the invaders of their homes or


rights as citizens of their own State. They
had been robbed, outraged, beaten, imprisoned,
driven from their peaceful habitations, hunted
down, from place to place from one city of re-
fuge to another, manhood, womanhood nor
feeble infancy or declining age, nay, the help-
less and infirm found no mercy at the hands,
of these Simon-pure Border Ruffian Marauders,
for they deserve no better name; their acts tes-
tify for them.
	Thus a God-fearing peaceful people were
exposed to the tender mercies (the Scripture
tells us, that “even the tender mercies of the
wicked are cruel”) of a band of desperadoes,
brandishing bowie knives, and pistols without
protection or redress, forced to flea from their
own state beyond the waters of Western
Missouri—and on, and on, over barren plains,
through desolate wastes, rocky defiles, and
mountain steeps, into a land inhabited only by
wild beasts and savages; until at last, those
whose lives had been spared rest their weary
feet in a valley surrounded by stupendous
mountain walls builded by the hand of the
Almighty Creator—through which He pro-
claimed by the mouth of His prophet (five
years previous) that this people should enter
and possess. Here these men of piety and
patriotism planted the ensign of Liberty on
the highest mountain top and sent its banners
floating to the breeze, and like Joshua’s legions
who crossed the river Jordan and entered the
precincts of the promised land, they awoke the
silent echoes of the wilderness valley, with
jubilant strains of praise and thanksgiving.

	Many years have passed. Time has changed
places, and faces—events multiply—wild lands
have been reclaimed, towns planted—thorough-
fares opened through desert wastes, waters
spanned, fearful chasms o’erleaped and the
footprint of Providence marks the way un-
heard.
	Let us mount our Pegasus and hasten away
over the white capped mountains to the valley
of sage brush, sands and bitter waters, where
we left a band of noble pioneers—Lo! What
transformation is this? A great city has
sprung up as if by magic? broad streets, tall
trees, clear running streamlets, fountains of
everflowing waters and the glow of happy
homes breaks out upon the snow (this winter’s
night) in dazzling brightness. Verily, verily
the strong arm of Providence has fitted them
to do a work of great magnitude, and to
carry out his purposes here? I would like to
keep you a little longer viewing this lovely
valley of peace and plenty, for now the rich,
softened by prosperity, pity and care for the
poor, and the poor respect the rich, while the
lame, blind, aged and infirm, repose in hospitals
or are cared for by tender ministrations and
justice is dispensed to all.
	But I hear the glad voices of children and
busy feet of all ages are hurrying onward let
us follow them to their gathering place, the
Assembly Rooms for it is Christmas night,
and a “merry making,” joyful time is antici-
pated. Let us stand here and watch the faces
as they enter and pass to and fro, perchance
we may find some we knew of old. Here is
the President in the full vigor of life’s man-
hood, a fine looking man too he is indeed,
(Brigham Young.) How happy and full of
gladness all appear! men, women, and children.
It is really heart-cheering to stand apart and
look upon their faces as they glow with en-
thusiasm when greeting each other and in con-
versation.
	But now you who have traveled with me
thus far, mast not be disappointed about the
dear ones we have seen on the way for if we
are on the lookout, we shall surely find most of
them among these group’s of handsome happy
people.—We have passed through some trying
scenes indeed—hard to witness, but life is not
[Column 2]
all sorrowful and this beautiful night’s scene,
will more than repay for the trouble we have
taken in following the fortunes of this now
prosperous people, whose cup of bitterness has
been sweetened and tide of oppression turned
from them, at least for a season,—but we will
not anticipate evil, we see smiling faces all
around and peaceful contented joy reigns
supreme on every side,—many, of that first
noble band of pioneers are among the throngs
here gathered, and many who came after from
distant parts of the earth, we would like to
greet on this “happy occasion,” as brethren
and sisters of one family. But here comes
Bishop Alby, with his accomplished wife
Blanche and the mother with a nice pleasant
looking gentleman. Ah, she is married again
and does not look a day older than when she
stood in the door at “Alby Lodge” to welcome
Blanche on her first arrival. But little Dama
the “blue-eyed maiden,” where is she? Why
there she is, running races with the little ones!
see she has one darling bright-faced boy of
her own, she calls him Henry, for his father,
and there he is stooping to kiss and caress his
precious boy. I suppose you would like me
to tell you some romantic story of how their
union was brought about after she took up
the vocation of teacher. I can only tell you
that her school boy lover, is now her devoted
affectionate husband, that the white dove of
peace broods in their hearts and home, that
Brother Hinsdale, is as liable to be sent dele-
gate to Congress as any other, for he is not
only a scholar, but held in high estimation by
all who have the pleasure to know him.—
Dama through ornaments worn upon her per-
son, gifts from her mother was one evening
recognized by the dear friends from whom she
was so deceitfully and cruelly taken by her
false-hearted uncle; I cannot tell you all the
delightful happiness this discovery mutually
gave them. Long they had mourned her as
dead, for they had written to the school her
uncle said she was to attend, and received in
reply “that she had never been there” then,
hearing of his crime for which he was trans-
ported, they gave up all hope of seeing her
on earth. How strange and mysterious are the
ways of Providence? and what a tangled web
of events time often unravels! Dama has
made the acquaintance and formed a deep
friendship for the once deceived woman who
married her uncle, she is now carrying on an
animated conversation with some of Zion’s
fair daughters, she is tall, elegant and grace-
ful in form and appearance,—much like the
sweet lady at her side who is called, “Sister
Eliza” (a writer and poet of high order,) and
here we may find the children of martyred
parents, grown now with young families, like
olive branches around them. Here too, in this
beautiful valley, this‘Gem’ set in a circle of
granite, the fair daughters of a sainted mother
(whose death by the wayside will ever remain
a sad memory) have married, and are now
rearing families to love and care for, while the
youngest her idolized boy, has gone to try his
fortune in California.
	But I cannot leave until I point out the
Mayor of the City. They are all so engaged
among themselves, having such, glorious times
they wont mind our playing “Paul Pry.”—
There he is, see how eager men, women and
children press round to greet him. And how
kindly and affectionately he meets the people
one and all.
	There are Mary’s and Martha’s and Hannah’s
Elizabeth’s and Louisa’s and Susan’s, and a
host of beautiful women, and children, with
sweet cherub faces, that all must admire, and
for ourselves we cannot resist a feeling of
rapturous delight while gazing upon this lovely
panorama of human beauty—of happy fathers
nud mothers with their boys and girls of
promise and blessing.
[Column 3]
	I must call your particular attention to one
little bevy of girl blossoms, almost in the center
of the picture, clustering round a sparkling
vivacious pleasing little lady, can it be that she
is their mother? It almost makes heart and
brain stand still, as time points backward to
the little child I led by the hand in my rambles
over hill, and dell, through wood, field and
meadow, and called the sweet pet name of
“Rosabel.” She disappeared one day with
another, and I called unto her in vain to re-
turn. And now, can it be! she is here in that
mother?—
	Bright-eyed little folks! kind patient ones,
all, who have traveled with me so long over
the rough and smooth paths of life ’mid mirth
dance and song, I must bid you good bye,
and leave you to enjoy the Merry Holidays.
