ANOTHER LOVED ONE GONE.

	Onr dearly beloved friend and sister Jane Picton died at
her daughter’s residence in Nephi Sep. 13th 1890, her
disease was dropsy. She was bom June the 9th 1821,
Herefordshire, England, was baptized and confirmed a
member in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints


in Sep. 1842, emigrated with her husband to Utah in 1853,
leaving all to east her lot with the people of God. She
was a kind and affectionate wife and mother, she leaves
four daughters and seventeen grandchildren. Her husband
Elder James Picton died the 6th of May last, and thus they
have left us to be united on the other side of the vail.
	When our Relief Society was organized June 23, 1868
she was called and chosen to the office of Second Coun.
to Pres. Amelia Goldsbrough, which position she filled
with great satisfaction to the sisters in the Association.
When Sister Goldsbrough was called to preside over the
Stake organization 1878, Sister Picton was again chosen as
Second Coun. which position she held until the death of
Sister Goldsbrough. She was ever kind and considerate,
a wise, and judicious counselor, a friend to the needy, a
comforter in the hour of trial, and a firm believer in the
Gospel as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
She died as she had lived, beloved by all who had the
pleasure of her acquaintance.

	Farewell my dear old faithful friend,
		'Till we shall meet again;
	Where pain and sorrow never come
		And joy shall never end.

	Though loved ones dear remaining here
		Do mourn now thou art gone,
	We’ll check the tear, nor dare to fear,
		We still in Christ are one.
								M. PITCHFORTH.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, it has pleased God our Heavenly Father to
release by death from her sufferings our beloved Sister Jane
Picton.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we recognize in the death
of our sister, the loss of a wise counselor and co-laborer in
the Relief Society.
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness, patience and
uncomplaining endurance, together with her life’s labors
of love in her family and among her many friends as worthy
of our imitation.
	Resolved that we extend our heart felt sympathy to the
family or the deceased, and with them acknowledge the
band of God in our bereavement, and strive to emulate
her noble example. 		
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in the Relief
Society Record and also be forwarded to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication.
						AMY L. BIGLER,
						ASENATH R. GROVER,
						HANNAH JONES,
										Committee.


