MABEL CLARE RICHARDS.

	A beautiful child in face, in form and in that
native grace that gives the tone of, gentle refine-
ment to the manner and temperament was little
Mabel Clare. Lovely too in disposition and re-
ligiously inclined in her feelings and habits; she

[Column 2]

﻿became a member of the Primary Association
when only two years old, and ever loved dearly
to attend, often reciting little verses when so
small she had to stand upon a chair. In character
she was specially loving and lovable, devotedly
fond of her father, mother, little brothers and
sisters, grandparents and all her friends and play-
mates, always anxious to share any delicacy or
pleasure with others. She was one of those rare,
precious spirits too pure and tender to dwell long
upon earth, but who give us a glimpse of the
angelic purity and love of the heavenly world.
Such an one was Mabel Clare. Her gentleness,
patience and resignation, her faith in prayer, all
these beautiful traits in her character are indelibly
impressed upon those who were near to the little
one during her affliction and whose hearts were
wrung with grief for her sufferings.
	Last Christmas Eve she had a kind of nervous
shock, but her case was not considered serious
until sometime afterwards; though she could not
play like other children, and a little playhouse
was built for her in which she could amuse herself
without being over-fatigued. In this pleasant
way she spent many happy hours with her little
sister, cousins and friends, it was fitted up with
everything in the way of child's housekeeping,
dainty and pretty. It is deserted now and its
little owner has gone where there are delightful
places, and no more sorrow nor any pain and all
tears are wiped away. Mabel made her last visit
to the Primary on the 25th of May last, she wanted
to see the children again and they were anxious
to see her, for she was a favorite with them all;
the children always prayed for her and she felt
the benefit and blessing of their prayers.
	On the 22nd of October at 10:30 in the morning
after many weeks of painful suffering to the be-
loved child and agonizing suspense on the part of
parents and relatives, who tended her so care-
fully, and watched every change that took place,
little Mabel Clare passed peacefully away, leav-
ing an aching void in the hearts of those, who
clung to her with the most intense affection. Such
scenes and events baffle all description, but the
Latter-day Saints have an abiding hope that buoys
them up under the most severe trials. Brother
and Sister Richards were overwhelmed with grief
but all that tender and true friends could do, was
extended to them with the deepest sympathy in
their sad bereavement.
	The funeral was held at the family residence
on the 24th of October at 2 p. m., a large number
of friends and relatives assembled among whom
were the Primary children of the Second Ward
of Ogden to which little Mabel belonged.
	The casket containing the beautiful body from
which the spirit had departed was pure white
emblematic of the purity of the little one who lay
there as if asleep; it was literally covered with
beautiful flowers, the gifts of loving and sorrowing
friends. A silver plate on the lid was engraved
with the words:

