			EMERY STAKE.
	The Semi-annual Conference of the Relief
Society of Emery Stake, convened at Orange-
ville, Oct. 17, 1890. Counselor Annie Pulsifer
presiding. Choir sang, prayer by Brother E.
Curtis, singing, Counselor Pulsifer made a
few opening remarks and regreted our beloved
President Anna Larsen could not be with us
her health would not permit, but desired we
would have an interesting time, as she felt
the Spirit of the Lord to be with us; the
Satistical reports were read and accepted, the
Representatives of each ward were called to
report. President Robinson of Orangeville
felt well in her labors with her sisters, attended
Conference in Salt Lake City and felt amply
repaid. The feast of spiritual food she re-
cieved gave her strength to go forward in try-
ing to perform the many duties devolving up-
on her. Counselor Hannah Seeley reported
the Castle Dale ward, said the sisters were
trying to attend to their duties spiritually and
financially the meetings were tolerably well
attended (but of course it could be better).
Sister Jane Woodward of Huntington said the
sisters were on hand and willing to go forward
in helping in this great work. We live in an
eventful period of time and should be united
and help to bear each others burdens, prayed
for the Lord to give us strength to do right.
Ferron, Molen and Emery wards were not rep-
resented. Counselor Pulsifer gave some
interesting instructions exhorting the sisters
to attend to their spiritual duties spoke of the
trials the Saints had gone through and were
now passing through, refered to the Manifesto
that President Woodruff had issued, spoke
very interestingly. Sister Sarah Fullmer also
refered to the Manifesto and found it already
was trying some people, no matter what men
or nations may do, she knew that law was
from God. we should stand firm and hold on
to the principles of the everlasting Gospel.
Sister Jane Peterson of Castle Dale felt
pleased to meet with the sisters, had been in
this Church many years; even in Nauvoo with
the saints, quoted many sayings of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, exhorted the mothers to teach
their children the principles of truth and
righteousness, spoke very interestingly on
other subjects. Sisters J. P. Curtis and J.
Johnson each bore their testimony and spoke
well, Counselor Andrew Anderson of Orange-
ville addressed the conference a short time.
Choir sang “Do what is right.” Adjourned
until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon services. Singing “O God our
help.” Prayer by Bishop Robinson of Orange-
ville. Singing “Hark ye mortals.” Coun-
A Pulsifer spoke very encouragiugly to the
sisters on different subjects. President Cheney
of Y. L. M. I. Association made a few remarks
and Bishop Robinson of Orangeville occupied


a short time speaking interestingly, thought
one great failing we had was ingratitude
Paul may plant and Apollus water, but God
givith the increase. We were in possession
of all truths if we would give them heed, and
those truths would lead us to an exaltation in
the kingdom of God, if we would only follow
the path marked out for us. Sister Reid felt
to encourage the sisters in this great and good
work, had attended Salt Lake City conference
and felt greatly built up in her faith and to
go forward in every duty. Sister E. Guyman
also spoke well and felt encouraged to perform
the work required of her, ask an interest in
the prayers of all and strive to speak evil of
no one. Other sisters spoke and the remainder
of the afternoon was given to the W.S.A. to
transact some business. President S- Fulmer
addressed the meeting in a spirited manner
urging the sisters to read and strive to gain all
imformation necessary for the advancment of
our cause. Several joined and one officer
elected. Meettng appointed for Nov. 10th.
Conference adjourned for six months.
				M. J. SHIPP, Sec. protem.
