EDITORIAL NOTES.
	On the 31st of October Pres. M. I. Horne went
to Morgan to attend the Sisters’ Conferences.
On the afternoon of the same day the Conference
 of the Primary Associations was held, Saturday
the Relief Society and Sunday the Y.L.M.I.A.
Sister Horne addressed each of these Conferences
and her visit and instructions were much appre-
ciated by those who were present. Sister Horne
returned home on Monday Nov. 3rd.

	Sister Elizabeth Howard recently made a tour
through Summit Stake with Pres. Mary Jane At-
wood and others, holding regularly two and some-
times three meetings in a day. Sister Howard
gives a good report of the organizations in that
Stake. Rock Springs, Evanston and Almy in
 Wyoming are included in Summit Stake and 
Sister Howard congratulated the women in these
towns on the privilege of voting.

	On the 30th of October in company with Pres.
Zina D. H. Young we attended the annual meet-
ing of the Relief Society at Lehi, which con-
vened at 10 in the morning and 2 in the after-
noon, Mrs. Rebecca Standring presiding. The 
annual report was a very favorable one, the meet-
ing was well attended and a good degree of the
HolySpirit was manifest. The next morning ac-
companied by Mrs. Standring we went to Ameri-
can Fork where two meetings were also held that
day by special appointment, and the same good
spirit prevailed. Bishop Geo. Halliday was pres-
ent at both meetings, and in the afternoon Pres.
Paxman of Juab Stake. Both these brethren ad-
dressed the congregation, testifying to the good
teaching and efficient labors of the sisters in the
Relief Society, and encouraging all to press on-
ward in the fulfillment of duty.

	The November election that elicited so much
enthusiasm among the people here is over, and 
the votes have been counted, showing over 9,000
majority for the People's Party, which was to b e
expected in view of the prevailing sentiment and 
desire for honest representation. Hon. John T.
Caine may proudly congratulate himself on the 
success of the ticket; it proves the high esteem
in which he is held as the Territorial Delegate 
and the confidence of the vast majority of the
people in his integrity and uprightness to their
interests. John T. Caine cannot truthfully be
accused of one-sidedness, he is wholly impartial
when the interests of the Territory are con-
sidered.


[Column 1]

