REVIEW OF PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS
WITH INSTRUCTIONS.
	In the year 1878, the inspiration of the
Holy Spirit suggested to the mind of Sister
Aurelia S. Rogers of Farmington, Davis Co.
the advisability of organizing associations for
the children of the Latter Day Saints for the
purpose of teaching them the Gospel and pro-
viding opportunities for learning by practical
experience, how to develop the spirituality of
their natures and cultivate the talents so
graciously and abundantly bestowed upon
them by their Creator. That in their early
childhood they may learn faith in God, and a
love for all that is good, pure and noble, and 
be taught to shun evil practices, and be pre-
served from all evil habits that tend to lead
astray and destroy. This idea was suggested
to that great organizer Sister Eliza R. Snow,
the friend of Women and Children, she laid
the matter before President John Taylor
who heartily endorsed the immediate organiza-
tion of the Primary Associations throughout
the Church.
	The first association was organized at Farm-
ington with Aurelia S. Rogers as president.
	Sister Snow with characteristic energy and
executive ability, set to work in earnest
ceasing not until similar organizations were
established in all the settlements.
	In 1879 stake organizations were effected to
superintend the labors of the local branches.
And in June of 1890 the officers of the Central
Board were chosen to preside over the whole,
they were Louie B. Felt President, Matilda
M. Barrett and Clara C. Cannon Counselors.
Lillie T. Freeze Secretary and Minnie Felt
Treasurer.
	Thus the Primaries became an established
feature in the Church. Great zeal and devo-
tion was everywhere displayed among the
officers, and the children were delighted to be
thus favored with little meetings of their own
suited to their limited capacity for receiving
instructions. As a matter of course owing to
a lack of understanding and its attendant lack
of appreciation the work has not received from
all quarters, the support and encouragement
due so worthy a cause. Many through failure
to investigate the object sought have looked
upon the primary organization as the most
insignificant, instead of the most important,
being the foundation upon which our future
society in the Kingdom of God is built. Still
the work despite all difficulties has slowly but
steadily advanced, growing in interest and
magnitude until there is an association in
every town and hamlet in Zion. 
	To meet the growing demands for more
systematic work add effectual help, an annual
Officers conference will be held in Salt Lake
City, where the best methods of enhancing the
interest of the meetings will be discussed,
suitable instructions given, and we trust
mutual benefit received.
	At our last conference held in the Assembly
Hall, Salt Lake City, October 5th 1890, the
following suggestions were laid before the meet-
ing which may if adopted, prove a guide to
others.
	Teach the children to fast and pray for the
sick. Teach them to repeat sentiments at roll
call, and adopt the keeping of some good
resolution for one week. Pray often in concert
it holds the attention, and accustoms them to
the use of correct forms of expressions in prayer.
[column 2]
Teach practical every day life, and train them
in punctuality, and a reverence for the House
of God. Discourage smoking. Also discourage
love songs and giving sensational recitations in
meeting. All exercises should tend to develop
the spiritual and moral character. Teach a rever-
ence for the Prophet Joseph Smith, Sister
Eliza R. Snow and the Holy Priesthood,
	Presidents of local branches should watch
the labors of the secretary, who are often young
and thoughtless, and see that reports are
promptly forwarded to the Stake Secy. And
always include a treasurer as a local or Stake
officer. Establish a small fund for Stake ex-
penses and every Stake is desired to send one
dollar per annum, to defray expenses of
Central Board. In order to present a truth-
ful record of our standing to the General
Conference, it is necessary that complete semi-
yearly reports be forwarded from every stake
in time to reach the Secretary of the Central
Board by the 15th of March and September.
Always send the address of Stake Secretary
and all the names of the Stake Officers.
	The Central Board should be notified when
any changes are desired and all changes made
should be reported.
	The programme committee hold a very
responsible position and should be under the 
immediate supervision of the president, their
term of office should not extend beyond six
weeks, they should possess a record book, and
carefully note every feature of work either of
success or failure, so that the exact status of
every child in the association may be on record
for future reference. At the expiration of every
term of office of this committee, they should
submit their labors to the meeting, so that suc-
ceeding committees may see where improvement
can be made. Attach the word prepared or
failed to the exercise assigned to the name of
each child. This book will greatly aid the
secretary in making out reports. Allow no
lengthy speeches but ask many questions, and
train the children to answer promptly and in
good time in concert. Keep them acquainted
with the names of general Church Authorities,
also local and Stake Officers in the primary
work.
	Much thoughtful preparatory work is neces-
sary to make all meetings and conferences
successful.
	Presidents are to have assistant counselors
or monitors sufficient to render all aid needed.
	Keep a strict report of the number of boys
present at all meetings and conferences.
	Train the children especially boys who are
backward to sing, recite, and answer questions
in concert, until they acquire confidence in
themselves. Introduce marching combined
with singing, physical exercises and various
features pleasing and restful. Suppress every-
thing tedious or wearisome, carfully avoid
monotony, make the meetings as cheerful and
attractive as possible. 
	Hold officers meetings whenever practicable,
pray together for wisdom, devise plans and
transact all business before it is presented to
the children.
	Introduce congregational singing, choirs
should only lead. The Central Board should
be sustained at every stake conference. Use
your influence with the Bishopric, to have
your meetings announced frequently from the 
stand, and labor diligently with parents to
send their children, where they may be taught
in the fear of God, without mony or price.
Your sisters in the Gospel of peace.
			LOUIE B. FELT, Pres.
			LILLIE T. FREEZE,
			CLARA C. CANNON,
						Counselors.
			MAY ANDERSON Sec'y.
			MINNIE S. CUTLER Treas.
	Address May Anderson 108 S. 7th East
Salt Lake City.


