WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			ITEMS OF HISTORY.
					Salt Lake City,
						Sept. 21st, 1890.
DEAR SISTER ZINA D. YOUNG:
	You are aware after what I said, that I am not
going to write anything like history that is already
done; but merely to notice a few of the many
incidents so fraught with danger to the servants
of the Church especially; and the whole people
of the Latter-day Saints in and around the City
of Nauvoo.
	I presume you must remember the peaceful
times at Nauvoo when the Legion was parading,
and Joseph in command, his noble bearing and
fine appearance, mounted on his fine horse,
sword in hand giving orders to those around of
his staff.
	I was seldom out from the little place called home
never far alone; but the day I saw this first to me,
and as it proved last show of the Nauvoo Legion
as I have just described.—I was fortunately
placed in a very good position for observation in
front of Mr. Daniel Spencer's residence high
enough to see well around; every available place
was filled with ladies nicely, some elegantly
dressed, looking as happy as the day was fine;
and as if all things would harmonize henceforth
to have peace.
	But this was not to be the case those who can
recall to memory the sad and painful events of
that succeeding time,—The apostates, the sup-
pression of the vile publication the Nauvoo Ex-
positor; the continued evil work of these bands of
traitors seeking by every means to carry on their
purposes to destroy the Church; and scatter the
people, if they could not lead them to destruction;
and continually and by all means, seeking to take
the life of the Prophet. False brethren in the
city; traitors and foes without—thus in every way
distressing the people.
	Dr. Levi Richards and Lorenzo Snow with
many more kept watch and setting guards for the
safety of the people; the mud after the rain up
to their knees, (such mud I never saw the like in
any place or in any country I have been in.)
These brethren had to take their swords at their
sides when going to this duty of setting guard in
the evenings. The Doctor asked me if I had
any thing to serve as sashes to hold their swords;
I had but one thing I thought might answer the
present purpose, a scarlet cashmere scarf—this I
gave as the only article long and strong enough.
	The provisions were getting shorter, this was a
sad look out for the poor and sick; one poor old
lady donated two of her oxen; her all I believe,
or provisions, we also gave the only two oxen we
[Column 2]
had left, for the help of the poor, some not rich
also helped in some way, as did all the faithful
saints; but the brethren who served, and needed
most to keep up their strength of course had least
as is, and has been the order of times in all his-
tory. Traitors and spies on every hand; but
prayers with watching, was not at all abated; this
kept up the spirits and faith of the workers the
good spirit being surely with them.
	*	*	*	*	*
	Soon came the official order for the Prophet
Joseph to go with some of his brethren to the
prison at Carthage. The air seemed stifling and
heavy with expecting we knew not what—a
curious feeling. The opaline atmosphere, and
something like I remember to have seen and ex-
perienced after the eclipse of the sun had passed;
while I was walking in some fields, here I felt
was cause; but very different from what I ex-
pected and hoped for, to divert my thoughts; I
felt it well to put in some safe place a few of the
small articles as might be easily carried with us,
knowing too well that the spoiler was not far off.
		*		*		*		*
	The day previous the 24th, of June was the
day the Prophet Joseph and his brethren left the
city for the prison at Carthage. Dr. Levi Richards
said that Governor Ford had promised to parade
the Prophet Joseph before the Carthage Grays;
which he did, up and down the ranks. Dr. Levi
also said that Governor Ford could not raise his
eyes to look Joseph in the face, nor above the
shoestrings of his, Joseph's shoes, the Governor
kept looking with his head down; was it any
wonder that he felt guilty.
	These good men had influence to persuade
these people to leave their wrongs to a good and
just God, who would in His own time and manner
avenge these acts and deeds.
	The previous evening I was thinking of the
events passing, and walking near the cottage
where the ground being soft from the recent rains,
I did not hear until I found myself in the midst
of a number of men, I thought who are these?
what does it mean? then the thump of a heavy
staff as it were, came near, my poor courage be-
gan to wilt as I stood still some one spoke to me,
it seemed a familiar voice, still the shade of the
evening kept me from seeing things around me,
then I soon found these men were friends; the
thumping came from Brother Orson Spencer's
foot; these men were returning from Carthage
prison released on heavy bonds to keep the peace;
(Heaven save the mark) when these men came
away some of the brethren remained with the
Prophet at Carthage prison, some one called out
there is Doctor Richards, who was just nearing
the door of his home about to enter, he turned
round and said hush; hush; this hush was no
idle word, he went in at the door; he was one of
the doomed ones to be shot. Spies were in every
corner of the City, now under martial law.
	That day when what I have named was going
on, I kept looking out from time to time, a dull
silence as I before said. The atmosphere was to
me under the brightness like what I remember to
have seen and felt some mournful time of my
past life.
	The night came I could not sleep so I walked
back and forth, a strange feeling kept with me I
said to myself, what can this be? The brethren
are returned from prison and for the present
danger is averted. Then some of Milton, and
Milman's poems would come to my memory of
the persecution of the Waldenses. But the lines
of Milton especially came to me again and again,
would not leave me for any other.

"O Lord avenge thy slaughtered Saints,
Whose bones lie scattered on the Alpine Mountains cold."

	About 3 o'clock, some one knocked at the door
I opened it, there stood a man but scarcely able
[Column 3]
to speak. I turned to the Doctor who was then
standing by the couch where he had some time
back thrown himself to rest almost tired to death
from the recent journey, he, the Doctor turned
from the door after speaking to the man and
stood with his hands straight down from his sides
clenched, the fingers together, a habit he had
when strongly moved his eyes fairly blazed I felt
strangely almost stunned. I said unthinking you
look as if you could fight, I could he said, not
another word. The Doctor hastily put on his
coat, I also put on some additional wraps and
walked with him to the house of Dr. Willard
Richards.	*	*	When I said the eyes of
Dr. Levi Richards fairly blazed, his eyes were
not very bright, light blue, and after a fever at
twenty years of age had to use glasses continually
when I saw this, I could not speak except as I
did—it made me feel strange as you may suppose,
especially after the usual and ever composed
manner the Doctor had at all times and circum-
stances in which he might be placed; but was it
any wonder, when we look at the strange events
which caused these feelings?
	Dr. Levi Richards was devoted to Joseph as a
friend, not to speak his Joseph’s, divine mis-
sion, having known him so long and enjoyed his
society with the brethren; Joseph I am told used
to call him his own physician; and used him as
such on some special occasions, having proved
his faithfulness and skill in some critical seasons,
as well as in other capacities. Joseph loved him
well as one of his chosen friends, and a follower
of righteousness.
	Then we all know what followed this eventful
day of all days in this dispensation.
		AFTER THE DEATH OF JOSEPH.
	The time you spent with me some weeks since,
if you remember, we were led to refer to some
of the scenes  now long since past in which we as
well as others, were deeply and sadly interested.
	I was trying to describe how things appeared
to me at the eventful time after the Prophet was
brought back from Carthage and the efforts of
those brethren, who had influence to keep back
the indignant people for a little season and quiet
them, so as to await the return of those absent;
but who had been sent for with haste.
	These few, Dr. Willard Richards being the
principal; and who had just returned from the
scene of the murder unhurt except a bit from the
tip of one ear, Judge Phelps another, and Dr.
Levi Richards, and other brethren who only re-
turned from the prison a short time previous
whither he had accompanied Joseph with some
other brethren; but who were released on heavy
bonds to keep the peace.
	I had just left the place where the meeting was
to be; and went with Dr. Levi Richards to view
the body at the Mansion where it lay then in a
rude Casket covered with black velvet. The Dr.
left me to go quickly and help the others as I have
said quiet, so I stood some moments with a fixed
and painful attention; then turned to follow my
husband, but not until I had given once more a
last lingering look at the sacred contents of the
rude casket, as I turned to leave I saw Emma
Smith as she walked back and forth in the court
of the Mansion. She spoke to me and I answered
her; and then continued my way to where the
meeting was to be convened near by.
	Sometime in the August following this and
after Brigham Young and other Apostles had
returned from their missions a meeting was held
in the grove.
	There the meeting was begun, I do not just
remember how as I was not among the people, I
stood on the left side a little in front of  the stand
close beside the crowd and could plainly see the
the then speaker Sidney Rigdon with some others,
standing in a wagon box with backs to the stand.


Sidney was the one speaking then saying among
other things, you must choose a guardian. I
thought is this the eloquent man Sidney Rigdon
of whom I have heard so much? I never hav-
ing heard him speak before.
	I kept listening and again and again heard the
same words, you must choose, yes you must, yes
you must choose etc.,the same monotonous strain
and while listening, I was surprised at the quiet-
ness of the whole congregation in front of the
stand; no sound that indicated that any marked
attention was paid to the speaker's urgent appeal
to choose a guardian.
	During all this time as I stood by my husband,
I could plainly see the long stretch of plank seats
and their occupants.
	I was much surprised at the questioning man-
ner of people in front of the stand the fixed atten-
tion the monotonous one never once made the
least response.
	At this I quite marveled and looking up to my
husband as we were standing just outside the
crowd, I said what does this mean? He turned
to me and said, "It is all right." I looked up to him
and said, I do hope the people will not say yes!
Then I observed him turn still more from the
crowd look down and smile. It then came quickly
to my mind what Sister H. Mar Whitney has re-
refered to in some of her interesting memory
papers; that there had been meetings called to-
gether by the Prophet Joseph where only those of
his trusted friends were admitted (to learn how to
conduct things according to the mind and will of
the Heavenly Father in His Church after his
death) which from all we have since learned he
foresaw, but even his chosen friends and follow-
ers could or would not see as he wished them to,
at that peculiar time.
	Some of these meetings I remember when they
took place but the troublous times with spies on
every hand made us doubly cautious and I never
even asked questions or sought to learn anything
but what was readily communicated although
knowing many things not necessarily spoken of in
those days.
	I tried to be patient and observing. The Doctor
first looking down still smiling then look up to
the stand as if expecting something which of
course we all did, the return of the Elders, return
of those who had been sent for, when in the midst
of this painful suspense, I saw some one spring
up on the stand; with bated breath I saw the tall
figure rise with great dignity, and begin to address
the people, for a little moment I saw something
like a cloud or mantle slip over the person; but
until some minutes I could not think who the per-
son was like but after a little, and other persons
observing some change, I felt I knew not what;
but I felt also that Brigham was somehow
changed taller more portly his voice also, then
when some friends later on named the Prophet, I
saw what all had signified that surely the mantle
of Joseph had fallen upon the shoulders of the
chosen head of the Church.
	This was a sorrowful time, like the season,when
the Savior was gone,and had left as the disciples
feared forever notwithstanding the continued
teachings they had been blessed with to prepare
them for these eventful times. Dark and gloomy
but these people had no time to weep and mourn
as the disciples at Jerusalem but indeed they
would had they followed their natural instincts.
