OBITUARIES

	One year ago on the 18th day of October ult. we were
called to part by the hand of death with one of our dear
friends Sister Cecelia Mortensen, beloved wife of N. W.
Mortensen and daughter of Hans and Mary Schow of this
place, who in the prime of her life was taken from her dear
little family of five children which was very hard for her
especially to leave her dear baby Aaron, one of the
sweetest liltle boys that ever came to earth, noble to look
upon. And now we are called again to mourn for the loss
of our little boy Aaron; who left us the 4th day of Oct.
1890, to join his dear mother after gaining the affections of
all who knew him, at the age of 2 years 3 months and 8
days.
	May our Father comfort the afflicted ones.

		For we know our little one needs no tender care
		For all are safe, and happy there.
		We would not call him back again,
		Our loss is his eternal gain;
		His short bright race on earth is run,
		We weep, but say God’s will be done.

	Scandinavian papers please copy.
										E. B.
	Huntsville, Weber Co, Utah.

	It has pleased God to take from us Sister Fanny Wilde
the beloved wife of Thomas Wilde of Coalville City, Sum-
mit Co. Utah, who departed this life Aug, 18th '90.
	Deceased was born in Middlesex County, England in
1846, and with her parents William and Emma Gunn came
to this country in '57; has resided at Coalville and Hoyts-
ville since '64; was married to Brother Thomas Wild in ’65;
was the mother of fourteen children, and all but the


youngest, a baby girl three weeks old, survive her. Th
little one died about two hours before its mother, and they
were buried together in the Coalville cemetery.
	The funeral was attended by a large concourse of rel
tives and friends. Deceased was for years, a teacher in the
Relief Society and was always a friend to the poor and sick.
Her demise is lamented by her husband, family and friends
she suffered with Bright's disease for about three months
and finally sank to rest.
	She was a faithful Latter-day Saint; died in full faith of
the Gospel, and awaits the Resurrection Morn.
