Wrapped Up to Please June Feulner Krambule H*" wrapping Christmas gifts become a bore of a chore — and an expensive one at that? It needn't be. With little expense, you can add charm, originality, and a wisp of your own personality to your gift wrappings, and your friends and family will love your thoughtfulness. Here are some suggestions geared to set your imagination in motion and put a relaxer on that strained Yuletide budget: In gathering materials, rely heavily on the sewing cabinet and knitting basket, where you'll find a gold mine of trimmings. First, pull out those leftover bits of wool yarn. Tie a package or two with them and top with fluffy round tassels of yarn, either in solid shades or varicolored. You may then personalize your gift by spelling out the name of the receiver. Just wrap a package in white tissue, then write out the name by attaching the yarn with ordinary paper glue. Perhaps among your tucked-away fabrics, you may find bits of organdy, dotted swiss or crisp nylon pieces. After a quick snip around the edges with pinking shears, you can gather these into fluffy bows to top neatly wrapped parcels, or try wrapping whole packages with fabrics. Keep in mind here the texture and size of print in relationship to the size of the package. Fine textures and small, dainty prints are lovely on small gifts, while heavier materials and larger, bright designs add the bright festive effect to the jumbo packages. One woman wrapped baby's slippers in soft pink flannel of petite lamb design. Her mother's gift was done in fluffy organdy over white tissue, with purse perfume nestled in the puffy bow. While youre still in the sewing cabinet, don't overlook bits of colorful rickrack — perfect for children's gifts — or strands of glittering sequins for the more sophisticated on your list. Or you may find bits of felt that can be cut the shape of bells, Christmas trees, wreaths, or other Yuletide symbols, to be glued to packages. Christmas tree ornaments have been tied to many a bow, but one. Young mother whose small children helped decorate her tree, found a new use for ornaments — the broken ones. After crushing them into tiny pieces, she drew the outline of a sleigh and three reindeer on a tissue-covered package. She then spread an even 'layer of glue within this outline and sprinkled the glittering pieces over the package. After allowing the glue to dry for a few minutes, she tipped the excess glitter off onto a newsPage 834 WRAPPED UP TO PLEASE 835 Paar CHRISTMAS PACKAGES DECORATED WITH COLORFUL YARN paper. A variety of motifs can be used, from simple stars to complex animals. Inexpensive glitter can be bought for this purpose. Another woman devised a way to decorate with a real candle. She packaged her gift and tied it with a fluffy bow of mbbon. In the center of the bow she sewed a medium-sized coat button, dripped some hot wax onto the button and stood the candle upon it. In your search for materials don't overlook holiday greens. A sprig of holly or mistletoe, bits of evergreen, and pine cones, add a delightfully fresh holiday touch. You may want to arrange small cones and ornaments corsage-fashion on sprigs of green tied with bright bows of nbbon. These make lovely, detachable lapel corsages. As for children, you can make fluffy yarn animals, or tie on candy canes or reindeer candles. 'Tiny jingle bells can also be used, making package-shaking a special treat. 'The bells can later be worn on shoelaces or zipper tabs. Wallpaper is a natural for gift wrapping, especially for the giant-size packages. Papers with large patterns fit the need here, while daintier prints are suitable for the smaller ones. Here is the perfect chance to relieve the attic of those leftover rolls of paper. It will aid your diminishing Christmastime budget and add variety and interest to the assortment of gifts under your tree. Wide nbbons and large Christmas tree ornaments are always attractive on large packages done in wallpaper, but there are other accents that go w ell, too. Try colorful drinking straws, taken in a bunch and tied tightly in the middle to make a festive tassel. Odd lengths of tinsel and other tree drapings can be used in place of ribbon. No wallpaper in your attic? Then try using odd bits of shelf paper, either for wrapping or trim, or you may find colorful decals from the "'five and dime" store for the gay decorations you wish to use. As for other ways of economically wrapping and decorating your Christmas gifts, the choice is as wide as your imagination. Chances are that by the time you have tried a few of these suggestions, you'll have many new ideas of your own. Like one woman we know, you may even reach for the cake decorator. Before long you'll find limitless trappings in vour own home that will take the drudgery out of gift wrapping and give each package that perfect personal touch.