[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | January | Issue: 6 | Title: A CHRISTMAS ROMANCE. | Author: Unknown]

	A CHRISTMAS ROMANCE.
	(Continued from page 43.)
girl too, beautiful and true, and like your
Geraldine, she was betrothed to another,
a dear friend, a college chum of mine,
they were wed, and she died soon after;
and shall I tell you that is why I entered
the Holy Order in the Church, and
strange indeed it is that you should come
to me, the girl I loved and would have
wed was Geraldine Wesley’s mother.”
	Before the young man had left the con-
vent, he had told the good Father,
who now seemed nearer to him than be-
fore, the offer he intended to make to
Geraldine, his brother’s widow. “I shall
urge her to marry me straightway, and
take her away to the old home in Lincoln-
shire, if it is not too much encumbered
with mortgages. I have some idea of the
place and its surroundings and what will
be needed. and I have a strong attach-
ment to the forests and parks, as I re-
member them in my boyhood, the house
in London if I could purchase it would
bring up too many sad memories for Ger-
aldine, it was there the first years of her
married life were passed. I go now to
meet my fate, confident I shall win, and
if I am fortunate in my hasty wooing, we
will drive here for you, dear Father
Mathew, to solemnize the marriage.
Au Revoir.” And so they parted after
clasping each other’s hands at the convent
gate.
	Horace Brandon hastened to the Banks
to make hurried preparations for depart-
ure, and after taking a plain dinner
wended his way to the abode of his
sister-in-law. Bettie, as though anticipat-
ing his coming, beamed with smiles
when she admitted him, and he was soon
in the presence of the one beloved and
her little flock of children, to whom he
was “the rich uncle from far away,” of
whom they had been told. They climbed
about him joyously, telling him of the
beautiful presents that Santa Claus had
brought, not forgetting the stories their
mamma had told them of the “Babe of
Bethlehem.”
	“My little girls, would you like me to
tell your mamma a beautiful fairy tale?”
said their uncle.
	“Yes, O yes!” the little ones shouted.
“Do, do! Mamma tells us fairy stories
wheu she is not too tired, pretty ones,
too.”
	“Now you run away and tell Bettie to

[Column 2]
give your mamma some tea, and while
she is taking it I’ll tell her the best
Christmas story that ever was told.”
	The tea was forthcoming and Horace
prefaced his love story by saying “it was
as old as time itself, and always new in
every individual case, he had always
loved the beautiful in nature, art, poetry,
music and women; he had only seen one
woman above all others that had been
enshrined in his heart since he met her,
seven years before; he had begged her
picture from a friend of her’s and taken
it with him when he left home, and car-
ried it next his heart in all his wander-
ings, his visions of her when alone at
night time, or when in the far-off, lonely
places, wherever he might be, he could
always see the face of this fairy creature,
it was more to him than all the world;
now, little girls, would you like to see the
picture?”
	All at once cried “Yes, yes, show us
the picture!”
	He drew from his inside pocket a velvet
case enclosing a small medalion of Ger-
aldine Wesley, and Jennie cried, “My
mamma, my pretty mamma? Where did
you get it?”
	Embarrassed beyond speech, Mrs. Bran-
don rose to leave the room, but with a
courage born of his heroic love, deter-
mined to stake all “at one fell stroke,”
he took her in his arms, and there, in the
presence of the three little witnesses car-
essed her as he would a child. There
was no mistaking his meaning, as he
plead for an immediate marriage, and as-
sured her every preparation had been
made. She did not make any pretence
of mistaking his avowal of love, but felt it
was too hasty, yet there were none to criti-
cise, and his plea to get away from Lon-
don, and breathe the country air, not
only for himself but for the little ones,
overcame all her scruples.
	The picture you were painting must be
dispatched to Lady Maynard with a mes-
sage; and the household goods packed off
to the nearest dealer in second hand arti-
cles.”
	Geraldine had no valuables to speak of,
so a few short hours sufficed to complete
the arrangements; the landlady was paid
a month’s rent in advance, and by five
o’clock all was done, the carriage was at
the door and a trap for Bettie and the
man-servant, Horace had brought over
from India, with the few packages, boxes,
etc., trunks were strapped to the four-
wheeler and Geraldine, without one iota
of regret, left the miserable lodgings in
Putney Row. They drove to the convent
and when admitted Father Mathew man-
ifested not the least surprise. In the
simple little chapel of the convent the
ceremony was performed with a few
priests for witnesses, and the two Sisters
of Mercy who had called on Mrs. Bran-
don on that memorable Christmas Eve
the day before.
	All this time Bettie was in a state of
great exaltation, for her dream had come
true and proud she was to know that her
mistress had consented to leave dirty
London. These were the days of slow
travel and poor accomodations at wayside
inns and hostelries, comparatively speak-
ing, and the journey that could now be
taken in a day or so occupied weeks. To
the newly married, little annoyances are
but trifles, and the travelers reached the
old Manor in Lincolnshire where Horace

[Column 3]
and his brother were born, and his father
and grandfather and other members of
the family before him, and found less in-
convenience of mortgages than he had
anticipated. An uncle of his was in
possession, not a Brandon, but married
to one. He was eager to get rid of the
obligations and see the old place repaired
and restored to one of the family name.
Pride of inheritance is a strong character-
stic in these old landowners, and their
descendants on this side of the water are
equally tenacious in this respect.
	To make a long story short, Horace in
the long winter evenings related to his
bride the story of Father Mathew’s at-
tachment to her mother, and she explained
something of her own early life when her
father was the Vicar of St. Budolph in
Lincolnshire, and how happy she had
been in that more simple life before her
aunt had brought her out in society and
she had been betrothed and afterwards
the wife of his elder brother. “We shall
be happy here, I know, it is not so far
from my old home, and I love the woods
and fields of Lincolnshire.	E. B.W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s[-]con

Salt Lake City, Utah, 		-		JANUARY, 1907


[Column 1]
