 	THERE IS MUCH TO LEARN.

	I do not know if my few scattering 
thoughts may be worthy of a place in your
valuable paper. This morning I have been
reading an article in the EXPONENT, on
Jacob's pillar, by your much esteemed cor-
respondent, Mrs. Hannah T. King, and
cannot help exclaiming, how little we
know. I am an English woman, visited
Westminster; why certainly walked on the 
stone around the Coronation Chair, and not
until within an hour did I know tradition
said that stone was the identical pillar Ja-
cob rested his head on when he was blessed
with the Almightly sending his angel to
minister unto him. How true the saying
the older we grow in this kingdom, the less
we know, there is so much to learn and
sometimes we are so hard to acquire it.
This is an age of fashion, fault-finding and
nonsense, or shall I say seemingly so;
for Satan feels his time is short, and is
throwing his nets around us in every di-
rection seeking whom he may devour. Be-
sides he feels the Priesthood his Master, is
fully aroused, and understanding his wiles
is busy stopping every gap; yet a little
while and he will find himself thwarted.
Have not the prophets of old written that
God's people would be willing in the day of
His power? to do what? serve him truly,
loyally. That day is nigh at hand, and 
many, many are waiting and watching.
The masses of our people are earnest, even
those who seemingly are careless and in-
different to the interests of the kingdom;
probe them to the quick, they are sound
on the gospel. My sisters, let us watch and
pray that God will bless us, that the young, 
our darling children, when weighed in the 
balance will not be found wanting. If it
were in my power, I for one, as a fond,
foolish mother, would e'en bear every trial 
that my children might walk in the paths
of comfort and blessings. Bnt that, we
parents have to learn must not be, 'twould
rob them of the crowns of glory they
would have if proved faithful. I read, and
see a great deal of folly in regard to ex-
travagance in dress, furbelows, trails and
all the formula of fashion is in our midst.
Cannot we middle-aged sisters lay aside
every form of dress except that which is
neat, economical, pleasant to the eye and
comfortable to the wearer. If we do this,
our  footsteps, wisdom will assume her
power over us, and we may soon become
what we desire, a pattern to all nations. 
May God bless us to that end, is the prayer
of your co laborer. B. M.
	Richmond, Cache Co., July 16th, 1878.


Marriage is a most sacred and solemn ordi-
nance; it should never be esteemed lightly.
The days of life are many, and diversities
of circumstances sorely try all—prosperity
as well as adversity has its peculiar disad-
vantage, and too much care cannot be tak-
en in cultivating and developing affection
after marriage, that the strength of affec-
tion may overcome all trials and unite
truly those who are made one by the priest.


