EDITOR EXPONENT:

	As we have been honored of late with a visit
from our much beloved Sisters E. R. Snow,
Z. D. Young and M. A. P. Hyde, we thought
worthy to report an interesting meeting
held here. The people of this place were
notified that the sisters of this place would
be with us. A goodly attendance assem-
bled together of the Relief Society and the
Young Ladies' Association, also many of
the brethren, and an interesting time was
enjoyed by all. After the usual ceremo-
nies of singing and prayer and introducing
these sisters by the President of the So-
ciety, Miss E. R. Snow expressed much
pleasure in being with us, and in seeing so
many brethren present as we needed their
co-operation in our labors. Spoke of the
divided interests of the people of the
world, compared them with our united in-
terests. Spoke on the organization of the
Relief Society; that every sister who had
her name enrolled in this kingdom, should
become a member of it, and was required
to be a live active one; that Joseph Smith
said that this organization was designed to
help the Bishops relieve the poor, and to
save souls; and it was an organization of
the kingdom of God. Said many thought
we should be judged by our motives, but
our motives lead us on to actions, and by
our actions we shall be judged. That
many a sister thought that if she did not
live her religion, her husband would save
her, but our reward will be according to
our works. Told the mothers to watch over
their children from their earliest days, and
as soon as they were baptized, have them
join an organization that while their minds
were pure they might continue to grow up
in the knowledge of the things of the
kingdom. Said let the mothers arrange
their work so that when meeting time
comes they may not be hindered from at-
tending, and set them good example[-], for
they were watching us, and it was [-]mall
things that ruined the character, "The lit-
tle foxes spoil the vines." She counseled

[Column 3]
parents not to let their daughters go to
Salt Lake City to hire out. Said she did
not consider herself any better than we
were, but had had a great deal more ex-
perience. Joseph Smith said that the Re-
lief Society was designed to perfect wo-
man and correct the morals. Every wife
that was living up to her duty should be a
counselor to her husband, not a dictator; we
have set out for a fulness of exaltation in
the kingdom of God, and we are heirs
of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ.
Did not like to see the sisters wear sun-bon-
nets, would like to see their countenances;
wanted us to have a class of braiders that
had stamina enough to persevere in siraw.
work and let the sisters wear hats; liked to
see them look beautiful, but not follow af-
ter the fashions of Babylon. Spoke on
home manufacture, of winter and summer
wear. Said if we planted out mulberry
trees in faith the Lord would bless us so we
could raise them, as he had done others in
some of the northern settlements. Was
glad to hear we had some grain stored, as
famine was sure to come for the Lord had
decreed it; wanted us to raise beans and
store up. Spoke of the Lord having a
tried people, and we must perfect ourselves
and prove our integrity, and that it would
be a password for us into the Celestial
Kingdon; and we must help and cheer each
other all we can for there is enough trouble
for us all to pass through.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young said she was happy
in being with us, and that it was right that
we should become acquainted with each
other, and have a perfect understand-
ing that difficulties might not exist between
us; that more difficulties arose through
misunderstandings than anything else; that
we had a right to be happy, and we are on
an equality one with another. She loved
to talk with the sisters when the spirit of
the Lord was upon her. Spoke of there
being sisters in S. L. City, who were learn-
ed in medicine and surgery, had received
their diplomas, could set dislocated joints,
and were prepared to teach others. That
we should have some one in every settle-
ment qualified to do these things. Asked
the Lord to sanctify our troubles to us.
	Mrs. Amelia Goldsbrough from Nephi,
made some remarks on what had been said,
and on the order of Celestial Marriage.
Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde thought it unwise to
detain us much longer. The Spirit of God
was poured out upon the sisters and made
manifest in the gifts of the Gospel, prov-
ing the Lord is willing to bless us if we
keep his commandments. Our President
called on Elders B. Lund, J. G. Guymon,
R. Carter, C. Collard, and S Jewkes to oc-
cupy a short time; each made a few re-
marks, expressing their satisfaction in wit-
nessing so good a time.
	Your Sisters, etc.

