WOMEN OF TO-DAY.

	It is becoming self evident that woman's
sphere of usefulness is enlarging, and whereas
in the past, women have only had domestic
duties to attend to, many are now called upon
to fill positions of honor and trust in the vari-
ous callings and avocations of life. Th[-]s is to
a certain extent as yet only experimental,
though in some professio[-]s women alr[-]ady ex-
cel in skill and proficiency. There are to be
sure many records of women of the past, who
took an active part in the different callings
usually allotted to men; yet these are consid-
ered exceptional, and cannot be taken as evi-
dence of the capabilities of the sex in general.
Therefore it is well for the women of the nine-
teenth century to be able to stand upon their
own real merits, and not pride thems[-]lves up-
on others, however illustrious they may have
been. What the women of to-day are capable
of doing now, is the question, not what th[-]ir
grandmothers or ancestry did do. This is an
age of di[-]covery, invention and progression.
And admitting that fact, is woman to be ex-
clud[-]d? Would it be fair that man should ad-
vance to a higher plane and woman remain
"In statu quo?" such ideas are inconsistent.
Notwithstanding all the arguments against the
equality of sex, suffrage, and women's filling
any public calling or office, yet every year
steady advances are made in this direction,
and the current of public opinion is changing
tone perceptibly.
	Women are proving the ground they take by
practical demonstration. The good results [-]f
any move is the best proof that can be given,
and is, anybody prepared to say woman has
not m[-]de proper use of the Suffrage? And if
she has been judicious and wise after voting

[Column 2]
six consecutive years she is surely competent
to hold such offices as under the "laws and stat-
utes" woman is eligible to be elected to. The
recent move made in this city of electing lady
delegates to the County Convention calls forth
remarks upon the subject of woman's capabili-
ities, sphere and duties; and doubtless will
awaken much latent thought in the minds of
both men and women, and by the exchanging
of ideas many who had previously given little
consideration to the matter, will receive new
light and come to a better understanding of
woman's true position and relative [-]ssociation
with man in all that concerns the public, po-
litically, socially, and religiously. It seems to
us very contradictory to talk of woman's in-
fluence in promoting the best interests of hu-
manity, and in the same breath declare her
total[-]y unfit to stand by man in a poli[-]ical
sense.
	It would almost lead one to think that there
was so much intrigue and deceit practised, that
men were afraid of exposure, else why are
they unwilling that women should mingle in
politics? If it is because women [-]re really un-
qualified and incompetent then what need to
oppose it, is any body going to push people in-
to office that have not requisite qualifications?
Why be afraid of the Suffrage for women?
	The agitation of Woman Suffrage has been
of efficacy in leading people to examine the
subject of representation and government
more thoroughlily, and thus become better in-
formed in relation to general interest. In this
community women who never before gave any
thought to public duties, have, since the Suf-
frage was extended to them, seen for them-
selves the benefits derived from an understand-
ing of even such general principles as it is pos-
sible for the most ordinary-minded to compre-
hend. If women have not been competent to
use the franchise intelligently in times past,
they are so now, generally speaking, and are
becoming more so all the time. The great im-
provements being constantly made develop
woman's attributes as well as man's, and as
knowledge increases so does power, and this is
true with individuals as well as communities,
and where there is power of mind there will
be practical results. Woman has been, and is
doing all she is called upon, or allowed to do in
education and improvement; in short in every
department where she is permitted to work.
For this reason we believe it is unjust for her
to be deprived a claim for recognition by the
right which men citizens enjoy, viz. the el[-]c-
tive franchise. The American people profess
to believe in a representative government; then
if all classes are to be represented, why not wo-
men represent themselves. It cannot be said
that women have not aided in every place
where they have labored in public inte[-]ests,
and certainly their v[-]ry womanliness, their
strong material aff[-]cti[-]ns would natural[-]y lead
them to seek the best methods of ensuring
peace, and to abolish the use of liquor and oth-
er stimulants that destroy home, life and happi-
ness, at well as ruin the body and soul of their
sons and husbands. These are some of the
most potent agents in moving women to inter-
cede and plead for the Suffrage. They have
tried, it would seem, all other methods to save
these dear to them, and they have been
wrought upon most strongly by the condition
in which the country is, in relation to the sale
of alcohol and its evil consequences. You may
say every woman has not this to actuate her,
but if every woman has not, nine tenths we
may say in safety have either son, husband,
father, brother, or friend who is a slave to that
terrible foe to human [---] and happiness and
the immortal soul.

[Column 3]
	To the women of to day opportunities are
constantly presenting themselves, men are be-
coming educated in the idea of woman's pro-
gression and realize her efficient help; old bar-
riers are being removed one by one, the iron
walls of custom are crumbling away, and the
idols of old tradition are being dethroned by
new innovations. The people are advancing
rapidly towards the marvelous changes which
have b[-]en predicted by ancient and modern
prophets, and these changes involve the inter-
ests of women quite as much as men; and wo-
man must act her part and not shrink from
duty in the great programme. Woman will
learn in time that there are other duties than
domestic ones to be performed, for in all that
concerns man, she must take an active part.
Let her seek wisdom for her guide and abide
in the counsel of the Almighty, and s[-]e n[-]ed
not fear to step forward wherever, and when-
ever the occasion requires it, and let her pre-
pare herself so well, that she will be able to
perform creditably any work which may be
given her either in public or private life.


