A FEW MINUTES WITH THE
DEAD.

Your dear little rose-bud has left you
	To bloom in a holier sphere,
He who gave it, in wisdom bereft you.
	Then why should you cherish a tear?—E. R. SNOW

	It was on a cloudy Autumn day in the year
1871. For a few minutes I was alone with the
dead—a bright little blue-eyed child. He lay
in an elegant black coffin. His cheeks were as
red as they had been before life became ex-
tinct. He had died without sickness. One
minute previous to his death he was seen play-
ing around the door in his usual manner, full
of life and in the bloom of health, the next
minute he was a corpse.
	It is only these who have been bereft of
loved ones that can truly imagine the feelings
of a parent who has been called to mourn the
loss of a dear departed one.
	How quiet and solemn everything seemed.
No noise. Nothing to be heard but the tick-
ing of the clock. I gazed upon my darling
again and again. He looked so life-like that I
bent my head down to see if I could hear him
breathe. No, there was not the least sign.
Recollections of the past came vividly to my
mind. Then I asked myself the question, "Is
it not a dream?" I could hardly believe it was
true; but nevertheless it was so—it was too
true. I looked again upon those life-like, red
rosy cheeks and those pretty blue eyes, and
whilst gazing upon his lovely form, I solilo-
quized to myself: "Take away from me all I
possess, turn me out into the streets, without
home, without friends, with but enough cloth-
ing, without friends, with but enough cloth-
ing to cover my nakedness, only give me back
the darling I so dearly loved, and I'll not mur-
mur; I'll not complain, but raise my heart to
Him who reigns above with thankfulness and
gratitude, and praise His holy name." "The
Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away,
blessed be the name of the Lord."
	In an elevated part of the Salt Lake Ceme-
tery can be seen a large number of graves of
children who died in infancy, amongst which
rest the remains of the loved one spoken of,
and the following is part of the inscription on
the grave-board:
	"Died from drinking benzine oil in mistake
for water." R. A.
	S. L. City, July 18, 1878.


Tapioca Pudding: Put eight tablespoonfuls of
tapioca to three pints of milk and let it get milk-
warm, soaking it till it is soft, then mix with it
two spoonfuls of butter, three eggs well beaten,
half cup of s[-]gar, half a nutmeg and bake imme-
diately. This pudding is good either hot or cold.


[Column 1]
when you left. Some of it has been taken
down, and the main building is finished, or part-
ly so; Bydeman, once Emma Smith's husband,
and his wife live in it; its walls made me think
of the Council House walls, they were so thick;
the first story is built of white stone just like the
Temple, and the walls of the first floor of one of
the wings of the same stone is still standing, it
alone is 123 ft. long, so you can imagine how
long they intended it to be. The other stories
are of brick, and all speak of how remarkable,
it is, that they should have stood so long. The
staircase is of walnut. The river is just a few
steps from the west door; the oak trees are still
standing; trumpet vines and the flowers have
climbed to the top, and looks beautiful. We
bought a picture of Joseph Smith, and saw pic-
tures of the whole family. In their parlor was
the old secretary owned by Hyrum Smith, and
it is elegant, but very old fashioned; an old
checker table that Joseph owned, also a bureau
that was very handsome, and an old center
table elegantly carved. We then went across
the street to Joseph's old home and drank out of
that old well too, and saw the grave-yard. The
house is just the same old house.		*
*			We saw where they said he and his
brother lay; the grave is between two locust
trees; we also saw the little fruit frame
that stood over the grave for years; next we
saw his old house, it was well preserved, not
used for anything. From there we went to
Aaron Johnson Esq's. old house. The old print-
ing office was moved away up the river, but we
saw the house, and went all through it. they
took the old fire-place away last winter, but the
rest is much the same; the sweetest young
married woman lived there; she was so kind,
and felt so sorry for us because we cried. She
had a sweet little baby about as large as Belle's,
with blue eyes. I cannot express my feelings
here, I was completely broken down, and could
think of nothing but you, my own sweet mother,
and of your sorrow. Next we went to H. C. 
Kimball's, and it is a grand looking house; right
in the center of the old house is a white rock
about two yards in length with H. C. K, 1845,
engraved upon it. There are some Germans liv-
ing in the house; they were very kind to us and
took us all through the house; we went in the
large room	*	*	and the two bedrooms;
up stairs in all the rooms, and into the third
story, and up on to the observatory; there is the
most beautiful view from there I ever saw. I
thought of Aunt Helen, and I don't blame her
for speaking so often of her home, for it is beau-
tiful. I brought her a piece of a large evergreen.
They have built a wing on and the whole
place looks lovely; there is also a large block of
redstone on the east side of the house with the
same ingraving on. Next we went to where
Belle's father, Bishop Whitney, lived; the house
is all gone, and the prettiest place in Nauvoo
stands on the ground where his home stood; the
old back steps were there still. Then we went
to what used to be the old graveyard; some of
the old graves are still left in the people's lots,
and others are moved to the new cemetery.
From there we went back to the hotel. Mr
Smith, the old man that took us around, told us
that all Joseph's prophecies had come true but
one, and that was about the "Mormons" coming
back. He said Joseph said it should become a
vineyard, and the Mormons should drink the
wine, and at that time there were no grapevines
there. Now it is indeed a beautiful vineyard;
miles and miles of grapevines and nothing else,
and we had some of the wine in St. Louis. He
also said it should be deserted, and should be as
a dead city; and oh, that is true! There is some-
thing about the death-like stillnnss that you
cannot express. I forgot to tell you that we went

[Column 2]
out to Joseph Smith's farm and drank out of
the very old well. Oh, such a day, I never ex-
pect to see anything like it again; such feelings,
ma; they are beyond all description. Every step
I took I wondered if you had ever been there,
and oh, how I did long to speak to you, and ask
you questions! It seemed as if you must be
there, and I would turn around to look. I never
had such a strange feeling. I could not find
father's house, but saw the Masonic Hall, where
they told me he once had his office, during some
trial, but there was an old gentleman, a Mr.
Morrell, that called on me last night, and was
to call this morning, that could have told me
everything, but we came away so early that I
could not see him again. We had to come on
this steamer for there was no telling when
there would be another, and we feel anxious to
get on our way esst. I should love to see you
all. There is never one moment that you are
not in our thoughts. I wanted so much to say
my letter was from Nauvoo, but it was so near,
just as we left, that I guess I might say so.	*	*
I do not forget any of you in my prayers, but
constantly pray for the health and safety of you
all. Give our love to all the folks and to all the
children. I shall try and write up my first
steam-boat ride for you. We are going from St.
Louis to Chicago, and then I expect to go direct
to Massachusetts. Good night, dear heart.
				Lovingly,
