SHOULD WE GLEAN?

	It is to the daughters of Zion, to the faith-
ful, the humble, the meek and the lowly,
that I would appeal in favor of gleaning;
for none but such will value it as a privi-
lege to out in perhaps, a very warm sum-
mer day, and gather the golden heads of
grain left in the field.
	In the short time since the sisters were
first told to store up grain, a great amount
of breadstuff has been laid up, with which
fact, all who read the EXPONENT are well
acquainted. The readers of the EXPONENT
will also remember that our beloved and de-
parted Prophet, President Brigham Young,
in a meeting with the sisters at Ogden,
said "Let the sisters glean." It is not for
me to say who should glean, and who
should not, "Wisdom is justified by her
children," but sisters, let none of us think
that it doesn't mean us, if we possibly can
go.
	Some will say "I will rather give a bushel
of wheat, than go out to glean." That is a
very good substitute for gleaning, provided
you cannot go; but, it does not quite cover
the ground, sisters, unless such is the case.
The wheat we glean to store up for Zion, is
clean, pure, plump wheat; it is not taken
from our husbands' granaries; it is clear,
positive, real gain, at the same time we
yield obedience to the command of a kind
Heavenly Father. Let us, who know the
will of our Father, labor while yet it is day,
for no one knoweth how long Providence
will vouchsafe such bountiful harvests as
we have been permitted to reap for a suc-
cession of years. It has been spoken by
holy prophets, modern, as well as ancient,
that famine will smite the earth and its in-
habitants. And how often have we not
shrank from the mere thought of the terri-

[Column 2]

ble sufferings that are yet to come upon
blind, disobedient, ungrateful mankind.
	To those, (if any there be) whose hands
are so soft, white and tender, that their
owners feel as if they can not possibly ex-
pose them so, or, they have not been
"raised" to do such work, I would say read
the beautiful little story, of a few months
back, in the EXPONENT, entitled "Two
pairs of hands." Let us all re-read, if we
do not remember, such spirited, inspiring
articles as "Sisters be in earnest," and
"The Grain Question," and not allow our-
selves to forget that the time is short, and
getting shorter every day in which to pre-
pare for the great day of the Lord's ven-
geance.
	The history of storing grain by the Re-
lief Society of this place, commenced in
'75, under the most favorable auspices.
Our Bishop made it a topic for public
speaking in our Sabbath meetings, by him-
self and the leading brethren, till in a few
weeks everybody in town was familiar
with it, and the way was paved for the sis-
ters whose duty it became to gather dona-
tions for Zion's Relief Fund. With all our
available means, except twenty-five dol-
lars with which we purchased a share in
the publication of the Woman's Book, we
bought up wheat; the brethren and sisters
all donating liberally, besides, soon swelled
the pile. And when the idea of gleaning
by the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A.
was mentioned, our Bishop called for vol-
unteers at every Sabbath meeting as long
as gleaning was kept up, to take the glean-
ers to the field and back, which was re-
sponded to by many of our brethren, the
bishop attending in person several times,
making us feel that they took a lively be-
coming interest in the endeavors of the
sisters. Those who volunteered to convey
the gleaners, met at the place appointed, at
8 o'clock, a. m., twice a week, and shortly
after we rolled out of town a very happy
company. We did not "stand," nor indeed,
"sit" on ceremonies, but we did sit down
on our empty sacks which, filled in the
evening, with headings afforded us very
comfortable seats. After gleaning from
9 till 12 a. m., we availed ourselves of the
"squatters right," and how we did enjoy
our dinner! The good things brought by
the sisters who had plenty, were freely di-
vided with those who had less, making
the nooning a very enjoyable affair. We
knew very well it would be naughty to lay
down the farmer's lucerne, and empty his
cellar for milk, so we did not do it. And
though we enjoyed our dinner immensely,
we did not forget that gleaning was object
number one, of which our well filled sacks
bore ample evidence.
	One of our most delicate and refined sis-
ters went out with us and gleaned, quite
sure of a severe headache, and on returning
home, told us with becoming pride, that
she had had no headache, and said she, "I
thought gleaning was something so hard,
so different from what it is."
	I have no doubt that gleaning would be
very hard to carry on to any great extent,
if the brethren did not give it their sup-
port if the gleaners were left to walk to
the field, and carry their filled sacks home,
after eight or nine hours gleaning; if the
gleaners were a small minority, instead of
a great majority of the sisters, old and
young of a place; if they were scoffed at,
instead of honored, encouraged and sup-
ported in it. By gleaning too many hours
a day, and too many days a week, it be-
comes irksome. But it takes faith, hope
and charity to glean for Zion.

[Column 3]

	May God bless those who have gleaned,
those who will glean hereafter, and those
who would cheerfully glean if they but
"could," and all who lend their influence
and efforts to the great object of filling the
store-houses of the Lord.
							H. M.
Gunnison, July. 1878.


For the EXPONENT.
