IN MEMORIAM.

	By the death of Bishop L. E. Harrington a gloom has
been cast over our little city. Having been Bishop and
President since the organization of American Fork as a
branch of the Church, he has endeared himself to the
hearts and affections of the people to that extent that
they cannot fail to realize their loss keenly; neverthe-
less we acknowledge the hand of the Lord in our be-
reavement, and feel to say, "Thy will be done."
	Leonard E. Harrington was born January 27th, 1815,
at New Lisbon, Oswego Co., New York. Embraced the
Gospel in 1842, and gathered with the Saints at Nau-
voo; shared in the persecutions of the Saints, and ar-
rived in Salt Lake City in September, 1847, having
crossed the plains in the first company of families that
came. In 1850 he became one of the first settlers of
American Fork, and has never ceased to labor for the
interest of his ward as Bishop, counselor, father and
friend until his demise, which occurred June 21st, 1883.
The funeral was the largest one ever witnessed in this
place.
	At a special meeting of the Relief Society of Ameri-
can Fork the following resolutions were unanimously
adopted:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father, in his infinite wis-
dom, has seen fit to call from our midst our beloved
friend and brother, Bishop Leonard E. Harrington, and,
	Whereas, We miss his kind and fatherly counsels,
realize that in him we have lost a firm friend, a man of
God, and one who was loyal to the cause of his religion,
and that of his country. A true friend of woman, who
did not hesitate, in his unflinching integrity, to plead
her cause in the Legislature of the Territory, in Conven-
tion and in every place and at all times, whenever op-
portunity presented itself, Therefore, be it resolved,
	That we, the Relief Society of American Fork, do
deeply deplore the loss of our beloved Bishop, Leonard
E. Harrington, and that we truly sympathize with the
bereaved family in their great affliction, and pray our
Heavenly Father to console them in their great be-
reavement, and be unto them an ever present help in
every time of need.
				MARY FINDLEY, President,
				EMMA FEATHERSTONE; Secretary.

	On Tuesday, June 12th, Mrs. Janet Gibson died sud-
denly at Bishop Sharp's, in the home of her daughter
Mrs. Annie G. Sharp. Deceased was the widow of
Elder Wm. Gibson, who labored for many years as a
missionary in the old country and also in America.
Deceased was born in Johnston, Renfrewshire Co., Scot-
land, October, 1813, her maiden name was Nichol.
	She was married to Wm. Gibson December 6th, 1881, in
Paisley. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints at Paisley, November 24th
1840, by Elder Francis Sprowl. During the time Bro. and
Sister Gibson remained in Edinburgh after they received
the Gospel, Brother Gibson was almost constantly en-
gaged in promoting the spread of the principles of
truth, and temporal affairs were a secondary considera-
tion. Sister Gibson labored faithfully in domestic af-
fairs, and was also zealous in spiritual things, always


not. What do some of the guardians of
our public morals in the centre of this great
Republic do? They try to conceal villainy
in its worst forms, and they come out to
Utah and exclaim in holy horror against
Plural Marriage. "O Consistency! what a
jewel thou art!" What do some of our
would-be friends come here for? Not to
save and elevate woman, not to promote
virtue and chastity. No; but to defile and
destroy and lead astray the young and un-
wary. And if they are thwarted they say
we are so exclusive; would to God we were
more so, that we could keep the daughters
of Zion from evil influences. Men of the
world come into our midst with their oily
tongues, beautiful language, genteel man-
ners and polished appearance outwardly,
and it is a very easy matter to lead away
the unsuspecting. Who is to blame?
Fathers and mothers sometimes; they love
their daughters so much that they do not
like to cross them in their love matters,
they are afraid they will be unhappy, that
it will blight their lives, and so they suffer
them to marry men who are destitute of
principle and the Spirit of God, and find
too late that their lives are ruined, they
are more wretched than they could possibly
have been to remain single, or marry good
men with large families already, who were
following out the revelations of God given
in this last dispensation, and seeking to ob-
tain celestial glory by keeping the laws
pertaining thereto. Parents do not instruct
their daughters sufficiently in the conse-
quences of forming improper attachments,
do not throw around them the safeguards
that will form sure protection against in-
sidious influences. Step by step, little by
little are the inroads made that finally re-
sult most perniciously on the lives of some
of our young. Much more could be said
on this subject, but let this suffice. One
word more: Who are our daughters' present
Guardian Angels? I think their mothers
are, or ought to be. Then let us as moth-
ers in Israel rise up in our dignity and be
ever vigilant in the discharge of our duty,
leaving no loophole for the enemy to enter.
Teach our daughters that virtue and honor
are priceless, and that in obedience to pa-
rents there is safety.

