A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

	To those who may read this simple his-
tory of the private life of an individual, I
would say before entering upon any details,
or portraying incidents, can you understand,
my kind readers, what it is to be truly;
emphatically and undeniably old?
 To have the whole land cape of your past
life spread out to view; to trace in and out,
through the weary winding ways,
watch where the shadows fell and darkened;
to catch sometimes the dawn of unbroken
light, to rest after all, to feel you have be-
come unequal to the contest of life's strug-
gles, save as faith sustains you; to wait pa-
tiently, with a strong and ever growing
trust and perfect security, relying upon
the promises of Him "Who sees not as
we see."
To feel you have acquired a little insight
into the purposes of God in your creation;
with a firm hope and an unswerving faith
in the recompense of a fulness of glory
through obedience, more complete than
any earthly power can give; to rest con-
tented, waiting His time?  Can you realize
that these things are worth living for,
worth suffering for?  Can any sacrifice be
too great through which we are called to
pass, if we would follow in our Master's
footprints.
	In looking back over the years that are
past, and recalling vividly the incidents of
my earliest days, tracing the dim outlines
of the years now vanished, ere the powers
of life are too enfeebled, I feel attracted to
sit down and delineate some of its most in-
tricate mysteries, without any effort to
embody myself as a heroine, but clearly to
give a concise account of my unpretentious
life; beginning with its morning, repre-
senting myself truthfully, as I have lived,
through three quarters of a century, hav-
ing seen many of my cotemporaries and
some of my dearest friends pass out of
sight. In looking back, if there are any
principles which have given me strength,
and by which I have learned to live more
truly a life of usefulness, it seems to me I
could wish to impart this joy and strength
to others; to tell them what the Gospel has
been and is to me, ever since I embraced
it and learned to live by its laws.  A fresh
revelation of the Spirit day by day, an un
veiling of mysteries which before were
dark, deep, unexplained and incomprehen-
sible; a most implicit faith in a divine
power, in infinite truth emanating from
God the Father, the fountain from which
we must never depart into labyrinths of
our own, or other's seeking, if we mean to
conquer as individuals.
Our own little histories are replete with
this occasional darkness, which has been
left unexplained, through misunderstand
ings, discord and wrongs unrighted, and 
which we learn to endure through much
forbearance and forgiveness of injuries.
Human character is not immutable, but
capable of perfecting to an infinite growth;
do we not need, in such a world, faith in
God - a hope for man that has its founda-
tion in the principles of eternal truth?
(To be continued.)


