EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Thinking that a few items from this un-
usually quiet place would be acceptable, we
take the liberty of sending you a few
lines.
	Our Relief Society has been in existence
ten years, and, to many of its members, it
has been a great blessing in the many op-
portunities it has furnished for pure and
unalloyed enjoyment of the blessings of
the gospel, and in the sweet communion of
the Holy Spirit of promise that cheers and
blesses the saints of God, and in the many
opportunities that have been afforded of
cheering the needy, and comforting the
weary. Our Society now numbers ninety-
eight members, many of whom are fully
alive to the duties of the hour. We have
now on hand three hundred and fifty-four
bushels of wheat, as a beginning of our
stores towards a time of need; we have al-
so made two hundred pounds of good
cheese, have donated fifty-four dollars to
the Temple this year, from the Sunday
eggs that the sisters have saved, also fifty-

[Column 2]
one dollars in cash for the same purpose,
and over one hundred dollars in clothing
for workmen on the Temple. We have
been blest in being able to aid that worthy
cause. To the Welsh Emigration Fund we
have donated twenty-eight dollars, and
have yet a nice amount on hand for the
benefit of the needy, and for the carrying
out of the purposes of our organization. It
certainly seems as if our little stores were
blessed and increased like the widow's
meal of old, and we can but thank the Giv-
er of all good, for the many manifestations
of His goodness towards us.
	We all felt greatly blessed and strength-
ened by the late visit of our beloved sis-
ters Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young;
their words were sweet and consoling; we
desire to carry out their counsels, and pray
heaven to bless them and continue their
days of usefulness with us, and also upon
Sisters Amelia Goldsborough of Nephi, and
M. A. P. Hyde of Spring City who accom-
panied them.
	Perhaps we trespass, but we cannot close
without tendering our meed of praise to
you, for your noble efforts in our Father's
cause; in your many and arduous labors in
conducting the ever fresh and cheering
EXPONENT, which is indeed an exponent
of the views, feelings and aspirations of
Utah's noble women.
	We remain your sisters etc,
			JANE BAILEY, Pres't.
