HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received through courtesy of
Prof. J. R. Park, Principal of the Deseret Uni-
versity, the Circular containing items of inter-
est concerning this institution. The Univer-
sity was founded in 1850, and was conducted
after the manner of a Commercial College; but
since 1869 it has been fully organized as an In-
stitution for Scientific and Classic Instruction.
It is divided into three departments, Prepara-
tory, Normal and Academic. The Academic
year is divided into four terms; the first term
will commence August 19th. This Institution
is ably conducted by Dr. Park and his assist-
ants Professors Toronto and Kingsbury.
	THE GRAND Twenty-Fourth of July, the
anniversary of that "day of days," has past
over for another year; and among the amuse-
ments upon that occasion we would make
special mention of the "matinee" in the Thea-
tre, as it was a very enjoyable affair fer the lit-
tle folks and elder ones, and was designed to
serve two very worthy purposes; while it af-
forded innocent recreation, the money expend
ed will serve a grand and holy purpose, in as
sisting to build a house for divine worship.
We commend the Committee in so estimable a
project, and congratulate them upon its com-
plete success. The house was more than
crowded, and the applause was almost "terrif-
ic," but then, such manifestations of mirth
and hilarity are expected on such occasions.
We tender thanks to the Committee for Com-
plimentary Tickets received.
	THE "JUVENILE Instructor" has recently
moved into a new office built just west of the
residence of the Hon. George Q. Cannon,
where it was formerly published. The build-
ing stands on East Temple Street and is near
the railroad depot, so that its business facilities
as regard locality are excellent. The front
room is nicely fitted up for business, and there
for sale are all the standard Church Books al-
so complete volumes of the "Juvenile Instruc-
tor," neatly bound. The composing room is
behind the front office, and is a very pleasant
large room, suitable for work; an attic above
serves to store away paper and other things
used in an establishment of this sort. This
cellar which is high in the ceiling is used
for the press, and is pleasant, door opening to
the north, with large windows and every ac-
commodation necessary for the labor. Anoth-
er basement room under the front office is used
as a store-room as the "Juvenile" takes p[-]o


[Column 1]
duce of different kinds on subscription.  The
little paper is ably edited and contains many
excellent things suitable for people of all ages
as well as children.  It should be in every fam-
ily in the Territory, but more especially where
there are children.  We congratulate our fra-
ternal friends at the Juvenile Office in hav-
ing so commodious an office of their own, and 
trust that the patronage of this community
may enable the EXPONENT to do likewise.
	THE PRIMARY Meetings in the Five Pre-
cincts in this city, convened Monday evening
in the respective localities.  The delegates to 
the County Convention from each Precinct
were chosen in the usual order, except by
nominating ladies as delegates.  This gave
rise to some argumentation in one precinct al-
though in the other two where ladies were
chosen no remarks were made.  As this is a 
new departure from old-fashioned customs, it
will of course, call forth criticism and ridicule
as all innovations do; but it will be one more
experiment bearing upon the question of wo-
man's capabilities.  Our space will not per-
mit us to publish all the proceedings of the 
meetings or the names of all delegates but will
only name the ladies chosen: Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Mrs. Mary
P. Freeze, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells.  Alter
nates, Mrs. Diana Ried, Mrs. Hannah T.
King, Mrs. Sarept[-] M. Heywood, Mrs. Harriet
C. Mo[-]ris, M[-]s. Prisc[-]lla M. Staines.  In the
Second Precinct where some remarks were
made against women holding public offices,
Mrs. Horne made some very shrewd allusions
to women of the Scriptures, mentioning Deb-
orah who judged Israel forty years "and there
was peace in the land." 
	SOMETHING NEW: The Salt Lake County
Convention, met pursuant to call at the Court
House Saturday July 27, at 11 o'clock, a. m.
Hon. John Sharp, Chairman Central Commit-
tee, called the meeting to order, W. W. Riter
was elected temporary president, and David
McKenzie temporary secretary.  A committee
on credentials was appointed, their report re-
ceived, committee discharged.  The creden-
tials showed all the precincts were rep[-]esented
except Little Cottonwood, Bingham, Sandy,
Silver, Granger and Pleasant Grove.  Roll
called showing all the delegates were present
but three.  The Convention was hen perma-
nently organized with Hon. John Sharp, Pres
ident, Joseph Rawlins, and Alexander Hill,
Vice Presidents David McKenzie and Em-
meline B. Wells, Secretaries.  George H. Tay-
lor; Chaplain, and Peter Reid, Sergeant at-
arms The Convention then opened by pray-
er.  A committee of nine was first appointed
on nominations.  J. R. Winder, J. Booth,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Henry Arnold, Frank
Armstrong, W. Lemon, A. W. Smith, A. Hill,
S. Bennion were appointed by the chair.
	While the Committee retired for consulta-
tion, speeches were made by the Chairman
Messrs. John T. Caine, David McKenzie and 
A. H. Raleigh.  The Committee returning pre-
sented their report which was received and 
they were discharged.  Among the names re-
ported for office was a lady for County Treas-
urer:  The Convention voted on the nomina-
tions separately.  All the men were elected to
office, but when the lady's name was brought
before the Convention, the question was asked
as to the eligibility of ladies to hold office un-
der the present statutes of the Territory.  Re-
marks were made upon the subject by both
gentlemen and ladies, a copy of the Compiled
Laws of Utah was brought and it was found
the word "male" citizens, instead of simply
citizens, was the only legal objection against

[Column 2]
ladies holding office.  A motion was made
by the Secretary David McKenzie that a vote
of confidence be given to the lady candidate,
and the sense of the Convention be expressed
to the effect that but for the Territorial Stat-
utes d[-]claring ladies ineligible to office in
Utah the nomination would have been sus-
tained by the Convention.
	The nominations made for Justi[-]es of the 
Peace and Constables in the several precincts,
were read and adopted.  The Convention then
discussed the subject of paying for tickets for
the coming election, as the County Court made
no provision for more than Ballot Boxes, en-
velopes and stationery.  On motion of W. W.
Riter, the nominees for office were declared to
be the proper persons to pay for the printing of
tickets.  The Convention decided that the
Central Committee were authorized to fill any
vacancies which may occur on the ticket
through any of the present nominees declin-
ing to act.  The names of the Peoples Central
Committee for Salt Lake Co. were read, and as
they were all residents of Salt Lake City, it
was decided to nominate four, from precincts
outside the city, which was done and four of 
the names of the present number withdrawn
in their favor.  Mrs. Wells moved that three
ladies names be added to the Committee; the
Chairman put the question to the Convention
and gave the lady delegates the privilege of 
nominating.  Mrs. Mary P. Freeze then nomi-
nated as members, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. M.
I. Horne, Mrs. S. M. Kimball, and the motion
was unanimously carried.  The business of the 
Convention being concluded a vote of thanks
was tendered to the Chairman and a motion
made for adjournment "sine die."  Closed with
prayer by the Chaplain.
	We feel that a decided step has been taken
in favor of woman's advancement during this
Convention and we tender our cordial thanks
to the gentlemen of the Convention for their 
cou[-]tesy and liberality on the subject, as we
realize that a new era is dawning upon the 
world, in which woman, as well as man must
take an active and prominent part, and they
cannot be too mutually helpful in all that per-
tains to the interests of both.


