IN MEMORIAM.

	THERE has been a time of general sorrow
here in Ephraim and Mayfield, and it seemed
providential that our dear Sisters Eliza R.
Snow and Zina D. Young came just at that
time with comforting words of hope, soothing
and consoling the bereaved parents and friends.
On Saturday, June 22d, a party of young peo-
ple, thirteen in number, eight of them only
children in years, took a pleasure trip in a
boat on a small lake near here. A sudden
squall of wind came up so furious that it up-
set the boat and two only were saved of its in-
mates.
	From Mayfield, Olivr Oviatt and his wife
Rosabella, eldest daughter of Harden and
Margaret Whitlock; Abagail Stevens, daugh-
ter of Joseph and Abagail Stevens; Noral Neil-
son, oldest child of Christian and Sena Neil-
son; Sarah Williams, daughter of John and
Christina Williams; William Henry Jensen,
son of Henry and Christina Jensen. From
Ephraim, Melinda Anderson, daughter of Jens
and Lena Anderson, Lizzie Thomson Ballon,
daughter of Jens and Annie Thomson Ballon;
George Larsen, son of James and Kerstine
Larsen; Charles Christieson, son of Anton and
Lena Christiesen; Lizzie Andersen, daughter
of Lars and Marin Andersen, a sweet, bright,
beautiful girl, who always reminded one of a


rift of sunshine. These two Charles and Liz-
zie, were betrothed and were buried in the
same grave. Sisters Snow and Young blessed
and comforted those bereaved, and their visit
will long be remembered, with blessing by the
sisters in Ephraim. This sad affair has cast a
gloom over the people, and yet when we think 
[-]hat,

'Life might have sunk, a long disease,
	Or falsehood's breath have stained their fame
Or passion's hopeless agonies,
	Have smote their bosoms like a flame;
But now, upon their living glance
	Are sights which earthly glories dim,
Earth lost in the sublime expanse,
	All nature one majestic hymn.
Then, shall we for their glory weep,
	And grieve them with our idle fears?
Love was not born in tombs to sleep,
	In realms of light we'll find it there.'

