NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS, M. B. C. Slade, Fall River, Mass.
edits a monthly magazine, entitled "Good
Words."

	THE ECLIPSE of the sun by the moon.
Monday, July 29, was visible in this city
through smoked glass, or by reflection in
a looking-glass, from 40 minutes past 1
o'clock, p. m., for about one hour and three
quarters. The color of the sky was of the
darkest blue, and the sunlight golden and
mellow; the shadows resting beautifully,
like fairy work, wherever they fell. The
effect was almost like enchantment. The
peculiarity of the shades of light and shad-
ow on the mountain[-] Southeast of the city
was charming. The scene altogether was
most interesting.

	THE THIRD Decade Celebration of the
first Woman's Rights Convention, convened
in Rochester, pursuant to call, July 19.
It was held in the same church (Unita-
rian), which opened its doors to the
first Convention, in 1848. Amy Post, a
member of that first Convention, and who
is still living in Rochester, in connection
with Miss Anthony, had charge of the
arrangements. Friends from abroad were
entertained free of expense. By letter
from Miss Anthony we learn that the An-
niversary was most interesting. Many
veteran workers were present. As she
has mailed us copies of the Rochester pa-
pers, containing a full account of the pro-
ceedings, we will publish particulars in
our next issue.

	MRS. SARA J. Andrews Spencer of Wash-
inton, has entered into an editorial partner-
ship with Mrs. Juan Lewis, editor of "Wo-
man's Words," Philadelphia, Pa. The first
number, containing "Salutatory from the
pen of Mrs. Spencer, was issued July 1,
and contains a precise account of the argu-
ments and committee's report on the Six-
teenth Amendment Bill, which is very in-
teresting. During the next session of Con-
gress "Woman's Words" will be issued in
Washington, and will contain all that is
noticeable of the work done on the woman
question by that Honorable Body, and the
ladies who labor there in the interest of
their sex. These lady editors are women of
fine talent, excellent capabilities, and occu-
py enviable positions in society in the
world. They are laboring indefatigably to
aid and assist women in attaining a greater
degree of independence. The journal is
very neat in its appearance, and contains
much personal information of women en-
gaged in all the different pursuits of life.
On the front of each number there is a
woodcut of some noted lady, with a short
sketch of her life, which adds very much
to the merit of the journal as a source of
information; for in this way are we enabled
to preserve, with little expense, something
of the history of those who are truly
worthy.


CENSURE is the tax a man pays to the
public for being eminent.


