THE GATES OF LIFE ARE OPENING.

Come thou with me, my daughter dear,
Out from these walls upbuilt by hands;
They hide, they hush, from eye and ear,
The changing pictures of the sky,
And the still voice that cometh near.

Beneath this leafy canopy,
Lighted by rising moon and star,
Stand thou, my daughter dear, with me,
And listen to the echo thrown
By all the world, anear, afar,
Though on the land, or on the sea.

What is the echo thou dost hear
In the pure silence of thy heart?
Nay, tremble not, my daughter dear,
'Tis but the answer to His call;
'Tis the farewell of those who part,
Of they, who saddest, linger here.

I hear it in the city's streets,
Below the city's mingled sounds;
And deeper, when the city sleeps,
The sleepless mourner's piteous cries,
Unhushed, relieve the heart's deep wounds,
In misery's dim, lone retreats.

Where goest thou, dear friend? Alas!
Thy heart is glad, thy hope is high;
Thou hurryest so quickly past,
Thou seest never, before, beyond,
How the dark tide of death flows nigh,
How it riseth, cruel and fast.

The dying maiden speaketh low
Where lover, weeping, bends his head:
Farewell, beloved! I loved thee so;
Forget me not, that we may keep
These vows of earth so vainly said,
And an immortal bridal know.

The stricken mother mourning bends:
Where her beloved unanswering lies;
All vain the love of fondest friends,
To soothe the heart's deep agony,
While memory's blessed visions rise,
And love's sweet labor hath its end.

The mother saith in tears, I go;
And sweet but for the thought of thee,
The rest in death, the weary know.
But ah! whose loving care shall lead
These little ones aright, for me?
Ah, let me stay! Death answers, No.

They are wending all the same, same way;
Behold! afar o'er all the earth
The nations don their last array;
Listen! the mournful requiems rise
Up from the nations' vacant hearths,
And the wrath of God still points the way.

Listen thou! O my daughter dear!
The roll of drums, the clash of swords,
These sounds of weeping in thine ear,
Change from sad farewells to all hail!
Behold the coming of the Lord,
Behold the reign of peace draws near.

Listen! thrones, kingdoms tottering,
And earth and sea all tremulous,
With thunderous voices, echoing,
Leaping to praise their Maker's name;
In speech majestic tell to us,
That this is Death's awakening.

Beloved, 'tis not the close of life,
Listen! these farewell cries shall change
To worship anthems; for all strife
Shall have an end; and at the cry
All flesh, shall at the summons strange,
Fainting, awake to deathless life.

