[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | April | Issue: 20 | Title: SOCIETY. | Author: Unknown]

SOCIETY.

	THE Relief Society Conference was held
in the Assembly Hall, April 3rd, 1897,
commencing at 2 p. m., Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young presiding. Opened by singing
“How firm a foundation “etc., Prof. C. J.
Thomas leader and Spencer Clawson Jun.
organist. Prayer was offered by President
Thomas B. Ricks of Bannock Stake, Idaho.
Singing “Now let us rejoice” etc. Roll
call by the Secretary, fifteen presidents of
Stakes present, a few were represented by
Counselors, making nineteen in all.
	President Young welcomed the sisters in
her own motherly fashion and spoke par-
ticularly to those who had come from a dis-
tance to attend Conference. She said in
her remarks we should keep ourselves free
from guile and refrain from speaking
against each other, and should walk in the
straight and narrow way and not be turned
aside by any influences that were mislead-
ing; reminded the sisters of the Prophet’s
words that the sisters little knew the
work that they were laying a founda-
tion for thought, we realized it now more
fully than ever; said in closing, “May
heaven bless us and sustain us, and may
we have the Holy Spirit while we are here
together that we may have a time of re-
joicing and go away feeling refreshed ”
	Minutes of October Conference were
read by the Secretary and approved. Sis-
ter B. W. Smith spoke of the good number
present and was glad to see the sisters, re-
joiced in the Relief Society; referred to the
minutes that had been read, said we have
talked about a house of our own to meet in,
but thought it was not the right time just
now, and we have no land, and so we must
wait till the right time comes. Spoke of
the work for the dead and how much she
enjoyed being engaged in the Temple.
	Sister Jane S. Richards felt we had great
reason to be thankful that we had health
and strength and a desire to come to meet-
ing; who is there that does not feel filled
with joy and energy to do and to help in this
great work; said she heard the Gospel
when seventeen years old, she was admin-
istered to by the Elders and the numbness

[Column 2]
from which she suffered was all taken from
her, she knew then and had known ever
since that the Gospel was true. Referred
to the good effect of a few kind words,
thought we should not talk much of hard
times, and alluded to the circumstances un-
der which the Nauvoo Temple was built,
and said her husband worked on it; the
people did not complain then even when
there was not bread for them, Sister Richards
spoke of her relatives in the East and the
kind feelings they manifested towards her,
and how she felt towards them.
	Sister Ann C. Woodbury, of St. George,
rejoiced in meeting with the sisters; she
had visited a part of the Stake since she
was here in the fall, and she took pains
wherever she went to urge the setting out
of mulberry trees, many sisters were will-
ing to take hold of the work, and hundreds
of children of the Latter-day Saints could
be employed in this industry; recommended
one child with a grown person, said it had
been her feeling ever since she came to the
country that silk culture could be made a
success; believed the Lord would bless us
in this work; thought we should teach our
children to be industrious and to grow up
in faith, to pray and to be prepared to stand
in the front in all good undertakings.
	Sister Zina urged the sisters to take the
mulberry twigs and plant them in by the
ditches, and they would soon grow and the
leaves could easily be gathered without
having to climb trees, and added “when
you do this, think of President Brigham
Young and his counsel in regard to silk.”
	Sister Lydia Rich reported Morgan Stake
in good condition in all respects and bore a
strong testimony to the truth, and spoke
very forcibly of the missionaries abroad in
the earth, and the remarkable work being
accomplished.
	Sister Annie U. Larsen, of Emery Stake,
reported the work of the Society in that
Stake. “Children,” she said, “ are taught
to fear the Lord and to obey the command-
ments, to be honest and to be respectful in
their behavior. We sisters have consulted
together in regard to silk raising; we don’t
believe we will always be able to get our
ribbons from Babylon.” Sister Larsen al-
so bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the Gospel.
	President Thomas Ricks, of Bannock,
Stake, said he felt very much out of place
being here to report, but as he had a writ-
ten report given him of the Relief Society
of that Stake, he would read that, which
he proceeded to do and he then told the
sisters how disappointed the sisters were up
there because Sister Young and Sister
Richards did not visit them when they
were in Idaho last year, (they were afraid
of the high water.) He thought the Lord
was pushing His work. “ There are twice
as many Elders in the field now as there
are people in this audience, and they are
seeking out the honest in heart, the work is
onward.”
	President C. O. Card, of Alberta Stake,
spoke of the representative women of the
Church of Jesus Christ that were present,
and said they belong to the Relief Society
and the Y. L. M. I. A. and they enjoy the
gifts of the Gospel. “ We have these in-
stitutions in our Stake and we have a goodly
land in our northern clime, we can raise
wool and flax, but it is not adapted to
everything. President Card spoke of hav-
ing superintended the building of the Logan
Temple and how liberal the sisters had been


in contributing to it, also that in all his
public life the sisters had been a great help
to the brethren in the Church. Reported
four wards in their Stake and said they
draw their support from the elements in-
stead of complaining of hard times. “Lit-
tle things put together make something
gigantic in all;” favored the laying up of
wheat, thought the war clouds several of
them now looked threatening. The same
good spirit is in the sisters meetings; testi-
fied to the spirit of the Conference.
	Bishop Thomas, of Idaho Falls, spoke of
humility, brought up the example of the
Savior when he was at the fire broiling fish
and asked his disciples to come and dine
with him; spoke of the Scripture which
says “He that is least among you shall be
greatest;” also referred to the society of the
Saints and quoted the words of Ruth of old
“Whither thou goest I will go, and where
thou lodgest I will lodge;” felt those were
his sentiments. “God bless you all,
Amen.”
	Sister M. Isabella Horne reported Salt
Lake Stake, spoke of having organized
new branches of the Relief Society this
year at East Jordan, Crescent and in a part
of South Cottonwood; thought the sisters
were doing a good work. “The women
who have labored faithfully and grown
old in the service need some who are young
and vigorous to come forward and help,
the work is an interesting one; said it
would be sixty-one years in July since she
was baptized, and had labored ever since in
the interests of Zion, her desire was to go
on laying up treasures in heaven, by look-
ing after the poor and needy which is pleas-
ing in the sight of the Lord.
	Sister Mary E. Lightner was the next
speaker, she stated that she was baptized
into the Church October 15, 1830, and had
passed through all the persecutions of the
Saints, and for all the adversities she had
experienced she was glad, “for so shall we
be perfected and prepared to enter into His
rest; we are yet to have the law of God
written in our hearts when Joseph turned
the key of knowledge for the sisters in the
Church, it was also for the women of the
world a portion of it, and they have been
awakening ever since.”
	Sister Mary L. Woolf, of Alberta Stake,
Canada, rejoiced to hear what had been
spoken, was glad to see Sister Young the
President of the Relief Society, and to hear
her talk to the sisters; knew many of the
women upon the stand through hearing her
mother speak of them. Sister Woolf said,
“I am living a long way from here but
possibly it seems farther off to you than it
does to me. I am glad we have been call-
ed to this land in the north, there will be a
good chance for our sons to make a start
and understand the Gospel in its true light.
Our children will go on and carry on this
work, it must be so.”
	Sister Susannah Booth, of Box Elder
Stake, was requested by Sister Widerborg,
the President, to report and was willing to
do so, as she could give a good report of
the sisters there, and they were good the
President is careful to attend to the poor
and visit the sick. The speaker said Sister
Widerborg often asked her to go with her to
visit around among the sisters; spoke of
the sickness in their midst, in the first,
second and third wards in Brigham City
they had the diphtheria and had to be quar-
antined; spoke of having been engaged in 
the work of the Relief Society ever since a

[Column 2]
Society had been organized in Brigham
City; made some good and encouraging re-
marks about sericulture and the land own-
ed by the sisters and the number of mul-
berry trees they had on it, said last year
the sisters came from Logan to gather mul-
berry leaves from their trees and take over
there to feed the worms. Sister Booth
spoke of the new Tabernacle built in Brig-
ham City, and how the Relief Society had
helped the brethren in the work of getting
it furnished etc.
	President Young made some closing re-
marks and gave notice of the evening
meeting at 7.30, invited all to attend and
hoped to see the house filled. Singing
Doxology; benediction was offered by
Elder Christian J. Larson.
E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


