Relief Society Women Received at the White House President Belle S. Spafford, N 1880, during a visit of President Rutherford B. Hayes and Mrs. Hayes to Salt Lake City, Mrs. Hayes was presented with a "silk lace fichu, as a souvenir of her visit to the City of the Saints." The silk had been raised by Mrs. Schneiter of that city, and the article manufactured by Mrs. Ursenbach. On May 2, 1946, history repeated itself in that again a First Lady of this great nation was presented with a gift of handwork from Relief Society women. This time the gift was taken to Washington by delegates of the Society and presented to Bess Truman (Mrs. Harry S. Truman), in the elegantly furnished Red Room of the White House. The idea that Relief Society women should visit the White House and present Mrs. Truman with a gift representative of the handwork of Latter-day Saint women, and explain to her the work of Relief Society, originated with President George Albert Smith. Early in the month of December 1945, President Smith called Sister Spafford into his office and suggested that such a trip be made. Due to the fact that Christmas was near, and that Relief Society was. Unusually busy with the European relief program, and that the weather was inclement, the trip was delayed until the spring. Through the courtesy of the Honorable Herbert B. Maw, Governor of Utah, arrangements were made with the White House to have Mrs. Truman receive the Relief Society delegates on Thursday, May 2, 1946, at eleven A. M. An invitation was extended by President Smith and the Relief Society General Board to Mrs. Florence B. Maw, wife of Governor Maw, to accompany President Belle S. Spafford, Sister Edith S. Elliott, and Sister Priscilla L. Evans, members of the General Board, to Washington on this important and auspicious occasion. The group left Salt Lake City on the morning of April 28. That this was a history-making event in the life of Relief Society was evidenced by the group who gathered at the station to bid the sisters bon voyage. President George Albert Smith honored the occasion by his presence, and, in addition, there were present Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering, and several other members of the General Board, together with many friends and family members of those who were leaving on this important and unusual mission. It was a beautiful spring - morning, and the hearts of all were glad for the opportunity that had come to Relief Society to acquaint so distinguished a person as Mrs. Truman with the work of this great Society. It was an exciting moment for all as the train pulled out of the Page 723 station and good-byes were waved. Prior to leaving, an exquisite crocheted, white lace tablecloth had been selected from the many beautiful handmade articles at the Mormon Handicraft Shop to be presented to Mrs. Truman. The cloth measured about sixty-three by eightyafour inches before it was blocked, and was the work of Sister Addie E. Hardy, wife of the late Elder Rufus K. Hardy of the First Council of the Seventy. The cloth was made while Sister Hardy remained at home during the time Elder Hardy was serving as a missionary in the South Sea Isles. The cloth, made from very fine thread, required two years to complete. Although it appeared to be made of medallions crocheted together, it was, in reality, made all in one piece a dainty, exquisite piece of handwork, one of the finest pieces of its kind ever to come into the Handicraft Shop. Through the efforts of Mrs. Lucile B. Wolf, manager of the Mormon Handicraft Shop, a special box and wrappings were provided, as well as a hand-painted gift card A GIFT FOR THE FIRST LADY President Spafford admires the crocheted lace tablecloth to be presented to Bess W. Truman, wife of President Harry S. Truman. Left to right: Priscilla L. Evans, Edith S. Elliott, and President Spafford, members of the General Board; and Florence B. Maw, wife of Hon. Herbert B. Maw, Governor of Utah. This photograph was taken in the Board room in the Bishop's Building. The painting of former President Amy Brown Lyman may be seen in the background  GREETINGS FROM THE RELIEF SOCIETY showing the sego lily, the Utah state flower. The card was the handwork of Rhea C. Dobson. On the card, in the handwriting of President Spafford, were inscribed these