A Visit to Church Shrines Edith S. Elliott Member, Relief Society General Board WHEN planning spring Relief W Society conventions for the eastern stakes, and some of the missions at the request of President George Albert Smith, Sister Spafford and I were aware that our journeyings would pass near some of the Church shrines. With this in mind, we allowed time for a visit to the Prophet Joseph Smith's birthplace at Sharon, Vermont; to Palmyra, New York, where he spent his youth and received his first vision; and to Nauvoo, Illinois, where he spent his last days. Our first tip to a Church shrine began at Cambridge, Massachusetts, early one May morning in President Reeder's comfortable car. The "we" consisted of President William S. Reeder of the New England Mission, his capable and charming wife, Bertha Stone Reeder, President Belle S. Spafford of the Relief Society, my brother George Albert Smith, Jr., professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, and myself all friends of long standing. We looked forward to the good visit that the auto trip promised, as our route led from Massachusetts into New Hampshire. New England in the spring is like the beauty of a poem. No wonder so much art, literature, and culture have come from this area! The rivers and lakes, and even the small ponds, had an air of renewed life. The greenery of budding spring carpeted the hills. The trees and shrubs along Page 736 the highway rivaled the patterns of any lace maker. The quaint, elongated farmhouses were intriguing. Added to the houses themselves, or shall I say "hitched together," were the sheds, barns, and other buildings necessary to farm life, so connected that in the long winters, when the snow is deep, the farmer can attend to his chores without having to go outside into the cold. I must mention the woodpiles seen beside each house, as wood is used for both heating and cooking. The neat piles were huge! If wishes were horses, I would now have one of those woodpiles stacked in my own yard to feed my fireplace this winter. Through this lovely, picturesque setting, we followed the road into Vermont. We passed through the little town of South Royalton, then on to the spot revered by all Latter-day Saints the birthplace of our Prophet. I cannot think of a more peaceful or beautiful place for a prophet to be born. From the top of the everlasting hills, covered with pines and maples, to the lush grasses in the valleys, calmness and serenity abounded. It was no effort to imagine what the birthplace might have been like a humble farmhouse, containing love, honor, intelligence, and industry. I like to think that our Heavenly Father chose this secluded spot, far from the hustle and bustle of city life, as a place where a little boy could live close to nature and be A VISIT TO CHURCH SHRINES schooled in the simple and basic Phases of life. The granite shaft raised to commemorate the birth Place is dignified and fitting. It was too early in the season for the flowers to be in bloom, but the lawns were green; and we spread a blanket down and ate a delicious picnic lunch Prepared by Sister Reeder. Returning to Cambridge that night, we all felt the glow of satisfaction that comes from visiting hallowed ground. After a wonderfully pleasant and satisfying series of conventions held in. Eastern Canada, which was Our next stopping place, President Spafford and I left President and Sister Ursenbach in Toronto. Crossing the border into the United States at Buffalo, New York, we boarded a train for Rochester, very much relieved to have missed the railroad strike by one hour. In Rochester, we were met by Brother C. Orval Stott, who has charge of the Bureau of Information at the foot of Hill Cumorah. He showed us some of the interesting places in Rochester, including the beautiful homes along East Avenue and a remarkable display of lilacs in bloom in one of the city parks. I didn't know there were so many varieties of lilacs and all of them beautiful! The air was filled with their glorious perfume. Those plumed blossoms were in shades of pure white, creamy yellow, pink, lavender, purple, and dubonnet red. What wonders God hath wrought! In historic Palmyra, we passed "Four Comers," where there is a church on each corner, and on the outskirts of the town we saw the 737 little cobble-rock building in which Oliver Cowdery taught school. Each cobble in this unique building is about the size of a large hen's egg. Finally, we came in view of the Hill Cumorah, from which the Prophet obtained the plates of gold which were given to him by the Angel Moroni. The wonderful truths translated from those records teach the gospel of Jesus Christ and his plan of salvation. The records also tell the history of the ancient inhabitants of the Western Hemisphere. The hill has been attractively landscaped. On the summit, is an inspiring statue of the Angel Moroni, created by the sculptor Torleif S. Knaphus. When flooded with light at night, the effect is most etherial. At the base of the hill, is a reproduction of a Mayan house, surround. Ed by lawn and trees, flowers and shrubs. This building is the Bureau of Information, where tourists arc greeted and given an account of the restoration of the gospel. In this building, also, are the living quarters of the family in charge of this shrine. IT have already mentioned Brother Stott as the capable and genial gentleman responsible for the care of this area, and must also give due regard to his charming and gracious wife, Flora Bushnell Stott. She greeted us with a welcoming smile and won our hearts immediately. Our stay in her home Was friendly and restful just what we needed. In the evening, after a wonderful chicken dinner, about eight of the Relief Society women living on nearby farms came in for a social gathering and to informally discuss Relief Society work. We enjoyed the fine, wholesome spirit of these sisters, their good humor, and interesting conversation. The next morning, Brother Stott took us on a tour of the surrounding country. First, we visited the Joseph Smith farmhouse. Just to step on the same floor boards that the Prophet stepped on, was a thrill. The house is a typical upstate New York farmhouse now occupied by Brother Owen T. Howard and his wife, Rachel Ellis Howard, who operate the farm. From this historic old home, we went to the Sacred Grove. We followed a grassy path through the trees to a clearing. Literally, "radiant beamed the sun above... Bees were humming, sweet birds singing." UR emotions were stirred at being on such sacred ground. Here our Heavenly Father, accompanied by his Son, visited a fourteen-year-old lad who had asked him, in boyish simplicity, the way of truth. How grateful I am that that boy accepted and carried out God's instructions! I often think of the unwavering faith of young Joseph Smith, which gave him courage to meet all obstacles in order that the gospel of Jesus Christ might be restored in its entirety to the earth. Determined as Satan was to destroy him and his message, the Lord protected him until his mission was completed. I hope that nothing will ever disturb the calm beauty of that grove. Our next stop was at the Peter Whitmer farm, where, on April 6, 1830, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, with six members. Brother William L. Powell and his family, who live at the farm, made us welcome. While we were enjoying "the various points of interest, President Antoine R. Ivins of the First Council of Seventy, his lovely wife, Vilate R. Ivins, and President Roy W. Doxey of the Eastern States Mission, arrived. We all enjoyed a delicious turkey dinner with the Powells. We also visited briefly with Owen B. And Elizabeth Smith Anderson at the historic Sampson farm, and with Otho and Verna Fitzgerald Roundy at the Cumorah farm. We returned to the Hill Cumorah by way of Lake Canandaigua and Lake Seneca, hoping to get word that the trains would run, so that we could go on and fill our Chicago convention appointment. But, alas, the strike continued! Brother and Sister Stott seemed to be happy that we could not move on, and they cared for us in the same friendly manner as before. With heavy hearts, we were forced to cancel the Chicago Stake Relief Society convention. However, there is merit in the old saying it is "an ill wind that bloweth no man to good," for our delay enabled us to participate on Saturday, May 25, in the first day of the annual Eastern States missionary conference and pilgrimage to the sacred and historic spots around Palmyra. The day's program began with a "sunrise service" held around the Angel Moroni statue on Hill Cumorah. It was an inspiration to join with the elders and lady missionaries in song and prayer. After this, a testimony meeting followed in the Bureau reception room. The presiding officer was President Ivins, with Mission President Doxey conducting. Wonderful testimonies were  A VISIT TO CHURCH SHRINES given, and all those in attendance felt richly rewarded. The afternoon session was held in the clearing in the Sacred Grove. What a privilege it was to attend a religious service there! Those participating gave interesting and impressive talks, and the familiar hymns sounded even sweeter than usual in the lovely grove. At the close of the meeting in the Sacred Grove, we went to the Martin Harris farm where Brother Harty Crider and his wife, Martha Jane Chase Crider, fed us bountifully. It was then that we learned that the railroad strike was over, so Sister Spafford and I tried to figure out a way to get to Chicago by noon the next day, in order that we might make our train connections and complete our trip on our original schedule. Our train tickets were, at that time, twenty-four hours overdue because of the strike, so Brother and Sister Stott took us to Rochester 739 airport, where we were assured plane transportation to Chicago at midnight. Finally, after further delay due to weather conditions, we arrived, weary and cold, in Chicago at about seven in the morning. We drove straight to our hotel, where we thawed ourselves out in warm baths and then slept until time for our noon train to Colchester, Illinois. In Colchester, we were met by a grandniece and grandnephew of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Mabel Hendel Boyd and Ralph Millikin. Mrs. Boyd is a granddaughter of Catherine Smith Salisbury, a sister of the Prophet Joseph Smith; Mr. Millikin is a grandson of Lucy Smith Millikin, another of the Prophet's sisters. We were taken to the Ralph Millikin home, where we received the friendly greeting of Ralph's lovely wife, and met dear Aunt Clara Salisbury Hendel. She is one of the nearest living relatives of the Prophet, THE OLD HOMESTEAD FIRST HOME OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH NAUVOO, ILLINOIS being the daughter of his sister Catherine. The Millikin home is charming and surrounded by a beautiful and well-cared-for garden. Our royal entertainment there will never be forgotten. After breakfast on' Monday morning, we (cousins Ralph, Myrtle, and Mabel, Aunt Clara, Sister Spafford, and I drove to Carthage in the Millikin automobile. There we met more cousins Catherine Salisbury's granddaughter, Mary S. Hancock, and two grandsons, Albert and Herbert Salisbury. No one could have received a more friendly welcome - than did we. Together, we visited Carthage Jail, where Brother Joseph A. McRae kindly showed us the points of interest. My eyes filled with tears at the memory of the tragedy enacted there. A luncheon at the attractive home of Albert Salisbury was a delightful experience, both in respect to food and companionship. In two automobiles, our group then followed along the Mississippi River road to Nauvoo, where thc Prophet and many of our forebears lived in comfortable, well-built, fine homes. No wonder they called it "Nauvoo, the Beautiful!' The wide expanse of the Mississippi River half circles the town like a protecting arm. One has to imagine Nauvoo as it was at the peak of its development, because, now, the place is like a ghost town. However, there remain a few significant landmarks that bespeak the glory of the past. We saw the Prophet's first home, the Mansion House (his last home), and the Nauvoo House, where Emma Smith lived after her husband's martyrdom. The graves of the Prophet, his wife, and his devoted brother Hyrum, are fittingly located on the bank of the "Father of Waters." Sister Spafford's emotions were particularly stirred as she stood on the site of the Prophet's store, for it THE MANSION HOUSE, LAST HOME OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH NAUVOO, ILLINOIS  A VISIT TO CHURCH SHRINES UVOO HO ON After the death of the many years in this house. Was in a room over the store that the Prophet Joseph met with Elders John Taylor, Willard Richards, and eighteen women, on March 17, 1842, and organized the Relief Society. We rode through the streets of Nauvoo to see the homes of some of the early Church leaders. We found three homes of my ancestors which were of great interest to me. They were the former residences of NA USE THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER, Prophet, Emma, his (AT RIGHT) NAUVOO, ILLINOIS wife, and Lucy, his mother, lived for many yea3rs in this house. was in a room o\er the store that the Prophet Joseph met with Elders John Taylor, Willard Richards, and eighteen women, on March 17, 1842, and organized the Relief Society. We rode through the streets of Nauvoo to see the homes of some of the early Church leaders. We found three homes of my ancestors which were of great interest to me. They were the former residences of Lorin Farr, John Smith, and Wilford Woodruff. We also saw the home of Brigham Young and the homes of many others. To us, there was a feeling of sadness and desolation about Nauvoo. No doubt this was due to the memory of the cruel treatment experienced by the saints at the hands of mobs, Motoring back down the river Toad, we crossed the Mississippi on a bridge to the Iowa side. Here, we looked across from Montrose to Nauvoo. We could not but ponder on what might have been. This day of rich memories ended for us in the evening when my dear kinsfolk waved goodbye to us as our train pulled out of the station at Keokuk. Iowa. Thus ended our visit to some of the Church shrines, Sister Spafford and I will long remember, with grateful appreciation. This rare Opportunity. NIGHT Bernice Hacking Balle Night creeps slowly down the lane Trailing garments star-bedecked, Bringing drowsy sleep and shadows To the valleys moon-flecked,