Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon THE wives of the presidents of Utah's three universities represent a high type of Latter-day Saint and of American womanhood. LLA GIBBS -McDONALD, wife of Howard S. McDonald, President of Brigham Young University, Provo, met. Her husband while both were missionaries in the Eastern States. She has studied at the Agricultural College in Logan and at the University of California. In Berkeley, she held a Primary class in her home, besides teaching a Sunday School and a Relief Society class. In San Francisco, she was stake Relief Society theology leader and taught a theology class in Sunset Ward. She was later first counselor in the stake Relief Society presidency. She enjoys her renewed association with Utah people, the beautiful "Y" campus, and her new responsibilities and privileges. She has two lovely daughters. ESTELLE SPILSBURY HARRIS, her husband, Franklin S. Harris, President of Utah State Agricultural College, Logan, four daughters, and two sons, are all graduates of Brigham Young University, of which institution Dr. Harris was president for many years. Mrs. Harris received her Bachelor of Science degree from the B. Y. U. At the time of her youngest daughter's graduation. With her husband, she spent part of a year in Europe and one in Iran, where she was particularly impressed with the people's skill in design and color, and with their true hospitality. Her special interest is the training of girls for homemaking. She and her brothers and sisters, in honor of their mother, who had twelve children, started a home economics library at the B. Y. U., to which they add books each year. LVA C. OLPIN, wife of A. Ray Olpin, President of the University of Utah, is the daughter of Stephen L. Chipman of American Fork, Utah, former Alpine Stake president and also Salt Lake Temple president. Mrs. Olpin, endowed with a beautiful coloratura soprano voice, was graduated in music from Brigham Young University and continued her studies in New York after serving as a missionary in the Eastern States. She has lived, also, in Charlotte, North Carolina, and in Columbus, Ohio. In Charlotte, Dr. Olpin, serving as district president, opened a branch of the Church, and Mrs. Olpin organized a Relief Society. She was also district director of music and district president of Relief Society in Columbus. Now, at the University of Utah, Mrs. Olpin is actively interested in all campus Organizations. The Olpins have three daughters and one son. Page 751 EDITORIAL VOL. 33 NOVEMBER 1946 NO. 11