Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for October 1946, page 685. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS EASTERN STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Left to right: Priscilla L. Evans of the Relief Society General Board; President Belle S. Spafford; Alberta O. Doxey, President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society; Roy W. Doxey, Mission President; Edith S. Elliott, member, Relief Society General Board. The photograph was taken in front of the Eastern States mission home in Philadelphia, May 4, 1946. Sister Doxey describes her appreciation and the enjoyment the members of her mission received from the visit of the General Board members: "It was indeed a pleasure for us to welcome President Spafford, Sister Edith Elliott and Sister Priscilla Evans to Philadelphia. I am sure that all who had an opportunity to be present at the Relief Society conference were delighted and pleased with the instructions they received. We are making the conference messages available to our members throughout the mission, inasmuch as there are so many who could not attend conference and who expressed regret in not having this privilege. We feel this was the next best thing to do. I was very happy that it was my privilege to be in attendance at the Palmyra meetings, and this feeling was increased when I learned that Sister Spafford and Sister Elliott were also there. I join with you in the belief that as long as our young people can bear testimony of the kind given in the missionary meeting at the Hill Cumorah, there is certainly no reason to fear for the future of the Church." Page 766 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 767 NEW ENGLAND MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Front row, left to right: Sister Edith S+ Elliott, member of the General Board of Relief Society; General President Belle S. Spafford; New England Mission Relief Society President Bertha S. Reeder. Sister Reeder submits an interesting report of the Relief Society Conference held May 12-15, 1946: "The conference was favored by the visit of Sister Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and Sister Edith Elliott, a member of the General Board. Sister Spafford was the principal speaker at the Sunday evening M. I. A. Fireside held at the New England mission home. Her talk was by nature of a travelogue in which she told of her visit to the Eastern States. "The following day, May 13th, was devoted to a Relief Society conference at which Sister Spafford and Sister Elliott gave encouragement and instructions to the Relief Society sisters of the mission. After Sister Elliott's introductory remarks, Sister Spafford stressed the duties of executive officers. She told the group to work unitedly, planning all their work together as a group. She advised each Relief Society to be wise in the expenditure of funds. She gave instructions regarding the annual report. "In the afternoon session, Sister Spafford continued her instructions, detailing the procedure advised at the visiting teachers' report meeting. Sister Elliott then outlined and defined the cultural and educational programs for the coming year. The meeting was closed with an expression of thanks from Sister Reeder to Sister Spafford and Sister Elliott for their visit, and to the members of the New England Mission Relief Societies for their faithfulness in attending the conference." CANADIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Jessie R. Ursenbach, President of the Canadian Mission Relief Society, reports the sessions of the spring convention which were attended by the General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford, and Edith S. Elliott, a member of the General Board: "On Sunday, May 19, we held three sessions of Relief Society conference at Montreal, where the women of Eastern Canada heard of the activities and accomplishments of Latter-day Saint women from the lips of their General President, and of the aims and plans for the years ahead from Sister Elliott. The newly organized Singing Mothers group, under the talented leadership of Sister Lois Draney, who officiated at the pipe organ and as conductor, rendered four very inspirational and creditable numbers. Both afternoon and evening sessions were largely attended, some women coming many  miles to be present, and lingering long after each session, loath to leave the inspiration there. CANADIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE "The day in Ottawa included an afternoon session with the Relief Society women in Albion Hall. As at all the previous meetings, President Octave W. Ursenbach and Sister Jessie R. Ursenbach of the Canadian Mission were present. 'The Ottawa meeting was addressed by President Belle S. Spafford and Edith S. Elliott. Following this meet General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; Jessie R. Ursenbach, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society; Edith S. Elliott, member of the General Board of Relief Society. Photograph taken in front of the Montreal Latter-day Saint Chapel, Sunday, May 19, 1946. May 21, 1946 Extreme left, General President, Belle S. Spafford, and Jessie R. Ursenbach, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society. At extreme right, Edith S. Elliott, member of the General Board. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 769 a delightfully arranged luncheon was served by the Gleaner Girls. The tables were artistically decorated in the colors of the Relief Society gold and blue and seated at the head table were the guests of honor, Sisters Spafford, Elliott, and Ursenbach. In General remarks were made by President Octave W. Ursenbach, and President Spafford and Sister Elliott spoke. Instrumental music was provided by Sister Jessie Low and a chorus of Relief Society sisters, under the direction of Eya Stata, presented some beautiful songs." ISLE D'ORLEANS, MONTREAL, CANADA Sister Edith Elliott of the General Board of Relief Society with Canadian dogcart.  RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, TORONTO, CANADA May 23, 1946 Standing, back of the pulpit, left to right: Edith S. Elliott, member of the General Board of Relief Society; General President Belle S. Spafford; Jessie R. Ursenbach, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society. "At Toronto, May 22, three meetings were held, with representatives from many branches from the western part of the Province in attendance. Between the morning and the afternoon sessions a lovely lunch was served by the Toronto ladies, under the direction of Mary Smith. Singing Mothers groups from Hamilton, under the direction of Doris Gange, and from Toronto, with Thelma Olsen directing, furnished fine music for all sessions. A pleasant feature of the afternoon meeting was the presentation of small gold maple leaf pins to the visitors by Jessie R. Ursenbach, who explained that the gold maple leaf was chosen so that when these pins were worn, the visiting sisters would remember the women of the Canadian Mission. The maple leaf is Canada's emblem." IVY LEA BRIDGE OVER THE ST. LAWRENCE RIVER MONTREAL, CANADA NOTES FROM THE FIELD 771 NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Ann J. Killpack, President of the North Central States Mission Relief Society, reports the spring conference which was held in Minneapolis, Minnesota, May 29th, 1946: "The officers' meeting was held at 10:30 A. M. President William L. Killpack presided, and Sister Killpack conducted and welcomed those present. Roll call showed the following in attendance: General President Belle S. Spafford; Edith S. Elliott, member of the General Board of Relief Society; Ann J. Killpack; Alice Bell, President, Minneapolis Branch, and her counselors Grace Kripps and Frances Bigelow; Louise Peterson, President of the St. Paul Branch and her first counselor, Laura Koutz; Evelyn Gansauge, First Counselor, Duluth Branch; Fern Alseth, President, Rochester Branch, with Jueille Bloser and Dorothy Peterson, members; Annie Ostvig, Monticello, Minnesota. "Reports were given of the Relief Society organizations in the various branches throughout the Mission, and President Killpack spoke briefly about the importance of the Relief Society and his experiences with this organization. Sister Elliott greeted everyone and told of their trip through Canada and Eastern United States, after which, Sister Spafford told about their trip from Salt Lake to Washington, their visit to Quebec, down the St. Lawrence, to Palmyra, the Hill Cumorah, Nauvoo, and the various landmarks of the Church. The general meeting was held at 2:00 Pp. M. With President Killpack presiding, and Sister Ann J. Killpack conducting. Sister Killpack gave a report on the fourteen organizations of the Relief Society in the North Central States Mission, five of which organizations were represented at this meeting. Sister Elliott spoke on the program of the Relief Society, explained the work, and told of what was expected of the members. She described their trip to visit Mrs. Truman, First Lady of the Land, in the White House, Washington, D. C., and their meeting with the National Council of Women." NEW ZEALAND MISSION, KORONGATA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY, MARCH 17, 1946 Front row, seated, left to tight: Kaa Tiwai; Keita Puriri; Ani R. Kamau; Kaa Tipoki, Second Counselor; Kumeroa Sarah Heke, President; Hera Puriri, First Counselor. Second row, standing, left to right: Ani Morgan; Molly Onekawa; Ani Neri: Mere Eriha; Olive Edwards; Adelaide Newton; Ruby Karipa; Matekino Wainohu; Teiti McIlroy; Hine Parahi. Back row, standing, left to right: Artemisia Heke; Winipere Edwards; Mapihi Kamau; Miria Pere; Ani L. Kamau; Reremoana Kingi; Wairukuruku Maere; Adelaide Puriri; Rebecca Crawford; Ella Hawea.  NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION BEND, PRINEVILLE, AND REDMOND BRANCHES (OREGON) 104th ANNIVERSARY RELIEF SOCIETY DINNER Standing at the table: second from the left, Noreen Tussing, President, Prineville Branch Relief Society; Irene Butler, President, Redmond Branch Relief Society; Dorothy Howard, President Bend Branch Relief Society. S - veil, LEME bis. "ee CALIFORNIA MISSION, SANTA BARBARA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to night: Mary Richmann; Millie Quinton; Maria Forbes; Phyllis Peers, Second Counselor; Emma Parker. Second row, left to right: Frieda Callahan; Harriet Woodley; Isabelle Eby; Dora Bradford. Third row, left to right: Ann Howell; Ella Tognazzini Done, Secretary-Treasurer; Josephine Redd Roberts, President; Darlene Wallace; Ilda Colby; Katherine Johansen. Kirst Counselor, Frances Peck, was absent, due to illness, when the photograph was taken DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 2I?More Auxiliary Organizations of the Church Started Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, February 4, 1947 Objective: To study how the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary organizations were soon given place to aid in the Church training program for youth. THE oldest auxiliary organization in the Church in this dispensation is the Relief Society. This came into being under the direct supervision of the Prophet Joseph Smith himself. In a previous lesson this year, the development of the Relief Society was treated. Mention again of this first Church auxiliary has significance in the light of other important auxiliaries which followed. From the very beginning, Joseph Smith visioned the expanding glories. Of Zion and knew that there would need to be helps in Church government. These helps we have come to know as the Church auxiliary organizations. Of them and their importance, the late President Joseph F. Smith has said: I have in mind our auxiliary organizations; what are they? Helps to the standard organizations of the Church. They are not independent. I want to say to the Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and to the Relief Society, and to the Primaries, and to the Sunday Schools... And all the rest of the organizations in the Church, that not one of them is independent of the Priesthood of the Son of God, not any of them can exist a moment in the acceptance of the Lord when they withdraw from the voice and from the council of those who hold the Priesthood and preside over them. They are subject to the powers and authority of the Church, and they are not independent of them; nor can they exercise any rights in their organizations independently of the Priesthood and of the Church (Gospel Doctrine, page 479). Such a concept of the place of the auxiliary organizations of the Church should be readily accepted by Relief Society members. Their role as mothers and grandmothers has ever been one of helpfulness and understanding for the greater cause. No man has ever been truly great without the recognition of his mother's place in a climb to prominence. Nor is it true that his mother would ask for praise for a loving service so performed. She it is who finds her joy in having given the world a leader rather than in seeking satisfaction through words that eulogize her sacrifices. 774 In a Church sense, the auxiliary organizations do, in part, parallel a service not unlike that of a mother. They indirectly, but with effective guidance, aid in looking after the spiritual, mental, and moral welfare of Church members in their tender years. In the main, it is the youth of Zion that learns of the gospel by means of the Primary, the Sunday School, and the Mutual Improvement Associations. These attractive helps in Church government should not therefore be new in point of purpose to a Relief Society member. They can become, if supported and used, a much needed influence for guidance beyond the home. Blessings are to be gained by membership in all the auxiliaries, each one of which has purposely been planned to aid in the particular problems of an age group within the Church. In the early days of the Church, each willing worker who would thrust in his sickle found the personal joy of reaping a harvest of friends for the Lord. These could be visited often. The communion and fellowship resulting therefrom were intimate. By the time the saints had arrived in the valleys of the mountains, another phase in the development of the Church was reached. No longer could the members be looked upon as the "little flock," often so called by the Lord. Rather his people had become a modern camp of Israel, the correction and guidance of which called for organization. It was not long, therefore, until auxiliary organizations were needed to supplement the regular work of the Priesthood quorums. Three names will always be remembered in connection with the auxiliary organizations discussed in this lesson. President Brigham Young, Richard Ballantyne, and Aurelia ?. Rogers. It was to each of these leaders that the inspiration came to see the larger field for harvest, and the will to help reap the same. It should be mentioned, too, in connection with the M. I. A., that Brother Heber C. Kimball, in the early days of Nauvoo, saw the need of gathering the young people of the Church, and did so to provide instruction for them. In a sense, that forward-looking plan may be considered the early dawning of the Mutual Improvement work, though, true it is, that President Brigham Young brought our present-day auxiliary into actual being. On December 9, 1849, Richard Ballantyne gathered into his home some thirty children to start what later came to be the first Sunday School held in the Great Salt Lake Valley. Brother Ballantyne's purpose is expressed in his own words: I felt that the gospel was too precious to myself to be withheld from the children; they ought to have the privileges of gospel teaching and that was the main purpose, to teach the gospel. (Deseret Sunday School Handbook, page 8.) A year later, this Sunday School was given a permanent house in the old Fourteenth Ward meeting house with the first duly appointed superintendency under the Priesthood of God. Richard Ballantyne ? was named superintendent, with Joseph Horne and Phineas Richards, as assistants. From this humble beginning in 1849, the membership of the Sunday Schools in the Church has LESSON DEPARTMENT grown, in 1946, to 360,332 (Deseret S. S. Report, January 1, 1946). By means of the General Board, lessons and teaching aids are outlined and developed so that, today, a mighty Latter-day Saint Sunday School around the world meets each Sabbath day, sings the songs of Zion, marches to class for instruction, and voices, through prayer, the united joy of thousands of hearts. The Sunday School is one of the most important gospel-teaching organizations of the Church, and invites all, both young and old, to join its ranks. In the Thirteenth Ward of Salt Lake City, June 10, 1875, President Brigham Young organized the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. He expressed the need for this organization as follows: We want you to organize yourselves into associations for mutual improvement. Let the key-note of your work be the establishment in the youth of individual testimony of the truth and magnitude of the great latter-day work; the development of the gifts within them that have been bestowed upon them by the laying on of hands of the servants of God; cultivating a knowledge and an application of the eternal principles of the great science of life. Each member will find that happiness in this world mainly depends on the work he does, and the way in which he does it. The present leaders of the Church look to this organization to teach the young people to develop the gifts within them; to express themselves before the public, to enable them to study and practice civil, vocational, social, scientific, and educational affairs; and also to train them in all that pertains to religious, moral, social, physical, and intellectual advancement. The auxiliary organization for the 775 children of the Church found its leader in a pioneer mother whose love of the beautiful in life and concern for the well-being of little children stirred her to action. At Farmington, Utah, in 1878, Aurelia S. Rogers organized the Primary Association.. She was set apart at this time to preside over this work. For some time... Sister Aurelia S. Rogers... Had reflected upon the need of a more strict guardianship over the boys and girls of Zion. She felt the necessity for more religious and moral training than they were then receiving; believed that children should be taught to beautify the home with the workmanship of their own hands, and learn to cultivate a love for music, for flowers, and for the beautiful in all things (Essentials in Church History, Joseph Fielding Smith, page 656). Today this Association has grown in numbers to over a hundred thousand. The responsibility of the organization, as stated by its present leaders is threefold: to give weekday religious instruction to the children of the Church; to supervise and direct their leisure time activities; and to encourage proper health habits. The auxiliary organizations of the Church today reflect the practical power of the gospel. 'The desire to share the good life has been made more than a dream. Faith has made works live among the Latter-day Saints. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion 1. Explain how the Church auxiliaries have helped the missionary work of the Church. 2. Tell about some of the interesting activities which have been carried on by your local auxiliaries.  Visiting Teachers' Messages Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 5 Industry President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, February 4, 1947 Objective: To acquaint the women with the diligence and industry of the pioneers two of their enduring virtues. BRIGHAM YOUNG in the Journal of Discourses, Vol 11, page 247, says: My experience has taught me and it has become a principle with me, that it is never any benefit to give out and out to man or woman money, food, clothing, or anything else if they are able-bodied, and can work and earn what they need when there is anything on earth for them to do. This is my principle and I try to act upon it. To pursue a contrary course would ruin any community in the world and make them idlers. Surrounded by nothing but wild and barren nature, and thrown upon their own resources, the pioneer women had to be industrious and invent ways and means of carrying on their share of the work. They spun and wove, and made their clothing and hats. They made their own brooms, candles, soap, and other household articles. They not only prepared the food, but they helped to produce it. They even helped to build their homes, as well as to raise the crops, and at the same time they reared large families. The writers own mother, when preparing her wedding dress, cleaned and washed the wool, carded it into rolls, spun the rolls into yarn, dyed the yarn in two shades with dyes she herself had manufactured, and wove this yarn into plaid cloth. She then cut the cloth by patterns she herself had fashioned, and completed what was truly a_ beautiful dress. Like many other women, she not only wove cloth for dresses and for men's suits, but she made shawls, bedspreads, and blankets. Old, worn, wagon covers, which had been made of "factory" in Nauvoo, were salvaged and made into men's shirts and other articles of clothing. Hats were made of straw which was bleached with sulphur found in the mountains. 'The straw was made into braids which were sewn together, then fashioned into hats by shaping on blocks, and pressing. The hats were then adorned with homemade trimming. It was the industry of the pioneers, who adopted the beehive as a symbol of industry for the Territory, which provided the means of sustaining life itself as well as supplying, in later years, many of life's comforts. Industry, as an integral part of the character of Latter-day Saints, is essential for the fulfilment of the prophecy of the Prophet Joseph Smith that the saints would become a great and mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. . LESSON DEPARTMENT 777 Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5?Pinning, Basting, Pressing, Edges and Seam Finishings Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman For Tuesday, February 11, 1947 Objective: To assemble the garment, pin, fit, and baste. Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapters 12 and 13. INNING and basting are valuable aids in sewing. When a seam is pinned for stitching, the pins should be placed close together and set in from the edge, so they can be removed as you stitch. Put the pins in at right angles to the seam, pushing them in lightly from the edges. This will make a straight line guide for your basting, and will also keep the pins from pricking your fingers. When you start to baste your garment, first look to see how your pattern controls the curved lines. This means that you first prepare and then carefully pin in the darts, tucks, or gathers, then baste them, and try on the garment before stitching. Bastings are simply temporary joinings. They hold the pieces of fabric together for a fitting and they hold the seams together while you stitch. Fitting Too much fitting may not only distort the design, but may also take away the smartness, resulting in an uncomfortable, pinched - looking garment. Very little fitting should be necessary if the following points are emphasized:: 1. Take your measurements correctly. 2. Purchase the pattern in the correct size and, if alteration is necessary, do it carefully. Prepare the fabric and lay out the pattern pieces according to the instructions.. Cut and mark the garment carefully. Pin, baste, and assemble the pieces with precision. Pressing Good pressing equipment and careful handling of your garment are important. Press as you sew, is the first rule to follow. Press each seam and detail of a garment as it is finished, and before joining it to another part. This will help to make the final pressing much easier, and the finished model will be more professional looking. Pressing seams, using a sleeve-board and a tailors' cushion. Pressing woolens, steaming or pressing velvet, or other pile fabrics, are all arts of importance in sewing. Pressing is not difficult. The difficulty lies in. The fact that the average person does not realize the importance of pressing. Finishing Edges and Seams Edges and seams finished properly are a great asset to any garment. Edges may be overcast, pinked, bound, turned under and sewed with a running stitch, by machine or by hand, close to the turned edge, etc. Seam finishings may be French, felled French, hem felled, lapped, tucked, catch stitched, fagoted, hemstitched, or finished in any one of a variety of other ways, according to the requirements of the material and the time available for the seamstress. Assignment for March: Bring the garment you are making and the trimmings to be used. Of literature America as Revealed in Its Literature Lesson 5 Westward March of America Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, February 18, 1947 OMEONE has said, "In the making of the West, America was made." There is much of basic truth in this statement. At the close of our war for freedom, one main way was open for Americans. 'That was the open spaces of the West. Free land was there opportunity for expansion, for development. In taking the challenge, the realm was populated and more than this, a distinctive American character was developed. Intrepid pathfinders led the way. These were followed by missionaries and home builders. It was a mighty march westward of youthful spirits. Men, rather naturally, are given first place in this bold adventure. Yet women hold high place in the constructive conquest of our western realm, even from the very first. Recall here the young red mother who piloted Lewis and Clark across half our continent. Like Pocahantas, whose friendliness and human understanding did so much to save the first struggling Virginians from disaster, the "Bird Woman" added the needed guidance and practical help that brought success to the exploring captains. Her story brightens that great adventure. A Shoshone girl, stolen by the Blackfeet, she had been taken down the twisting Missouri for nearly a thousand miles, and sold into slavery. Later on, she became the wife of a French trader. Just after her first babe, whom they named Baptiste, was born, Lewis and Clark came to winter in the land of the Mandans where she lived. Learning that this Shoshone girl for she was only sixteen knew the way across the "shining mountains," they hired her husband as guide. He knew nothing of the route farther West, but his intelligent young wife did. Edna Dean Proctor, whose poems vibrate with the spirit of America, created a lyric to the "Bird Woman" ?from which the following lines are taken: Sho-sho-ne Sa-ca-ga-we-a ? captive and wife was she On the grassy plains of Dakota in the land of the Minnetaree: But she heard the west wind calling, and longed to follow the sun Back to the shining mountains and the glens where her life begun. So, when the valiant Captains, fain for the Asian sea, , LESSON DEPARTMENT Stayed their marvelous journey in the land of the Minnetaree... Glad she turned from the grassy plains and led their way to the West, Her course as true as the swan's that flew north to its reedy nest. Ee ee Straight she was as a hillside fir, lithe as the willow-tree, And her foot as fleet as the antelope's when the hunter rides the lea; In broidered tunic and moccasins, with braided raven hair, And closely belted buffalo robe, with her baby nestling there. Zee %e & To Missouri's broad savannas dark with bison and deer, While the grizzly roamed the savage shore and cougar and wolf prowled near; To the cataract's leap, and the meadows with lily and rose abloom; The sunless trails of the forest, and the canyon's hush and gloom; There, by the valiant Captains whose glory will never dim, While the sun goes down to the Asian sea and the stars in ether swim, She will stand in bronze and richly brown as the hue of her girlish cheek, With broidered robe and braided hair and lips just curved to speak; And the mountain winds will murmur as they linger along the crest, "Sho-sho-ne Sa-ca-ga-we-a, who led the way to the West!" Latter-day Saints generally may not know how closely the story of our pioneering is linked with this fine Indian mother. When she did rejoin her own people near what is now Armstead, Montana, the happy reunion was saddened with the word that her father and mother and a sister had passed away during her years of captivity. "Where is my sister's baby boy?" she asked. An Indian lad was brought to her. Gathering him in her arms, she adopted him for her own. Basil, as he was called, grew through the years to become finally a sub-chieftain of 779 the Shoshones under Washakie; and, like his leader, he was an unfailing friend of the Mormon people. According to Dr. Grace Raymond Hebard, who wrote a scholarly biography of Sacajawea, Basil was probably one of sixty-five Indians who were baptized into the Latter-day Saint faith at Fort Lemhi in the 1850's. According to Dr. Hebard also, the "Bird Woman," tiring of her French husband's cruelty and neglect, finally left him and found her people in Wyoming, where she spent her last days, exercising, with Washakie and Basil, her influence for peace and uplift. Another Indian heroine who played a stirring role in the westward march of America, was the wife of Pierre Dorion, the French guide of the Astorians. With two little sons, she made the man-testing journey from St. Louis to the Pacific. On the way another child was born to her, but it lived only a week or so. Later, when her husband and other trappers fell victims on the Boise River to red enemies, this devoted mother, escaping the massacre, fled with her boys to the foothills of the Blue Mountains. There, slaying the one horse she had, using its hide to help shelter them against the winter storms, and its meat to keep them alive, she waited until spring opened the passes. Finally, she crossed the range and found succor for herself and her boys with a friendly tribe. It was there that Alexander Ross, a British fur trader, found the courageous Mrs. Dorion. To him we are indebted for this story of mother courage and devotion; for he recorded it as she told it humbly to him. It is also told by Washington Irving in his Astoria, a literary history of high quality. Lure of furs was an impelling force that helped to chart the West. - Intrepid men, of the spirit of Jim Bridger, Peter Skeen Ogden, Jedediah Strong Smith, led in mapping ? the vast region between the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific. Their purpose was to garner a wealth of furs; and this they did. -Yet beyond this they performed signal service in charting the unknown realm for the oncoming pioneers. Names of these heroic "mountain men," as they were called, still cling to streams, lakes and ranges of the West. Religion played its vital part in the lives of some of these fur seekers of the West. This is especially true of Jedediah Strong Smith? sometimes called the Puritan Pathfinder. He went into the wilds, it is said, carrying his Bible in one hand, his rifle in the other. It was he who first led a band of white men from the Salt Lake Valley into Southern California; and later, with two companions, dared to cross the Great American Desert eastward from the Sierras to what is now Central Utah. Indians later told our pioneers how these three white men, with only one. Horse, staggered into their camp at the south end of the Salt Lake. Six other animals with which they had left California perished in the desert. One notable result came of their adventure: it gave proof that this "Inland Sea" was not, as Jim Bnidger, its white discoverer, had first thought, an arm of the ocean. Another venture by white men half a century before Bridger and Smith had penetrated it, was made by Fathers Escalante and Dominguez. Seeking, with the help of Indian guides, a way from Santa Fe, New Mexico, to Monterey, California, they came as far as the site of Provo; then, baffled in their quest, they prayed, drew lots, and finally returned to their mission home in New Mexico. They had charted, however, in part, what was called by the Spaniards, the land of the Northern Mystery. Still another intriguing story connected with the opening of the West is that of the quest of the Indians for the white man's "Book of Heaven." Through Jedediah Strong Smith, or some other God-fearing mountain man, they had learned about the Bible and wanted more of its uplifting stories. About the same year that the first Mormon missionaries were on their way to preach the gospel to the Lamanites on our western frontier, four chieftains of the Nez Perce and Spokane tribes came down the Missouri to St. Louis. There they were welcomed by General Clark, then Indian agent for the vast Missouri Territory. Their request for the "Book of Heaven" was not, at first, satisfied. Though the white folk gave them food and lodging and kindly treatment, the Indians did not get the spiritual message for which they had made the long journey. Two of the chiefs the older ones passed away while they waited; and were laid to rest in the frontier town. The next spring, with heavy hearts, the other two turned homeward. On leaving, one of them is reported to have said, in effect: You have so loaded us with gifts that our moccasins are heavy. But the light we  LESSON DEPARTMENT desired to take back to our people has not been given to us. We must still sit in darkness, Their plea did not fall: on deaf cars. Some devoted Christians finally heard and heeded it. From one of these, Jason Lee, came action. With his nephew, Daniel Lee, and another minister of the Methodist faith, he went westward with the fur seekers, and finally arrived at the Columbia in Oregon. There, missions were established; and the work of leading the red men into the light was begun. It yielded little so far as conversion of the Indians was concerned; but out of it came another fruitage the encouragement of American settlement of Oregon. Another response, with something of romance, came, in 1836, when two youthful missionaries, with their brides, took a long honeymoon trip into the far Northwest. These were Dr. Marcus Whitman and Henry H. Spalding. To their wives, Narcissa Prentiss Whitman and Eliza Hart Spalding, belongs the honor of being the first white women to cross our continent. At its crest, it is said, they dismounted from their horses, set up an American flag, and kneeling down with their husbands, dedicated the West to God and home. These were to become the first white mothers in regions that later became the states of Washington and Idaho. To one of them, Narcissa Whitman, came, in 1847, the crown of martyrdom. With her stalwart husband, she fell victim to Indian savagery this, after they had _ established and maintained, through eleven years, a home that was at once a school, a place of worship, and of culture, and a center of 781 industry. Further, the Whitman Mission, now in process of restoration as a national shrine, was a haven of refuge for pioneers who came there weary and sick and needy on their last lap of the journey to old Oregon.. In We Must March, a stirring novel by Honore Willsie Morrow, we have the story, here sketched, graphically portrayed. Some question a few of the facts woven into it as not quite true to history; but it certainly is true to the spirit and lives of two courageous, devoted Americans. In Whitman an Unfinished Story by Dr. Penrose, President Emeritus of Whitman College, we have an historical presentation of the tale of devotion and sacrifice. Through the 1820's and the 1830's, the great West was largely charted, and missionaries gained a foothold in its wilds. Yet would the vast domain ever be brought under the Stars and Stripes? Could its mountain valleys, its deserts, ever be settled? Statesmen of vision, such as Daniel Webster, were ready to throw even old Oregon, to which, by discovery and exploration, America had first right, away to other nations. Of what use was that far-flung frontier to our country, anyway? An unmistakable answer came, in 1843, when a handful of American settlers in Oregon, with spirit like that of their Pilgrim and Virginia forebears, established a free government there under our flag. That same year a second clear answer rang out when one thousand men, women, and children, under heroic leadership and guidance, rolled over the Blue Mountains in their covered 782 wagons to a new homeland in the far West. Our East was settled largely by means of the waterways; our West by the wagonways. Praise should go to the humble ox teams which, patiently drawing homes on wheels, took mothers into the valleys of the mountains. Without these homemakers, the West never could have been peaceably conquered. Transcendent among those who made this constructive conquest were the home-seeking Latter-day Saints. By the time this particular lesson is being studied and taught, all our people, indeed all the world, will be at the beginning of the Centennial commemoration of the epic making march of the pioneer vanguard into a mountain-guarded realm. A theme is here for song and oration, story and drama, that will echo down the ages. Already much literature of true merit has been created portraying the heart and spirit of our pioneers the redeemers of the desert. Of all that yet has come, nothing surpasses in sweet simplicity and Bible-like fervor the splendid hymn that cheered their westward march "Come, Come, Ye Saints." In this song is the quintessence of true religion. Its first stanza is a vibrant note of joy and cheer, its second, a sweet expression of hope and trust in God; its third, a joyous look ahead to a peaceful happy homeland; its last a high note of true courage even to meeting death happily and triumphantly winning in the end. Daniel Stevens, a Nebraska leader who fell into possession of the site of the "Liberty Pole Camp" on the Elkhom River, where President Young organized the pioneer vanguard, was deeply impressed with the story of our home-seeking saints, and often told it to friends. "How in the world could those people stand the hardships and dangers?" he was once asked by an earnest listener. "Well, they thought that God was marching right by their side," was his reply; "and I am not so sure but that they were right." Discussion and Activities 1. Be prepared to give a one-minute explanation of any one of these topics: (a) Four lures that led Americans westward. (b) Stars added to our flag through the Louisiana Purchase. (c) Lewis and Clark and the "Bird Woman� their service to America. (d) "White Man's Book of Heaven" and outcome of the quest for the book. (e) Service and sacrifice of Marcus and Narcissa Whitman. (f) Story, in brief, of one of these mountain men: Jedediah Strong Smith, Jim Bridger, Peter Skeen Ogden. (Note: To bring reports within time limit, write the one chosen.) 2. Be prepared with a four-minute review of any one of the following novels: We Must March by Morrow; Covered Wagon by Hough; The Land Is Bright by Binns. 3. Read carefully each of the stanzas of "Come, Come, Ye Saints." Be ready to join with the class in an appreciative analysis of the hymn; and afterwards in singing it. 4. In what vital way is the epic of the Mormon pioneers linked with the story of the pioneering of each of the following states: Iowa, Nebraska, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, California, Nevada, Wyoming, Idaho, Utah? (Give very brief answers References Binns: The Land is Bright. Driggs - Lippincott: Westward America. Hebard, Dr. Grace Raymond: Sacajawea, Arthur W. Clark Co. Hough: Covered Wagon. Irving, Washington: Astoria. LESSON DEPARTMENT Miller, Joaquin: Overland in a Covered Wagon, Appleton-Century. Morrow, Honore Willsie: We Must March. Russell and Driggs: Hidden Heroes of the Rockies, World Book Co. 783 Stevenson: Poems of American History, Houghton Mifflin Co. White, Stewart E.: The Long Rifle. Caine, Julia Alleman: "A Bride Goes West," (Narcissa Whitman),, page 91. Optional lessons in' Lieu of Literature The Gospel as a Way of Life Lesson 5?Baptism Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, February 18, 1947 GOME years ago in one of the mission fields of the Church, two missionaries were invited to an open house held in honor of a member of the branch on his eighty-sixth birthday. The following Sunday was fast Sunday and, during the testimony bearing period, this aged individual arose and commenced to speak. He started his remarks by expressing thanks for his membership in the Church, and especially that during the past week he had celebrated his forty-first birthday. The two missionaries, upon hearing this, looked questioningly at each other. He had distinctly mentioned his forty-first birthday, yet they were well aware that at the open house it had been stated that it was the occasion of his eighty-sixth birthday. One thing, however, they did not know. During that same week he had also celebrated another anniversary that meant more to him than his birthday. It was the forty-first anniversary of his baptism into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The first impression of the missionaries, who were not acquainted with this fact, was that the elderly gentleman was suffering from a lapse of memory. Upon hearing his testimony, however, they learned a vital lesson. This man had lived a worldly, irreligious life during the first forty-five years of his existence. He had profaned constantly as a matter of habit, gambled, caroused, and been cruel to his children and inconsiderate of his wife. Then one day some missionaries brought tracts to his home. He invited them back to spend an evening, intending to embarrass them with the questions he had so effectively used to silence ministers of the gospel who had formerly tried to persuade him to profess Christianity. The result was the opposite. He saw religion in a new light, and, two days after his forty-fifth birthday, he accepted the restored Gospel through the waters of baptism. To him this ordinance of baptism had real significance. He had developed faith in God and in the saving powers of the atonement of Jesus Christ. When he saw the worth of the real Christian message, he repented of his external, sinful acts, and prayed for God to forgive him for his former transgressions. He strove to control his temper which formerly had overcome his better judgment at the slightest provocation. He learned that the real Christian should Jove children, and so his cruelty toward his off. Spring was transformed into a fatherly love for the souls that God had entrusted to his care. His wife found that his former inconsiderate conduct was turned into love and devotion. In short, he was a changed man. He had been really "born again." He did not want to remember his former life. It was something from which he had repented and he wanted it obliterated. When he entered the waters of baptism he did it to literally have his sins washed away. When he came up out of the watery grave, his old self had been buried, and he was a new man coming forth to a new life. The first forty-five years didn't count. They had been buried. This man had caught the spirit and meaning of truly being "born again." Is it any wonder that he was so grateful for his acceptance of the gospel that he counted time only from his entrance into the Church, although his children still celebrated the date of his physical birth into mortality? The true narration related above contains within it the basic elements of the doctrine of baptism, as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The ordinance of baptism logically follows the Principles of faith in God and repentance from sin. Without these two Preparatory steps, baptism would be ineffective. Great stress is laid upon this ordinance because it carries with it, if the candidate has first been Properly prepared, the remission of sins. This gift is priceless, and those who have passed through the waters of baptism, fully aware of this promised release from sins formerly committed, have emerged into a newness of life that cannot be described by words. Remission of sins, however, is but one of the purposes of baptism. Another purpose is to Provide an opportunity for the repentant sinner to show obedience to the commandments of Jesus, Perhaps mortals may never know just why baptism by immersion in water was instituted as such, instead of some other type of ordinance. It is a symbol of dying and resurrection, and of a new birth, but other symbolic ordinances might have been found instead of this one. We observe it as an ordinance, because we have been commanded to, whether we fully understand its purpose or not. Its acceptance becomes one of the manifestations of our faith in God and in Christ. Jesus himself, although not in need of a remission of sins, Presented himself to John the Baptist, stating that such a step was necessary in order to comply with the righteous requirements of God (Matt. 3:13-15). Another purpose of baptism is to afford each person an opportunity to make a covenant with God that he is desirous of taking the name of Christ upon him. This covenant becomes a sacred obligation and a powerful reminder of the obligation to serve the cause of Christ. One who has conscientiously entered into  LESSON DEPARTMENT waters of baptism, aware of this sacred opportunity, finds beauty and thrilling spiritual joys in later life. A covenant with God and Christ becomes a stimulus to live better and more nobly than before, and serves as a shield against the temptations of the world. By no means the least important part of baptism is the opportunity afforded to gain entrance to the Church. We believe that the Church is really the kingdom of God upon earth, which, in time, will be joined with the kingdom of heaven as the kingdom of God. To be a member of this choice group, to be strengthened by the fine Christian lives of its members, and to be partakers of the fine spiritual fellowship the Church affords, are the blessings that come as a consequence of admittance into the Church. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints teaches that it is not only necessary to observe the true form of complete immersion, but that divine authority is equally necessary. In revelations given to the Church in this day, the power to baptize is limited to certain offices in the Priesthood (see Doc. And Cov. 20:38-s9 and section 13). In determining the fitness of candidates for baptism into the Church, the scriptures present us with some very positive guides. First of all, the person must have reached the years of accountability before God and be capable of repentance (see Doc. And Cov. 20:71). The Lord has said: All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the Church that they have truly repented of 785 all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into his Church (Doc. And Cov. 20:37). The Book of Mormon contains what is perhaps the best statement to be found in all scripture concerning the responsibilities of those who accept baptism.... And now, as ye are desirous to come into the fold of God, and to be called his people, and are willing to bear one another's burdens, that they may be light; Yea, and are willing to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in, even until death, that ye may be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first resurrection, that ye may have eternal life Now I say unto you, if this be the desire of your hearts, what have you against being baptized in the name of the Lord, as a witness before him that ye have entered into a covenant with him, that ye will serve him and keep his commandments, that he may pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon you? (Mosiah 18:8-10.) Discussion and Activity Problems 1. Discuss the full significance that is implied in the expression, "Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God" (John 3:3). 2. Name four purposes that the ordinance of baptism accomplishes. 3. What rules should we apply in determining the fitness of a candidate for baptism, in accordance with the standard established in Doc. And Cov. 20:71? 4. Discuss the implications of the duties listed by Alma in Mosiah 18:8-10. 5. Members of the class who have joined the Church in their adult years should be urged to relate their own feelings toward baptism, during the discussion period. References: Hunter, Milton R.: The Gospel Through the Ages, pp. 192-206. Smith, President Joseph F: Gospel Doctrine, pp. 118-126. Talmage, James E: Articles of Faith, pp. 120-134. Talmage, James E: Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 86-89, 93"95- Widtsoe, John A: A Rational Theology, pp. 111-117. Young, President Brigham: Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 245-248; 1941 Ed., pp. 158-160. Social Science The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 4 Observing a Principle of Prosperity Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday, February 25, 1947 "The earth is full and there is enough and to spare." Our Heavenly Father has provided well for his children upon the earth. The things which are necessary for our well-being have been placed here in abundance, and we can all enjoy the good things of the earth if we practice certain proved principles. Sound economics are essential with individuals as well as families if they are to enjoy prosperity. The Value of Work FORTUNATE are those children who learn early in life the satisfaction that comes from work well done. Young people should learn that they must work for what they get in life whether it be knowledge or material things. "By the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread" was one of the first commandments given to man. The Creator knew that work is essential for the welfare of the human race. Latter-day Saints have always been taught to labor and to be industrious. The Prophet Joseph Smith once remarked: "There is no place for an idler in the Church except that he repent and mend his ways" (See Doc. And Cov. 75:29). A great injustice is done to the youth who is deprived of the privilege of learning to work. Parents who impose no duties upon children make it difficult for them to compete later on with those who have learned, in their early years, to work. Habits of industry will stay with the individual throughout his entire life. It is often simpler to hire work done or to do it oneself than to have a child do the work. But, by following the easier way, a child's training is neglected. A wise mother insists that her daughter help prepare the evening meal, even though she knows it would be easier for her to do it than to train her daughter. While this training takes time and patience, nevertheless, it is the mother's responsibility. Art of Saving One of the most valuable habits children can acquire is the habit of saving. It is essential to a successful life. Saving seems to be a knack with some people, but it requires 'practice, as does any other habit. Saving means putting aside a portion of one's earnings systematically, no matter how small the amount. The amount saved is governed by the spending, as well as the earnings. The important thing is for a 786 References Through the Ages, pp. 192-206. _ Talmage, James E: Vitality of Mormon A Rational The LESSON DEPARTMENT family to decide that they will consistently save and put something away for a future day. The time to begin is now today, with whatever amount can be spared. In order to save regularly, there must be a plan that the whole family will agree to. Some part of the earnings must be set aside at pay periods. Extra money that is earned should be added to the savings account. If the small items are watched, such as money spent on shoe shines, movies, candy bars, magazines, and other incidentals, it will be surprising how fast the balance accumulates. In some families children are given money for birthday gifts. This money is added to ' their individual savings account each year. Over a period of years, this amount will grow to a considerable sum. Satisfaction will come to the entire family if they see 4 savings account growing as a result of united effort. Later in life this money can be used to very good advantage? for missions, college education, 4 new car, vacations, Of perhaps to meet unforeseen emergencies. Waste and Extravagance As a nation we are extravagant and wasteful. Waste is sinful and contrary to Latter-day Saint beliefs, both for the conduct of our individual lives and likewise of our government. It has been said that "Investigation will place at the head of causes of poverty, wastefulness inherited from wasteful parents." This '5 a serious indictment to parents who should always set an example of thrift and economy. The average American family, we ate told, wastes as much food each meal as is 787 consumed by family. The American garbage can is a national disgrace. An officer of one of our large cities recently made a survey to see how much food was being wasted. His survey of discarded food in cans in the better sections of town, as well as in the poorer sections, revealed in both instances that great quantities of food were being wasted slices of bread, scraps of meat, vegetables, and various other items being thrown away. Our wasteful habits must be corrected, particularly at this time, when millions of people in the world are going hungry. It is often the case that families with limited incomes use Poor judgment in buying. Especially ls this true of food buying. Prepared foods, pastries, and knickknacks are often in economical purchases. Welfare food agencies are constantly besieged for prepared cereals which are considerably more expensive, and often less nutritious, than cooked cereals. This is but one example. There are also millions of dollars worth of half-worn clothing hanging in the closets of American homes. This is a wanton extravagance when it is realized that minor alterations in style and renovating could give the clothing utility. A European peasant Wise Spending and Living Within One's Means The prosperity of a family de pends to a large extent on the way the income is spent. Unwise spending is the cause of much embarrassment and anxiety and causes family disunity. It is just as necessary to know how to spend as it is to know how to save. "We save carefully that we may spend wisely." Money wisely spent brings joy and happiness. "He who both saves and spends money is the happiest man because he has both enjoyments" (Boswell, James: Life of Dr. Johnson). Knowing how to use money, how to buy, what to buy, and when to buy is very important. One of the grave dangers facing many of our young people today is their inability to handle money. They do not know the value of a dollar because parents in too many cases have not trained them in the wise use Of money. Wages have been high and "easy come easy go," is a homely but true adage. Newly married couples can undermine a happy marital existence through unwise spending on the part of either. In these days of rapidly increasing costs, more attention must be given to budgeting; and young married people, particularly, should know how to budget their funds. It should be understood that the purpose of a budget is to enable one to tell money where to go instead of asking where it went. We are coming into an era of installment buying on a scale surpassing any hitherto known. Easy-payment plans and high-pressure salesmanship have been the cause of much financial unhappiness. Since this is an age of high-pressure methods, people trained in the art of selling appeal to the public through clever advertising over the air, in the newspapers and magazines. More than ever sales resistance is a prerequisite to the successful handling of family finances. Much trouble and financial difficulties come to families living beyond their income and to those who think only of the present. We are continually being admonished by our Church leaders to live within our income, and to avoid debt. In Gospel Standards, President Grant wrote: There is a peace and contentment that comes into the heart when we live within our means. Families should counsel together concerning finances, and children should know what the family can and cannot afford. Parents should not bicker over money matters, especially before children. They should set a policy, have an understanding, and stay with it. Parents often overindulge their children, even to the extent of going without necessities themselves and going into debt. Young people are intelligent and sensible and they will be willing to do what is right, if the matter is presented to them fairly. Children may be put on an allowance, allowing them to buy their own clothes. It is necessary, then, to see that they live within their allowance and pay for their entertainment and other items of expense as well. Wife's Part in Money Matters The wife should have an active interest in the finances of the family. Too often she is not interested, thinking that it is the husband's responsibility alone. Many wives and mothers have found them- ? selves widows with little or no knowledge of the simplest family finances which is cruel, costly and often disastrous. Financially inexperienced widows are often the victims of unscrupulous salesmen.  LESSON DEPARTMENT A banker once said: If husbands would counsel with their wives before making investments and buying stocks, many financial losses would be averted. Women's natural intuition seems to make her discerning and cautious. A middle aged woman who never married because she felt it her duty to stay at home and assist her family recently said: H father had listened to mother and hadn't bought that worthless stock, things would have been different for us. We never received a cent from the worthless investment and had to mortgage the home and let some of the land go. Serious consideration should be given before signing on the dotted ne. One wise woman used to say that she never made an important decision until she had "slept on it." Tithing and Fast Offerings Tithing is fundamental in any consideration of prosperity in the family. Every individual in the Church should feel it a privilege to be a tithe payer. No family can afford to deny themselves the blessings, both temporal and spiritual, that come from being honest tithe payers. Our children should be made to realize that they are indebted to their Heavenly Father for everything, and that he expects little in return only one tenth. Many people not of our faith pay one tenth of their income to their church or some organization where it will be used for the relief of the poor and needy. They feel this is one way they can discharge their social obligations to mankind. Latter-day Saint children should be proud to feel that they have con- 4 789 tributed to the kingdom of God on earth. They should be reminded that the tithing they pay, small as the amount may be, has helped to build chapels, temples, helped to support the religious educational program of the Church, the missionary system, and helped to maintain all other Church expenses. As we sit. In our comfortable meeting houses, Sunday after Sunday, where we come to worship, we should receive satisfaction in knowing that our contributions have helped to build, as well as maintain these houses. Imagine a father standing with his sons after the crops have been harvested, saying: "Well, boys, it is a joy to return one tenth to the Lord." Parents can direct their children to go to the bishop and pay their tithing on small amounts of money they have received. This will be of great value to the young boy or girl. Our children will need to keep account. Of what they have earned to know exactly how much they owe to the Lord. This will teach budgeting and encourage frugal habits of spending. Lessons in honesty will be learned. The boy who pays tithing is not likely to waste his time and money in games of chance and gambling. The Lord has made some startling promises to those who observe this law. Bring ye all the tithes unto the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open to you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it (Malachi 3:10). The fast offering is a wise and equitable way of taking care of the poor and needy. It is the financial basis of the great Welfare Plan. This free-will offering given to the bishop brings blessings to those who give as well as to those who receive. Through fasting, the physical body is brought into subjection to the spiritual body. Self-discipline is necessary in the lives of all for development. If parents will teach their children to fast, to give fast offerings, and to attend the fast meetings, they will be rewarded by having the faith of their children strengthened. The ability to save, which is the final proof of frugality and the foundation of prosperity in the family, is acquired through the payment of tithes and offerings. Observance of this command demands thoughtful management of family finances, and the by-products of such planning are the basis of prosperity. "The earth is full and there is enough and to spare." Questions for Discussion 1, Why is work a blessing to mankind? 2. What are the advantages of husband and wife counseling together on family finances? 3. How can parents best teach their children to pay tithing? 4. In your experience, do tithe payers usually prosper in a temporal way? 5. How can a family plan their budget so they can have the things they desire? References Smith, President Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, "Marriage, the Home and Family," PP. 374-375:; Discourses of Brigham Young, XV, "Tithing," pp. 269-281; 1941 edition, pp. 174-181. Deseret News, "Church Section," April 27, 1946, "Tithing" ward teacher's message.