OLD LEAVES Beatrice K. Ekman The leaves from the sycamores, warped and dry, Blow over the roof as the wind rides by, And over the smooth paved city street, In rustling rows, advance and retreat. The voice of the wind sounds high and thin, As into the gutters the brown leaves spin, Bruised and broken and drenched with rain? To be dust when the trees are green again. -MAGAZINE BINDERS NOW AVAILABLE Magazine binders, into which 12 single copies of Thebe inserted or removed at will, are once mare available. These binders are a great convenience to all stake and ward Relief Society officers and class leaders, and to all Magazine subscribers who wish to keep a current year's issues of the Magazine together. These binders may be obtained at the office of the General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, at $1.20 postpaid. *  tt g there is anything calculated to interest the mind of the Saints, to awaken in them the finest sensibilities, and arouse them to enterprise and exertion, surely it is the great and precious promises made by our Heavenly Father to the children of Abraham."? ?*'Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,'' page 163. Between the covers of this book is the story of our Father Abraham's Children and of God's "precious promises" to them. Have you read it? Here is a chart of the beginning of your pedigree?24 generations from Adam to Ephraim. It is complete with dates and references. THE AUTHOR, James H. Anderson, was an outstanding student of scripture and history. He has written about YOUR RACIAL FAMILY and birthright. This beautifully bound book and chart will pleasantly surprise you. For your own library or for a friend you want to please at Christmas time send in your order today. (CUT HERE AND MAIL TODAY) EARL W. HARMER, Publisher 945 So. 7th East, Salt Lake City 4, Utah Please send postpaid the books checked below: O GOD'S COVENANT RACE ee-$2.00 By James H. Anderson (0 THE STORY OF THE MORMON PIONEERS $2.00 By Mabel Harmer CU *FAMOUS MASCOTS AND K-9's $2.00 y Mabel Harmer DENNIS AND THE MORMON BATTALION $2.00 Written expressly for young people. Check or money order enclosed OO Send C. O. D. Name Address Your Order Will Receive Prompt Attention For Happier, More Successful FAMILY LIFE FAMILY ETERNAL, by Roy A. West, points out new horizons for every family. Here are a few of many vital topics: A Spiritual Interpretation Choosing Friends Seeking a Companion Harmonizing Two Personalities Composition of the Mormon Family Guiding the Formation of Attitudes Enjoying Our Home ? Sustaining Influence of the home FAMILY ETERNAL is a reference book for Relief Society "Social Science'' lessons. For yourself or for a friend, send in your order now by postal card, telephone, or in person. BOOKCRAFT 1186 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 7-7911 BOOKS Few other gifts carry with them the satisfaction that attends the giving and receiving of a good book. For any L. D. S. BOOK Write EZRA L. MARLER Books by Mail P. O. Box 267 Salt Lake City, Utah STANDARD PRICES Prompt, Personal Service Promised Keep a price list of L. D. S. Books handy in your home. It's yours for the asking should always be the result when energy is expended. Yet, like a dizzily spinning top. Many businesses go 'round in the preparation of advertising and get nowhere. Month after month, the same thing happens again and again and nothing is accomplished by the expenditure of dollars that could be made to produce results. The function of a printing organization today is to help clients to plan printing that builds sales to take copy and dramatize it, make it so irresistibly attractive that it must naturally draw the reader's attention. The waste of which we speak is often due to lack of understanding. Realization of this has made us sales minded. Your selling problem, and our experience puts us in a position to print your sales story so that it will get results. THE