Baptism Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, February 18, 1947 GOME years ago in one of the mission fields of the Church, two missionaries were invited to an open house held in honor of a member of the branch on his eighty-sixth birthday. The following Sunday was fast Sunday and, during the testimony bearing period, this aged individual arose and commenced to speak. He started his remarks by expressing thanks for his membership in the Church, and especially that during the past week he had celebrated his forty-first birthday. The two missionaries, upon hearing this, looked questioningly at each other. He had distinctly mentioned his forty-first birthday, yet they were well aware that at the open house it had been stated that it was the occasion of his eighty-sixth birthday. One thing, however, they did not know. During that same week he had also celebrated another anniversary that meant more to him than his birthday. It was the forty-first anniversary of his baptism into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The first impression of the missionaries, who were not acquainted with this fact, was that the elderly gentleman was suffering from a lapse of memory. Upon hearing his testimony, however, they learned a vital lesson. This man had lived a worldly, irreligious life during the first forty-five years of his existence. He had profaned constantly as a matter of habit, gambled, caroused, and been cruel to his children and inconsiderate of his wife. Then one day some missionaries brought tracts to his home. He invited them back to spend an evening, intending to embarrass them with the questions he had so effectively used to silence ministers of the gospel who had formerly tried to persuade him to profess Christianity. The result was the opposite. He saw religion in a new light, and, two days after his forty-fifth birthday, he accepted the restored Gospel through the waters of baptism. To him this ordinance of baptism had real significance. He had developed faith in God and in the saving powers of the atonement of Jesus Christ. When he saw the worth of the real Christian message, he repented of his external, sinful acts, and prayed for God to forgive him for his former transgressions. He strove to control his temper which formerly had overcome his better judgment at the slightest provocation. He learned that the real Christian should Jove children, and so his cruelty toward his off. Spring was transformed into a fatherly love for the souls that God had entrusted to his care. His wife found that his former inconsiderate conduct was turned into love and devotion. In short, he was a changed man. He had been really "born again." He did not want to remember his former life. It was something from which he had repented and he wanted it obliterated. When he entered the waters of baptism he did it to literally have his sins washed away. When he came up out of the watery grave, his old self had been buried, and he was a new man coming forth to a new life. The first forty-five years didn't count. They had been buried. This man had caught the spirit and meaning of truly being "born again." Is it any wonder that he was so grateful for his acceptance of the gospel that he counted time only from his entrance into the Church, although his children still celebrated the date of his physical birth into mortality? The true narration related above contains within it the basic elements of the doctrine of baptism, as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The ordinance of baptism logically follows the Principles of faith in God and repentance from sin. Without these two Preparatory steps, baptism would be ineffective. Great stress is laid upon this ordinance because it carries with it, if the candidate has first been Properly prepared, the remission of sins. This gift is priceless, and those who have passed through the waters of baptism, fully aware of this promised release from sins formerly committed, have emerged into a newness of life that cannot be described by words. Remission of sins, however, is but one of the purposes of baptism. Another purpose is to Provide an opportunity for the repentant sinner to show obedience to the commandments of Jesus, Perhaps mortals may never know just why baptism by immersion in water was instituted as such, instead of some other type of ordinance. It is a symbol of dying and resurrection, and of a new birth, but other symbolic ordinances might have been found instead of this one. We observe it as an ordinance, because we have been commanded to, whether we fully understand its purpose or not. Its acceptance becomes one of the manifestations of our faith in God and in Christ. Jesus himself, although not in need of a remission of sins, Presented himself to John the Baptist, stating that such a step was necessary in order to comply with the righteous requirements of God (Matt. 3:13-15). Another purpose of baptism is to afford each person an opportunity to make a covenant with God that he is desirous of taking the name of Christ upon him. This covenant becomes a sacred obligation and a powerful reminder of the obligation to serve the cause of Christ. One who has conscientiously entered into  LESSON DEPARTMENT waters of baptism, aware of this sacred opportunity, finds beauty and thrilling spiritual joys in later life. A covenant with God and Christ becomes a stimulus to live better and more nobly than before, and serves as a shield against the temptations of the world. By no means the least important part of baptism is the opportunity afforded to gain entrance to the Church. We believe that the Church is really the kingdom of God upon earth, which, in time, will be joined with the kingdom of heaven as the kingdom of God. To be a member of this choice group, to be strengthened by the fine Christian lives of its members, and to be partakers of the fine spiritual fellowship the Church affords, are the blessings that come as a consequence of admittance into the Church. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints teaches that it is not only necessary to observe the true form of complete immersion, but that divine authority is equally necessary. In revelations given to the Church in this day, the power to baptize is limited to certain offices in the Priesthood (see Doc. And Cov. 20:38-s9 and section 13). In determining the fitness of candidates for baptism into the Church, the scriptures present us with some very positive guides. First of all, the person must have reached the years of accountability before God and be capable of repentance (see Doc. And Cov. 20:71). The Lord has said: All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the Church that they have truly repented of 785 all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into his Church (Doc. And Cov. 20:37). The Book of Mormon contains what is perhaps the best statement to be found in all scripture concerning the responsibilities of those who accept baptism.... And now, as ye are desirous to come into the fold of God, and to be called his people, and are willing to bear one another's burdens, that they may be light; Yea, and are willing to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in, even until death, that ye may be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first resurrection, that ye may have eternal life Now I say unto you, if this be the desire of your hearts, what have you against being baptized in the name of the Lord, as a witness before him that ye have entered into a covenant with him, that ye will serve him and keep his commandments, that he may pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon you? (Mosiah 18:8-10.) Discussion and Activity Problems 1. Discuss the full significance that is implied in the expression, "Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God" (John 3:3). 2. Name four purposes that the ordinance of baptism accomplishes. 3. What rules should we apply in determining the fitness of a candidate for baptism, in accordance with the standard established in Doc. And Cov. 20:71? 4. Discuss the implications of the duties listed by Alma in Mosiah 18:8-10. 5. Members of the class who have joined the Church in their adult years should be urged to relate their own feelings toward baptism, during the discussion period. References: Hunter, Milton R.: The Gospel Through the Ages, pp. 192-206. Smith, President Joseph F: Gospel Doctrine, pp. 118-126. Talmage, James E: Articles of Faith, pp. 120-134. Talmage, James E: Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 86-89, 93"95- Widtsoe, John A: A Rational Theology, pp. 111-117. Young, President Brigham: Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 245-248; 1941 Ed., pp. 158-160. Social Science The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 4