PIPSEY PAPERS.

	What extraordinary pains the Gentile la-
dies are taking to suppress that blotch on
the body politic, which we hold so sacred,
viz., Plural Marriage!  If there is anything
morally or religiously wrong in the practice
of it, it is to be hoped they will succeed;
that is, in view of their introducing a more
moral and elavating mode of carrying out
God's great command to multiply and re-
plenish the earth.  He endowed us with
principles and desires pertaining thereto,
and gave laws whereby it should be carried
out in purity.
	Marriage was instituted as a principle
whereby virtuous love might be fostered
and protected, all intercourse outside of that
being condemned as unlawful and unholy.
The marriage ceremony enjoins upon men
and women to be true to themselves and to
each other.  It is usual for either men or
women, after the death of their relative
spouse, to marry again, but according to
the doctrines of modern Christianity they
must not marry a second wife while the
first is living.  Death releases their obliga-
tions.  But the marriage tie as revealed in
these last days binds for time and for all
eternity; therefore, if a wife dies, her hus-
band must spend the remainder of his life
alone or must of necessity have a plurality
of wives.  It is not the law of God, neither
does it accord with woman's physical con-
stitution, that she should marry several
husbands at one time, but if the parties are
agreed and are true to each other, what is
there wrong or degrading in a man having
several wives?  If he supports them, ac-
knowledging their claims and raising their
children in respectability, what is there do-
grading in the principle?  In the olden
time men after God's own heart practiced
polygamy, and we read of jealousy and dis-
satisfaction sometimes arising, as is fre-
quently the case at the present time.  There
is also jealousy and dissatisfaction in mo-
nogamous life, the marriage relation being
frequently severed.  But that in no wise
condemns marriage, nor degrades the law
of home-ties and influence, of which mar-
riage, is the foundation, although the argu-
ment is often used by men who wish to live
single, for not entering into the marriage
relationship.
	Polygamy in a moral or religious view
we have no intention at present to discuss.
If people who practice it are all pure in
heart, or correct in their judgmont, are
matters we are not open to judge, and over
which we have no control; but when we
look around us and see the corruption in
the world, and our comparative free-
dom from licentious practices we are led to
infer that our systems and principles are by
no means to be condemned.  There is no
degree or condition in life but has its pecu-
liar trials connected therewith.  It is not
polygamy as a principle that our enemies
are exercised over, that is a mere pretence
-a handle with which to turn the rack
whereon they would stretch us morally, re-
gardless of the physical suffering it might
cause us to endure.
	It was long ago the cry that Mormonism
must be put down, no matter what the cost
of suffering, murder and rapine, it must be
put down.  But how?  That is a problem
they have vainly tried to solve for over forty
years, and the solution still seems a mys-
tery.  Do they not know that if not sup-
ported and protected by Almighty God, our
peculiar institutions must of themselves
die out in time, and that opposition but
fans the flame which they are trying so hard
to extinguish.  That by their slanderous
and unwarrantable attacks they bring us to
the notice of the thinking public, and peo-
ple will investigate our cause who have
never before given us much thought.
	Who are those that are coming to the
front with their abusive epithets and their
heroic efforts to overthrow our established
religion?  Pity their heroism was not ex-
ercised in a better cause.  The leaders en-
raged in this undertaking are many of them
of those who once professed to believe in
the same doctrines, who have borne their
testimony to the work; whose fathers,
mothers, or sisters have laid down their
lives, perhaps, while promulgating the doc-
trines they professed.  They have joined
hands with us in the bonds of sisterhood,
have sat at our firesides, and partaken of
our cheer; they have been protected and
sustained by the ties the bind a growing
community.  And now they would raise
their hands against us and strike a dagger
to our hearts.  Sisters, I know them, I am
personally acquainted with several of them.
My childhood was passed in their society,
and their names are connected with some
of my earliest recollections.  We danced
at the same parties, shared the same rustic
amusements, and the same religious ser-
vices.  We worshipped at the same altar
and prayed to the same God.  We saw
nothing then to shock our sense of proprie-
ty or interfere with our conscientious prin-
ciples.  Our paths have widened and sepa-
rated; what their experience has been I am
unable to say, but I will venture to suggest
that of all the strong language they use,
and the terms they apply to us, they know
comparatively nothing.  We have no home-
less waifs cast on the tender mercies of pub-
lic charity.  Our religion forbids infanti-
cide, and its institutions protect women
against it and its concomitant evils.  We
have no starving poor, no licensed dens of
gambling and infamy.  We are  sober, in-
dustrious people, trying to pursue the avo-
cations of daily life in peace and content-
ment; we ask only to be let alone, and that
we do most emphatically insist on.  We
want none of the modern vices which ouor
Gentile citizens are introducing into our
midst, but they are forced into our midst,
to the detriment of the manners and morals
of our young people.  I saw a pitiful sight
a few days ago while visiting in Salt Lake
City.  I saw two women locked in jail-
they had both been ruined and abandoned.
Was it polygamy that had done this?  I
assure you it was not.  Salt Lake City is
the only city in Utah that is to any extent
populated by the element that are so anx-
ious abont us-the pure (?) in heart who are
so shocked by our sense of morality that
they would fain bring a ranting mob into
our midst, and turn us from our homes and
firesides. And what for?  For advocating
those principles which protect virtue and
innocence. I would recommend that they
sweep the streets of Salt Lake City and
clear from among us the vices that attach
to their own apron strings, before they at-
tack a principle that in and of itself at least
protects its victims, if such they may be
called.  Let them watch their own hus-
bands, and find if their conduct will bear
inspection, before they take a course to rid
our "poor, deluded women" of their natural
protectors and open up an avenue in society
for more corrupting influences.
	Provo.	Mary.


