CONTINUED.

	Friday afternoon session: On the platform
in Lincoln Hall were assembled more ladies
than at any previous session; Dr. C. B. Pervis, of
Philadelphia, and Federic Douglas occupied
front seats, with a crowded audience anxiously
awaiting. President Mrs. Stanton addressed
the Convention on the condition of the age
and the tendencies to a more one-sided suffrage
system. She said, "All are now admitted to
the ballot except idiots, Chinamen and wo-
men." that the existing state of affairs tended
to "irreverence, infidelity and corruption."
She pronounced it absurd, and added that under
man's rule the system of politics was such it
was impossible to tell whether the Chief Execu-
tive Officer of the land held his seat by fraud;
or otherwise; she referred to the cipher system
as looking exceedingly bad.
	Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage next delivered her
remarkable speech upon United States' Rights
vs. States' Rights.
	We consider Mrs. Gage's speech of so much
value that we intend to publish it in full, also
Mrs. Stanton's opening address, Miss Anthony's
lecture, Bread and the Ballot, Mrs. Lockwood's,
Mrs. Slocum's and our own delivered on the
first evening of the session; but our readers
will be so kind as to give us time, our paper be-
ing so small we can only publish one at a time.
	Mrs. Helen M. Slocum, of New York City, a
very finely educated and talented lady, with a
very intelligent face and an earnestness that
must have thrilled every woman's heart in
that large assembly, so impressive were her
manner and tone, plead as a mother would
plead for her own child, for the fallen and de-
praved women who sell their souls for bread,
and the innocent children born to shame and
reared in crime, if suffered to exist at all. She
appealed to the mothers of the land and asked
them if they did not think it was time they
had the privilege of owning their own chil-
dren. She informed them there were but few
States in the Union where the father had not
power to dispose of his children as he pleased,
by appointing guardians, taking them from
their mothers, and even willing away her un-
born babe if he so chooses. Mrs. Slocum stated
there were, according to the carefully prepared
statistics of the "Working Woman's Protective
Union,'. five hundred thousand women in New
York City and its immediate vicinity, outside
of domestic service, who are working for wages
which do not average over two dollars a week.
She vehemently exclaimed, "Can any one tell
how it is possible for these women to clothe,
feed and shelter themselves upon such wages
as these? *	* There is a great army of wo-
men called outcasts, whose ranks are constantly
being filled for want of bread. *	*	* The
men who withhold from women the power of

[Column 2]
self-protection through the ballot, thus pre-
venting them from being able to dictate terms
to their employers, are largely responsible for
this state of things." She appealed most elo-
quently and fervently to mothers. *	* "We
mothers cannot separate ourselves from the
great mass of women, and who of us are to f[-]r-
nish the recruits for this army whose [-]anks are
being continually refilled? for death goes hand
in hand with such foul corruption."

	Dr. Caroline B. Winslow, a resident physi-
cian and the able Editor of "The Alpha," pub-
lished in the interests and for the benefit and
elevation of women, made a thrilling speech
upon the same subject as Mrs. Slocum, al-
though Mrs. Winslow confined her remarks
more to the wickedness and corruption of the
District of Columbia.
	Mrs. Williams, of Utah, then gave a short
discourse upon Mormon women, their motives,
principles and efforts; in short made a strong de-
fense for her Mormon sisters.
	Mrs. Spencer styled Washington a Congress-
ional boarding house, and advised women
who desired the suffrage not to feed Congress-
men so well.
	Mrs. Blake emphasized "The protection of
women by men" by relating a story of a young
girl in Michigan driven out of town to die on
Christmas night, and referred to the murder
column of the newspaper. She declared
that man was not the natural protector of wo-
man, as alleged. She drew on the calendar of
crime to bear out her theory. Mrs. Lockwood
sprang up, interrupting Mrs. Blake, and said
such remarks only tended to widen the breach
between men and women, and for her part she
would not stand it; as Mrs. B. had mentioned
several cases where men had murdered their
wives, she could show half a dozen instances
in that vicinity alone where women had not
only murdered their husbands, but their chil-
dren. There was some sharp sparring between
these two, both of them women of wit and
versed in the learning of the world, but Mrs.
Stanton, with her uncommon tact, succeeded
in obtaining order and a truce, after which she
made a few remarks herself, speaking in strong
terms of commendation of men, and the after-
noon session adjourned.
	Second Evening session. The first speaker
was Mrs. Julia Browne Dunham, from Iowa,
who gave a concise annual report of the Wo-
man Suffrage Association of that State; she
thought the Iowa Legislature nearly ready to
vote for woman suffrage, and that public opin-
ion was largely in their favor. Women had
already been given many offices of trust and
honor, especially as trustees of schools.
	Mrs. Stanton rose, greeted with enthusiastic
applause, and introduced Mrs. Lockwood as
Lockwood versus the United States. Mrs. L ,
the celebrated lawyer, then made her earnest
and eloquent speech entitled "Waymarks."
She was frequently applauded, and at the
close received a very beautiful bouquet.
	After this there was a sharp discussion be-
tween Dr. Perivs, and Mrs. F. Douglas on the
fifth resolution, which referred to the Presi-
dent's message and his neglect to mention
twenty thousand women citizens. Dr. Pervis
is a very talented man and a very fluent speak-
er, and of course used strong language. He had
taken exception to the phrase "possible bull-
dozing of some of the hapless race in the
South," and felt insulted by any such connec-
tion with the President; he denounced the
policy of President Hayes. Of course there
were loud cheers and applause and hisses. Mr.
Douglas resented the saddling of everything
upon the President, and there was a great deal
of confusion created; people called out "What's

[Column 3]
this to do with woman's rights," etc. Mrs.
Stanton had to rise quite often to call to order.
During the colloquy between Messrs. Pervis
and Douglas, Mrs. Spencer arose and stated that
the resolutions had been drafted with special
care &c. Mrs. Stanton called for a copy of said
resolutions, and thought the offending clause
was in the wrong place. The construction of
the sentence was afterwards changed. Mr.
Pervis closed his remarks by saying; "I speak
for black people because I know that on this
platform they can be spoken of (applause).
Speak for them, because there is no power un-
der heaven to protect them."
	Mrs. Stanton arose and said from the events
of the evening it was very evident there was
need of women in the councils of men. That
we must never forget the right and sacredness
of free speech, which is a woman's right tenet,
and that women must teach their sons when
they go to public meetings to use their tongues
like men and not like serpents. *	* They
must learn the great American lesson of tolera-
tion of free speech.	*	*	*	*
	Mrs. Stanton was enthusiastically applauded.
She gave notice that next winter there would
be some new speakers, both men and women
Her youngest daughter, now studying in the
Boston school of oratory, would be there on
the platform and take part in the Convention.
It was then announced the Convention was
over.	[handwritten] E. B. Wells


