WHITE HOUSE.

	On Saturday, when Mrs Hayes had her first
reception, the two Mormon ladies, Mrs. Em-
meline B. Wells and Mrs. Zina Young Wil-
liams, Miss Anthony, Mrs. Spencer, of this 
city and others called, and the President, when
they asked a hearing from him, appointed
Monday at 10 a. m.
	The two Mormon wives named, one of
whom, Mrs. Williams, is the daughter of Brig-
ham Young,and the other wife of Ex-Mayor
Wells, of Salt Lake, went to the White House
promptly at the hppolnted hour, accompanies
by Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage and Mrs. Spencer.
These two ladies and Mrs. Wells, of Utah, were
of the committee appointed by the Suffrage
Association. Miss Rachel C. Foster and Miss
Julia T. Foster, of Philadelphia, Miss Wood-
bury of this city, and myself were the only
others present during the interview with the 
P[-]esident, which began at the hour named.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Hayes are punctual in keep-
ing appointments, although they frequently
make them for half-past 9 a. m.  Their house
is always in order, too, by that time.  The
bed-chambers into which Mrs. Hayes has some-
times taken me as early as 10 o'clock, look as if
no one had used them the previous night,
though all are occupied every night.
	The President invited the ladies named into 
the library, as being more secure from interrup-
tion than his office.  The resolutions of the 
Suffrage Associations were first read to him by
Mrs. Spencer and he listened with interest,
though he sometimes wore an amused smile as
he was reproached for his neglect in failing to 
mention the political, civil, or social rights of 
women. He occasionally asked questions cour-
teously, and I was amazed, having seldom wit-
nessed a similar interview, at the direct, con-
cise, forcible and yet invariably respectful re-
plies given by the ladies. They had evidently
carefully considered what they wished to say,
and said it as briefly as possible, determined to
lose nothing by boring their auditor (the only
man in the room), who was, on his part doing
the polite thing in every way. Is not this
progress when the chief of a great nation is
willing to receive from a band of women, ap-
pointed by women, suggestions as to affairs of
state and a reproach for past omissions?
	PLEA OF THE MORMON WIVES.
	But the beauty of the interview to me was
when the two Mormon ladies laid their case
before the President and he showed such
kindly sympathy with them when they proved
what misery would follow in Utah the enforce-
ment of the act of 1862 against polygamy.  He
told them he would not trust so important a 
matter to his memory of a verbal interview,
but wished them to put their case in writing
and lay before him.  He seemed pained, evi-
dently, reflecting how little he could do to help
them since the United States Supreme Court
has rendered a decision within a month against
polygamy in Utah.
	How favorable an impression the party pro-
duced on Mr. Hayes is best proved by his offer
to bring his wife in to see them, a proposition
gratefully accepted.
	I must not omit to mention just here that
while the ladies of the Suf[-]rage Association
showed a decided sympathy with the Mormen
ladies, who had stated that by the enforcement
of the act of 1862 many thousand women,
would be made outcasts and their children il-
legitimate before the world, Mrs. Gage and Mrs.
Spencer were careful to explain to the Presi-
dent exactly on what ground the National

[Column 2]
Woman's Suffrage Association had received
the Utah delegates.  They said the Association
must not be construed as taking part in any
other branch of the Mormon question except
that of female suffrage. The women of Utah
have enjoyed the right of suffrage and now 
Congress proposes to take it from them, and 
the Association which met here last week con-
tends that as Congress has repeatedly refused
to interfere with State or Territorial govern-
ments to grant suffrage to women, it should 
not interfere to take it away when local au-
thorities have conferred it.
	Mrs. Hayes heard the Mormon wives with
such earnest sympathy as to completely win
their hearts.  She listened and spoke to them
in a sisterly manner that aroused in all present
a feeling of reverence for her noble, womanly
nature. She invited the party to visit all the 
private apartments, and, when they left, sent
them through the conservatories.
		MISS GRUNDY.
THE WOMEN OF UTAH. MRS. BLAKE'S 
ANALYSIS OF THEIR PLEA FOR PO-
LYGAMY.
	At the recent National Woman Suffrage
Convention in Washington there were present
two delegates from the Territory of Utah. They
were Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, editor of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT of Salt Lake City, and
Mrs. Zina Young Williams, a daughter of Brig-
ham Young. They were both of them women
of culture, well dressed and well appearing.
Mrs. Wells was a lady of perhaps fifty, with a
pleasing, intellectual face. Mrs. Williams was
young and very good looking.  They were both
Mormons, apparently from devout, religious
belief, and had come East principally "plural
marriages," as they preferred to call their social
institutions.  In pusuance of this wish they
have within the last few weeks had several
hearing before the Judiciary Committee of
the Senate, on which they have presented their
views with force and clearness.
* * * * It was quite evident
that both these ladies were by conviction firm
believers in the divine origin of their faith,
and that they had in a large degree the tem-
perament that may perhaps be described as
eminently pious, or spiritual, in the best sense
of the word--a temperament which causes its
possessors to cling closely to their faith, and, if
necessary, to suffer martyrdom for it.  In
speaking of their peculiar institution they both
admitted that there were elements in it which
were painful to a woman's heart, but added
that they were doing what was ordained by
their religion, which commanded as a sacred
duty that they should share those attentions
which a selfish human instinct would cause
them to wish to retain undivided.
* * * * Mrs. Wells was careful
to say that they did not consider all men fitted,
either by nature or outward circumstances, for
plural marriage.  It was only men of principle,
of large, kindly hearts, who were proper per-
sons to have more than one wife. Nor did she
feel that this portion of their system was adapt-
ed to all communities, but thought it would be
especially desirable for rural regions where
women are in excess in the population, and
urged that in New England, for instance, the 
army of celibate women would be better off
as wives of good men, even though they shared
the honors, than passing to their graves in the
childless coldness of single life. We can fancy
that the dignified old maids of Massachusetts
would indignantly resent so base a suggestion,
[Column 3]
but we give it in justice to a really conscien-
tious thinker. * * *
	The women of Utah have enjoyed the right
of suffrage for eight years, and it was at first
supposed that political freedom would at once
cause them to tear off the yoke of polygamy;
yet this was surely a hasty conclusion, since
there was no more reason to think that giving
them the ballot would move them to disbelieve
in their religion than to imagine that men, on
reaching manhood and being able to vote
would change their religious convictions. We
do believe that political freedom cannot fail,
with the increased facilities for education, and 
freedom of thought which will accompany it,
to lead women gradually to throw off the
shackles of superstition, while their more spir-
itual uatures will still cause them to cling to 
all that is true and pure in religion; but it is
not to be expected that such a result will follow
at once, or that Mormon women, with their
most sacred affections twined about the insti-
tution of plural marriage would violently re-
pudiate it.  Yet the right of suffrage has al-
ready had for these women the most beneficial
results. It has led to the formation among
them of societies for mutual education and im-
provement. These associations meet through-
out the whole Territory, and women are con-
stantly employed in visiting the different so-
cieties to inform their members upon topics of
interest and importance. Already the influ-
ence of the women as a power is felt in the
body politic, while it is quite evident that free
thought on all topics is doing its work among
them. Of course it could not be expected that
they would make the first use of their liberties
by tearing down their homes, and the fact that
these Mormon women cling to these homes,
poor as they are, ought to silence forever those
objectors who maintain that enfranchising wo-
men would destroy the home.
`		LILLIE DEVEREUX BLAKE.
—The Evening Telegram, N. Y., Feb. 11, 1879.
	The extracts published above were written
by ladies whom we met while in Washington.
Miss Grundy (a fictitious name by the way)
boarded at the same hotel, consequently we
saw her often.  She is a pleasing and popular
writer, a regular correspendent of the "Phila-
dephia Times" and "Boston Herald," and al-
luded to us in both, in a way which was very
kind and thoughtful, and which we appreciat-
ed. She writes also for Washington papers,
and indeed I think her letters upon society are
worthy a place in any journal or magazine.
She mingles in the best society, and is there-
fore competent to write of it, and she is on in-
timate terms with Mrs. Hayes.  She is young,
and in every respect a very sensible girl, not
spoiled with flattery at all. She is general
favorite with the ladies at the hotel, and to us
she was extremely kind.
Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake is very witty and
very sarcastic; our readers will remember we
have republished many of her scathing articles.
Mrs. Blake is uncommonly gifted, and as
shrewd a woman as we ever met. She dresses
well, and contrary to the general argument
used by men in regard to women who defend
the woman question on the public platform,
has a nice home and no doubt a happy one,
beautiful daughters, and a husband all her
own. She speaks for women everywhere boldly,
defiantly perhaps, but certainly positively.
She has written us fairly as one could who
stands outside and knows nothing of the spirit
of the latter-day work.  She says the women's
organizatiens here have originated from our
having the Ballot. This is an error we wish to
correct, but one that strangers who do not un-
derstand Mormon women's home-missionary


work would naturally fall into.  That we
should understand the principles of govern-
ment is essential in our opinion, whether we
enjoy the franchise or are denied its privileges.
Our sisters should seek to inform themselves in
regard to all the existing forms of government
and in fact the ancient patriarchal manner of
governing. There are abundant opportunities
given the women of our day to make them-
selves acquainted with politics, and it is not at
all probable, as Mrs. Blake has said, that en-
franchising women will destroy the home.  It
has been proven here that such is not the case;
for have not Latter-day Saint women voted
for nine years, and what complaint can be
brought to condemn woman suffrage from
their experience?  Friends of woman's suffrage
in the House and Senate remarked to us they
would protest against the suffrage being taken
from our women.


