THE HARP IN HEAVEN.

	One of the sweetest recollections of my
girlhood is a beautiful reply my mother
once made me, when my heart was swell-
ing with childish grief.
	I had just returned from the house of a
wealthy neighbor, who had kindly given
me the use of their piano for a few hours
every day to gratify my extreme love for
music. Our own cottage home looked so
plain in contrast with t[-]e one I had just
left, and no piano within its walls, I laid
my head upon the table and gave vent to my
overflowing heart. I felt grieved, and per-
haps a little angry, that we were unable to
afford the one thing I desired above all
others—a piano—and expressed my feel-
ings to my mother.
	Never shall I forget her sweet, gentle
tone, as she simply replied, "Never mind,
daughter, if you cannot have a piano on
earth, you may have a harp in heaven."
Instantly the whole current of my feelings
was changed. Earthly things dwindled
into insignificance, and the "harp in heav-
en," with its golden strings, became the
object of my desire. I felt reproved for my
repinings against the Providence that had
placed me in a humble home, and from
that moment the enjoyment of heaven
seemed far to outweigh all the plesures of
earth. That beautiful reply has followed
me all my life, or rather has gone before
me like a bright guiding star—lifting my
thoughts above this transient life, and
opening to my spirit's vision the glorious
scenes in that "land of life and light." I
have a "piano on earth" now, but its charm
is gone. Its music no longer gladdens my
heart as it once did, for the ears that loved
best to listen to its sweet tones, are now
enraptured with the grand harmonies of


heaven. The dear fingers that so often
touched its keys now sweep the golden
harp-strings. O, that "harp in heaven!"
How my soul longs for one breath of its
rich melody!
	As I look upon the dear baby fingers in
the cradle near me' I think it matters little
whether my child be poor or rich—whether
her path be strewn with thorns or flowers—
if she may only have a "harp in heaven."
—Mother's Journal.


