"STAND STILL."

	A young friend asked me what we should
do "if Congress, or the Supreme Court of
the United States, should take us in hand
as earnestly as it appears they intend to
do?"
	I answered by opening the Bible and
reading from the fourteenth chapter of
Exodus, thirteenth verse: "And Moses
said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand
still, and see the salvation of the Lord,
which He will shew to you to-day."
	This is the way I feel, I said. If the
Lord wants us to make any particular move
in the matter, more than we have already
done, He will let us know. Otherwise, we
will "stand still." We will at least show
our enemies that we have more patience
and politeness than some of their party
possess. We will listen while they are
speaking to us and of us, no matter how
absurd their expressions may seem to us.
And that is more than some of our accusers
in this city are willing to do.
	At the Woman's Mass Meeting held in
the Theatre, two ladies of the opposing
party took seats directly back of where I
was sitting. And when Miss Snow in her
remarks said, "As true and loyal American
citizens we claim the right," &c., one of
these ladies observed, in a tone loud enough
to be distinctly heard, "Not very loyal!"
	Further on in her remarks Miss Snow re-
ferred to the Latter-day work as being es-
tablished "upon the principles of purity,


peace and righteousness," when one of the
ladies at my back echoed, "Purity! and
Righteousness!"
	Thus the speakers remarks were com-
mented upon, until she spoke of the feel-
ings of sympathy instead of revenge which
she felt for those banded together in our
midst to work evil, and who are trying to
measure arms with the Almighty. Then
came whispers from the ladies behind me,
of "Let's go!"
	And they did go. Instead of listening
to the Mormon women's vindications and
explanations of their faith and practices,
and why they held to them, these ladies
arose and left the house before the first
speaker had concluded her remarks.
	This is but one of a great many instances
of a similar kind. And such are the char-
acters who represent us, or misrepresent us,
as disloyal, unrighteous and everything
bad. They do not know us, and they refuse
to hear us tell what we are. But we can
afford to bear with them, and when we
have nothing to say or do for a little time
we can "stand still and see the salvation of
the Lord."					L. G. R.


For the EXPONENT.
				TIME.

	Time is a measured portion of duration.
It is divided into three grand divisions, viz.,
the past, the present and the future. The
past we know. Memory, that faculty of
the mind that retains so vividly the knowl-
edge of all our past thoughts and actions,
does its duty faithfully in this regard. It
brings to mind the bitter remembrance of
things that are past and connects them with
the present and the future. It makes them
live through all time, and may, perhaps,
through all eternity. It shows us all our
failings, all our imperfections, and points
out to us wherein we have failed to come
up to the standard of our expectations. It is
therefore necessary that we remember the
past, to make us not unmindful of the pre-
sent, and to better prepare us for the future.
There are some things we would not forget.
Memory may bring many pleasant recollec-
tions, that we are as anxious to retain as
we are to forget all past trials and disap-
pointments. There is in every one's life
some bright oasis to which memory will
revert with gladness, and linger on, as a
sweet strain of music to the weary heart.
The present is now. We cannot live in
time that is past, nor in time that is to
come. We actually live only now. It is
now we must bend all our energies to make
life a grand success. Now we must work
and toil for the crown of reward we are
anxious to gain; now the spade must be
struck, the soil turned up and our crop of
good deeds sown, if we wish to reap a har-
vest. It is now we lay the foundation of
future usefulness and greatness. Our time
is our life; it is given us in trust, and like
all other things that are entrusted to our
care, we will be held accountable for the
use of it. Present time is all we can call
our own and it is wise to make the best use
of it we cau. Fill it with all the good
deeds, pleasant thoughts and kind actions
in our power, so that when it becomes the


past, it will be one we will charge memory
to retain. Of the flowery future we know
nothing, but dream much. It is the place
where imagination loves to live. It is
where we look for the fulfilling of all our
fond hopes and bright dreams. It is where
we expect the grand scenes of life's drama
to be enacted. What bright hopes and
rosy dreams we have of the future. God
grant they may all be realized.
							JUNE.


