				JEWEL.

	Will our enemies please be consistent, if
only for the novelty of the thing? How
reasonable they are! they never turn their
coats, no never! A short time since the
cry was the poor, down-trodden, broken-
hearted women of Utah, who dared not
raise their heads, much less their voices,
for fear of the vengeance of their tyrant
husband, for instance tie them up in sacks
and throw them into the Salt Lake to
pickle. They said give the poor, ignorant
creatures the franchise, and they will turn
the tables on their tyrants by pitching them
into the big pickling tub nature has pro-
vided. Well, our husbands gave us the
right of franchise, showing how little fear
they had of our vengeance, and for eight
years we have gone to the polls with those
husbands to cast our votes for those we felt
the best qualified to hold the offices we had
the power to bestow; no quarrelling, no
rowdyism, all peace and harmony.
	All of a sudden we hear a cry. What's
the matter now? Why, those women that
we have liberated, instead of voting for us,
and giving us all power to crush their ty-
rants, they are as bad as their husbands; we
thought we had thrown sand in their eyes,
and blinded their reason, but we find we
have failed; we thought they were fools,
but find they have out-witted us. Now,
what are we to do? We will move earth
and that other place, where they keep the
furnace red-hot, but we will stop your vo-
ting. What have they done here in Tooele
County? Thrown out all the precincts but
two. What for? To use the words of one
poor sniveling creature of this most liber-
al (?) party, who put in a petition asking

[Column 2]
that all returns from all the precincts voting
the peoples' ticket be thrown out, "because
the WOMEN voted." How magnanimous!
poor fellow, I wonder if he ever had a
mother, a wife, or a daughter; if so, what
do they think of him? Is he not afraid
they will pickle him?
	What is all this hue and cry about? Is
it our religion? Oh no! we don't care what
you believe in, you can believe in anything
you like only you must not practice it.
They roll up their eyes in holy horror at
plurality of wives, yet practice it them-
selves, after their own manner. The old
saying is "those that make the greatest
cry of 'stop thief!' are those that need
watching." What do such men care for wo-
man but to abuse her? Nothing; less than
nothing. The vast majority of mankind, if
women will do as they wish, and keep
quiet, they will spend their money to adorn
their person—never mind their soul—until
they get tired of them and want a change,
then if married to one they will often treat
her to magnificent contempt, twirl a cigar
between their lips, and talk of the folly
and imbecility of women, and bestow time
and means upon other women to beguile
their idle hours; if unmarried, spend their
money and degrade their manhood in gam-
bling dens and other vile places.
	They call the Mormons vile, whose lives
are spent in caring for their wives and chil-
dren, both temporally and spiritually, who
endeavor to exalt themselves and all de-
pending on them, who work early and late
to provide for their household honestly; not
striving as our enemies are doing, no mat-
ter how, to get their hands into "Uncle
Sam's" pocket, to rob him in utter shame-
lessness, following the Quaker's advice to
his son: "My son, get money; get it hon-
estly if thee can, but get money." Any one
that reads the papers cannot help but see
that the amount of fraud inflicted on the
people of the United States is stupendous,
and every pretended investigation is but an
added robbery of the nation. If our de-
famers are sincere, let them commence at
home to set things right, and they will find
so much to do that they will forget to trou-
ble us.
	Then again, how very consistent are the
friends of the Chinese Bill (these same
men); their strongest arguments are that
they have no family ties; they do not amal-
gamate; they do not seek to become citi-
zens, but as soon as they obtain sufficient
money return to their own country. Now
they must be driven out of the country, or
exterminated for not having families. The
Mormons must receive the same treatment
for having families, and seeking to become
citizens of the United States. Oh, how
very consistent! They are like the man
that was going to be hung—could not feel
satisfied. Well, they may drive John from
the country, and do many other mighty
works, but we intend to stay here so long
as we or our posterity may live.
							MARY.
	Grantsville, March 9th, 1879.


[Column 1]
