EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE are very grateful to our friend and
brother, C. R. Savage, Esq., of the Fine Art
Gallery, who presented us recently with an
excellent likeness of President John Taylor
neatly framed; we like to be remembered
in this way, and it is always pleasant to see
the faces of our friends looking down upon
us when at work in the office.

	PRESIDENT ELIZA R. Snow, accompanied
by Pres. M. Isabella Horne, of Salt Lake
Stake R. S., went to Pleasant Green, Brigh-
ton Ward, on Sunday the 9th inst., and
while there assisted Bishop Schoenfeld in
organizing a branch of the Relief Society
in that place. Sister Charlotte Hurst was
elected President, Sisters Ann Bertosh and
Frances Hardman, Counselors, Fanny Jen-
kins, Secretary, Alice Crockwell, Assistant
Secretary, and Sarah Coon, Treasurer.
This makes thirty-six branches of R. S. in
Salt Lake County.

	WE RECEIVED from our dear friend and
co-worker Mrs. Sara Andrews Sp[-]ncer, in
pamphlet form the Majority and Minor-
ity Report of the United States Senate Com-
mittee on Privileges and Elections for and 
against "A Sixteenth Amendment to the
Constitution prohibiting the several States
from disfranchising United States citizens
on account of sex. The Minority report
was made by Senators Hoar of Mass., Mitch-
ell of Oregon, and Cameron of Wisconsin.
The pamphlet arrived too late for us to
make much mention of it, but will give
our readers the opinions of the Minority
as soon as practicable in their own words.

	THE FIRST Quarterly Meeting of the
Primary Association of Farmington was
held in the Farmington Meeting House
Saturday, March 8th. Mrs. Aurelia Spen-
cer Rogers presiding. By invitation we
attended, accompanied by Mrs. Louie Felt
and Miss Maggie Freeze, the President and
Secretary of the 11th ward P. A. of this
city. There were 133 children present, and
good order and quiet was observed by all.
The exercises were short and very interest-
ing, especially the singing which was spirit-
ed and melodious. Mrs. Felt told them
something of the manner in which she con-
ducted her Association; the lady is a very

[Column 2]
pleasing speaker and cannot fail to interest
children. Miss Freeze, a child of 13, spoke
to that large assembly without hesitation;
it was wonderful to see this little girl
stand up and bear her testimony in such a 
sincere and earnest manner, and such a
growing interest among the young cannot
fail to bring about great and grand results.

	THE PRIMARY Association of the Elev-
enth Ward gave a grand Jubilee on Wed-
nesday evening, the 12th inst. Mrs. Louie
Felt with her counselors had charge of the
entertainment, and conducted it so perfectly
as to make it a grand success. Some of 
the children were only five years old, yet
performed their part nicely. The opening
scene was a chorus, "Sweet Bye and Bye,"
by seventy-five children, which was an in-
spiring melody chanted forth by so many
fresh young voices. The song Alice Ben
Bolt was rendered by a child five years old,
Laura Denney; she sang it through without
being prompted. There was a great variety
of songs, dialogues and recitations all by
little children. The performance closed
with the Charade of Matrimony, the part
of Lady's Maid was acted in a very charm-
ing and sprightly manner by Miss Maggie
Freeze. These Juvenile entertainments
wsll develop capabilities otherwise dormant
in the little folks, and they must have recre-
ation.


[Column 1]	
