EDITOR EXPONENT:

	My dear sisters of the Relief Societies
and friends of truth: This seems to be a
day fraught with great events; things that
have been plainly predicted by our Lord
and Savior, and also by all the holy pro-
phets both ancient and modern, are now
daily fulfilling before our eyes, and we see
the spirit that Jesus spoke of being made
manifest, even the spirit of betrayal, not
only among the Saints, but all over the
world, and no doubt that spirit will increase
more and more until the Savior comes.
How much it stands us in hand to watch
over ourselves and cultivate the Spirit of
God, and have our minds stored with that
eternal truth that will guide us in all the
acts of our lives. There are many things
coming along to try us to the very center,
and if our minds are not staid on God our
Father with faith and confidence, we may
give way in the hour that we would need
the most firmness and strength. My heart
is drawn out in prayer to my Father to pro-
tect His daughters from the influence of
this evil spirit, and to increase the light
and life of the Saints, that we may be
found on the watch-tower holding on to the
Rod of Iron, which is the word of God, and
be able to say as Jesus did, "The Prince of
this world cometh, but hath nothing in
me."
	We are a small Society here in Cedar
Fort, but we have embraced the same Gos-
pel that our sisters in Salt Lake City have,
and have gathered here for the same pur-
pose, namely, to be taught of the Lord and
to enjoy the blessings, ordinances and sa-
craments of His holy House; and when we
heard of the Anti-Polygamy Crusade, our
President called a Mass Meeting of the two
settlements, and we drafted resolutions
corresponding with the faith of the Gos-
pel that we have received, resolved to
to stand by the revelations that we have re-
ceived from the Lord through Joseph Smith
the Prophet, by the help and assistance of
our Father and God, trusting in His Al-
mighty arm for protection, firmly believing
that He is able to save to the uttermost all
those who put their trust in Him. We there-
fore had a desire to be represented in your
valuable paper.
	Hoping that the blessings of God may
rest upon your labors, and upon the lawful
labors of all the daughters of Zion is the
prayer of your sisters in the Gospel of peace,

Sophronia Cook, President, R. S.

S. J. Meeks,	}	Counselors,
P. Rodeback,	}

Martha Wilcox, Secretary,
Elizabeth Berry, Treasurer.


