	RESPECT AND SELF-CONTROL.

	I am often led to reflect on the lack of
respect that is shown in our intercourse
with each other, especially among the most
intimately associated—husbands and wives,
parents and children, brothers and sisters,
and companions bound together by strong
and holy ties, are all more or less guilty;
and it always appeared strange to me that
disrespect should be more common among
those who have every reason to love, than
it is among friends or mere acquaintances.
It cannot spring from lack of affection, be-
cause it is often the case that those who
love most are the most guilty; as the poet
says,

	"Oft for our own the bitter tone,
	Tho we love our own the best."

	It does not spring from want of thought,
because we can nearly always be thoughtful
enough to avoid the error while in the pre-
sence of strangers; so I have to come to the
conclusion that the most fruitful source of
disrespect is the want of self-control. The
adversary often tries us sorely through our
nearest and dearest ones. 'Tis often they
who force us to drink the very dregs of bit-
terness, surely not because they design to
afflict us, but they do not gain the mastery
over the angry thought, or impatient word,
that always makes such deep wounds; for
though unkind words may fall apparently
unheeded, they never fail to make an un-
favorable impression.
	How often would we save ourselves the
humiliation of seeking forgiveness, if we
would seek to be governed more by princi-
ple and less by impulse. The older we
grow the more clearly will we see the beauty
and wisdom of self-control. It will shield
us from so many of the little vexatious
trials that spring entirely from our own
fault no matter how much we may think
others to blame. Some people pride them-
selves upon always "speaking as they feel;"
that is very good if they always feel right,
and if they do they must be exceptionally
good; but in case they should sometimes
feel as "cross as two sticks," gloomy and
impatient, they had better either be silent

[Column 2]
or "speak as they don't feel;" a little de-
ception might be better in such a case.
	We will never regret checking ourselves
when about to say something very sarcastic
and taunting, something which an evil
spirit would convince us was just the right
thing to say; but oh, how many times do
we regret the want of self-control and power
to resist the tempter. We are all capable
of inflicting pain, and often do even when
studying to avoid it, and the heart cannot
be right where there is premeditation. I
think we allow our personal feelings to in-
fluence us too much in our conduct toward
each other. We do not stop to consider a
person's age, their superior qualities and
the many claims they have upon our respect,
or even reverence, but should they offend
us, we consider ourselves perfectly justified
in treating them with any degree of disre-
spect that will satisfy a feeling of revenge,
for call it what you will it is revenge.
	Manifestations of our deep and tender
affection are not proper and wise at all
times, but respect and kindness are never
out of place; they are acceptable to all.
Especially should we be guarded in our de-
portment towards parents in the presence
of their children, for who feels capable of
bearing the responsibility of teaching, by
example, a child to disrespect its parents.
Doubtless all parents have failings that they
are striving hard to overcome, are they to
be discovered by their children? Who
would be cruel and heartless enough to
draw the vail aside, teach a child to disre-
gard that binding command to "Honor thy
father and thy mother?"
	Need I speak upon the duty of respect to
the aged? That should be among our first
lessons, and never lost sight of. There may
be things that we all understand, but it is
good and may be very profitable for some of
us to have our minds refreshed upon sub-
jects that so greatly affect our every day
happiness, and everthing that tends to our
peace and happiness is of the Gospel, and
should claim our study. May we each seek
to be guided by the Spirit of God in every
thought, word and action, and thus will we
be inspired to respect the rights, privileges
and feelings of each other, preserving peace
in our own hearts while we are laboring
here on earth for that never-fading crown
of glory that is laid up for those who falter
not by the wayside, but endure faithful to 
the end.
