Lo, the Poor, Rich Indian. HALF-BROTHER TO THE JEW AND THE EPHRAIMITE. 
The Indian races in the United States still occupy a somewhat anomalous position. When the white settlers first appropriated their lands the Indians were driven west and southwest and despoiled ruthlessly. Time and constant agitation by broad-minded people finally set in operation government machinery which made it possible for these simple people, who were comparatively helpless before their invading conquerors, to be attached to the Government as a political and social appendage. Superior in moral and mental equipment to the imported Africans of the South, they are still too childlike and guileless for modern social exigencies. 
The student of the Book of Mormon understands perfectly the nature and condition of these people. They are the descendants of two rebellious sons of Lehi, Laman and Lemuel, who were cursed with a dark skin because of their disobedience. They have inherited through the ages not only the stern virtues of truthfulness, chastity and personal loyalty to kindred and tribe, but also the revengeful and bloodthirsty faults of their ancestors. All of the promises made to their forefathers in the sacred record of their ancestors upon this continent—promises which were reiterated in these days by the Prophet Joseph Smith at various times and under varying circumstances—point to a period when these single-minded and virtuous peoples shall be prepared to accept the gospel of Jesus Christ en mass, as it were. In that day a nation shall be born, comparatively speaking, in a day. 
Before that time comes, however, these people require a wider knowledge of life, a fuller understanding of civilization, with greater intellectual and civic opportunities than their restricted traditions and inherited habits could afford them. Hence, the Lord has moved upon the honest-minded Indian governmental commissions and agents to do this great work. This article gives some details 
604 . 
thereof. Will the Indian, who acquires that "fruit from the tree of knowledge," use his agency in choosing the good rather than the evil? Prophecy has said he will, and upon that prophecy Latter-day Saints rest their confident hopes, and offer up their daily prayers in behalf of their Lamanite friends. 
Inquiries into the ancient condition of this race are answered by present-day historians. We quote the following from the British Encyclopaedia: 
"The theory that the American Indians were the 'Lost Ten Tribes of Israel' has not yet entirely disappeared from ethnological literature."

Many of the identities and resemblances in ideas, customs and institutions between the American Indians and the ancient Hebrews, half-knowledge or distorted views of which formed the basis of the theory, are discussed, and their real significance pointed out by Colonel Garrick Mallery in his valuable address on 'Israelite and Indian: A Parallel in Planes of Culture.' 
"Perhaps the most remarkable of all North American creation stories is that of the Zuni, as recorded by Cushing (Thirteenth Ann. Rep. Bur. Ethnol., 1891-1892) in his Outlines of Zuni Creation Myths. Here the principal figure is 'Awonawilona, the maker and container of all,' and the growth-substance the 'fogs of increase,' which he evolved by his thinking in the pristine night. The long tale of the origin of the sun, the earth and the sky, and the taking form of 'the seed of men and all creatures' in the lowest of the four caves or wombs of the world, and their long journey to light and real life on the present earth, is a wonderful story of evolution as conceived by the primitive mind, an aboriginal epic, in fact. * * * * * 
"But the most remarkable mythology of any Athabaskan tribe is that of the Navaho, which has been studied in detail under some of its chief aspects by Dr. Washington Matthews, in his valuable monographs, Navaho Legends (1897) and The Night Chant (1902). According to Dr. Matthews, the Navaho 'are a highly religious people having many well-defined divinities (nature gods, animal gods and local gods), a vast mythic and legendary lore and thousands of significant formulated songs and prayers, which must be learned and repeated in the most exact manner; they have also hundreds of musical compositions; the so-called dances are ceremonies which last for nine nights and parts of ten days, and the medicine-men spend many years of study in learning to conduct a single one properly.' The most prominent and revered of the deities of the Navaho is Estsanatlehi [Note the ending of this woman's name. Ed.] the 
'woman who rejuvenates herself,' of whom it is believed that she grows old, and then, at will, becomes young again. 
"The numerous Indian tribes subjected to the environment of the Great Plains have developed in great detail some special religious observances, ceremonial institutions, secret societies, ritual observances, etc. 
"In reference to 'Messiah doctrines' among the aborigines of North America, Mooney calls attention to the fact that 'within the United States every great tribal movement (e. g., the conspiracy of Pontiac, the combination of Tecumseh, etc.) originated in the teaching of some Messianic prophet.' 
"Among the North American aborigines the position of woman and her privileges and duties varied greatly from the usually narrow limits prescribed by the Athabaskans, according to Morice (Congr. int. d. Amer., Quebec, 1906), to the socially high status reached among some of the Iroquoian tribes in particular. * * * * * * * The form of the family and the nature of marriage varied considerably among the North American aborigines, as also did the ceremonies of courtship and the proceedings of divorce, etc. With some tribes apparently real purchase of brides occurred, but in many cases the seeming purchase turns out to be merely 'a ratification of the marriage by means of gifts.' Great differences in these matters are found within the limits of one and the same stock. * * * * * * 
" * * * * Among the Zuni, where the man is adopted as a son by the father of the wife, 'she is thus mistress of the situation; the children are hers, and she can order the husband from the house should occasion arise' (Lowie and Ferrand). With many tribes, however, the husband could divorce his wife at will, but Ferrand and Lowie, in their discussion of Indian marriage, report on the other hand the curious fact that among the Wintun of California 'men seldom expel their wives, but slink away from home, leaving their families behind.' In the case of divorce, the children generally go with the mother. From a survey of the available data Lowie and Ferrand conclude that 'monogamy is thus found to be the prevalent form of marriage throughout the continent,' varied from that to polygamy, where wealth and other circumstances dictated it. In California, e. g., polygamy is rare, while with some of the Plains tribes it was quite common. Here again differences of note occurred within the same stock, e. g., the Iroquois proper could not have more than one wife, but the Huron Indian could. * * * * * Cousin-marriages were frequently tabooed. 

"With many of the North American aborigines the giving of the name, its transference from one individual to another, its change by the individual in recognition of great events, achievements, etc., and other aspects of nominalogy are of significance in connection with social life and religious ceremonies, rites and superstitions. * * * * Names marked epochs in life and changed with new achievements, and they had often 'so personal and sacred a meaning,' that they were naturally enough rendered 'unfit for the familiar purposes of ordinary address, to a people so reverently inclined as the Indians seem to have been.' The period of puberty in boys and girls was often the occasion of elaborate 'initiation' ceremonies and rites of various kinds, some of which were of a very trying and even cruel character. Ceremonial or symbolic 'killings,' 'new-births,' etc., were also in vogue; likewise ordeals of whipping, isolation and solitary confinement, 'medicine'-taking, physical torture, ritual bathings, painting of face and body, scarification, and the like. The initiations, ordeals, etc., gone through by the youth as a prelude to manhood and womanhood resemble in many respects those imposed upon individuals aspiring to be chiefs, shamans and 'medicine-men.'

"The first appropriation by the Congress of the United States for the general education of the Indians was made in 1819, when the sum of $10,000 was assigned for that and closely allied purposes; and by 1825 there were 38 schools among the Indians receiving government aid, but government schools proper date from 1873 (contract schools are four years older), the order of their institution being day schools, reservation boarding schools, then non-reservation boarding schools. * * * * In less than a century the expenditure for Indian education increased from an annual outlay of $10,000 to one of about $5,000,000, to which must be added the expenditure from private sources which are considerable."

"Exclusive of Alaska, there were in the United States in 1906, according to the report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, 324 Indian schools (government 261, mission 48, contract 15), with an enrollment of 30,929 and an average attendance of 25,492 pupils, costing the government annually $3,115,953. * * * * The schools of the denominational character belonged as follows: Twenty-nine to the Catholic church, five to the Presbyterian, four to the Protestant Episcopal, two to the Congregational, two to the Lutheran, and one each to the Evangelical Lutheran, Reformed Presbyterian, Methodist, Christian Reformed and Baptist. Besides there were in all 446 public schools on or near reservations which Indians could attend." (Ibid.)

These extracts touch upon several matters which are treated in a somewhat desultory way in the recollections prepared for this Magazine by the famous and faithful Indian interpreter, guide and counselor, Elder C. L. Christensen. Note the similarity of findings by the scientists and our own Indian student, and especially observe the close similarity of the traditions of the Indians and the beliefs of the Latter-day Saints.

It may be news to many of our readers to discover the attentive care paid by our wise Government to the Indian wards of our Nation. Since the appointment of Judge Cato Sells as Commissioner of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior, the Indian movement has had a tremendous impetus. The Commissioner realized fully the nice balance of the Indian question which rests upon the pivotal issue between the Indian and the Government. Will the Indian be the better in his evolutionary social progress, through the strict yet kindly coercion long exercised by the Government? Or would he reach his maturity of power the quicker if thrown out into the stream of life finding himself among struggling human wills, himself unaided, left to find his feet as quickly or as slowly as he might? These are questions that Socialism today is asking European governments to answer. Commissioner Sells sails wisely around these shoals of differing viewpoints and carries his practical theories into shrewd and kindly operation without giving offense to either party of theorists and squabblers.

We are extremely interested in what the United States Government, under Commissioner Sells, has done and is doing both to solve the problems and to prepare our Indian friends for their final mission. From the many Government pamphlets, reports, and from the kind and generous answers of the Commissioner himself we glean the following facts. First let us see what the Commissioner is doing for the Indian's moral welfare:

Utah women are intensely interested in the attitude of the Government Indian officials, and the Indian himself, on the question of prohibition. Hear what representatives of both these say upon the vital subject:

"The increase in prohibition sentiment throughout the country, and especially in those states where Indians reside, has materially aided our work. The addition of these states to the 'dry column,' and the drastic laws relating to the importation of liquor into them, have proved their effective aid. 
"As evidence of the effect among the Indians of prohibition, the superintendent of the Umatilla school in Oregon has submitted some interesting figures. During the calendar year 1915, the police records of the city of Pendleton show that there were 1,440 arrests, of which number 270 were Indians, or about 19 per cent. During the calendar year 1916 there were only 385 arrests, of which number 69 were Indians. The saloons closed on January 1, 1916, and the number of Indian offenders fell off as above stated." (From Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, year ending June 30, 1917.) 
Commissioner Sells himself says: 
"I believe that the greatest present menace to the American Indian is whisky. It does more to destroy his constitution and invite the ravages of disease than anything else. It does more to demoralize him as a man and frequently as a woman. It does more to make him an easy prey to the unscrupulous than everything else combined. 
" * * Let us save the American Indian from the curse of whisky. 
"As a matter of good faith to our treaty relationships, to legislative enactments, to the Congress which appropriates $100,000 a year for the suppression of the liquor traffic among the Indians, we should do everything reasonably within our power to justify this appropriation and insure the best results obtainable. This accomplished, we have laid a substantial foundation for all of our work in solving the Indian problem, and made a long step forward looking toward their equipment for the responsibilities of citizenship." 
By the Rev. Sherman Coolidge, (half-breed Indian): 
"The Indian must be made free. It sounds funny to me to say that because this land on which he lived from time immemorial has been the land of the brave and of the free, and my people enjoyed that freedom and they were monarchs, not slaves; they have been placed by this Nation on reservations, and reservations are very much like prisons to these people who are so used to freedom. And the result has been that this independent, free, noble race has deteriorated until they are a caricature of what they were before they were placed on the reservations. * * * * * * * * * 
"My friends, the Indians are human beings. It took a long time for the American people to find that out, it seems to me, but finally they found it out and made a law in 1887 by which an Indian can become a citizen of the United States. * * * * 
"Three centuries of irrepressible conflict have been going on, three miserable centuries, and, my friends, I read that all these troubles came from the white man—they came directly or indirectly through liquor. 
"Red Jacket, when he was talking to Christian missionaries, said among other things that 'The white man brought liquor among us. It was strong and horrible and has slain thousands.' It was true at that time; it had slain thousands and it has been true from that time to this. It has slain thousands of this noble race. It seems that the white man was not content to take away our country and our land, our firesides and our homes, but they must also try to exterminate us with this demon of the centuries, this one great curse of mankind. * * * * * * * * * * * * 
610 . 
"My friends, whisky, if it is bad for the Indian, is also bad for the white man. They have legislated to prevent the whites from selling or giving or bartering whisky or liquor to the Indians. All this time the Government has had that law, as far back as I can remember. * * * * * * * * 
" * * There are three hundred thousand Indians who are living in this country, and we want them to have a chance, and they will take the Anti-saloon League platform, or any other platform, shoulder to shoulder with you and march on for progress or anything that is for the betterment of mankind. 

"The Nez Perces have always taken a decided stand against all forms of intemperance and a temperance meeting is given a place in their regular church services, holding it every second Sabbath. * * * * * * * * * * *

"The liquor men of this county, feeling sure of their ground, began to agitate another local-option element. * * * * * * * * * * *

"Lewiston had not counted on the Indian vote, but the Nez Perces have all the rights of citizens, and when it comes to fighting the saloon they are only too glad to avail themselves of the privilege, and one doesn't have to have any argument with an Indian to make him see that whisky is an evil. Even the heathen understand the danger of 'fire water,' and the drinker wants it put beyond his reach. All they ask is to know how and when to help.

"By nine o'clock that night the returns were all in, and Lewiston's wet majority of 661 was overcome with a majority of about 200 in favor of the drys. The next day we managed to keep from exulting over some of our 'wet' white neighbors, but dry folks wore smiles that wouldn't rub off. Then the Lewiston paper came out and said it was Indians and women that defeated them, and that the Indian should not have the right of suffrage, and talked of contesting the election on that ground, but we were not afraid of them carrying out their threats. It was only the wail of the fallen enemy. Nez Perce county is still dry and will remain so."

Abraham Lincoln once said:

"The reasonable man has long since agreed that intemperance is one of the greater, if not the greatest of all evils among mankind. Alcohol as a beverage in any form and quantity is a private and a public danger. It is enticing in its cunning and inexorable in its demands; deceptive in its nature and deadly in its operations. Even a small amount reduces the capacity for work and deteriorates the quality of service. Under its influence perception is diminished and intellectual power is weakened; personal responsibility is disregarded and the moral standard is lowered. Physical depravity and mental decay are its product and heritage for the future. 'Unto the third and fourth generation' social discord and civic distress follow its footsteps."

"The saloon and its accessories are ever a serious social evil.

He further says:

"The liquor traffic is a cancer in society, eating out the vitals and threatening destruction, and all attempts to regulate it will not only prove abortive, but will aggravate the evil. It must be eradicated, not a root must be left behind; for until this is done all classes must continue in danger of becoming victims of strong drink."

From Commissioner Sells' report we again quote:

"The recent material advancement of the Indian has been remarkable and has kept pace with the vigorous policy of giving him help toward self-support leading to final dissolution of the ties of paternalism. In 1911 the Indians cultivated 388,025 acres and last year 678,529 acres; in 1911 they raised crops valued at $1,951,000, sold stock valued at $900,000, realized from native industries, such as basket making, blanket weaving, etc., $847,556; and last year they raised crops valued at $9,293,719, hold $4,583,083 worth of stock, and increased the value of their native wares to $1,206,826. The Indian wage earners for private individuals in 1911 were 3,204, and last year the number thus engaged increased to 6,902, while the value of all live stock owned by the Indians has risen from $17,971,209, in 1911, to $28,824,439 last year.

"The Indian is discovering himself. He is coming to a realization of his own possibilities; putting the past behind him and looking to the future; beginning to understand and appreciate the accomplishments resulting from industry; to see the profit in individual effort and comprehend the ultimate difference between a cultivated and uncultivated field; the fact that it requires no more labor or expense to raise a well bred, profitable animal than it does to produce a long-horn steer, an inbred sheep, or an old-time Indian pony.

"Vital statistics for the same period are not available, but the strenuous efforts being made for a betterment of the purely human side of the Indians is illustrated in the fact that 42,110 families, or at least 200,000 Indians, have forsaken the tepee and live in houses built largely in a sanitary manner.

"Evidences of material and humanitarian advancement are everywhere apparent. Industrially and socially the Indians are making unparalleled strides toward self-support and civilization.

I have discovered that with sympathetic cooperation and intelligent encouragement their response is almost universal. 
"I have been exceedingly gratified with the very general approval given our new declaration of policy by the Indians and white citizens of the country. There is every indication that it will speedily bring about a revolution in the administration of Indian affairs, greatly benefitting the Indians, with a corresponding reduction in appropriations. 
"The Indian problem can not be solved in a day, it must be brought about in a deeply serious, in all respects courageous, and continuously sympathetic manner, but the time is approaching when governmental care and supervision will, generally speaking, become unnecessary. However, every true friend of the Indian should guard against precipitate and ill-advised action." 
There are published in the United States a number of magazines in the interest of the Indians. Samples of some of these which reached this office are models of mechanical and literary effort. Exquisite art adornments enrich the luxurious paper upon which these magazines are printed. The simple yet scholarly tone of the press matter is up-to-date in character and gripping in interest. Nowhere could be found finer evidences of the care and thought put into the Indian question than between the covers of these Indian messengers. The names of them are: 
The Indian Leader, published at Haskell Institute, Lawrence, Kans. The Red Man, published by U. S. Indian School, Carlisle, Pa. The Indian School Journal, issued monthly by the U. S. Indian School, Chilocco, Oklahoma, and printed by Indians. 
Concerning our present Commissioner, the New York Journal recently said: 
"Cato Sells, of Texas, is the biggest farmer, stockman and country banker in the world. He also teaches sixty thousand children what he thinks they ought to know which includes how to earn a living. He runs high schools and colleges, but he takes particular delight in a multitude of little primary schools, each presided over by a dominie and his wife who mothers the children and cooks their midday meals. 
"Besides all this, Judge Sells is attorney-at-law for more than three hundred thousand people in their disputes with the outer world. When they quarrel with one another, he is usually judge and jury, too. There are many other things that this modern 
Noah, Abraham, Joseph and Moses does for his chosen people. It would take a column merely to catalogue them all. 
"The fact is, Mr. Sells is Indian Commissioner in the Department of the Interior at Washington. The Indians are 'wards of the Nation,' and the Commissioner stands for the Nation. The Nation is supposed to be civilized and the Indians uncivilized. And the Commissioner is expected to show the Indians how we do the thing the thing that is called being civilized." 
Early accounts of the number of Indians in the United States must be taken with due regard to the credibility of the witnesses presenting the same. The first census of Indians was made by the General Government in 1850. Thomas Jefferson, however, in 1782, made two lists of Indians who at that date lived in and beyond the present limits of the United States. These estimates, as stated in his Notes on Virginia, were compilations from four different lists and present the attempt at an enumeration of such Indians as came under notice of the formulators of those lists. The various and often conflicting statements relative to the Indian population of the United States from the earliest times, which include the estimate or "guesses" of the first enumerators to the present year: 
1759 Estimate of George Croghan 19,500 
1829 Report of Secretary of War 312,920 
1836 Report of Superintendent of Indian Affairs 253,464 
1870 Report of United States Census 313,712 
1890 Report of United States Census 248,253 
1900 Report of Indian Office 272,023 
1901 Report of Indian Office 269,388 
1910 Report of Indian Office 304,950 
1917 Report of Indian Office 325,998 
Prior to the first census of 1850 only small reliance can be placed upon the figures given, and the work of the "estimator" entered largely into the results after that date until about 1870 or 1880, when the importance of the data became apparent. All estimates of Indians must contain some element of doubt, by reason of the shifting about of the tribes, their ignorance of the English language, and disinclination to be counted except for ration and annuity purposes. 
614 . 
The table is an interesting one, and shows that since 1870 the Indian population has been nearly stationary. 

There has been a decrease, of course, but that may be accounted for by the numbers of Indians, who have become citizens of the United States and lost their tribal identity and are counted in the regular census of American people. The census of 1890 shows 58,806 Indians as residents of various States who are not counted on the Indian rolls as such. 
The Commissioner says further: 
"Out of a total of 53,382 Indian families information is at hand that 42,601 live in permanent houses, of which number 27,417 have wooden floors; 292,713 including the Five Civilized Tribes, wear modern attire, and 180,457 are citizens of the United States. Also there are known to be 705 missionaries working among the Indians, and 617 churches. Out of 1847 marriages reported, 1510 were by proper legal procedure and 337 by tribal custom. The tribal property is valued at $223,286,748; the individual property at $432,225,913, a total of $655,512,661. 
"Industries other than farming, including basket making, bead work, lace and blanket weaving, pottery, fishing, wood cutting, and miscellaneous occupations, 26,651 were engaged last year, turning out products valued at $1,315,112. 
"Of the 89,501 Indian children of school age, 63,768 were in school, 5,126 were ineligible from physical or mental defects and 16,789 were not in attendance. The schools provided, exclusive of public schools, have a capacity for 33,996 pupils. 
"Since February it should be said that the subscriptions to Liberty Bonds by the Indians have exceeded $13,000,000, while their Red Cross and other War Relief activities have grown amazingly and beyond all expectations." 
The Indian's reputation for bravery is unrivalled. Would his loyalty equal that? His inherited ideals of his country's self-appointed guardians and 
Mr. Sells writes on this point: 
"The Indians took an early interest in our war preparation as to the men, money, and production 
required. Their subscriptions to the first issue of Liberty Bonds amounted to $4,607,840. Subscriptions to the second issue totaled $4,392,750. The total of subscriptions thus far actually reported is $9,000,600, almost evenly divided between adults and minors, $4,919,550 standing to the credit of the former and $4,081,050 to the latter. There is good reason to believe, however, that many subscriptions were made through banking channels in localities where Indians quite generally have acquired citizenship, report of which did not reach this Bureau, and such additions with known applications too late for acceptance, would almost certainly raise the grand total to more than this amount which has been increased to over $13,000,000 the result of the third bond issue or nearly $50.00 per capita for all Indians in the United States. Upon any fair basis of comparison such an expression of patriotic allegiance for every man, woman and child of the Indian race must be as surprising as it is gratifying. 
"Official information is not assembled respecting the number of women engaged as nurses or the Indians' participation in Red Cross work. A complete vocational course of four years in nursing is of comparative recent introduction in our larger Indian schools, so that only limited relief service from this source is practicable. However, quite a number have applied and been accepted, among them six young ladies from one of the large schools who have had excellent training and have been assigned to hospital work in this country and abroad. 
"Red Cross activities have been carried forward in cooperation with local and State organizations. The Indian Bureau having approved this plan, has not instituted official connection therewith further than to urge and encourage membership and assistance on the part of Indians on the reservations and at the schools. There are in the Indian Service some 25 non-reservation schools enrolling more than 10,000 pupils, 10 tribal and 72 reservation boarding schools with more than 12,000 pupils, besides 210 day schools and 77 mission and other schools furnishing over 12,000 additional pupils, in all some 30,000 Indian pupils, most of whom are adding their mite and doing their bit in this great humane movement. There are about 30 school publications, with most of the mechanical and considerable of the literary work done by Indian students.

These periodicals, all of them creditable and some of them showing highly artistic work and excellent editing, now usually carry Red Cross departments that disclose a systematic and active interest among the schools, carefully directed and equally interested employees. 
"The record in course of preparation upon the number, location, rank, etc., of Indians in the military service enables me quite safely to estimate the whole number now at approximately 8,000. At 
616 . 
present 2,200 of them are reported and properly indexed. Of this number 1800 are in the Army, 300 in the Navy and 100 in other military work. 1600 entered by enlistment and 600 by conscription. The number and rank of officers can not yet be stated. 
"I am strongly opposed to independent Indian units, large or small, and am firm in the opinion that they should enter the army upon the same basis as other citizens; that they should be mixed indiscriminately among the whites, elbow to elbow, so they may absorb the English language, habits and civilization of their white brothers. In this way only can they advance. I want no discrimination either for or against them, but believe they should be promoted on their merits and always advanced when they are deserving. 
"In terms of statistics this information showed an Indian Red Cross membership of 5,664. The receipts in money were $17,163.16. Hospital garments, knitted and miscellaneous supplies made and contributed, 31,058 articles. These figures coming from only a minor fraction of our schools and superintendencies are, of course, only suggestive. It was quite impracticable to assemble complete data for the reason that large numbers of Indians in localities near town and white communities affiliated with local chapters in contributions of both money and service of which no separate account could be given, but many of the reports indicate that practically every adult Indian on the reservation had subscribed the equivalent of a membership fee or more." 
(To be continued.)