Obesity. 
By Raphael S. Olson, M. D.

[Note: We have asked the locally famous dietician and infant specialist to prepare this article from a scientific point of view. We want to live and to work at highest speed while we live. Many of us are weighted down by extra flesh. Can we dispose of this surplus fat without injury? Read this article.]

Editor.] Of all subjects that have been written about, possibly none have received so much attention, with such unsatisfactory results as has the subject of obesity. It is really difficult to know why fat people come in for so much adverse comment, and why size is so often considered the standard for judgment of one's efficiency. Certainly in so far as one's brain capacity is concerned, obesity does not in any way lessen one's capabilities. However, the attitude does exist to the deposit of excess fat on the body and "nobody loves a fat man." Vanity is perhaps responsible for this attitude, vanity, like our fashions, is very apt to take a sudden change, and at least a healthy degree of obesity may be looked upon as desirable. As matters now stand principally with the young woman, the tall slender figure represents the acme of physical development, and, since they insist upon it, we must help them as far as lies in our power, to become slender else they will go to quacks and charlatans and harmful drugs that will, for all their lives, wreck their health. Recently such a case came to my notice. A few years back a healthy, vivacious, cheerful, happy girl of twenty years of age began to lament her one hundred and sixty pounds' weight, and because of her desire to reduce, resorted to the advertised "reduction cure." She lost the weight all right, but in the three years since has never known a single day of health. Recently, she was operated on for ulcer of the stomach, with only fair results. Health, prospects all gone because of the ridiculous vanity that led to the "reduction cure" advertised by charlatans who thrive and fatten on the ignorance of their dupes. It is just because such things as this do happen that physicians should always seriously consider the appeal of patients desiring to lose weight. Furthermore, a legitimate reduction cure does not impair health, it improves health. It teaches such habits of life and trains one in the choice of foods to such an extent as to harden the muscles, increase the vitality and add to one's efficiency. A "reduction cure" will do all this and more for the individual apparently in perfect health and not excessively fat, because there is always room for improvement, and properly conducted "reduction cures" always lead to this improvement. There is a large class of patients where weight is so excessive as to be an actual pathological state, and where reduction becomes a necessity. Capability for work is here very materially interfered with, and not alone this, but disagreeable symptoms develop. Headaches, stupor, a heavy, logy feeling, depression, melancholy, inability to keep awake, loss of ambition and numerous other conditions develop, due to circulating poisons that result from faulty metabolism. You have seen individuals of this type asleep, snoring loudly, in meetings. It is a diseased condition that is responsible for this and demands careful study and prolonged treatment. Under no circumstances should these patients take their own case in hand and attempt relief. The most skilled physician is often taxed to his utmost to bring relief and only his judgment should be relied on. Quack "reduction cures," unfortunately, are the only popular ones. A loss of weight of several pounds per week must be noted or the individual becomes discouraged and gives up the attempt. Spasmodic efforts, therefore, are the general rule and nothing but harm ever follows. The first thing, always, to impress upon patients is that results will follow only with persistent painstaking faithful effort. If you have failed, do not blame the physician. The fault lies in your own faithlessness in following up treatment persistently enough. It is a matter not of days or weeks or even of months, but of the individual's lifetime habits. Usually in all cases where there is a "reduction cure" indicated there is present an inherited tendency to obesity, and it is this tendency that must be continually combatted. Possibly when we better understand human nutrition we may find some physiological basis for the need of reduction, even in the moderately fat. In fact, recent investigations seem to point definitely to the conclusion that obese subjects have a lowered resistance to disease. This we have always recognized to be true with pneumonia and tuberculosis, but now extensive research work seems to indicate that in fat people there is this lack of fighting power toward all diseases. The lean, even to the point of emaciation, possess greater immunity to disease and greater recuperative powers after disease has developed than do the obese.

Experimental work along these lines has been carried on quite extensively in the past with children and is recognized of such importance in childhood, that overweight unless the body is otherwise well proportioned calls for as urgent treatment as underweight. The pediatrist does not particularly fear disease in the thin or normally nourished child. His greatest task confronts him when called to attend the obese or fat baby. There is with the over fat individual, what has been termed "hydration" of tissues. This means simply that not alone is there an over abundance of fat in the tissues, but more or less of a "water logging." Hence the origin of the fallacy that water if taken in large quantities is fattening. Obese individuals will notice that forcible pressure of the tip of the finger in the extremities will leave an indentation which will require several minutes to fill out again. This is "hydration" or "water logging" and it is only because there is this tendency to take up fluids that drinking water increases the weight. This "hydration" of tissues is present in all obese subjects even though not in sufficient amount to permit the "pitting" above referred to. The whole problem is thus seen to be one of chemistry of the body fluids, resulting from faulty nutrition. Why is it that with some people the ingestion of large amounts of fat and carbohydrate results immediately in a gain in weight, whereas others possess the power of elimination or consumption of all food taken in excess of the required amount to maintain health? And not alone this, but with some, everything that is eaten seems immediately to increase the weight even though the diet has been cut down to the lowest minimum. Unquestionably, the reason for this lies in an inherited tendency to certain chemical reactions that take place in the body fluids which lead to increase in weight. Foods accomplish two things in the human organism; first, they maintain normal growth of all the body tissues: second, they supply energy which makes possible our activity, the accomplishment of our work. Foods consist of proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral salts and certain unknown substances designated by McCullom "water soluble, a" and "fat soluble, b." These latter substances are of greatest importance for normal physiological development. More will be said of them later. In order that growth and development may be proportionate we must necessarily have a proportionate amount of all these food elements. Proteins and mineral salts are our greatest tissue builders. They see to the development of muscle and bone. Fats and carbohydrates produce body fat and are of prime importance in the supply of energy. The actual requirements of the normally active individual has been determined and specified as required number of calories, a calorie being merely the unit of measurement indicating the fuel or food value of foods. Now, if an abnormal number of calories or fats and carbohydrates are taken in the diet we would naturally look for an increase in the deposit of fat unless the individual's activity is greatly increased, thus consuming the surplus of food taken. This has been demonstrated in military life. Men, as a result of strenuous exercise, not only consume as energy all surplus foods taken, but actually burn up their surplus of fat until they reduce to normal weight, where a healthy equilibrium is maintained. This then is our key to reduction in the otherwise normal individual, who is merely eating too much, and too well, and exercising too little; maintain a well balanced ration of proper caloric requirement and increase the body's physical activities. Army life is doing this for our men, resulting in great physical improvement to the race. This is not so simple a matter as at first it appears to be. The majority of people suffering from obesity are living very sedentary lives from force of circumstances. Professional men, bookkeepers, tailors, factory workers, and even women confined to the house are engaged in activities of the wrong sort that consume lots of energy, but fail in the compensating factors that fresh air and sunshine bring. All these classes and many more are the victims of environment. For such the only hope of relief comes from breaking the bonds of custom, getting out of the routine of life, and taking up with some well regulated system of calisthenics that will accomplish the desired results. An attorney friend of mine, in the military exercises recently given at the Business Men's Training Camp, has reduced his waist line at least four inches from the hour's daily training he has received for the past six weeks.

Not alone has this occurred but his general health has very much improved; tissues are firmer, his color better, and skin clear and this without any consideration of diet. Yet diet is of prime importance if his results become permanent. Business men are subjects to the horrors of restaurant life, and women have developed the soda fountain lunch habit, finishing their noon meal with candy, ice cream, cake or some other impossible food. Study the diet for a moment of the woman who eats her lunch downtown and you have one very good reason why so many become obese. I have often attempted, in restaurants, to pick out a diet that would be suitable for maintaining health. It is a difficult thing to do even for one who understands foods. I dare say, a large percentage of the foods eaten in the restaurant are of a nature that would add to our obesity. Not because of excessive fat or carbohydrate food, though this is often true, but because the food combinations taken produce chemical reactions in the body that lead to the tissue "hydration" already referred to. This leads us to the consideration of the need for maintaining a normal chemical reaction of the body fluids. Normally the body fluids are slightly alkaline. This is maintained in the system by circulating alkalies which form what is termed our "alkali" reserve. As long as nature is capable of maintaining this "alkali" reserve, health is enjoyed by the individual. But when from any cause this "reserve" becomes depleted, sickness develops. "Hydration" or "water logging" of tissues is nothing more nor less than a nutritional disturbance, in which the equilibrium of physical growth is interfered with from mistakes of diet and a lack of proper exercise. These two conditions combined produce in the system a low-grade acid poisoning. The presence of these acids in the tissues exhausts the "alkali" reserve and produces a chemical process in which fluids taken into the system are held in the tissues. In our treatment, therefore, we aim by general measures to support the "alkali" reserve, thus maintaining normal metabolic processes in the body. This is done, first, by ensuring in the diet a preponderance of foods which are productive of alkalies; second, by careful regulation of habits of life so as to maintain perfect action of the eliminative organs; and third, by systematic exercise of all the muscles of the body. To prescribe a successful "reduction cure," a thorough study of the individual's physical condition must be made. Any diseased conditions present, particularly those having a bearing on elimination, such as constipation, kidney disorders, chronic lung troubles, etc., must be cleared up. To what degree the "alkali" reserve is maintained in the system is then determined. Habits of sleeping, eating, work, recreation are tabulated, and from the information thus obtained, final instructions given. In this article we cannot take up the consideration of "calories." It would lead us into technicalities which would be beyond most readers. It is enough to say that the average number of calories of food required in twenty-four hours to maintain health ranges from two-thousand-four-hundred to three-thousand-five-hundred, varying with the kind of work done. The laboring man requires more fuel than the individual leading a sedentary life. Obviously, if an individual requires twenty-five-hundred calories of food in twenty-four hours, and only takes fifteen-hundred, a loss of weight will follow. But with such a loss there is very apt to be loss of ambition—"pep" is more expressive—and general weakness. We wish to avoid these objectionable features if possible, and this is possible if correct diagnosis of the cause of overweight is determined. In all cases, however, it is necessary to cut down to a minimum the fat-producing foods, at the same time making sure to provide all food essentials necessary to growth. As already stated fats and carbohydrates are the more important fat producers. Such foods are, all the refined cereals, including cream of wheat, farina, barley and oatmeal gruels, rice, white flour and potatoes. The fats include butter, cream, cheese and all animal fats. To ensure predominance of the alkali-producing foods, vegetables, skimmed milk and fruits should be emphasized in the diet. Lean meat, eggs and milk will meet the protein need of the body, at the same time supplying the "water soluble" and "fat soluble" substances of McCollum's investigations, so essential to health. From this variety a perfectly proportionate ration can be maintained without fear of serious nutritional disturbances developing. The meat foods are acid producers which lead to "water logging" of tissues referred to and must therefore be kept at a minimum. Tea, coffee, pastries, candies, cocoa and all alcoholic drinks must be eliminated entirely.

Not alone because they are heavy fat producers, but because all are acid forming foods. Need for perfect elimination is second only to a properly regulated diet. Unless the bowels, kidneys, lungs and skin are doing their full share of keeping down waste products of the body as fast as produced, toxins will pile up in the tissues which will make reduction of weight a very difficult matter and may lead to development of serious chronic disorders. We cannot consider here proper methods for maintaining normal action of these organs. Possibly in some future article this can be gone into. What must be said, however, is that drug stimulation of the kidneys or bowels cannot be too strongly condemned as means for correction of constipation or kidney disorders. These are nutritional disturbances and must be handled as such. Habits of life must be carefully regulated. We must maintain perfect rhythm in regards to our sleeping and eating habits. Bolting of foods, ventilation of sleeping room; such details as these play an important part in the maintenance of health, and only by maintenance of health can we look for reduction of weight to normal.

Nowadays we exercise altogether too little. Many of us will never walk further than from the door to the automobile, and walking is usually the only exercise most business men get. Our muscles become flabby, our appetites impaired, a tired feeling develops, and the stimulation habit is begun. Tea, coffee, and coca cola are relied upon to tide over the day and make possible the work done. When a hog is fattened for exhibit, it is corraled in a pen just large enough to turn around in. In our inactivity we resemble the hog and because we consume but little energy by our activities we become fat and "podgy." It is amusing to watch such individuals "waddle" down the street. There are many such cases where the whole fault is laziness. Recently I met a physician in the army. Six months ago, before entering the service, he weighed two-hundred-forty pounds. Intensive training brought him down to one-hundred-ninety pounds, leaving

him in perfect health. Clearly this was a case of "too busy to get thin." You cannot hope to sit in a house or office day after day and lose weight. Nature tends to make bulky and large all animals that are content to loll and move around only far enough to obtain food. If you would be sleek, clean-cut, muscular, strong and healthy, every part of the body must come in for exercise. On my wall is the picture of a gazelle. Its trim beautiful body is built in perfect proportion. Every day these animals travel many miles in search of food and recreation. Their perfect physical condition is the result. Man can make himself equally attractive, by observance of natural laws.

It is essential to bear in mind that no reduction cure will be effective unless the body is exercised. Swimming, running, horse back riding, or if these are impossible, some system of calisthenics are all excellent means of keeping the body in trim, and we must always bear in mind, fresh air and sunshine. The light and air within the four walls of office and home will not supply the needs of the body. Unfortunately civilization has led us into many grievous errors, and not the least of these is our efforts to shut out the air and sunlight from our homes.

NOW IS THE ACCEPTED TIME. By Lucy May Green.

Take time to do a kindly deed, Or pleasant word to say; Take time to help a friend in need Who falters on life's way.

Take time to sing a merry song And drive away dull care; Take time to join the happy throng Who fill the house of prayer.

Take time to read the Word of God, The Father's will to do: 'Twill prove to you, "The iron rod Will bring you safely through."

Take time to write to those who love, Your parents old and gray. Take time to worship God above; Take time, take time to pray.

Then shall your soul be filled with love, With comfort and good cheer. Each day of nineteen eighteen prove A happy, glad New Year.