Elder Scott Partridge, a young Salt Lake missionary boy, in the Southern States, writes to a friend as follows: 
"I wish you would give the Relief Society a message for me. Tell them that the announcement of the Relief Society releasing that 100,000 bushels of wheat has caused a great deal of favorable comment in the Southern States.

An account of it was given in a Memphis paper, which has a wide circulation throughout the state. The article has called the attention of the people to the fact that Utah and the 'Mormons' are solidly behind the government in the war. 
Eastern States Mission. 
A new Relief Society has been organized at Preston, Ontario, Canada, with Mrs. Alberta Klasson as president. This makes three thriving Relief Society organizations in Canada. 
Northwestern States Mission. 
Portland Branch. 
Since the first of the year the Portland Relief Society has made a splendid record in knitting for the Red Cross. Their report shows, 21 sweaters, 48 pairs of socks, 1 helmet, 6 mufflers, 2 pairs of wristlets, total 78 articles. Mrs. Emma Rolling, chairman of the knitting, heads the list with the following articles, 24 pairs of socks, 1 helmet, 6 sweaters, 2 nurses' sweaters, 6 mufflers, 2 pairs of wristlets. The Mutual girls report 51 knitted articles. 
Anaconda Branch. 
In this wide-awake branch of 22 members weekly meetings are held and the regular outline work of the Relief Society taken up. Mrs. Annie Amer, the president, reports an average attendance of 50 per cent. Five new members have enrolled since the beginning of the year. Once every month, at the close of the business meeting, refreshments are served at 10c a plate. The money being raised is for the benefit of the branch fund. Teachers' visits are made regularly. In addition to the regular Relief Society activities, the members are all actively engaged in Red Cross work. Last year 471 articles were made for the Red Cross by this small branch, and in addition to this, the members worked regularly at the surgical dressing room. Money was donated for War work as follows: The Red Cross, $10, Junior Red Cross $7, Belgian Relief Fund $15, books for soldiers $4.25, State Council of Defense, Women's Committee $15.75. 
Northern States Mission. 
A very interesting three-day convention was held a short time ago in the Northern States mission at Chicago. The branches were represented as follows: Minneapolis, Minn., by La Verne Crockett, Idaho, and Etta Dowdle, Canada; Detroit, 
640 . 
Mich., by Pearl Jones, Ogden, and Lacy Ritchie, Heber City; Evansville, Petersburg, and Linton by Amelia Randall, of Centerville, and Florence Telford, of West Weber; Muncie, Peru, and Kokomo, Ind., by Ruby Fisher and Lucy Clayton; Council Bluffs, Iowa, by Roxy Robson, of Plain City, and Irene Allen of Draper; Boone, Iowa, by Emmaline Alleman, Bern, Idaho, and Eletha Simmons, Byron Wyo.; Roseland, Chic, by Ethel K. Nielsen, of Blanding, and Gertrude Collet, of Roosevelt; Racine, Wis., by Catherine Wursten, of Logan, and Cora Stephenson, of Ogden; Logan Square, Chicago, by Nora Anderson, of Safford, Ariz., and Cassie Stevens, of Salt Lake; Jackson, Mich., by Fontella Langlois, of Marion, Idaho, and Ruby Madsen of Mount Pleasant; Grand Rapids, Mich., by Bertha Ellsworth, of Safford, Ariz., and Editha Thomas, of Byron, Wyo.; St. Paul, Minn., by Nellie Davis of Evanston, Wyo., and Mary J. Adair, of Luna, N. M.; Milwaukee Wis., Indianapolis, Ind., Davenport, Iowa, Waterloo, Iowa, and Bloomington, Ill., by Mrs. Ellsworth. 
Friday was devoted to reports. Friday evening and Saturday, to class work, Monday morning to class work, Monday afternoon instructions on Home Study and Monday night a social. The reports indicated that the Relief Societies are in good condition. In addition to the regular work the branches are all doing Red Cross work.