Guide Lessons. 
LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in December. 
"And the people were desirous that Alma should be their king, for he was beloved by his people. "But he said unto them, Behold, it is not expedient that we should have a king; Ye shall not esteem one flesh above another; therefore I say unto you, that it is not expedient that ye should have a king" (Mosiah 23:6, 7). 
Before the death of Mosiah he inquired of his people concerning his successor to the throne. The people replied that they wished Aaron his son to be their king, but Aaron had gone into the land of Nephi; therefore he could not be their king. Now Mosiah took advantage of this situation to instruct the people in relation to kings. 
"Now I say unto you that because all men are not just, it is not expedient that ye should have a king or kings to rule over you" (Mosiah 29:16). 
A paragraph of comparatively recent date, published in the Cleveland Plaindealer, headed "Napoleon Bonaparte in the Role of Prophet," represents Napoleon as saying that in one hundred years from the time he spoke the world would be "all slave or all free." Thus it would appear that this man, great in affairs of state even in his time, could see forces at work that would eventually enslave or free all men.

The remarkable thing about Napoleon's prediction is that he should have measured his time so well; for the centenary of Waterloo found the world in the throes of a great struggle between autocracy and democracy, or, as Napoleon chose to state it, between freedom and slavery. In the midst of the confusion in which we have wrought, during the past four years, two things seem to be clear: first, that the triumph of Germany and her allies would mean the triumph of autocracy, which, as the Germans have chosen to administer it, is slavery of the very basest sort; second, that the triumph of 
648 . 
the Allies spells the salvation of democracy and of democratic institutions, which has received wonderful interpretation from the statesmen representing the Allies' cause. 
It is the rule of kings, on whose power there is little check, that has wrought the havoc of today. It would seem from the record that has been made during the last decade, in kings toppling from their thrones, that bitter experience is teaching the world how true are the words of the Nephite prophet in relation to the possible and very probable misrule of kings. In a very short time we have a record of the abdication and assassination of Czar Nicholas II., of the Russians; Constantine of Greece; Nicholas Petrovich, the old king of Montenegro; King Ferdinand of Roumania; Peter, King of Servia, and the King of Hejaz, formerly chief of Mecca. These monarchs have all lost their thrones during the present war. Prior to the war, and within ten years, Manual II. of Portugal; Otto of Bavaria, Abdul Hamid II., Sultan of Turkey, and the Emperor of China have passed out of history as monarchs. In the great lesson Mosiah was seeking to teach his people in relation to the iniquity that too often characterizes the rule of monarchs, he said: 
"For behold how much iniquity doth one wicked king cause to be committed, yea, and what great destruction!" (Mosiah 29:16.) 
What more fitting text could be selected for any sermon at the present time? Does not the whole earth groan in terrible realization of the great destruction one wicked king has caused? 
Yea, verily in a time of peace this man Mosiah, inspired of Almighty God, was teaching his people truths which our present generation is learning in blood and tears. Is it not truly startling that the words of an ancient prophet should have such a modern ring? Our most advanced statesmen have at last found the trail trodden by our ancient prophets; they are doing now what he did before them, battling for the liberties of all people or peoples, whether high or low, great or small. 
Thus it has ever been, people who have accepted God's ordained and chosen leaders have always been able to boast of a civilization and of a philosophy of life and living far in advance of their age. Our pride mounts to the highest point, our satisfaction is all complete, when we record of these worthy people that they learned the lesson Mosiah sought to teach them: 
"Therefore they relinquished their desire for a king, and became exceedingly anxious that every man should have an equal 
chance throughout all the land; yea and every man expressed a willingness to answer for his own sins. 
"Therefore, it came to pass that they assembled themselves together in bodies throughout the land, to cast in their voices concerning who should be their judges, to judge them according to the law which had been given them; and they were exceedingly rejoiced, because of the liberty which had been granted unto them. 
"And it came to pass that they did appoint judges to rule over them; and they were exceedingly rejoiced, because of the liberty which had been granted unto them. 
"And it came to pass that they did appoint judges to rule over them, or to judge them according to the law; and this they did throughout all the land. 
"And it came to pass that Alma was appointed to be the first chief judge; he being also the high priest; his father having conferred the office upon him, and had given him the charge concerning all the affairs of the church. 
"And now it came to pass that Alma did walk in the ways of the Lord, and he did keep his commandments; and there was continual peace throughout the land" (Mosiah 29:38, 39, 41, 42, 43). 
1. Read with care the 23rd and 29th chapters of Mosiah. 
2. Discuss reasons not dwelt upon in your lesson text, but found in Mosiah chapter 29, why kings are often a menace to a people. 
3. 

What part have wicked kings played in the great struggle going on in Europe? 
4. Name some kings who have toppled from their thrones in the past decade. 
5. Name five or six countries whose cities and villages have been destroyed through the invasion of the Central Powers. 
6. How did Mosiah characterize the rule of king Noah among the peoples of ancient America? 
7. What form of government did Mosiah suggest to them? 
8. What would be the advantage of the rule of judges over the rule of kings, in case both were wicked? 
9. Name some other advantages not suggested by the government of wicked persons. 
10. Which form of government do the governments of the United States of America and France most closely resemble, that of the rule of kings or of the judges? 
11. Does Mosiah have anything to say about good kings? What? 
12. In what class would you place King Albert of Belgium? 
650 . 
LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in December. 
LESSON III. Genealogy. 
PARENT'S NAMES OR PATRONYMICS. (See Chapter 10, Surname Book) 
Teachers' Outlines. 
The earliest form of surname was the inherited father's name. (a) A temporary added name does not become a surname until used by the second or third generation. The Welsh patronymic form was ap. The Norman form was Fitz. The Gaelic or Scotch form was Mac. The Anglo-Saxon form was ing and son. Patronymics might come from personal or nicknames. (a) Sometimes changed and turned about. (b) The mother's name sometimes becomes fixed into a surname and these forms are called metronymics. 
Note: Find out who has a patronymic or metronymic surname in the class or even in the ward. 
Lesson Statement. 
If it is necessary for people to have personal names, when families increase, you can easily see that it would be necessary to choose different names for people beside their personal names, unless there were some other way of indicating two different Adams or Johns or Marys. First, it might be Big John and Little John, or Old Mary and Young Mary. Then if three Johns belonged to three different families, you would begin to speak of Adam's son John, Henry's son John, or Joseph's son John. It was in this perfectly natural way that children began to be known by their father's name in addition to their own name, thus showing what particular John or James or Adam the child might be the son of. The earliest forming of surnames, therefore, was the inherited father's name. You find this custom scattered all through the GUIDE LESSONS. Bible. The descendants of the Twelve Tribes of Israel, each adopted and kept the tribal name in addition to their own personal name. Ben-Hur was Ben of the tribe of Hur. The use of the father's name did not become a surname, as we understand the term today, until more than one generation of descendants made the father's name permanent. For instance, John's son would do for the first generation, but unless Johnson was kept by the grandson it did not become what we know as a surname. A surname, therefore, is a fixed addition to the personal name. A surname, according to the Funk & Wagnall's New Standard Dictionary, is a name subjoined to a given name; a family name. The Scandinavian peasantry have interchanged the patronymic form of the surname, that is, they add interchangeably the name of the father and grandfather until the custom has become confusing in the extreme to the genealogist. The Welsh patronymic form was ap, which meant, of the clan of, or tribe of, or a descendant of. Morgan Ap John Ap Richard Ap Howell Ap James, simply means Morgan who was the son of John who was the son of Richard who was the son of Howell who was the son of James. Sometimes this Ap became fastened on to a name in a permanent form, such as Ap Owen became Bowen, and Ap Richard became Prichard. The Gaelic or Scotch form of Patronymic was mac. Fergus MacAllister, Angus MacDougal Ian MacClure, Sandy MacLain, Robert MacClellan, simply meant Fergus who was the son of Allister; Angus who was the son of Dougal; Ian or John who was the son of Clure; Sandy who was the son Lain, and Robert the son of Clellan. The Anglo-Saxon form was originally ing, so that Alfred Atheling and Harold Edmonding, meant Alfred the son of Athel and Harold the son of Edmond.

Adopted from the Danish forms came son (sen), and all over England and among the Lowland Scotch came the forms of Henry Adamson, David Jameson, John Williamson, prefaced always by the personal name; this meant originally, Henry the son of Adam, David the son of James and John the son of William. Then the son was shortened to "s" and the surname would finally appear as Adams, Davids, Johns or Williams. Patronymics or parents' names might come from the personal name of the parents or from the nickname of the parents. If the parent had been called John the Red to distinguish him from his cousin John the Black (signifying the complexion of the two men), John's son David might be called John Redson or Reding; while the other might be known as John Black's son, or John Blacking. The forms were sometimes so disguised by poor spelling or slip-shod pronunciation that modern genealogists have a difficult time in tracing some surnames to their real patronymic origins. It also happened at times that the mother's name was added to the son or daughter's name, especially if the mother was like some women are today and always have been the head of the household, either figuratively or in fact. Or again, if she were very prominent through birth or inheritance; and lastly, if the children were born out of wedlock they then naturally inherited the mother's name.

QUESTIONS. What is the earliest form of surname known? When does a temporary added name become a real surname? What is the Welsh patronymic form? What is the Norman patronymic form? What is the Scotch form? Describe the Anglo-Saxon patronymic form? Under what circumstances did the mother's name or matronymic become a fixed surname? Note: Let the teacher discover anyone in the class who has a patronymic or metronymic form of surname. (See Surname Book.) Or give illustrations from someone in the ward.

POSSIBILITY OF OBTAINING EXTENSIVE RECORDS FOR TEMPLE WORK. In performing Temple ordinances in behalf of the dead, it is essential that the information placed on the records of the Temple shall be sufficient to properly identify each individual. The names only, without other data of identification, are almost useless, for the well-known reason that there has been and will continue to be, countless numbers of individuals bearing the same name; consequently it is required that, if possible, the date and place of birth, and date of death, be added to the full name of each person in whose behalf the Temple ordinances are performed. If either of those points of identification cannot be satisfactorily ascertained, efforts should be made to obtain, or formulate, approximate dates of those vital events, (or date of marriage or other available data); and the name of place where the individual lived, or died, should be included in the record if the place of birth is unknown. Methods adopted by the Temple recorders, to formulate or approximate dates etc., are explained in printed circulars that can be procured from them. Another important point of identification that is required, when possible to be ascertained, is the relationship of the heir or person at whose instance the Temple work is done to each one of the dead individuals. This constitutes an excellent means of identifying them; but, unfortunately, the records of deaths and marriages that are kept in most communities seldom show the names of the parents of persons whose names are entered therein, and the maiden names are frequently lacking of mothers of the children whose births are registered. This imperfection in records of vital statistics is a serious handicap in searching for genealogies of dead relatives, because the absence of names of parents of persons therein registered renders it impossible to clearly ascertain relationship from that source. (An effort is being made by the Hon. Reed Smoot, Senior representative from Utah in the United States Senate, to get this defect in registration of vital statistics remedied by law). Inability to ascertain relationship to the individuals named in records of births, marriages and deaths, or in other records in which the searcher finds surnames of family lines in which he is interested, should not deter him from copying those names into the compilation he desires to make, for the purpose of having Temple ordinances performed in their behalf. The fact is that many of the persons who appear in the same parish or district records, bearing surnames of the family lines to whom the searcher is related, are probably his blood relations although he may be unable, at that time, to determine what that relationship is; it is quite possible he may secure the missing clue thereto at some later time.

President Wilford Woodruff instructed the recorders in the Salt Lake Temple to accept records for ordinance work even though the members of the Church giving such records could not designate their relationship to the dead. He said, however, that care must be exercised to prevent duplication of the Temple work: families and individuals must not encroach upon each other's rights and privileges in the performance of Temple ordinances, but should confer together, if possible, concerning the genealogies, etc., of those in whom they may be mutually interested. The President also stated that it would be proper, for those who desire to have Temple work done for their kindred, to gather names and genealogies for that purpose of all individuals bearing the surnames of the family lines to whom they were personally related, but especially of those who resided in localities where their ancestors or blood relations lived. Family and surname family associations point the way to unify such work and will usually solve this problem. In this connection, it should be remembered that each member of the Church is entitled to have Temple ordinances performed in behalf of the four family lines to whom he is directly related; that is, the blood kindred of his parents and grandparents, those bearing the surnames of his father's father and mother and his mother's father and mother. The result of following this extended plan of compiling names etc., for Temple work is that hundreds of thousands of dead have had those ordinances performed in their behalf, who would not have been liberated from the spirit prison if their living friends had limited that sacred and necessary labor to the interest of those only with whom they are able to prove a personal relationship. The Saints are urged to be diligent in procuring the information needed to enable them to have Temple ordinances performed in behalf of their dead kindred and friends, remembering "that they without us cannot be made perfect," "neither can we without the dead be made perfect," if those ordinances are not complied with. The Genealogical Society of Utah, whose office and extensive library and genealogical books are located in the L. D. S. Church Office Building, 47 E. South Temple St., is an invaluable aid to those seeking genealogical information. D. M. McAllister. Temple Recorder.

LESSON IV: Home Courses. Fourth Week in December.

At different times during the past year our Food Administration has asked us to conserve certain kinds of meat and to decrease the amount of meat in the diet. Immediately the question arises "What may we use in place of the meat to serve the same purpose to the body?" Upon analysis meat is found to contain a large amount of protein, a nitrogenous substance, which builds up and repairs the tissues of the body. By a similar analysis of various vegetables and grains, it is found that a comparatively few contain protein in an appreciably large amount. However, peas, beans, nuts, and wheat, are important for the protein which they contain and may be used in place of meat in the diet. Peas and beans belong to a class of vegetables called legumes. Lentils and nuts belong to this group also, and are rich in protein.

The peas and beans are extensively used fresh, canned, and dried, and either buttered, creamed or baked are used as a vegetable. But there are many ways in which they may be used as the substantial part of the meal so that a meat dish may be omitted entirely without upsetting the dietetic balance of the diet. Combined with milk in a cream of pea or bean soup, these legumes form a desirable luncheon dish with a crisp salad and simple dessert to make the meal complete. The dried peas are especially good prepared in the form of a souffle or a loaf to be sliced and served as one would serve a meat loaf. Variety to the diet may be given by the use of different kinds of beans, for beside the green and wax string beans and the navy bean, the most commonly used are the Lima, Kidney and Soy beans, in many colors. The Soy beans are much richer in both fat and protein, or tissue building food, than other beans. They have taken the place of milk and butter to the Japanese and Chinese people, and should be used more extensively in this country. The Soy bean, of the yellow variety, may be made into a Soy bean loaf which is usually served with a tomato sauce, or into a Soy bean souffle which is particularly dainty. The black Soy bean is most frequently used in soups.

Lima beans en casserole and bean and tomato stew are other typical ways in which the bean may be used in place of meat in the principal course of the meal. And the good old-fashioned baked beans, so dear to the heart of the Bostonian, is always a welcome piece de resistance for the Saturday night supper. The fresh peas or beans are cooked in boiling salted water until just soft, which usually requires from twenty to forty minutes. The dried legumes must be soaked in cold water several hours in order to replace the water lost in the process of drying, and then should be cooked slowly and for a long time. When the canned vegetables are to be used, the cans should be opened sometime before the vegetables are to be served, in order that they may become aerated. Often it is desirable to drain the liquid from the vegetable and to rinse the latter with cold water before heating and seasoning ready for serving. Macaroni is made from a grade of wheat rich in gluten, which is the name given to protein in wheat. Until within a few years this particular variety of wheat was grown principally in Italy, but now many states of our United States are producing a wheat especially adapted to the manufacture of macaroni, and the industry is developing into an important one in this country. In the making of macaroni and its allied forms, the wheat is ground and mixed to a paste with water. It is then shaped by 656 . the force of a plunger having rods of various diameters, making tubes of different sizes to which the names macaroni, spaghetti and vermicelli are given. The paste is then dried. For cooking, the macaroni is placed in a large quantity of boiling salted water and kept boiling vigorously until soft. It is then drained and rinsed with cold water. Macaroni with cheese is the most common way of serving the largest variety of this paste, while the spaghetti is usually served with tomato sauce. Vermicelli is often added to soups. Macaroni and cheese, both being rich in protein, in combination is an especially valuable meat substitute dish.

Bean Loaf. C. white beans cooked. T. salt. C. peanuts. Spk. pepper. ½ C. bread crumbs. ½ C. milk. 
Put beans and peanuts through grinder. Add crumbs, seasonings, and milk. Shape into a loaf. Bake 30 min. Serve hot, sliced.

Peas in Ramekins. C. pea pulp. T. potato starch. Few drops onion juice. ½ T. salt. ½ C. milk. Spk. pepper. T. Fat. 3 eggs. 
Soak dried peas 24 hrs. Cook slowly until soft. Press peas through colander; add to sauce made of milk, fat, starch and seasoning. Add onion juice and yolks beaten. Put into oiled ramekins. Bake in water in a moderate oven 40 minutes.

Lion House Bean Soup. 
After the usual boiled or baked beans have become a little tiresome because of several days' repetition, boil the left-over beans until softened, strain through a colander, and add one quart of milk to one cup of strained beans. If they were cooked with butter or bacon, all right. If not, add a spoonful of butter and season. This is a great favorite in President Smith's family.

Take Time. Mrs. Effie Rowley 
Can you pause just a moment, through life's rushing day, 
To speak to the erring and show him the way, 
How to turn in the path which will lead far above? 
Is it worth all your time, your patience and love, 
To lead the steps back where the road turns away 
In the path of true wisdom, from night unto day?

Can you stop, dearest mother, and listen to the child 
Who speaks to you sweetly in accents so mild? 
Or have you no time through the hurry and strife 
To bless and to comfort the child of your life? 
While trying to gain what the world may call bliss, 
We reach out for trifles and the great things we miss.

Can you take time, the gospel to preach to your boy 
Who is just at the age for frolic and joy, 
And by the allurements of folly and sin 
Is fast with the multitude rushing therein? 
Or do you fancy that this is time lost, 
And hurry to pleasure, not counting the cost?

Can you take time to impress on the daughter you love 
Virtue and wisdom which lead far above 
The fashions and pride of the world's false din, 
Which are leading the daughters of Zion to sin? 
Or is all your time, which the Maker gave here, 
Too precious to waste for our children so dear?

Can you take time to make things more pleasant at home 
And not drive those footsteps in dark streets to roam, 
Where vice and temptation they surely will meet? 
Oh, then, dearest mother, you'd take time to weep! 
So take time today nor count it time lost 
To teach and to govern your precious child-host. 

Subscribe NOW for the MAGAZINE 
On account of the shortage of paper and the heavy increase of press work, it will be impossible to publish only such numbers of the Magazine as are actually subscribed for. Therefore, our friends must send in their subscriptions at once. 
Who among you can get along without the ? It will be impossible to supply back numbers. If you want the January number you must send in your names before December 15. 

UNCLE SAM asks that we conserve in our Xmas giving. An ideal and lasting gift, and one that is always appreciated is 
The Book Store of Salt Lake City 44 East South Temple Street 

Watches Diamonds, and Jewelry. Military Wrist Watches, $9.00 up. Ladies' Wrist Watches, $5.00 up. Watch and Jewelry Repairing 
JENSENS, JEWELERS, 71 Main St. Est. 1875 

Pears (dry and sliced) 16 oz., raisins 5 oz., currants 5 oz., walnuts (chopped) 5 oz., sugar 4 oz., cinnamon 2 teaspoons, cloves ½ teaspoon, anise 1 teaspoon, brandy or cider 4 oz. Mix well and leave stand over night in a stone or glass jar. In the morning make sponge: 1 qt. water, 1 lbs. flour, 3 cakes Fleischmann's Yeast, 1 tablespoon sugar. When light (about 1½ hours) mix the fruit in the sponge, add about 1 lbs. flour, make medium stiff dough, let rise until about double size, make into loaves, let rise to double size and bake. If served with cheese is delicious. This bread will keep for weeks, and improves with age. The fruit may be prepared days or even weeks ahead of baking. It will improve the flavor. 

SEND Xmas Cards early to your friends at home and abroad. 
You will find an excellent and complete stock at 
The Pembroke Company 22-24 East Broadway Salt Lake City