[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | Unknown | Issue: 5 | Title: Home Socials | Author: Unknown]

HOME SOCIALS.
	It is hard to always say the right things
at the right time and place; and many times
when mother feels in the mood of giving
advice and instructions, children turn and
are not willing to receive it. I am sure it
is a splendid plan to have a time set apart
in the home, to read a little scripture each
day, and a little talk on home duties, and
what we owe to each other.
	That, with our family prayers, will keep
the home machinery running more smooth-
ly, draw family ties more closely, children
and parents will understand each other bet-
ter. And children will reverence home and
parents more. It brings a sweet spirit in
the home.
	Oh, if we would only take the time, and
not get in such a hurry to get through life
that we cannot take time for these little
family courtesies. They will be remembered
by all in after life with greater satisfaction
than anything else.
	If we start in this way it will become a
habit, and we can arrange our affairs ac-
cordingly, just as well as we can arrange
for our meals.
	If we have order and system in our
homes this will not take up much ot our
time, and our little talks will assist in hav-
ing better order.
	Now, if we are seeking for the future
welfare of our family, we will institute this
in some degree in the home.
	If it is impossible through our avocations
of life to have this all week, devote one
hour on the Sabbath should it be more con-

[Column 2]
venient, then one other evening in the week
could be taken as a family social.
	Prepare some nice programme, with
talks, music, comic sayings, readings, sing-
ing, recitations, games, refreshments, lec-
tures, either of these or a number of them
mixed. But let that night be kept for the
family social, and not interfered with for
anything, if it possibly can be avoided.
Father, mother, and each child should all
be there to enjoy this family social together.
It may save many a heart ache, and may
save us from going down in sorrow to the
grave, and our loved ones from going
astray.
	I am sure we will have no regrets for
our efforts in this direction. For it will
cause our dear ones to love home and
family ties more, and not care to stray away
for other amusements. Let us try this,
though we may have to make sacrifice for
it, yet it will pay four fold in the end. Noth-
ing introduced of course but that which is
wholesome and good. We cannot realize
how much we are losing by neglecting
this blessed duty.
	This would be a good time occasionally
to talk over affairs of home life, and sug-
gest methods of improvement that will ben-
efit home and each member thereof, and
each one have a part in it. And thus they
will be more interested, bringing unity in
improvements of all kinds. The same may
be done in financial concerns of the home,
parents and all sharing the burdens to-
gether. Let each member take his part in
these home evenings, saving any little thing
they think would contribute to the pleasure
of the family for that occasion, taking care
nothing gets monotonous. Always keep the
children near you (that is, their confidence).
Never let them think they can draw away
from being close companions of father and
mother. We may be successful in many
ways in life, in fact, everything else, yet if
our home is not what it should be, if our
loved go astray, life seems a failure indeed.
	There are opposing powers to all things
which are good. We have to battle with
them. So do not give up or despair, but
try again.					COM.


