3 The Relief Society in the European Mission By Amy Brown Lyman THE AUXILIARY organizations of the European Mission are a great asset to the missions and likewise a great asset to their own members. They are very effective agents in creating interest in the Church and in spreading the Gospel. Their influence for good is readily recognized by all observing and thoughtful people, and their well-planned and well-prepared programs, which are so attractive at home, are also attractive abroad. The first convert to the Church in Czechoslovakia was the direct fruit of Bee Hive work. A fine young woman convert in England was recently asked how she became interested in the Church. She answered, "First through attendance at a Gold and Green Ball." The entertainment, she said, was so wholesome and attractive, so well organized and well carried out, and so "different" that she thought M. I. A. Must be high grade and a superior organization. And as she later learned of its fine ideals and standards and that it was an auxiliary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, she decided that the Church itself must likewise be superior and worthy of investigation. She was intrigued by the great interest manifested by the Church in young people—in their lives and in their problems. And the idea that they were thought to be so worth while was a real inspiration. A woman in Denmark who made a casual visit to the Relief Society, later attended regularly and then joined the organization. Through the society she became so interested in the Gospel that she finally accepted it and is now an enthusiastic member. That the auxiliary organizations have enriched the lives of those who have joined them is readily apparent and that they are appreciated for the good they have done and are doing is freely acknowledged by their members. THE Relief Society, because of its long establishment in Europe and because of the great contribution it has made with its welfare work in times of depression, and particularly during and after the war, is probably the best known of the auxiliary groups. Had its ranks not been constantly depleted by emigration, there is no telling what its accomplishments might have been. For sixty years the organization has been functioning in England; sixty years in Norway and Sweden; fifty-eight years in Denmark; from fifty-three to fifty-six years in Germany; and fifty-one years in Holland and Switzerland. BECAUSE people and organizations are so busy and so absorbed in their work while making history, they often neglect to record that history or to keep complete records. 138 So it has been difficult to secure definite historical data concerning the organizations. Through available records it is found that the work was begun in the various missions as follows: England 1874-1877. The first record in the Millennial Star states that at the London Conference held on April 22, 1877, it was reported that three female Relief Societies had been established in that Conference, namely, the North London, Lambeth, and the White Chapel Branches. In Norway (Oslo) and in Sweden the first organizations were effected in 1877; in Denmark (Copenhagen) in 1879. Two dates are given for the first organization in Berlin, Germany, March 1881 and August 1884. The first date of an organization in Holland (Amsterdam) is 1886; in Switzerland (Berne) 1886; in Palestine (Syria) 1918; in South Africa (Capetown) 1922; in France ———; in Czechoslovakia, April 26, 1930. In a recent but brief survey, it has been found that the Relief Society organizations in all the European missions are fully organized and functioning well which is the result of the broad vision and earnest efforts of the capable women who have supervised the work. The 4,694 members are striving earnestly today in 280 branches to carry forward the work. Meetings are held weekly in all the branches. Branch Conferences are held yearly in all of them, and in ninety-eight per cent of the local units these conferences are held on Sunday which gives an opportunity to present the work to the public. THE course of study prepared by the General Board is giving the greatest satisfaction. There is a marked improvement in the number who are taking part in the lessons RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and in the increased enjoyment of them. The women are more enthusiastic over class work than they have ever been before. The theological lessons which have always been the most popular are still so, but a close second to them are those on child welfare. The literary lessons are also appealing and are fully appreciated. It is interesting to note how familiar these women are with the scripture for which they seem to have a real love. Many branches in the British Mission are enthusiastic over the Scripture Project. In one small branch 706 chapters were read from October 1 to December 15. At a Relief Society meeting in London recently visitors were greatly impressed with the presentation and discussion of the Theology lesson. There were only ten present, but each had brought her books—Bible, Doctrine and Covenants and Book of Mormon, and the passages they could not quote off hand, which were few, to prove their points, they readily found in their books. And these were not college women, they were not even high school graduates. The members are reporting generally that the popularity of the child-welfare lessons is due to the fact that they are gaining practical every day help through them. That they are becoming more tolerant, are understanding better their responsibility as parents, are coming to realize that children are not alike and that each needs special study and consideration. They are beginning to realize that much of the maladjustment with grown-ups is due to the fact that they were not understood as children and did not have the right care and consideration. A unique feature in connection with the lessons is that they are presented weekly in nine different languages. The difficulty of the work in Palestine THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE EUROPEAN MISSION 139 -Syria can be imagined when it is realized that only three of the twenty-seven members can read and write, and that no common language exists among the members. Part of each lesson period last year was devoted to the teaching of Armenian so that there might be one language understood by all members. "The charity work is being carefully handled with a sense of responsibility to donors as well as to the needy. With Social Security programs operating in the various countries, Relief Society funds are often used in a supplementary way to insure comforts not otherwise provided for. In connection with this department are the work meetings. In the Swiss-German Mission last year 610 articles were remodeled and distributed. Not the least important of the benefits of Relief Society are the social features. The various entertainments, such as bazaars, socials, dramatic performances and concerts help to develop and cement friendships which become everlasting. In a number of districts and branches there are choruses of mothers and daughters which provide delightful music and which often assist with the music at District Conferences. A member in Belfast, Ireland, made the following observation: "The spirit of Relief Society is like the spirit of the Gospel, it breaks down barriers and transforms strangers into friends." The work of the society, where it is really known,. Is appealing to other humanitarian groups. They are interested in its organization and operation and in its aims, objects, and ideals. In the German-Austrian Mission, notably, advantageous contacts are being made with educational groups and with public welfare agencies and organizations. AN interesting item is the preparation of a simplified hand book in the Netherlands organization which has been translated into the other foreign languages. This with the regular hand book in the headquarters libraries is helping to standardize the work and giving long sought-for information. A new development in the past few years has been the transfer of responsibility, for much of the local work, from the missionaries to the local members. The supervision of the Relief Society within the districts (comparable to stakes) and branches (comparable to wards) is now almost entirely in the hands of the local sisters. Each mission has an executive board of four members, presided over as a general rule by the wife of the mission president. The other three members are local women. At a District Conference recently a district supervisor conducted the Relief Society Meeting in a manner that would have done credit to any seasoned Relief Society Stake President. And the reports of branch presidents were as well given as those you might hear anywhere. THE operation of Relief Society work in the European Mission is thus a great force for good. It is helpful to the Church and a great benefit and blessing to its own members. Through its varied program women are having the opportunity for supervised study, for self-expression and for intellectual development, the like of which they had never enjoyed before becoming members; opportunity for the unlimited exercise of their humanitarian instincts through giving help and extending service to others; and rare opportunity for the development of leadership which is so much needed in the world today. Place of the Relief Society in the Church Security Plan By President Harold B. Lee IN ONE of our Stakes a very grievous and unfortunate circumstance arose that resulted eventually in the excommunication of a member of a Seventies Quorum of that Stake, because of his unchristianlike conduct which manifested itself in untruthful and unwarranted statements regarding the Church and its leaders. The day following the hearing at which this action had been precipitated, a letter was received from the wife of the man who had been dealt with. She pledged her loyalty to the Church and described the conduct of her husband as above reproach in his habits, his morals, his relationships in the home, etc., and then closed her beautiful letter with this statement: "For twelve years he was faithful and diligent in performing his duties in the Church. He paid one-tenth of every dime he made. In 1930 he lost his job. For more than three years he walked the streets day after day looking for work. Since March, 1930, we have not paid an honest tithe. He became discouraged. He met up with men who told him things. He began to doubt, to find fault and this is what it has led to." When a righteous judgment shall be rendered in the case of this man who shall be adjudged to be the more at fault, he against whom action was taken in this instance, or the priesthood quorum and Relief Society Organization that failed to measure up to an ordained responsibility of looking after the unfortunate and distressed within that community? IN THE record of proceedings of a meeting held in Nauvoo on March 17, 1842, to effect the organization of the "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo," the following statement was made by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in defining the objective of the society: "That the sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking after the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants, to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community and save the elders the trouble of rebuking, that they may give their time to other duties in their public teaching." (Excerpts from Relief Society Records.) In this plain and direct statement of the Prophet Joseph, the relationship of the Relief Society Organization to Priesthood Quorums is clearly defined. It is the direct responsibility of each Priesthood Quorum to look after its own members, and the Relief Society Organization is an auxiliary to the Priesthood, or as the Prophet Joseph stated, they are "to provoke the brethren to good works in looking after-the poor of their quorums"' and to "search out objects of charity" and relieve distress before grievous circumstances such as related at the beginning of this article results in the necessity for "rebuking" and passing judgment on individuals who have yielded to temptation during the dark hour of doubt and uncertainty. Truly has it been said, "that the most dangerous time in a man's life is when he is brought to feel in his heart that nobody cares what happens to him." The opportunity for this close cooperation between Priesthood Quorums and Relief Society Workers is RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE CHURCH SECURITY PLAN 141 provided for in the Church Security Program with an organization in every ward of the Church, known as the Ward Employment Committee, or the Ward Security Committee, as some have termed it. This Committee brings together members of the Ward Bishopric, officers of the Melchizedek Priesthood and Adult Aaronic Priesthood Quorums, and officers of the Relief Society, to look after the individual needs of every member of the Ward, the Ward Relief Society Organization "searching out objects of charity" and rendering temporary assistance under the Bishop's direction pending a weekly meeting with the Ward Committee where Quorums may be assigned to necessary CHART SHOWING RELIEF SOCIETY RESPONSIBILITY IN DIRECTING AND SUPERVISING IN COOPERATION WITH PRIESTHOOD AUTHORITIES, THE VARIED OPERATIONS OF THE CHURCH SECURITY PROGRAM PRESIDENCY OF GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE GENERAL BOARD REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS OF RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS STAKE PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY IN Sewing Canning Distribution Ward Ward Ward Ward Ward Centers Centers Centers Presiden Pres Pres Pres. President STAKE BISHOP'S STOREHOUSE (If operating an a stake basis rather than a regional basis) (15 Regional Organizations) (118 Stakes) 142 projects that require labor, with the Ward Bishopric coordinating all of these agencies and supplying the finances that may be needed. In rendering such assistance, every opportunity must be given to those who are assisted to perform some labor or render some service for the assistance they are to receive. This is as fundamental to the program as the supplying of necessities. If layettes are needed for example, sisters who may need these articles should be given the opportunity of doing as much of the work as possible with volunteer work provided by other sisters if necessary. This principle should be applied in canning operations, clothing remodeling, quilting, etc., and in some instances sisters should be sent into the homes of needy families to help them plan to meet their home problems. In the chart included herein, there is pictured the Relief Society Organization as it relates to various activities in the Church Security Program which will result in the providing of necessities as required. At the head of the great Relief Society Organization is the Presidency of the General Board appointed by the First Presidency of the Church and who by their appointment are requested to work in close cooperation and harmony with the General Church Security Committee appointed under the chairmanship of Brother Melvin J. Ballard to carry out the wishes of the First Presidency and Presiding Bishopric in this program. To facilitate a constant supervision of storehouses and women's activities connected thereto a Special Committee has been appointed from members of the General Board who are expected to keep in close contact RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with the Relief Society Organizations of the various regions and stakes throughout the Church to promote efficiency and economy and to standardize in such a way as to accomplish the most for the efforts put forth. In regions, particularly in congested areas, it is advised that from among Relief Society Presidents of Stakes participating, there be chosen an executive committee to call meetings of the Presidents and to solve problems that may arise from time to time in connection with the work at the various women's centers, and of course, always be in harmony with the instructions from the Special Committee of the General Relief Society Board and the Regional Officers chosen from among the Priesthood Presidents. In the event of isolated stakes where distribution and work projects on a regional basis would not be practical or advisable the Special Committee or the Presidency of the General Board may deal directly with the Stake Presidents of Relief Society in the establishment of women's centers as may be advisable within storehouses or ward units operating within the stake. IN EACH stake in order to promote the purposes of unity in supervision throughout the wards of the Stake there should be organized the Stake Committee consisting of a member of the Stake Presidency as Chairman with the Stake Women's Work Director and Stake Priesthood Work Director, Chairman of Bishops' Executive Council, Storehouse Manager, if any, and the Stake Relief Society President, as members of the Committee. At this meeting the Relief Society President has the opportunity of discussing the work of the sisters throughout the Stake RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE CHURCH SECURITY PLAN 143 with the Stake Presidency and the brethren of the Priesthood. A CAREFUL study of the chart presented and an analysis of the real purposes of the Church Security Program should establish clearly the fact that the most important object that is to be achieved by the Church Security Program is the promoting of a spirit of cooperation and unity throughout the entire Church. The other essential to the success of the Church Security Program is expressed in the story of the rich young man who came to the Master with the inquiry, 'What good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life?" and the Master enumerated the commandments which he must keep in order to gain eternal life, to which the young man replied, that he had done all these things from his youth up. The Master then made this very significant declaration: "IF THOU WILT BE PERFECT, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow Me." TO THE extent that individual units throughout the Church are interested in giving to the limit of their possibilities beyond their own needs, to that extent they are approaching perfection in the Church Security Program. To the extent that Relief Society Organizations in Wards are operating in cooperation with Priesthood Quorums and Bishoprics just to that extent is there a security program in that ward. There can be no security throughout Zion until Relief Society Sisters rise to the prime purpose of their organization "to provoke the brethren to good works in looking after the poor and in searching out objects of charity." ARGELY DUE to the splendid efforts of the sisters of the Relief Society throughout the stakes and wards much has been accomplished toward the realization of the purposes of the Church Security Program. Thank the Lord for the Relief Society Organization! But. Our work has only begun. This coming year we must redouble our efforts, profiting by the mistakes we have made and add to our success to the ultimate triumph of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints in demonstrating to the world its ability to satisfy every need of the human soul. What the Relief Society Does for Its Members By Sara Hodson Carruth OR ninety-five years the Relief Society has functioned as the organization for service for the womanhood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Who can 'measure the achievements of those years? Today the lives of some seventy-four thousand members are being enriched and enlightened by the programs the society offers. — DURING the last decade in our country, as well as in other progressive countries of the world, great emphasis has been laid on the subject of Adult Education. It is interesting to reflect that for long years previous to this time the Relief Society had been carrying forward a great project of adult education for the women of the Church. Definite lessons on vital subjects 144 were carefully outlined a year in advance by expert educators. These lessons were studied and discussed each week by hundreds of Relief Society groups. Group thinking and discussion were encouraged. Many thousands of L. D. S. Women thus learned to talk things out. The following words of modern scripture proved at once an urge and an inspiration, "Seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning even by study and also by faith." Through the years, splendid courses in theology, literature and social service have been given. With such stimulation many members became students. Classes in home making have received a great deal of consideration. Special attention has been given to such subjects as home nursing, home sanitation and beautification, child hygiene, needle work and handicraft of many kinds. From the beginning the members have been made to feel that they should continue with mental activity and education as long as life should last. The fact that these women were busy home makers with husbands and children to care for was, they believed, but an added reason why they should be mentally alert and, "go on learning." Side by side with this cultural program, and always in the vanguard, has been the relief program —the service for human welfare. Taught to give freely of themselves in the service for mankind, experiences of these unselfish women as they have gone into the homes darkened by want, sorrow, sickness or death have given remarkable opportunities to apply the truths learned in the interest of human betterment. Perhaps no volunteer organization RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the world has so rich a heritage of traditions. The members lived and loved and worked together unselfishly, not alone because of their sympathy for their fellow men, but because they believed therein lay “Pure religion, undefiled before God and the Father." Such has been the past of this organization. WHAT of today? Never in its history has the society had so much to offer its members. Among these offerings is a series of lessons comparable to college extension courses—lessons that meet present day needs; advanced thought, simply worded. The products of the best minds and the noblest workers are garnered. World happenings and living issues are presented. The aim is always to discover truth and beauty that may be applied in the lives of the members. It would seem that no woman could be exposed to these lessons without becoming a better home maker and a finer citizen, No doubt the greatest spiritual growth comes through the study of the Theology lessons. As we meditate on the glorious truths of the Gospel and on the life and ministry of the Savior, our faith that we are indeed the children of God, destined to become like Him, is strengthened. Thinking and talking together along these lines develop an awareness of our obligations and a determination to live in harmony with God's laws. Thus a divine purpose is given to life. In the lessons of the Literary Department the works of the great masters with their deep understanding of human nature are studied. These bring to the members a clearer interpretation of the values of life. They revel in their lofty ideals and in their beauty of expression. During this season many hundreds of our women have come to enjoy the WHAT THE RELIEF SOCIETY DOES FOR ITS MEMBERS 145 study of biography as never before. It has proved a very real intellectual recreation. In the Social Service Department much emphasis has been placed on the rearing of the child—woman's most important work. There are splendid lessons for those mothers who are trying to understand their children's personalities, who are eager to intelligently guide their loved ones along the paths of physical, mental, emotional and social health. Community problems are studied with the purpose of developing civic pride and of making living conditions better in our towns and cities. The Relief Society offers these courses of study to every member without charge—free as the air they breathe. The practice of publishing the lesson outlines in the magazines each month makes it possible to standardize the work in all associations and places the lesson material in the hands of all the members. OOD music also comes in for serious attention. Every woman has a chance to develop her talent along this line through group singing under good leadership. The Relief Society Chorals throughout the Church are bringing much that is fine, joyous and uplifting into the lives of its people. HE Society gives to its members the joy of association with fine, good women. They grow by such contacts. The most beautiful friendships are formed—friendships that surely will be eternal. The organization furnishes an outlet for social activities. Many lovely affairs are enjoyed by all the members. They learn to get along together; to play, as well as to work together. Indeed, many of the members have but few other social contacts. HE Relief Society is a great training school for service. Overshadowing all else is the opportunity it gives its members to learn to serve well. Every member, no matter how humble or timid, may become a worker—a teacher—a leader. Every opportunity is given for socialized self-expression. UR system of visiting teaching gives opportunity for thousands of women to participate. As they go into the homes each month with a special spiritual message and _ tactfully ascertain the needs of the families, there comes into the hearts of these teachers a great love for their fellow men and an increased charity for his weaknesses. With an intelligent conception of social welfare problems they are able to encourage the distressed and disheartened, to comfort the sorrowing, and lift the burden of fear from the hearts of many. They minister both materially and spiritually. As these teachers go about doing good they come to feel that they are richly repaid. They find that they have developed a new fund of confidence within themselves, and that they have built up a new set of interests. Above all is the joy of a deep seated conviction that they are doing the will of the Master. "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these, my. Little ones, ye do it unto Me." In such ways the work of the Lord is glorified and advanced. HOSE who have worked in the Relief Society for many years find a never failing source of satisfaction in watching the development of the members. Women of little or no background have been stimulated to study and participate until they have become outstanding teachers. Timid little women have with encouragement and practice become 146 poised and gracious presiding officers. Many volunteer social workers in our cities and counties, who are now doing excellent community betterment work, have had all their training from Relief Society sources. WHAT a marvelous thing it would be if all the women of the Church were taking advantage of the opportunities offered. The organization set-up seems almost perfect:. The material for growth is prepared and placed before them: "All that is lovely or of good report" to assist them in living well balanced happy lives. However, they must realize that they must do their own growing.