TO THE TEACHERS By Fern Russon To you who labor in the Cause of Right, Whose duties urge you on from morn till night? In homes where loved ones' needs must be fulfilled By ever-ready hands and hearts sweet-willed? We bring a greeting that is fond and true And filled with love and' gratitude to you. We know your home-tasks must be left undone That a reward for service might be won; We know the journeys out among the fold Through summer's stifling heat and winter's cold; We know the storms that oft beset your way As forth you travel on a dreary day. And, too, we know the sunshine that you bring To homes round which sad mem'ries often cling; We know the words of helpfulness and cheer That leave your lips in accents kind and dear. We know. The comfort of your tender smile That lingers in the mem'ry all the while. And?yes?we know the prayers you needs must pray That God will give you fitting words to say: When called to homes where sickness rules in might And doubts and dangers lurk from morn till night. We know the help you need from heaven above To carry on your work of light and love. We know the confidences that you share With those down-trodden in a world of care; Where weakness, want and misery play their part To stifle all that's fine in each brave heart; And to these trusts, God help you to be true That ne'er a hurt be backward traced to you. And so again in gratitude that's real We come to do you honor, for we feel That bravely have you earned an honor day And truly have you won unending praise. Humbly you've sown,?great shall your harvest be While works and words march on triumphantly. And now we hope your hearts are cheered and brightened; We hope your labors will be ever lightened By knowing that your steps in service trod Are helping others feel the love of God. And may His spirit ever follow you And bless the words you say?the deeds you do, And may you, while the seasons hurry past, Make each new effort greater than the last. Headquarters for APPROVED LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS FROM FACTORY TO YOU. 80 Heavy Wt. Men''s dbl. Back $1.50 No. Ee light Wt. Old Style ta. 81 Hvy. Wt. Old Style dbl. Back 1.50 No. T., a comfortable gar-; ment for summer?Men's and. 83 Extra Fine double combed Ladies'?New Style only ' yarn Heavy Wt. Silk stripe... 1.85. 89 Extra fine quality lisle,. 84 Med. Lt. Wt. Men's & Ladies' Men's & Ladies'?New Style 1.10 cotton rib, new style only....85. 90 Extra Special, Glove Silk for 85 Our Extra Special Super NonTemple or Burial run Rayon, Men's and Ladies'. 91 Extra fine grade flat knit, New Style.. 1.10 Ladies' New Style only. Old Style... D. 92 Heavy Wt. Men's bleached,. 86 Extra fine, silk stripe combed short sleeve, ankle length or cot., ladies' new style only 1.25 long sleeve, ankle length. We charge 10% extra for sizes over 46. Postage prepaid anywhere in United States. Please specify when ordering, bust, trunk, length and whether new or old style and if for Men or Ladies. Garments marked upon request?ten cents per pair Satisfaction guaranteed or your money cheerfully refunded We solicit your mail order business?samples mailed upon request ZION'S GARMENT COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah 549 South 7th East Street Box 1453 Complete Suits for Men and Women?Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices  , Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine "FOUR WAYS BETTER" BE SURE YOU RECEIVE THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE | UTAH SPRING CANYON COAL 1?Starts Quicker. 2-?-Burns Longer. 3--Less Soot. 4?-Less Ash ''ASK YOUR DEALER'? L. D. S. Garment Our Specialty We carry a complete line in old and new styles. The following numbers will interest you. No. 1. Men's New Style Ribbed cotton. Our double back Light Weight....$1.00 number. Men's new or old combed cotton, an excellent No. 6. Light weight garment, Ladies' number....... Ccse00 85 dies' new style, Flat Weave 1.00 No. 3. Old Style ribbed lgt wet. No. 17. Ladies' Rayon in 4 grades, cotton, our standard garments $80, $1.00 1.50 1.10 No 4. Ribbed med. On cotton, No.8: ee Rayon, in 2 grades, 1.50 1 ed. 25. Re 1 number. Men's new or old No. 9. Old or New Style 10% Wool 1.95 style 1.45 No. 10. Heavy, part wool, old or new No. 5. Ribbed hvy. Wet. Unbleached la (ne 2.75 During Conference week we will mark the garments you buy of us free of charge. Make our store your headquarters. Nearest store in town to the Tabernacle and Temple. See our Virgin Wool Blankets, Men's Suits and Top-Coats, Ladies' Dresses and Suits. Factory to you. Keep this Magazine with our adv. For reference. Original Utah Woolen Mills 24 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah One-Half Block South of Tabernacle South Gate FAITH You can not see your milk produced. You can not see the various steps by which it comes from the farm to your door-step in clean, shining bottles. You buy milk on faith. PURE AT THE SOURCE Arden arti has an Roca reputation. Ae i ho work at