No organization can take the place of self effort. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Growth comes only through self-activity and by overcoming difficulties. Think of the influence for good our women might be if they all were doing their full part. MY word of personal testimony is that the experience gained in Relief Society work has helped me in my attitude towards life and life's problems. It has broadened my horizon and has helped me to find joy in simple things. It has taught me loyalty to a mighty cause and has given me increased trust in my fellowmen. It has given me the fortitude and the ability to face some of the hardships and trials of life with a degree of courage. Humbly, I thank my beloved Society for its valuable contribution to my life. LOVE'S TORCH By Isabelle Ruby Owen Fling out your blue-gold banner! Lift high your blazing torch! Sing out in rapturous manner... "Loved seventeenth of March!" A day when angels fired the heart To thrilling deeds of worth— Which came to be of Life a part, Rich blessings brought to earth. Since first there fell a pearly tear From tender woman's eyes— Her hands have touched the Harp-of-Love, Bringing blessings from the skies. Since first that trusting band set out— Truth's banner wide unfurled, The hand which rocks the cradle Has brought vision to the. World. Trails of the Old Kaibab By Elsie C. Carroll CHAPTER X THE next morning, without seeing Steve, but being again reassured by Fred that he was going to be all right, Helen returned to the Park. She learned from Wood Russell that Uncle Billy had come to the hotel before going to the ranch and had taken Hawley and several others with him to investigate some clue Lon Dean thought he had regarding the stolen cattle. Helen had been surprised to learn that Hawley was a deputy sheriff. "Yes," Wood told her, "He's been an officer almost ever since he's been here. He doesn't have much to do. There used to be a bootleg escapade once in a while, but now since things are wide open, nobody's worrying about bootleggers. Steve's trouble is about all the law-breaking that's been going on around here for some time, and that's a stumper. Every time he loses a bunch of cattle, they follow the tracks to a certain place where they just disappear. Hawley has spent days out there with Steve, and they've had officers from Fredonia and Flagstaff. But it's always the same. I can't imagine that Lon has solved the riddle; but how I wish somebody could. It's uncanny, and it's getting Steve's goat. He doesn't seem himself any more." "Steve thinks," Wood went on, "that the thieves are connected with someone right here on the mountain who knows just exactly what he's doing every day. The cattle always disappear when he's away from the ranch, but right while some of his men are there watching—sometimes just while they're in the cabin for dinner. But if that theory about the thieves being right here on the mountain was true, we ought to find his cattle in some of the other herds, and he's never found any, though he always looks at round-up time." "Does Mrs. Morley have any cattle?' Helen asked. "No—not that I know of." "How long has she been here, Mr. Russell, and what is her business?" "Well, she was here when we built the hotel—and that's been eight years. She must have been here off and on for about ten or twelve years. She was younger and more girlish when I first knew her, but not any more popular than she is now. As to her business, I think she's bought up a lot of mining stock out there north of her place. Her main business though, I think, is just to have a good time and to help others enjoy themselves." HELEN spent most of the next day in her cabin, thinking. She felt sure she had some small clues, and she was to put them together into a logical theory. At last she was ready to act. She rode to Pete Rockwood's camp and asked him to take her for a ride in his plane. "I'm not ready to fly over the canyon yet. I'm saving that for a special thrill. Today I want to fly over the mountain and see how the forest and the cattle ranches look to a bird." "All right. I’ll take you any place you want to go." The plane lifted and headed back over the mountain. "Tell me about the various ranches 148 and points of interest," Helen said through the tube. "That clearing over to the left is Jacob's Lake," Pete said. "On the right is Hawley's ranch. Want to fly over it?" "Yes." In a few moments they were sailing over a large tract of land thickly dotted with grazing cattle. "Tt's one of the best ranches on the mountain. He's one of the biggest owners in the West. You can see his herds scattered all over this side of the ridge. His land goes clear down to the rim of the canyon on this side." "Can you fly a little lower?" she asked. "I've never seen a herd of cattle." "You'll have a good chance here. Looks like they're having a roundup. See, the cowboys are gathering them in from all over the range. We can skim right over their backs if you say. There aren't many traffic rules out here." The plane zoomed down so low over one of the bunches of cattle that Helen could see each animal very distinctly. They passed above the ranch buildings and Pete told her which were the mess hall, and the sleeping quarters. She could see the huge corrals and sheds. They could even make out the figures of the men at work. "Tt looks as if they're getting ready for branding," Rockwood explained. I Helen started. Two weeks ago Bernice Hawley had spent two or three days at her father's ranch during the branding round-up. She had told Helen many details of the operation. It was strange they would be branding again—though perhaps not so strange either. This tiny piece of information fitted into her picture puzzle. "What makes you think they are getting ready for branding?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "You see the men over there unloading barrels. That's probably tar and other substances: they heat up for the brands. This is about the time of the year that a lot of marking and branding is done, and I don't see why else they'd be rounding in the cattle. It's early to gather in the sale stock." "Is House Rock Valley far from here?" "It's just opposite—on the other side of the mountain, but it will only take Pegasus a few minutes to get us there." The plane lifted while they flew over the higher ridges separating the two ranches. They skirted a cutback in the canyon which formed a huge notch between the two rangelands. Helen studied the topography of the country, every sense alert. She leaned out looking through the field glasses Pete had given her. No, she was not mistaken. That was a line of cattle moving slowly along a trail on the face of the canyon following this cut-back. "There's House Rock Valley below us now," Rockwood announced. Helen looked down at the clearing. She could see the corrals and the ranch buildings near the edge of the wooded hills. A surge of emotion swept over her. Her father had helped to build those structures. If he had lived she might have spent happy summers with him there. The cattle she saw scattered here and there might have been hers—hers and Steve's together. "Can we land here?" she asked. "Sure." He brought the plane to the ground a short distance from the buildings. The place seemed deserted. They went into the main building. It seemed to have been recently occupied, for a fire still burned in the stove and used dishes were on the table. ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB "Shall we have lunch?' Pete asked. "We should wait for our hosts to invite us, shouldn't we?" "Not in this part of the world. Out here they expect people to help themselves and make themselves at home. Cabins are always left open and stocked with food. I'll make us some sour-dough flapjacks. It's funny nobody's around. This is Steve Heyden's place you know— have you heard how he is since the rodeo?" "I think he's getting along all right." What would Pete do if she told him her relationship to this ranch? BEFORE their food was ready Uncle Billy, Hawley, and several other men came to the cabin. They had observed the plane from the other side of the clearing and had come to see what the landing might signify. They were surprised to see Helen. "I'm out sight seeing," she explained. "We just thought we'd give you a friendly call and see if you've caught the cattle thieves yet." "Has Steve been losing more cattle?" Rockwood asked. "Yes." Uncle Billy told him. "His calves went a few weeks ago, and the day of the rodeo a bunch of young steers he had rouned up so he could keep a special watch over them dropped out of sight. Of course Steve don't know that yet. And he don't know that Lon is gone again." "Wasn't he here when you came out that night?' asked Helen amazed. "Not a hide nor hair of him. So we don't have no idee what that clue was that he thought he had." "Do you think he's been kidnapped again by the thieves?" "Nobody knows what's happened to him," Hawley said. "It seems useless to try to solve the mystery 149 of this ranch. I've been working on it for years, but it beats me." Helen looked at him closely and she thought his eyes shifted from her direct gaze. She was eager to have a few words alone with Uncle Billy, and finally succeeded in drawing him aside. "Uncle Billy, I believe I know where those lost cattle are." She had no chance to say more for she saw Hawley approaching. She gave her old friend a sign for silence, but he looked incredulous. As she was flying back with Pete Rockwood she led him to talk of Hawley. "He's a queer chap. I've taken him around quite a little in my plane; to Texas a couple of times and quite often to Salt Lake City. Somehow he doesn't seem to belong here as most of the cattle men do—Uncle Billy and Steve Heyden for instance. I think he has a swell little girl though. She seems more like the West than he does. But she could fit in anywhere. She'd be a little peach—if she wasn't so crazy about Steve Heyden." "I don't see why she shouldn't care for you even more than for Steve. You're nearer her age and you seem more her type," Helen told him. "Do you really think that? Gosh I wish you'd tell her." "I shall." "I did have one inning. She let me bring her home from the Lodge the other night after Steve's accident. She was so broken up over that, that she even let me comfort her a little." "THE next day Helen rode to the Lodge. She must tell Steve what she had learned, for action must be taken at once if the mystery was to be solved. She hoped he was well enough to talk and help her plan what to do. 150 To her surprise he was up and around. In fact he was outside somewhere—the bell-boy told her—taking a short walk—perhaps on one of the near-by trails. Fred, she found, had been called to a sick man at a road camp back on the mountain. She sat in the lobby waiting. As the minutes passed she became restless and went out on the porch to look for Steve. Presently she walked out onto one of the foot-paths below the lodge. She didn't want to get far away as he might return by some other path; so she sat on a bench overlooking the canyon. She began tracing with her eyes resemblances in the natural structures before her, to famous pieces of sculptured art. Presently she heard voices on the opposite side of the rocky projection in the path near which she sat. "Tess, I don't understand. You can't mean what you seem to be saying." Helen despised eaves-dropping and started up. Then she realized she couldn't retreat without being discovered, and to go on was impossible, for Tess and Steve were on the narrow trail. Besides, there was distress in Steve's voice. What could the woman be saying to torture him?. "You can't expect me to believe that you don't understand what I mean, Steve. I'm throwing myself at you. And I've never done that for any man. I'm forgetting that there is such a thing as pride, for I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE love you. You've known for a long time that I've wanted you. But you've ignored me. I tell you, Steve, that loving you has made a different woman of me. I want to be decent. I promise if you'll come to me, you'll be the only one. I don't expect you to marry me, at least not now; not until I've proved myself and have made you want to marry me." "My God, woman, you don't know what you're talking about." "Don't I! I've been thinking of nothing else for weeks. I know you don't care for me now. You may even imagine that you love someone else; but you're not the kind to be satisfied with another man's wife. And I can make you care. Isn't it something worth while that I'm offering you? This mystery is breaking you. You're not only losing your cattle; you're losing your health. And you'll lose your mind too before you'll ever solve the riddle. You ought to know that, after twelve years of trying. Isn't my offer to disclose the whole thing worth anything to you?" "Yes," shouted Steve, "But by God it's not worth the thing you ask. Get out of my way and let me pass." There was a slight skirmish on the other side of the boulder and Steve, head-bandaged and white with anger and disgust, rushed past Helen up the path toward the Lodge. For a moment she sat motionless, then she followed him. (To be continued) HOOSE always the way that seems the best, however rough it may be; custom will soon render it easy and agreeable.—Pythagoras. AVE a purpose in life, and having it, throw into your work such strength of mind and muscle as God has given you.—Carlyle. Raising Funds for Relief Society By Belle Smith Spafford IN the conduct of any organization certain expenses are incurred. The Relief Society is no exception to this rule. Often the raising of funds by methods other than direct donation becomes a problem. This is particularly true with Stake organizations in communities where the Wards are widely scattered. In these Stakes the traveling and other expenses are exceptionally high and the assembling of the people difficult. Any activity undertaken must therefore be very carefully planned, expertly managed, extensively advertised and of such quality as to justify the support of the people. The Relief Society organization encourages activities which motivate any phase of its work, which provide opportunities for the development or enrichment of the lives of the women, which are of service, and, in keeping with the dignity and standards of the Society. The Relief Society Stake Bazaar is possibly most often resorted to in raising funds. This provides motivation for the Work and Business Department, is an avenue for the disposal of articles made by the sisters, provides social contact and is usually quite remunerative. In arousing interest and support for this activity, however, ingenuity is often heavily taxed. In one Stake a unique and successful bazaar was held entitled "The Nations Meet." Each ward represented a Nation; Italian, Irish, Alaskan, Hawaiian, American—Indian, Mexican and Japanese, carrying out in every detail distinguishing features of the Nation represented. Attractive booths were erected and articles made by the sisters in the Work and Business Department were offered for sale. Each booth also sold novelties characteristic of the Nation. Refreshments were provided in keeping with the theme, each ward serving but one course. The Irish served potato salad; the Indian, corn bread; the Alaskan, ice cream, etc., so planned and arranged as to make it possible to purchase a satisfying and well balanced meal by patronizing each ward. Cakes, pies, bread, jellies, bottled fruit, etc., were entered for competition. These articles were judged, prizes awarded, and then were offered for sale. During the afternoon and evening excellent programs were presented, each ward providing one number representative of its nationality. The ward whose booth was most typical of the country represented as well as the one having the best program number was given an award. The entire affair was planned and directed by the Stake Board and the earnings shared by both Stake and Wards on a 50% basis. A Christmas Gift Shop proved a similar source of revenue. This opened at 6 o'clock with a Cafeteria lunch, each ward being responsible for certain portions of the menu. The Gift Shop was gay with Xmas colors, a tree and a Santa Claus. Each ward had an artistic booth featuring such articles as hand made handkerchiefs, Xmas Candy, aprons, dolls and reconditioned toys. One very popular booth sold Xmas puddings and fruit cakes beautifully wrapped and containing the recipe. Profits were shared by Stake and Wards. Another Stake, covering a rather small area, found Silver Socials stimulated interest in Relief Society 152 to the extent of considerably increasing the enrollment as well as being remunerative. The Stake was divided into four sections and a large and very attractive home was utilized in each section. Every woman in the Stake was given a personal invitation to the social being held in the unit in which she resided. The finest talent in the Stake was drawn upon to present a program based on a Literary lesson. The artists participating were beautifully costumed. The program numbers were rotated, thus the same program was presented in each home. Light but attractive refreshments were served and voluntary donations received. Stake officers presided at each home. The fact that these socials were held in beautiful homes seemed to promote interest and support. A Flower Show was a gorgeous and successful enterprise. So many flowers were on display and so artistically were they arranged that the hall was a veritable bower of loveliness. A fee was charged to enter flowers for competition. Interest was so keen that there were over 100 entries. Flowers, plants, slips, etc., which had been donated were sold. A Flower Queen was an added attraction. During the afternoon an orchestra and the Relief Society choruses provided entertainment. In the evening the story of Persephone, the Goddess of Spring, was depicted in pageant. Light refreshments were offered for sale during the entire day and a small admission charged. A Stake Opera did much to arouse | interest in Relief Society, to encourage Relief Society music, and to create Stake spirit. A colorful light opera suitable for mature voices was selected. The chorus comprised an equal number of singers from each ward selected by the Ward Relief Society choristers. Try-outs were RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE held for the selection of leads. Beautiful yet inexpensive costumes were designed and made by the Work and Business Departments. Scenery was also made through the co-operation of the brethren. Each ward made a large unusually clever poster which was hung in a conspicuous place in the ward amusement hall as one feature of the advertising. The Sunday evening before the performance soloists were sent to each ward and rendered well chosen selections from the opera. The opera was a credit to the organization and a great financial success. Where there is a picture show in the stake it has been found paying to sell tickets on a % basis. Through the kindness of the management of a show house in one stake the Relief Society was allowed 50% of all tickets sold and used and 100% where tickets were sold and not used. The stake printed their own tickets but the management secured an advertisement for the back of the ticket which defrayed the expense of printing. The greatest of care must be exercised, however, to see that a picture sponsored by the Relief Society is a suitable one. Unique or novel dances with a popular orchestra, a good floor, and a good floor manager are usually successful. Pageants based on Relief Society work, particularly the educational courses secure the support of the people. Ice cream, strawberry, or harvest festivals, have been a source of revenue in some stakes. Sponsoring lectures, particularly illustrated ones, readings, book reviews or musicals may be profitable when the artists participating are exceptionally good. Whatever the activity undertaken by a stake it is imperative that the approval and whole-hearted support RAISING FUNDS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY of the ward organization be secured. Stake organizations must bear in mind that the wards have their own organizations to finance and should plan so as to interfere as little as possible with ward activities. On the other hand ward organizations must realize that the stake organizations exist for service to the wards and has no place, save the wards, from which to draw. Co-operation is essential to success. In almost any undertaking it is wise to plan early enough to allow thorough preparation and extensive advertising. 153 Activity should be presented at a time somewhat removed from any other major activity. Success is more often assured when tickets are sold in advance. This requires an enthusiastic, accurate, energetic ticket manager. Success must not be measured in terms of money alone. The development of the women, the contacts made possible, the spirit created are of the greatest importance. "There is no excellence without labor." No Compromise With Evil By Josephine Gardiner Moench WE are beset with many temptations today, but let us consider if we are tempted beyond our power to resist. Have we, who claim to be the descendants of God's chosen people, the strength and courage which Bible history shows us they possessed? Can we picture a temptation stronger than was brought to bear upon Daniel and his companions? They were not only given the privilege of partaking of what was considered in the king's household the choicest food and wine in all the land, but they were commanded by the king to do so. But we are told that "Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank," and begged that for ten days they be privileged to choose their own food and drink. What was the reward of resisting the temptation which was placed before them? We read, "Now God had brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the prince of the king's eunuchs... So he consented to them in this matter and proved them ten days, and at the end of ten days their countenances appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat." So the servant consented that Daniel and his companions should choose the food they ate. We can rightfully suppose that they lived up to the highest standard they knew in other respects during the three years in which they were in training. At the end of that time they were brought before the king and he "communed with them... And in all matters of wisdom and understanding that the king inquired of them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and astrologers that were in all his realm." "THE same laws apply to the youth of today as to Daniel and his companions. To those who have the same high resolve as Daniel, that they will not defile themselves with food and drink and riotous living which their intelligence tells them is injurious to their bodies and their souls, will be given the same reward of strength, endurance, and wisdom, Interesting Monotony By Florence Ivins Hyde SUPPOSE I should have felt ] complimented when I was told that I am too intelligent to spend my life "keeping house." "The monotony of it makes me nervous," my acquaintance said, "and besides that I think we owe something to the public." Instead of puffing up as perhaps I should have done, I bristled. I almost resented the sympathy of this woman who leaves her one child to grow up alone while she spends the mornings in her car and the afternoons playing bridge or at some "culture club." And so in my own mind I began to "throw my quills." Such women are exceedingly generous with their sympathy and advice. They could just weep for Mary Gray when her sixth child was born. They feign the greatest compassion because the husband of Mrs. M. Doesn't earn enough to furnish her with hired help. "It is enough," I have heard them say, "to have to plan all your work without having to execute it too." They think that to be parasitic is an evidence that fortune has smiled upon them. I have seen some look with a supercilious air of compassion upon their unfortunate sisters, never realizing that this housewife whom they pity, this slave who grinds away at her job, has her own powerful defense. MAY women relish the advice of such writers as Dorothy Dix when she says that every woman should take a vacation away from her husband and children, once a year. That when she has cooked 1095 meals, washed that many dishes, and made more than that number of beds, she has earned a vacation. They absorb with interest the stories of such writers as Sinclair Lewis when he describes the boresome life of the small town woman. Such daily tasks as the routine of hearing her husband build a furnace fire every morning, "got on her nerves'? So completely that her only alternative was to walk away and leave it all. Perhaps it does not occur to them that a housewife can be well adjusted and see romance even in housework. For rearing a family covers a multitude of arts; it taxes the ingenuity and intelligence to the very limit, and women who are doing the job successfully, look almost with disdain upon the woman who feeds her family from cans. "THE profession of housewifery can be both stimulating and remunerative. With her first child, a woman's serious problems begin. She must learn something of nutrition and if she does it as it should be done, her mental capacity will be taxed, equally, I am sure, with the bridge player. Understanding the "why" of feeding the family places her on a par with the profession of medicine. It is not long before the wideawake mother begins to wonder, "What stories should my child hear?" and as she delves into the fine books at hand in an effort to answer this question, she learns that nothing a child ever learns afterward, influences him more than the stories told in his childhood, a challenging statement. And when as she proceeds, the truth begins to sink in that human destiny is largely shaped by the nurture or neglect of childhood INTERESTING MONOTONY  she discovers that her life's work is mapped out. And to her it is not a sacrifice, for in her attempt to understand her family and to solve its problems, she is led into a study of most of the problems of life, from bookkeeping to all the things that make for the enrichment of life. WHEN her child begins to talk and she thinks it unusually bright or as in some cases unusually dull, it is exceedingly stimulating and wholesome to find out what other children have done in the way of developing a vocabulary, and if she has enough intellectual curiosity, she is led into a study as fascinating as the adventures of Monte Cristo, himself.. PERHAPS the time comes when she feels her child is not reaching the heights in school grades that some other child is doing, and she wonders why. A study of the intelligence of school children is one of the most interesting studies science has to offer. From it she soon learns that although children differ vastly in mental ability, the schools still hold them all up to the same standards of excellence,—a problem worth looking into. A large proportion of children are forced to leave school with little preparation for life, simply because they are intellectually incapable of mastering the curriculum which the school has set up. Interest, will power, social adaptability, leadership, personality, all have a great influence upon success, but some of the saddest failures in life are due to the selection of a vocation which requires a higher grade of ability than the individual possesses 155  One feels a certain security in the knowledge that many such mistakes might be prevented by the use of intelligence tests. All these facts make this housewife wonder, "what can I do about it all?' And from here the path is not long to a serious study of human behavior, involving such practical home problems as correct habits, cooperation in the home, the conflicts and escapes of youth and adolescence, religious' education, and many other constantly recurring problems. She has a comforting experience when she learns that mental conflicts are natural during adolescence, that the solution of the conflict is the secret of existence, that failure to solve it means disaster and that it is possible to learn how to salve it. N this day of confusion it is worth while to learn that religion, like other things, must be taught; that one great truth is to never teaeh anything which has to be unlearned; and that the early habit of straight and unhampered thinking is one of the finest heritages we can give to our children. Every reaction of a child to a situation is just as definite a symptom of his mental and emotional set-up as a temperature is a symptom in disease. And so, handling a family is a job for the elite. Enrichment of life does not consist of frills and publicity. Notoriety is not the thing to be sought after. It is infinitely more satisfying to hear a son or a daughter say, '"Mother, let's have a grate fire and read," than to be asked to speak before some club, A mother par excellence is hard to compete with. A Rational Proposal By Vivian R. McConkie HEN in human industry it \) \ was discovered that two people working together could accomplish more than the sum of their work separately, the beginning of the modern doctrine of industrial co-operation began. The same theory proves true in the uniting of efforts of ecclesiastical organizations. In any organization cooperation of the different members of the group is essential for efficient and wholesome activity. Likewise, the co-operation of groups is a step toward a bigger, more concentrated, and influential program. The virtue and permanence of this closer relationship would be insured by a hygienic, progressive attitude, which would avert disintegrating conditions and would maintain coherence and solidarity by purposive activity in the performance of significant organization projects, to which all could contribute for a common purpose. As a result an attitude of confidence would pervade the organizations, for confidence is developed and is maintained by purposive activity and by productive achievements, without which the desired results of our collective efforts can scarcely be achieved. If the art of working together is helpful to social and economic causes it would be equally helpful in church organization, for all of the members of the church have, or ought to have the same purposeful aim in view. UST as integration is the most important characteristic of the wholesome individual personality, it is the most significant characteristic of the mechanics of church groups. Homogeneity is an equally desirable condition for the women managed auxiliaries. The Relief Society, the Young Women's, and the Primary Associations are working for the same great cause, that is, to help their members save themselves. The integration of these organizations is vitally important, for it causes them to fit more perfectly in the plan of redemption, and is not too much to be hoped for. It can be effected by the women's organizations, for they have a common purpose,—a common task. But its accomplishment requires co-ordinated interests. WE do the things in life that we are interested in doing. Our interests determine our courses. We make our own elections. We have individual agency, so we classify ourselves both here and eternally. The interests of all mothers, daughters and primary children of the church ought to be challenged. With close co-operation between the organizations of these various groupings, what could not be accomplished in the unifying of interests, by placing first things first. Interests are of relative value. Our daily conduct reveals them, as well as our understanding, our appreciation, and our hearts, for the Lord gives unto the children of men according to the desires of their hearts. We ought, therefore, to elect to desire the things that will take us back into the divine presence. Such lofty purpose needs all available power to help and encourage it on its way. With closer co-operation of the organizations in whose care is entrusted all of the women and children of the church, every member could be accounted for. A RATIONAL PROPOSAL ANY do not have sufficient understanding of the worth while things of life to intelligently evaluate. Many are deceived by the craftiness of men, and follow after vain things, and neglect eternal values. Some church members are interested wholly in educational pursuits. A few have brilliant minds but lack balance and faith in God. With the great variety of existing conditions it is comprehendable why only a part of the women of the Church are enrolled or actively interested in the women's organizations. Our problems are so interrelated that if they were viewed from a larger perspective, with clearness of vision of important and practical affairs, with the co-operative efforts of all of the women and of all of the children in the church, a greater degree of perfection could be reached. No organization would lose its identity through this enlarged vision and extended interests. To do so would merely contemplate unifying efforts and would continually keep in mind the big purpose of it all. The women's organizations of the Church could purposively and attentively co-ordinate their. Plans, and the execution of them, in such a way as to solve many problems that threaten us. For instance, the living of church standards would be a significant task to work on. I have unbounded confidence in the influence of good women, in this respect. Our efforts would be incommensurate. If conditions can not be justified as they are; if there is waste of energy or loss of effort, or failure in attainment, then something ought to be done about it. The Lord has given ' us the organization and the agency to act, and we ought to move forward according to newly created conditions. We ought to keep apace, mechanically, with the need. That seems to be the Lord's plan. If our efforts 157 are less fruitful we ought to inquire whether we ought to mend our methods. How great a force for righteousness it would be if all Relief Society mothers; all Mutual girls, and all Primary children, acted according to their knowledge; if each knew how to live, and if each had the will to purposively co-ordinate mind and body. No wind is favorable to the captain who does not know the port to which he is bound. THE Church Security Plan offers wonderful opportunity for collective planning, co-operatively administered. The plan of the priesthood is a plan of co-operation. The progress of the whole Church program is dependent upon this principle. It seems clear that a co-operative plan for the women's organizations could and ought to be worked out. By that I mean a plan that is best for all concerned, that will obtain the best results. The women ought to develop a plan that would be best for their executive officers,— one that is best for all the members of the organization; one that would give to them the greatest opportunity to serve, and one that would develop the keenest possible helpful desires. It ought to hold up and to magnify the fine standards of the Church, for only through them can there come a high degree of excellence. Careful co-ordination of the efforts of the executives of the Relief Society, and of the Young Women and of the Primary, in the distribution of responsibility to their membership, is an important thing to insure success. All persons must put forth an effort worthy of themselves, then the results will be so much greater. No matter how hard the officers work, with their limited physical strength, they can not hope to accomplish all that their members can do. There must be no lowering of standards in the execution of these 158 duties. On the contrary the standards of the people must be made comparable to the standards of the Church. There must be established, in the hearts of members, a healthy attitude toward projects so estimable as caring for the needy, the development of faith, the establishment of good character, and the understanding of the gospel. Each must be taught that the response of the individual will be representative of themselves; that the gift is worthy the giver. NOTHER virtue of close relationship would be that all would become acquainted with the programs of each other, as well as with their needs, their capabilities, and with their strength, which would inevitably lead to a closer understanding, and to greater love one toward another. Our problems are all so interrelated, and we are all so interdependent that youths' problems are mother's problems, and children's problems are the problems of both youth and mother. Closer co-ordination of these auxiliaries would aid the gospel plan, which has been given for the blessing and for the progress of man, in its forward march, and would aid the women of the Church to more clearly see, as a whole, and to unify their efforts. With this greater interest all special drives, which, after all, are instituted for personal salvation, accomplished through the furtherance of the Lord's purposes, could be accomplished with less effort and with greater efficiency. For instance, the children's hospital penny drive, a project assigned to the Primary, carries individual responsibility, but the mother, who is a Relief Society member, possessing understanding and being aware of the project, could prepare the family to receive the Primary workers, and to satisfy their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE needs. A vast increase of pennies would result, if every family were so organized and taught. Every member of the family would be learning to give. What an achievement! To learn, early and well, how to give. When these primary children and mutual girls become mothers, they, having learned to give, would be disposed to make a suitable monthly contribution to the Relief Society, for charitable purposes. Having been a ward Relief Society president for some years, the need of generosity has been doubly clear to me. People do not give because they have an abundance. Of course, one can not give that which he has not, but generally we give because we have learned to give. Generosity is less universal than is selfishness. Commonly it must be developed. Many people must learn to give or they will never be generous. It is hard to deny one's self of coveted pleasures, or of that which one needs badly, to give for another. We love material substance, and before we can learn to part with it, a long course of training is usually necessary. One must be elevated to a higher level before he is generous. "He must have developed a good heart. We respond because our hearts have been touched, and our training determines whether our hearts can be touched. The statement: "If I had I would give," like many virtues, is over-worked. It would be well if all who could give would do so, and if all who have not would honestly say that they would if they had. But there are only a few who can not give, if it is not more than the widow's mite. Many women would give, not if they had the ability, but if they had the desire to give,—if they were acquainted with generosity, and with the joy of freely giving. The rule is, and it seems natural enough, that the A RATIONAL PROPOSAL needs and the desires of men exceed their ability to acquire, so, when they give it is a sacrifice. By force of long development and of will they learn to place self in the background, and to give because they have cultivated the desire to give, and not because their wants or their needs have been gratified. An exception to this rule is the case of the rich man, which is so rare as to need no comment. I vision the day, when, through close co-operation between the women's organizations of the Church, all Latter-day Saint girls who grow to womanhood in Church activity, and who have homes of their own, will have been taught that they are expected to so budget their expenditures that they can give a monthly contribution to the visiting Relief Society teachers, and who will be willing to do so without pain. With the merging of efforts of these organizations, and with mutual adjustments made, and with the technique of working together learned, duplication of effort will be eliminated. Take for example an enlistment project of "Every member accounted for." One group of workers could make the survey for the three organizations concerned. Assume that the Relief Society visiting teachers were given, early in the season, before the fall meetings begin, a prepared questionnaire, and were asked to fill in the names, addresses, ages, and telephone numbers of the 159 members of the family, From the information an enlistment secretary could prepare a list of eligibles for all three organizations, and place them in the hands of the several executives. Each presidency could, in that manner, acquire all the information regarding prospective members, etc., that a separate group of workers could supply, and what is more important, all of the organizations would become gospel conscious, with relation to the whole scheme of the women's organizations; family interest would be aroused; mothers would be “auxiliary" minded, and all would grow "Tuesday conscious,' and there would be a broadening of services rendered on that day. Finally, the conception that the gospel is for man would impress itself upon us and we could unite our full efforts toward righteousness. We could vitalize such slogans as: Faith enough to trust in the Lord; If the Lord be God, serve Him; A spiritual awakening in the home; Every member of the family accounted for on Tuesday; etc., etc. In short, more of the glorious blessings that the Lord has in store for the faithful would inevitably be our portion, if we would apply maximum co-operative methods to our efforts in accomplishing our Gospel assignment, which greater co-operation, it seems to the writer, could be worked out for the salvation of many and to the glory of the Lord. NATIONS will not war against each other when those who make up the nations have nothing but love and unselfishness in their hearts. The place to start is with one's own self—Lawrence D. Wright. EMPERANCE and labor are the two best physicians of man; labor sharpens the appetite, and temperance prevents from indulging to excess.—Rousseau. Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? RECORDS Take Time to Salvage the Worth Whiles By Lella Marler Hoggan "Having had a great knowledge of the goodness and the mysteries of God therefore I make a record of the proceedings in my days." I Nephi 1:1. Since the beginning of time truth has been recorded for the good of humanity. The first truths, written in the rocks by the hand of Nature, tell the story of the creation of the world, a story that men are today slowly and studiously deciphering. Ancient Scripture, man's written testimony of God's dealings with His children, has for long years been a guide to the Christian heart. In loving remembrance of the Master's great work, his Apostles wrote the story of his life and his message, that it might be passed on to other generations for their eternal betterment. When in ancient times, the Prophet Lehi and his family began their journey into a new world, it was necessary that they should carry with them the recorded Word of God, even though it had to be obtained at the cost of a man's life. "It is better that one man should perish," directed the spirit, "than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief." (1 Nephi 4:13) The Nephites of this early day, were a record making people. They. Had a religion and a literature. They LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY cherished the traditions and the religious belief of their forefathers, the Israelites. The Lamanites were influenced by no such civilizing force, and they became a degenerate nation. Without records men do not reach a high degree of civilization. The uplifting influence of the recorded word is essential to growth and development. A vital part of the Church of Jesus Christ in these latter days, rests on the sacred record of Mormon, the ancient prophet and historian. Out of the world's confusion of 1830, came the restored Gospel with all of its promises for women. Twelve years later, the Woman's Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. His words of instruction and inspiration were recorded and carefully preserved by the organization. During the subsequent journeys of the Church, from state to state, this record was held in safe keeping. After the tragic death of the Prophet, it was valued even more highly than before. When the Saints began their westward trek, it was stowed carefully away with their precious treasures, and was carried more than a thousand miles across the barren plains. And when the organization again became active, the record was brought forth, that its inspired teachings might give strength and courage, comfort and cheer to the women of Zion, Paul of old, gathered together the truths of the Master's teaching, and through his own great epistles, preserved for humanity the Gospel philosophy in all its strength and beauty. In a similar manner, the Relief Society women went through their 161 early day records and gleaned out the Gospel truths that were to guide them in their activities. These truths give the foundation principles and the philosophy and purpose of the Relief Society work. They reveal the part that women are to take in establishing the Gospel of Peace in these latter days. Here are some of the Prophet's words of revelation and prophetic promise: "The Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls. "And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. "You should be armed always with mercy. Be pure in heart. By union of feeling, we obtain power with God. "Work together in a cooperative manner, and respect and hold sacred the confidences of one another. "If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." Down through the ages the wheat has been separated from the tares and garnered for the use of man. Is it not the obligation of each generation to conserve the best that the past has given, as a contribution to the future? Do not throw away too lightly the lovely gifts of life. Do no permit the really worth-whiles to be tossed into the scrap heap. Standards and institutions that have cost years of inspiration and sacrifice to build, should not be cast on the wheel of chance. The ideals and traditions of a nation and a people, that have been purchased at so great a price, should not be permitted to perish; but should be preserved and wrought into the very life of that people, to 162 uplift and glorify the daily quiet tasks that make up life. MUCH of the history of any nation is gleaned from the daily journals of its pioneers. Is one of these precious journals, stowed away in some old trunk in your home, the ink on the yellowed pages fast fading into oblivion? Is Grandmother sitting at home alone and lonely, with a wealth of priceless memories that have not yet been recorded? Perhaps she is nearly ready to graduate from the school of life. Any day her book of memory may be closed. Are you going to wait too long to record these interesting experiences, and permit them to be lost to you and yours forever? These pioneer stories should be saved. Memories grow dim with age. In a few years there will be no one left to tell these tales from experience. It is a great joy to any person to see his life's story set down in permanent form, but it is especially appreciated by those who tread the sunset trail of life. (GENEALOGICAL and Family Records, Books of Memory, and Treasures of Truth, are invaluable when properly prepared. Certificates of blessing, baptism, ordination, etc., should be carefully kept. What of the miraculous manner in which God's watch care has been over you and yours through the years? Why not make a record of these experiences? Modern Miracles, by Jeremiah Stokes, is a real contribution to the faith-promoting publications of the Church. Our theologians, historians, biographers and poets, from year to year, are adding to and enriching the literature of the Latter-day Saints. And monuments in stone and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bronze are recording the deeds of matchless valor of those early day men and women who trod the lone trails stretching across the prairie, to establish a commonwealth in the heart of the desert. Are you writing the story of your life? When you embark on your last great adventure will your loved ones have to scurry through a few scraps of information to supply the demands of the news reporter? Why not begin the writing of your biography while your mind is still alert and your memory dependable? You know, as no one else can ever know, what has made the biggest mark on your life. In writing your story do not give space to a clutter of uneventful prose; neither should you make it a weather report nor a calendar of social events. In looking back over your life, select the big moments; the events that have shaped your life; the high lights; the sweetest, happiest moments; the tenderest remembrances. You might include some old sweet songs, or bits of poetry, wise sayings, new truths, amusing stories. But above all, let it reach the depths of your inmost life. Make it a record of your highest aspirations, your best plans, your greatest achievements and your loveliest memories; that it may be an inspiration and a joy to all those who read it. Busy mothers seldom find time for daily journals. That need not discourage them. A weekly or a monthly report will serve their purpose quite as well. Some persons make a written report to themselves once each year. A report at regular intervals is an urge to progressive activity. In every life there are some moments of leisure. Why not use a portion of this free time to salvage some of the worth-whiles of life? Appreciation for Value Received By Hattie Miller Moore Relief Society Magazine. The magazine has always been very welcome in my home, but during the last few months that I have been far from my Utah home the day has come to be a red letter day that brings my magazine. Eagerly I turn the pages, thrilled as I do so in anticipation of the enjoyment in store. I notice with joy and pride that one of the foremost contributions bears the name of a friend from our stake at home. Then I turn the pages on through the lesson department to the report of our late magazine drive. I note the long list of names of our sisters from different stakes and missions of Zion; what a band of missionaries working toward the same objective, to get our fine magazine into more homes. The magnitude of its circulation is so great, going as it does to all parts of the world. There are not words to tell, and no way to measure, the far reaching influence for good that this fine publication carries into the lives of the daughters of Zion. Trees mail brought the IN rather a reminiscent mood, my mind travels backward over the years so rich with memories of Relief Society work. I truly feel especially blest, in that during the last sixteen years I have had the very great honor and pleasure of working as an executive officer in three different ward organizations, and as a member on two Relief Society Stake Boards. As I look back over these happy busy years, so rich in experience to me, it seems that all along the way the Relief Society Magazine has stood as a guide to point the way, not only in lesson material, but also as a real spiritual guide, with its high ideals, to a more perfect life. What A contribution to my memory book are the friendships of those many fine women with whom I have labored. To me it is like a rosary of rare gems, as I count them o'er, their different personalities each with its fine individual charms, shine with beauty. What a rosary; God bless them all. What other woman's organization in the whole world today can bring into the lives of its members the rich rewards that we, as Relief Society women enjoy. Would that our dearly beloved prophet could have looked into the future and seen its growth; could have seen its influence on so many lives, not only in relieving human distress but also the testimonies gained by those who are called to carry the work, surely a marvelous work and a wonder, his spirit must hover near and inspire our wise leaders who constitute the general board of our Relief Society, for only through inspiration could they so efficiently carry on the great work. MY grandmother, Elmira Pond Miller, was a member of the first Relief Society of the Church. I loved to listen to the interesting stories of those hard days. She, like many other brave mothers, was driven from her comfortable home in Nauvoo by an angry mob. She was given one hour to pack her little family and what food, clothing, and bedding she could get into one wagon, leaving her dearly loved home with its warm fire burning in the fireplace, and all her household treasures. Among her bedding were two big feather beds. These beds 164 were afterwards emptied, and from the bed ticking shirts were made to be used to help clothe the boys in the Mormon Battalion. Surely her heart was full of the true spirit of Relief Society work, which is one of true service. Dear little grandmother I love her memory. TODAY as I turn the pages of my magazine, my heart overflows with thankfulness and appreciation RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for the many joys and blessings it has added to my life. May our Heavenly Father continue to inspire and bless dear Sister Robison and every member of her board, that through their able leadership our Relief Society work may go steadily onward and upward with our beloved magazine going before as a beacon light to show the way. TO A SPINNING WHEEL By Bird Knowlton Ekman What you could tell if you could speak O Spinning Wheel! What storied bygones that we would seek You could reveal. A century has passed and more We have been told Since you were brought from foreign shore By one then old. The years relentless, score on score Have passed you by. The feet that pressed your treadle floor Now quiet lie. Was there a golden-haired young bride Who spun the flax That grew about the country side, While husband's ax From nearby uncleared forest rung? Do you remember joyous bound Of children's feet Their cries that made the walls resound, The rhythmic beat Of rain on thatched or sodded roof? Was there a grey and dim-eyed crone Too old for tears Who bent where flickering fire-light shone Silent with fears? Of helpless age and she alone Remembering How fearlessly in days gone by Her joy would wing As swift her wheel made distaff fly While she would sing What you could tell if you could speak O Spinning Wheel. Results By Dorothy Clapp Robinson Scene: Any Relief Society room any work day. Women working at ends and one side of quilt—side to audience is rolled to center. Table at right back where art is being taught by Mrs. Tracy. Upstage right is Mrs. Swift mending hose. Mrs. Duwart is upholstering old-fashioned rocker. Counselor in charge of work moves about quietly. Curtain rises as Mrs. Brown enters. Women greet er. Brown: Good morning. Counselor: Morning? Brown: Good afternoon, then. Quilting again and I dare say you have been at it since nine o'clock this morning. I believe you quilt for the love of it. Hailey: (Smiling.) That could be one reason. Another might be that people need bedding. Brown: (Moves about looking at quilt.) Old pants and coats again. How dull. Vincent: (Teacher Topic leader. Cultured, quiet voice.) I have been thinking how bright and colorful it is. Counselor: There is appreciation for you. All of those red pieces were gray until I dyed them. Brown: 1 cannot help admiring your heart more than your judgment. Why shouldn't the one for whom it is intended do the work? I wonder why we do not have more planning in this organization. Our work seems so pointless. We work on and on, never getting anywhere. Always doing things the same old way. President: As long as we have good sisters like you, Sister Brown, to give us the old trousers and coats we shan't worry about the work of it. I think you don't want to quilt. They are making flowers at the table. Brown: They are clever but so impractical. What would I do with one? Tracy: (Holds flower against Brown's coat.) This would look beautiful against your coat. Shall I show you how to make it? Brown: No, thanks. I could buy one and save the time. (Speaks to Swift.) And you are mending hose that need burning. If those are for charity I should think it would pay to buy new ones. Our time is too valuable to work needlessly. Swift: New ones would be this way in a week. President: Sister Brown, they are renovating clothes in the kindergarten room if you would rather sew. Brown: I think I shall quilt. I haven't time to stay long and I may as well quilt as anything. But the work seems so futile. If we knew who we were doing it for it would give us more of a feeling of getting results. Tracy: I think it is fun not to know. I like to imagine the rooms it might brighten; or the kiddies' delight in its warmth. As for the flowers, since the stake leader taught us how to make them I have sold over fifty dollars worth. Vincent: Have you really? I think that is remarkable. Brown: Very good for pin money but it would never make any real impression on a home. Tracy: (Aside.) That is what you think. Neal: (Flings open door and takes in room with laughing glance. Makes salute.) Ladies. I have arrived. President: We were wondering when you would get to meeting again. 166 Counselor: (Laughing) How did it happen? Neal: To tell the truth it was either come to meeting or have head lines in the morning paper. Secretary: That sounds desperate. Was it really that urgent? Neal: Worse. I had a feeling I should take a vacation. Move over, someone, and let me quilt a fan. Tracy: How about learning something new? Neal: No, thank you. I came to talk, not to learn. I want sociability. Pass the needles. Now where is the thread? Thanks. (Threads needle and sits between two women.) President: You should come every week. Shut in as you are with babies and a sick mother-in-law you need to get away more often. Neal: Oh, no. Oh, no. Lesson days give me no chance to talk and that is why I leave home. Vincent: One can tell you have not been attending classes or you would not have made such a statement. We do give our women opportunity for expression, constructive self-expression. Oakes: (From art table. She is an old poorly dressed woman.) I think it is the lessons that give the Spirit to the work. Neal: Class Leaders must have changed since my day. As I remember them they did all the talking. President: Certainly they change. Relief Society has never stood still. We move forward learning new and better ways. Brown: J was just remarking before you came in, Mrs. Neal, that we need to have our work planned so we shall get better and more certain results. Hall: (Cultured, fashionably dressed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, enters holding girl's coat.) Will you look at this? Would you ever guess this material was ten years old? I am so proud of it. Do you know this is the first time in my life I have ever made over an article of clothing. I am as proud as if it were fancy work. Swift: (Quietly.) It is much better than fancy work. President: It is a work of art, my dear.. Hall: But I could never have done it so well if Mrs. Holden had not been so patient with me. She taught me the steps one by one. When it is done in the right way it is not hard at all. And it is much more interesting than anything I have done before. President: And the beautiful thing about it, Marcia, some little girl will take as much pride in wearing it as you have in making it. Hall: That is one thing I should never have learned outside Relief Society. I started it through a sense of duty and found it to be interesting. I had always thought I was too busy to be bothered with such things. While all the time my closets were crowded with things that might have been used. I shall have another article ready by next work day. (Exits.) President: Time for reports. Where is my secretary? (Sec. Takes books and both exit.) Melton: (Puts head in door.) There is a woman here who wants to see Erva Tracy in a hurry. Tracy: Forme? Are you sure? Melton: Isn't your name Mrs. Orton Tracy? Better hurry. (Exit Tracy and Melton.) Vincent: 1 do hope nothing has happened again. She has had so much trouble lately. Hailey: You would never guess it to see her and she seldom misses RESULTS a meeting. I don't know what the art department would do without her. Brown: That illustrates a point I was trying to make a while ago. We are not practical enough. A woman on relief should by all rights be learning renovating instead of art. (Oakes lifts head sharply.) Neal: Have a little mercy on her. She probably eats, sleeps and has her being with that. A change is good for the soul. Counselor: (Looks up from threading needle.) And she is not on relief. Brown: Oh, I beg pardon. I thought—. Counselor: They were, but when the Church asked its members to get off relief they did so at once. They believed they could find something. Neal: Did they find something? Counselor: Nothing steady yet; but he has been ill, you remember or perhaps you didn't know about It. Vincent: Before Mrs. Brown came in we were discussing the lessons on Child Guidance, Have any of you read the one in this month's magazine? Hailey: My magazine just came yesterday. (She smiles.) Trust Edna to bring us back if we get too near the gossip line. Vincent: When discussing personalities it is easy to drop into gossip. It is such a waste of time when our magazine and lessons give us such a field for constructive thinking. That is the big lesson Relief Society has taught me. It keeps me so busy I have not time for negative thinking. Secretary: (Appears at door.) Will the first district teachers come to report? 167 Counselor: They are working with the machines. (Exit Sec.) I wonder why Erva has not come back. Do you suppose she went home? Baker: (Enters.) I have the Sacrament set washed, Now what shall I do? Counselor: The Refreshment Committee are serving today. Would you like to help them? Baker: Oh, yes. I don't get a chance to do that very often. (Exit. ) Duwart: There, my chair is finished, It has been waiting many years for that new dress. I have kept it in the attic because I couldn't afford to have it upholstered. That chair came across the plains in 1854. Hatley: I didn't know your folks were pioneers. Duwart: Yes. My grandparents were Mormons if I am not. But I like your Relief Society so well who can say what I might be some day. Swift: (Puts last hose in bag.) There. Someone's mind will be at peace for a few days. It must be time for my report. (Exits.) (Enter Tracy looking white and excited.) Hailey: Erva, what is the matter? You look like you had seen a ghost. Sit down. (Urges her toward Duwart's chair. Tracy sits. ) All: Is something wrong? Did someone get hurt? Tracy: (Lifts head. Tries to laugh.) No. Nothing is wrong. But I did see a ghost. The ghost of Hope. Oh, girls, I have work. Work. I can't believe it. Four months at a good salary. Teaching art in a girl's school. (Rises.) Oh, you can't guess what this means to me. 168 Oakes: Yes. I think I know. I know exactly what it means. Tracy: I must go home and tell Ortan. Counselor: (Wiping eyes.) They are going to serve. Can you wait? Tracy: I would rather go at once. Brown: (Stands up suddenly.) Mrs. Tracy, will you let me drive you home? I should love to—after what I said. I want to do it for you. Tracy: Will you? It is such a long walk and I want to get there quickly. (At door she turns.) I shall always be grateful to Relief Society for giving me my chance. My right to take care of my own. When this is done something else will take its place. I know it will. And—and, oh, it isn't just the skill I have developed with my fingers but the lessons, too. They have given me a background. I shall be able to talk to those girls, I shall be able to meet them on their own ground. Baker: (Enters.) Will you all come into the kindergarten room, please. We are ready to serve. (Exit Brown and Tracy.) (Women leave except Counselor and Oakes. Counselor: (To Oakes.) Go on with them. I will get this off the frames so when they get back we can bind it. (Starts taking quilt from frame.) Oakes: Maybe I should bind it at home. Counselor: No. We will finish it for you. It will take only a few minutes. Mrs. Brown isn't as hardboiled as she sounds. You must not mind what she said. Oakes: I don't mind much but she did rile me a little. I suppose I should do better but taking care of grand-children at my age is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE kinda hard. Especially when I have to help with the living, too. I was so thankful you didn't tell her who the work was for. Counselor: Why, we never tell anyone that. One of the first lessons we must learn is to "'not let the right hand know what the left hand does." Oakes: I do appreciate your help. Getting them stockings done alone will save me days of work for I am so slow at that. But didn't Mrs. Brown rile you when she said them things about Relief Society and getting results? Counselor: No. We hear that every once in a while. It is a waste of time to pay any attention to it. After all, eyes see and hearts understand each in its own way. Our work is to find what the women need and supply it if we can. Like Erva Tracy. When she started to our meetings she was starved for something pretty. On the other hand Mrs. Hall has known nothing but beauty and security. We tried to awaken in her a sense of duty toward others not so fortunate as herself. Oakes: You can't always tell, anyhow. Counselor: That is certainly true. Results seldom come in the form in which we expect them. Then why should we try to judge? A more understanding heart than ours will do that. Have you heard the verse that says: "The dream I dreamed was beautiful, most eagerly I tried To bring its counterpart to life but longings were denied; Wearied, at length, I paused, and then this vision came to me, The gain I'd made in effort was my dream's reality." Verse by Della Adams Leitner. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon MARCH Kindnesses freely bestowed are the joy of life and the only riches one takes into eternity. Dk. MAGDA de SPUR, of Budapest, is giving a course of lectures in the United States on comparative conditions of women in the different nations. She laments the fact that today Hungarian women have fewer privileges than they had in the 13th and 14th centuries. Then, they were permitted to serve in their upper legislative house. Dr. MAGNA de Spur said: "You American women, of all others, are treated more like human beings." MME. HETTIE DYHRENFURTH holds the world's record among women for mountain climbing. Last year with her husband she received the Olympic gold medal for the best mountaineering, after their ascent of the Himalaya, "Throne of the Gods." MRS. OSA JOHNSON, deprived forever of the companionship of her valiant husband, keeps up her wonted courage, and in her convalescence from the injuries received in the plane accident, is planning a return to explorations in the jungles. MRS. PATRICK CAMPBELL, erstwhile actress, still beautiful and golden voiced, entertains her friends with readings from her favorite plays and her new book on "Hollywood." LUELLA FERRIN SHARP, one of Zion's sweetest singers, died the last of January. She will be remembered by thousands for her generous bestowal of her gift of song. HELEN HOWE, a new and brilliant monologuist, unlike her contemporary, Cornelia Otis Skinner, uses no scenery, no makeup, no changes of costume beyond a casual scarf, or fan, for a touch of color, yet her "Characters and Caricatures" are living presentations of types and circumstances. DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP and Mrs. Susannah T. Robison, two notable Utah mothers, celebrated their 90th birthdays recently. Both still enjoy their Church and social activities. MRS. REBECCA N. CUTLER and Mrs, Roseltha Hyde Woolf, two notable Relief Society stake presidents, died in the late winter. MARTHA ABBA, of Milan, Italy, is one of the true dramatic artists like Katharine Cornell who has never succumbed to Hollywood gold. Pirandello has dedicated his two last plays to her. JOSEPHINE LAWRENCE'S new novel, "The Sound of Running Feet," is an interesting study of present day sociological problems but like her other novels, it fails to solve them; and yet, who can? PEARL BUCK'S last two books, "The Exile," and "Fighting Angel," like Alice Hobart's "Yang and Yim," treat of missionary life among the Chinese. They are true stories of her mother and father thrillingly and wonderfully told. Notes to Reorganizations AMONG the most recent reorganizations in our Stake Relief Societies are the Duchesne and West Jordan. News of this type always brings with it a certain pang of regret, for in the years of devoted service given by the fine Stake workers a very strong bond is established between the sisterhood of Stake Presidents and the General Board of Relief Society. New Presidents are always welcomed into the fold, and fine cooperation follows, but those who have served for so long and so faithfully never lose their place in the hearts of their co-workers. At the Quarterly Conference held in Duchesne November 21, 1936, Sister Evelyn C. Moffitt was released. Sister Moffitt has served in the organization for the past twenty-eight years, first as President of the Boneta Ward, when the Ward was organized; later she was counselor to Sister Holgate in the old Duchesne Stake, and on June 20, 1920, when the Duchesne and Roosevelt Stakes were divided, Sister Moffitt was chosen as President of Duchesne Stake. The position she has filled faithfully and well until the last conference. Quoting from an account coming from her own locality: "During this period of time she has endeared herself to all of the officers of the Stake and Wards in which she has labored. Her life has been an inspiration, a ray of sunshine and hope to all who have met her. Her home in Summer is a flower garden bursting with beauty and fragrance from early Summer until late Fall; even in the Winter her home is filled with flowers. It is small wonder that when or wherever we meet her her countenance the Field beams with hope, love and charity that make us forget our cares and we look to that which is bigger and better in life." Sister Margaret M. Pace succeeds Sister Moffitt as President, and the best wishes of the Relief Society General Board go to both sisters. HE West Jordan Stake Relief Society was reorganized Sunday, January 10, 1937, at the regular Union Meeting. Sister Mary J. Pixton, who was chosen Stake President May 22, 1927, was released. This was made necessary due to her health which has failed for some time. During the ten years of Sister Pixton's Presidency she has brought to her work a spirit of service and devoted self-sacrifice. The General Board has greatly appreciated the fine cooperation which they have always found in her, and in her retirement the sincere wish is expressed that her health may be completely restored, and that she may live to bless Relief Society with her service for many years yet to come. Sister Evelyn Neilsen, former President of the Riverton Second Ward was chosen to succeed Sister Pixton, and we are very sure that a bright future is in store for this Stake. Daughters' Day T the Presidents' Breakfast at April Conference last year, it was decided by unanimous vote to establish a day in Relief Society in which the mothers might be honored and the daughters brought to see the possibilities and the beauty in Relief Society. We have heard from many quarters that this day was most successfully celebrated, but we wish to correct what seems to be an erroneous NOTES TO THE FIELD impression as to the name. We do not wish to have what might be confusing with other names and days in other organizations, so the name chosen for this particular day in Relief Society is "Daughters' Day." April was selected as the time for the observance of Daughters' Day, as it is the natal month of former President Clarissa S. Williams, who has given more daughters to the world than any other General Relief Society President. The exact date, however, is not as important as the observance. The Stakes are at liberty to choose a time in the Spring or early Summer when they can have the most successful celebration, keeping in mind the honor to our beloved President. Literary Department IN response to numerous requests for reading material, the following list is suggested: "Joseph Smith—An American Prophet"—John Henry Evans. "Charles C. Rich"—John Henry Evans. "Grandmother Brown's Hundred Years"—Harriet Connor Brown. "Audubon'—Constance Rourke. "The Proselyte'—Susan Ertz. "Twenty Years at Hull House" —Jane Addams. "Jane Addams"—J. W. Linn, "My Friend, Julia Lathrop'— Jane Addams. "North to the Orient" —Ann Morrow Lindbergh. "My Garden of Memory"—Kate Douglas Wiggin. "A Backward Glance"'—Edith Wharton. "Take it Easy'—-Walter Pitkin. "An American Doctor's Odyssey"—Victor Heiser, M. D. "Actions and Reactions'—Roger W. Babson. "The Exiles"—Pearl Buck. 171 "Books as Windows'—Mary Lamberton Becker. "Microbe Hunters''—Paul de Kruif. "Men Against Death'—Paul de Kruif. "They Lived: A Story of the Brontes." "Red Mother"'—Frank A. Linderman. "The Prairie President"—Raymond Warren. "Schumann Heink"—The Last of the Titans'"—Mary Lawton. "The Son of Man'—Emil Ludwig. "The Good Earth'—Pearl Buck. "Henry Van Dyke. Biography"— Tertuis Van Dyke.: "Companionable Books'?—Henry Van Dyke. "Little Journeys to the Homes of Famous People'"-——-Elbert Hubbard. "Through Memories Halls'"—Orson F, Whitney. "An American Idyll'—Cordelia S. Parker. "He Knew Lincoln'—Ida M. Tarbell. "Giants in the Earth'—O. E. Rolvaag. "The Book Nobody Knows"— Bruce Barton. "Larry'—The John Day Company. "The Blue Flower,'—Henry Van Dyke. "The Prophet'—Gibraum. Theology Department HE present Theological lessons— the study of "The Ministry of The Savior" — are meeting with great favor and it is said the classes can scarcely wait for the month to pass, because of the interest felt in this much told but ever new story. Neither is this surprising, for where is there a subject so broad 172 and tense; so full of absorbing interest and dramatic situations. It isa story of a life, so brief it can be written by the apostles in less than thirty pages, and yet so full of living values it can be read forever. The teachings of the Savior, so simply, and yet so beautifully drawn, from the depths of social economics to the heights of spiritual furors touch alike the heart of the child and the mind of the sage. Knowledge gained from this study opens the door of the heart and causes one to more clearly valuate and interpret life's problems. It can scarcely help to awaken a desire to serve more nobly, to live more truly, and to judge more kindly. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It is quite natural and in order that these lessons should be followed by testimony bearing, and what rich experiences are brought forth when the soul is charged with the divine spirit, One need not go afar for wondrous or miraculous happenings, for each day brings its own wonders and miracles. True there are in the Church many instances of the manifestations of the holy spirit, and answers to the prayers of faith. Life is full of the goodness and the wisdom of the Lord, to testify of these things and of the joy the gospel brings, strengthens one in faith, and hope, and charity. "Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, and that seek him with the whole heart." FOR WOMEN WHO LOVE TO SEW By Vesta P. Crawford Give to women who love to sew Printed cloth of gay design, Lace that's sheer and webby fine, Organdy for sash and bow, Pink batiste for ruffled clothes, Thread in colors blue and rose; Give to them who love to sew Smallest buttons made of pearl— And give to each a little girl! Notes from the Field Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary  TWIN GROVE'S WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, YELLOWSTONE STAKE Yellowstone Stake HE above picture is that of the officers of the Relief Society in the Twin Groves Ward. This was taken at the close of the seventeenth of March celebration last year. The picture has very special significance to Relief Society as it is so fine a blending of the more mature sisters, with their gentle, sweet faces, expressing the spirit of Relief Society, and the large number of young women who are interested in carrying on the work which has been so well accomplished by their mothers. It is this spirit of youth, seasoned and guided by life experience, that makes the Relief Society able to be the great power for good which we find it in our Stakes.