LESSON DEPARTMENT Problems (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. Show in as many ways as you can how the nations of the earth have been blessed by the scattering and gathering of Israel. 2. Point out how it is impossible to understand the Bible properly 183 without adequate knowledge of the part Israel is to play in the salvation of mankind. 3. From a consideration of recent events show how the Jews may be gathered to Palestine. 4. Explain as well as you can why the Christ ministered only to the house of Israel. Teacher's Topic (For May). THE Goop SAMARITAN Luke 10:25-37 ND, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? "He said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? "And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself. "And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right; this do, and thou shalt live. "But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbor? "And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. "And by chance there came down a certain priest that way; and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. "And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. "But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was; and when he saw him, he had compassion on him. "And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. "And on the morrow, when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? "And he said, He that showed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise." In the question, 'Who is my neighbor?" Christ shows the person is our neighbor who is in need. This parable exposes those who make great pretentions but whose lives are not consistent with them.. The Samaritans were hated and despised by the Jews. They would have no dealings with them. Christ spoke this parable to the Pharisees 184 who in their proud self-righteousness held aloof from all others. According to their teachings none but Jews would be considered neighbors. The good Samaritan permitted no consideration of family, friendship, personal inconvenience or nationality to influence him in his work of charity. It was enough for him that the unhappy man lying there on the road needed his help, Before the Samaritan resumed his journey he finished his work of charity; he did all that was necessary to be done. To this beautiful example which he had related) Jesus added this question, (Luke 10:36): 'Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE However the lawyer might feel about what a Samaritan would do, he must admit that the good Samaritan had proved himself a neighbor to the poor unfortunate man. Christ added, "Go and do thou likewise." That is, to give service to any one who needs your help, for he is your neighbor. No doubt you could relate instances where the spirit of the good neighbor has been shown and where true neighborliness has not consisted alone in giving material relief. Discussion According to this parable could there be an individual unworthy of assistance if he were in need? How can one be "a good neighbor" in our present day? Work and Business Floors AND Floor Coverings Handicraft, pp. 28-30 HE floor, besides serving as a support for the furnishings of a room and affording a stable and level footing for the occupants, is the real foundation for the equipment of a room. If this foundation is not good, the effectiveness of all the rest of the room is greatly reduced. Floors may be made of a large variety of materials, but wood seems to be the best for most indoor rooms. Concrete, tile, mosaic stone, and brick all have their place, but are not desirable where people sit and have their feet in contact with the floor for any length of time. However, a floor may have the appearance of tile by following the instructions given on page 28 in "Handicraft For Every Woman." The kind of wood to use for a floor is a matter of individual taste. Oak is the most popular because of its beautiful grain, rich coloring, strength and durability. Maple, beech, birch, pine and fir are also used. No matter of what material the floor may be made, the finish is an exceedingly important consideration. Since the floor is also the background of the room, it should always be the heaviest note, as dark colors suggest qualities of strength and support. It has been said that a dark color and a wax finish constitute the magic formula for floors whether they be hard wood or soft Old floors where the physical condition is good but the surface is not satisfactory for waxing may very advantageously be stained or painted with floor or deck paint, or they LESSON DEPARTMENT may be effectively grained by following directions found in "Handicraft For Every Woman," pages 28 to 30. No floor is so bad that it cannot be made really good looking with stain or paint properly applied. Walnut is the first choice in color for a floor stain, since it is dark and glows with beautiful reflections, and it is so neutral that it blends with any furniture. If the floor is in bad condition with uneven boards and unsightly cracks, a crack-filler will work wonders. Then, too, the floor that is painted some color is decorative, especially with a rag rug or a hooked rug as coverings. Some helpful suggestions for making rugs are found in "Handicraft For Every Woman," pages 98 to 100. In most rooms the rug covers so much of the floor surface that it in reality becomes the foundation. The decoration of a room begins with the floor coverings, which act as a keynote. For all furnishings. Choose the rug to contrast with the walls. A contrasting color gives a richer effect than a corresponding color; that is, if walls are brown or tan, a blue rug or one in which blue predominates will be more effective than a brown or a tan one. The correct balance of values between floor coverings and walls adds a sense of space and airiness to the room that cannot otherwise be obtained. Rugs break a room up, making it look smaller, while carpets draw it together giving the maximum appearance in size. For a long narrow room the use of a carpet is the only way to avoid the appearance of a hall. The size of the rug is important; decorators tell us that a too 185 small rug is as much a misfit as a too small dress. The question of durability in floor coverings is most important. The better grades of domestic rugs such as the Wiltons, Axminsters, and Chenilles are made very much in the same way as the Orientals with a high upstanding pile which is closely and firmly bound together at the back, and they are fully as durable as the Orientals. Then, too, as in the Orientals, the yarn in the better grades of domestic rugs is dyed in the skein before being woven. Since the wool forms the entire face and wearing surface of a rug or carpet, the amount used is a big factor. One can usually tell something about the amount of wool by the height of the pile and the closeness of the weave. The quality of a Wilton rug is judged by looking at the back. The more rows per inch the better the grade. Linoleum is another useful covering; in fact, it is one of the popular demands of the day. It has been said that linoleum has "come out of the kitchen" and found a welcome in living room, dining room, bed room, and hall. Fiber rugs and grass rugs are colorful and serviceable for use in sunrooms and porches. After acquiring a perfect floor covering treat it with respect, for care and economy. Regular cleaning of rugs to prevent dirt from working down into the back and possibly cutting the threads, and removing spots before they have had a chance to get ground into the pile, will keep the floor covering looking fresh and will add vastly to their length of life.  Literature (For Third Week in May) Lesson VIII Julia Warp Howe IN THE autumn of 1844 Mrs. Howe returned to America, and located in what was known as the ''Doctor's Wing" of the Perkins Institution. Up until now she had known Boston only as a visitor. "She had been the acknowledged queen of her home and circle in New York. Now there were many adjustments to make. She was the wife of a man who had neither time nor inclination for society; a man of tenderest heart but of dominant personality, accustomed to rule?" a man devoted to causes to her known only by name, one who was to spend comparatively little time in the home. The daughters Laura and Maud, respectively, Mrs. Richards and Mrs. Elliott, who are the writers of the biography, say of their father that during the thirty-four years of their mother's married life, "the doctor was captain beyond dispute; yet sometimes the mate felt she must take her own way and took it quietly." Nevertheless, while the book gives ample evidence that Mrs. Howe had problems to meet which any woman must have, married to a man who was both physician and philanthropist, yet there is abundant evidence that she was happily married, and that the children, six in number, enjoyed greatly the home their parents made for them. Dr. Howe soon discovered that his wife was not comfortable at the Perkins Institution so he purchased Green Peace, which turned out to be the children's "Paradise." As Green Peace was out from the heart of Boston, they sometimes spent the winters in Boston, where Mrs. Howe indulged her liking for company, and met, as was her wont through life, the prominent people of her time. It was while she was at Green Peace that she wrote: "Boston has been greatly enlivened during the past month by a really fine opera, with a fine orchestra and chorus, all Italians. The Prima Donna is an artist of the first order, and has an exquisite voice. I have had season tickets and have been nearly every night. This is a great indulgence, as it is very expensive, and I have one of the best boxes in the house, but 'Chev' is the most indulgent of husbands. Think of all he allows me, a house and garden, a delicious carriage and pair of horses." Her daughters say that through her life and her long widowhood she never ceased to call for their father particularly if excited. "Chev" was her usual name. At times we glimpse the long hours of waiting growing out of his many interests. In August, 1846, she wrote to her sister Louisa from Bordentown, where she appears to have been vacationing, "Sumner and Chev came hither with us, and passed two days and nights... Philanthropy goes ahead, and slavery will be abolished, and so shall we." These were the days when the young wife sang in her nursery: "Rero, rero, riddlety rad, This morning my baby caught sight of her Dad. Quoth she, 'Ah Daddy, where have you been?' LESSON DEPARTMENT 'With Mann and Sumner a-puttingdown-sin!' " In 1846 she spent the winter at the Winthrope House in Boston. She writes to her sister Annie who was the youngest of the three sisters: "I have been singing and writing poetry, so you may know I have been happy." She tells later of the friends she entertained. Sometimes they were interested in music and sometimes something else. Sometimes William Storey was at her home at other. Times it was Agassiz, whom she spoke of as "the learned and charming Frenchman." The winter of 1847 was also spent in Boston. John Greenleaf Whittier was a visitor that season. This is what she says of him: "I shall always be glad I saw the poet Whittier in his youth and mine. Sumner, I think, brought him to our rooms and introduced him to me. His eyes glowed like black diamonds?his hair was of the same hue, brushed back from his forehead.... A year or two later my husband invited him to dine, but was detained so late that I had a tete-a-tete of half an hour with Mr. Whittier. We sat near the fire rather shy and silent, both of us. Whenever I spoke to Whittier, he hitched his chair nearer to the fire. At last Dr. Howe came in. I said to him afterwards, 'My dear, if you had been a little later, Mr. Whittier would have gone up the chimney." Mrs. Howe's first child was a girl named Julia. The second child was also a girl. Mr. Howe wished for a son, as fathers are wont to do; but said jokingly to his wife, after the arrival, that "he would forgive her" if she would name her Florence after Florence Nightingale. They had met Florence Nightingale in London. She was then a young woman of twenty-four. She asked 187 Dr. Howe if he thought it would be "unsuitable or unbecoming" for a young Englishwoman to devote herself to works of charity in hospitals and elsewhere, as the Catholic Sisters did. The Doctor replied: "My dear Miss Florence, it would be unusual, and in England whatever is unusual is thought to be unsuitable; but I say to you, go forth if you have a vocation for that way of life; act up to your inspiration, and you will find that there is never anything unbecoming or unladylike in doing your duty for the good of others." The third child was a boy named Henry. Today I think we should describe him as "a lively number." Then came Laura, named after Laura Bridgman, and later Maud. Sometimes those who knew the activities of the parents wondered about the children. To this the daughters answer: "The little Howes were having perhaps the most wonderful childhood that ever children had." At Green Peace they climbed cherry trees, picnicked on the terrace behind the house, played in the fish pond, they were always merry, vigorous, and robust. Sometimes they played in the great dining room, where Flossy would do the dagger dance from Lady Macbeth. Then perhaps the door would open and in would come their father as a bear in his fur overcoat "growling horribly," then they would scamper to the corners "in terrified delight." At other times they gathered around the piano where their mother sang to them the songs of all nations. But as the sixties approached there were dark days in the nation and dark days in the Howe home. Christmas day, 1859, Mrs. Howe gave birth to a second son, named Samuel Gridley, which was his father's name. "His little life was all beautiful, all bright." He was the 188 companion of his mother's walks, the delight of his father's few leisure hours. "For him new songs were made, new games invented. Both parents looked forward to fresh youth and vigor in the sweet companionship. This was not to be. Little Sam died of diphthertic croup May 17, 1863." This heavy sorrow for a time crushed both his parents. His father became seriously ill from grief. His mother found some relief in nursing him and caring for the others; but she wrote to her sister Annie, "I cannot yet write what has come to me, Chev and I feel that we are baptized into a new order oi suffering?those who have lost children, loving them, can never be like those who have not." Then came the Civil War. A month before Little Sammy's birth, Mrs. Howe wrote, saying: "Chev has been greatly overdone by anxiety and labor for Brown." Then comes her own comment about John Brown. "The attempt I must judge insane but the spirit heroic..:. The gallows cannot dishonor him?he will hallow it." In 1861 Mrs. Howe went to Washington with Governor and Mrs. Andrews of Massachusetts, Mrs. Clark and her husband. Her carriage was surrounded by marching regiments. She and her companions sang the songs everyone was singing. Among others 'John Brown's Body." "The _ soldiers were pleased and called out 'Good for you!'" Mr. Clark said to Mrs. Howe, "Why do you not write some good words to that stirring tune?" She replied, "I have often wished to do so." Next morning as she lay waiting for the break of day the words came to her. First, "Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Lord." She lay perfectly still. Line by line, stanza by stanza, the words came sweeping on with the rhythm of marching feet. She saw the long lines swinging into place before her eyes, heard the voice of the nation speaking through her lips. She waited till the voice was silent, till the last line was ended; then sprang from bed, and groping for pen and paper, scrawled in the gray twilight the 'Battle Hymn of the Republic.' " The hymn was first published in the ''Atlantic Monthly." "It made its way rapidly. It was sung, chanted, recited, and used in exhortation and prayer on the eve of battle.... It was the word of the hour and the Union armies marched to its swing." A negro brought word of the victory at Gettysburg to the Northern soldiers in Libby prison. Then McCabe, the fighting chaplain, stood up in the midst of the prisoners and sang, "Glory, glory, hallelujah." After he was released he told of his prison experience at a great meeting in Washington. When he came to Gettysburg "he sang the 'Battle Hymn' once more." People shouted and wept. When the song was ended the voice of Abraham Lincoln was heard, as he exclaimed, "'sing it again!" Browning says, "A man's reach should exceed his grasp or what's a heaven for?" Mrs. Howe certainly reached high when she wrote the hymn. She wrote many good poems but the "Battle Hymn of the Republic," was her supreme achievement. Elsewhere there is authority for the fact that she received $500 for it. This being true, it is $300 more than she received for her first volume of poetry published under the title "Passion Flowers." While in Washington Mrs. Howe saw Abraham Lincoln. He was seated so near the famous portrait LESSON DEPARTMENT of Washington by Stewart as to suggest comparison. Mrs. Howe writes: "On the canvas we saw the calm presence, serene assurance of the man who has successfully accomplished a great undertaking, a vision of health and peace. In the chair beside sat a tall, bony figure devoid of grace, a countenance almost redeemed from plainness by two kindly blue eyes, but overshadowed by the dark problems of the moment." Questions 1. What is Florence Nightingale's claim to fame? Why would a man of Mr. Howe's temperament be interested in her? 2. You have in the lesson a pen sketch of John Greenleaf Whittier and one of Abraham Lincoln. Mrs. Howe uses few strokes; does she make you see both men vividly? 3. Where was the Battle Hymn of the Republic first published? 4. Do you think there is both spirit and artistry in the Battle Hymn 189 of the Republic? If not, tell why. 5. Select some phrases from the poem that sound like the tramp of an army. 6. Which of the five stanzas do you think most poetic? Which is your favorite? 7. Julia Ward Howe says: "From my childhood the Bible had been dear and familiar to me." Trace references from the Bible in the "Battle Hymn of the Republic." Such references not only supply the suggestive quality in which good poetry abounds, but it gives us a figure of speech known as literary echoing. 8. Is there reverence in the hymn? Select some phrases that indicate reverence. 9. Do you think the hymn merits its great popularity? Have the "Battle Hymn" sung and also read it to the class if there is time. Note: Added material may be obtained by reading "Julia Ward Howe," by Laura E. Richards and Maud Howe Elliott. If so, tell why. Social Service Lesson VII THE OBSERVANCE OF THE Law Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chs. 17 and 18. HE BEHAVIOR of the members of society to each other as individuals and in regard to group life as a whole has always been one of the important problems of social life. The attitudes that people build up towards the rights of others, and the willingness with which they temper their actions for the good of all largely determine 'the atmosphere of government. Government has been organized as an administrative power to control and regulate behavior. It is the outgrowth of the small occurrences that underlie the general trend of daily life and may be likened to a rope in which each strand and twist contributes to its character. But some people feel that the social inheritance which has come down through the generations in the name of liberty and freedom grants them the privilege of being a law unto themselves without due regard for the consequences of their actions. They sometimes claim that individual rights justify behavior which is 190 not in harmony with public welfare. Such rights, sometimes called personal liberty, are the outgrowth of centuries of previous experience. But as society has developed and its institutions have become more complex the manner of expressing one's rights has been changed to meet new conditions. The rules which have been devised to govern individual actions have been accepted as laws with the principle of group welfare in mind quite as much as for the protection of individual rights from the unprincipled actions of others, or of individual rights in the name of personal freedom. The willingness with which people comply with these rules, or the laws of government, constitutes the great problem of law observance. The subordination of individual desires to the interests of the group comprises the problem of social control. Greater social control and more willing obedience to the law is an important need of the day. To improve the individual reactions to group situations and to law observance for the benefit of society as a whole, the following purposes will be developed: First: To show the relationship between personal liberty and the social order. Second: To develop an attitude which will contribute to better law observance. Personal liberty may be defined as the rights, privileges, and immunities which are possessed by an individual by virtue of his birth and citizenship. They are his guides in the pursuit of happiness. But since the dawn of history the term "personal liberty" has received various interpretations which have given rise to a great deal of conflict and confusion in its application to humanity. Its present status has been achieved RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at incalculable costs. Every country points with pride to national figures who have given freely of their property, efforts, and even of their lives to bring justice and freedom to its citizens. The roster of national heroes is made up of just such fearless and courageous characters. National spirit and loyalty has thus been developed. The American and French Revolutions were fought in the name of liberty. It is no wonder that today it is considered one of the priceless treasures of humanity and one which should be defended at all cost! In the days when life was simple the privileges of personal liberty were very different from the privileges in the complex industrial world of modern times..' In the agricultural age man lived largely by himself, and, to a wide extent, his pleasures were whatever his fancy desired. Probably, the deepest tradition in the hearts of those who people the North American continent is laid in an agricultural foundation. There are three governments represented on this continent: The Canadian, the United States, and the Mexican. But there are many more nationalities. The population of these various countries is composed of the greatest mixture of peoples on earth. Also, the history of North America has been too brief to establish deep roots in the generations which have occupied the land. Therefore, without long established family traditions, without the welding force of a single race or nationality in any one of the governmental provinces (which condition is especially true of the United States), and without the background of age, relatively speaking, it is natural that the traditions of the countries mentioned should stem from the agricultural period which LESSON DEPARTMENT was the beginning of life in America as it spread from border to border and from coast to coast. It is probably the greatest single common bond in the otherwise contrasting hearts of the people of the American nation. For even those who have come to this country as immigrants since the agricultural age inherit the ideal of personal freedom and rugged individualism which has come down as the common heirloom of this era in American history. And that inheritance, as embodied in the agricultural tradition, places a tremendous emphasis on the ideal of personal liberty and freedom. But it is well known that personal liberty as an ideal has lost much of its gilt-edge meaning in the impact of the industrial age upon the agricultural life. Life has become exceedingly complex. Economic power has become more centered in the hands of the minority, and the destinies of the many are controlled by the few as far as money is concerned. But even this condition has not deprived the great mass of the American people from still enjoying the greatest amount of personal liberty ever known in organized society since the dawn of history. However, since the disappearance of the frontier and the centralization of population, a great socializing force has been brought to bear upon this ideal. And with the increasing complexity of society, personal liberty cannot be maintained without a realization of the relationship of the individual to the group. A well-ordered society depends upon the ascendency of the group over the individual. Personal freedom is an extended condition which reaches from the smallest unit of group life to the largest. Government has been organized to control this ascendency. And individual reactions must be 191 tempered to meet the requirements of group life if the maximum amount of personal freedom is to be enjoyed. Most people are familiar with the inalienable rights which are rehearsed in all of our civic teachings. Among these may be mentioned particularly the privilege of worshiping according to one's conscience, the - freedom of speech, the freedom of the press, and the right to earn an honest living. When life was simple these ideals could be carried out with little regard as to what others might be doing. But as people became more dependent upon one another a greater amount of action in common has come to be recognized as essential to life. This can be accomplished only by the giving up of individual wishes and desires for the sake of the common welfare, or in deference to social judgment and social needs. Another approach to this problem may be made from the educational standpoint. It is a mistake to look upon the child who is trained under the so-called system of "child-centered" education as the privileged child if such training grants him greater freedom than is commensu rate with group life, as he is bound to discover when he attempts to take his place in society. It is the child who is taught the social ideal of the welfare of all and respect for governing powers who is privileged. The social ideal cannot be taught too early in life. And it is just as important for those people who enjoy special privileges and opportunities from economic favor to learn to appreciate the social ideal as it is for the really under-privileged to learn that jealousy, envy and destructive tendencies will not bring about their ideas of personal freedom. To develop harmony of living, or 192 to promote ways of life in which action in common is shared, laws are made for all people to follow. Some laws are permissive, that is, they grant permission to do certain things. Others are prohibitive, and deny the right of undesirable actions. Back of both types of regulation is the essential thought of directing the actions of all for the common good. These rules form the basic law of the land. Since liberty aims to preserve inherited rights for the individual, obedience to law is liberty. Unless the will of the people, as expressed in law, is carried out. The people do not rule. But liberty is secure only as the people actually do govern. Law restrains the arbitrary interference of one person with another. The strong are inclined to take advantage of their strength and destroy the liberty of others. It is the function of law to secure freedom for all and to protect it from destruction at the hands of the violent and the ruthless. Since the greatest amount of personal liberty cannot be enjoyed without some restraining power on those who would take advantage of others, that power, or force, is exercised by government. It is essential that there must be law and a government that has the force to execute the law if there is to be liberty. Such regulation is society's way of preserving the maximum number of personal rights and privileges for each individual. 'The second problem in this lesson, namely: The creation of a sentiment in favor of greater law observance is vital to every living soul. Not only are peace and happiness dependent upon it, but the safety of life itself. A growing toll of death from the careless and_ reckless drivers, the jay-walker who crosses the street at the wrong place, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE merchant who misrepresents the goods he sells, the dairyman who fails to observe principles of sanitation, and the family which knowingly spreads the unseen disease germ are but a few among the thousands of cases which are daily challenging our freedom in the pursuit of happiness. Each violation reveals the need for a greater social consciousness and an improved attitude toward law observance. The need for education in this field is revealed by the fact that most persons acquire their attitudes and political philosophies in family life rather than through any process of individual analysis or careful study. The teachings in the family and the example of every action should contribute to the creation of a social attitude. Each citizen shares in the moral obligation to maintain the law. One who aims to live by his rights alone is not fulfilling his entire social obligation. Rights alone are not a sufficient basis for a settled social order. The only possible basis for such an order is the conscious recognition by each individual of his obligation to make the observance of law a reality, even though the law may at times fail to accord with his personal wishes and interests. Growing out of this principle is another thought. Because laws are often neither wise nor just, the possibility of changing them should not be too difficult. It often happens that a law is passed which is in advance of the moral standing of the people. A period of confusion and law violation follows. During the adjustment many justify the ignoring of the law or even its open violation on the grounds that it infringes upon their liberty or some inherited principle. As long as the law exists each one should obey its LESSON DEPARTMENT principles. Those who feel that it should be changed should register their protests in the manner prescribed by law, but they should continue to obey it as long as it remains upon the statute books. Laws regulating the traffic and speed of automobiles are examples of the bad effect that the ignoring and personal interpretation of regulations can have upon society. The annual death toll of over 36,000 people in the United States alone and the injury of upwards of 1,000,000 more testifies to the greatest disrespect for law ever known to a well organized country. Thus the evil is two-fold in its nature. Many of the guilty and careless speed demons undoubtedly believe that the law violates the individual's personal rights. But apparently those people have never been taught the right of society to control the actions of the individual for the good of society. The responsibility for teaching this attitude rests with the basic institutions of society, namely, the home, the schools, and the church. The church, particularly, has a peculiar responsibility as an agent of culture and social control. Perhaps too much time is spent expounding dogma and not enough effort is placed upon an attempt to modify human behavior. Both phases are essential to a well-rounded life, but the opportunity for the latter is not recognized by many religious teachers. Several avenues of approach are open to those who would improve the social conduct of others. People may be appealed to through a sense 193 of social justice, through the desire for sociability, through the power of social and personal suggestions, through the force of personal ideals, and through the sense of justice and fair play. Too often we expect action to be modified by an appeal to authority. Such a method is usually ineffectual, especially with the young adolescent. An appeal to the natural emotions and desires is far more effective than detached information of an intellectual nature. The first obligation, then, of a citizen is to obey the law. The duty is binding whether one likes a given legislative act or not. Every one should use his influence to promote the attitude of law observance in both private and public life. When all people can so order their lives, law observance will be a reality instead of a goal toward which society is striving. Activities 1. Make a list of the laws which are most frequently violated in your community. Prepare a short talk which could be delivered to the violators which would persuade them to observe the law. Be sure the appeal is made on the basis of the experiences of the listeners. 2. Name a few characters in Church history or local community life who have been good citizens in the highest sense. What are the qualities in the lives of these individuals that have made them ideal citizens? Show the relationship of these qualities to the principles developed in this lesson.  Child Guidance Lesson 8 Some SUGGESTIONS ON THE PARENT-CHILD RELATIONSHIP N INTENSE emotional experience, as we learned in the lessons on anger and fear, tends to become associated with all the circumstances surrounding the child at the time. The frightening of a child with threats of the bogy man and punishing him severely act as boomerangs to the parent; the child associates the parent with the unpleasant experience. Since the parent is likely to be interested in getting immediate results, she loses sight of an extremely important consideration, one that should enter into the parent's thinking whenever any treatment is given the child; how does it affect our relationship to each other? Are we going to get along better or worse, eventually, because of what I do now? Concentrated thinking on the parent-child relationship is the prime condition for successful child management. The parent, for better or for worse, always enters into every discipline picture. When sight is lost of the importance of the relationship itself, we see the parent who may get immediate results from giving a sound and impulsive thrashing. But at what cost? At the price of losing the cooperativeness, or rapport, of the child. No discipline is effective by the severest test when rapport does not prevail. Rapport here means a certain kind of intimate and friendly cooperativeness. In this lesson we shall merely mention a few conditions that destroy a good relationship between the parent and the child, and attempt to suggest how a good relationship can be established and maintained. Every parent is bound to make many mistakes in attempting to work through the numerous details of training a child; but if the relationship can be restored and kept wholesome, she is likely to be a successful mother. One of her first struggles in maintaining this ideal, is to overcome the desire to keep the child preserved as a baby. The attention of such a mother is obviously diverted from the child and the relationship to her selfish interest. If the mother's love is enlightened, she will permit the child to grow at his optimum rate. This point was elaborated in an earlier lesson on development. The parent's problem persists throughout the growth of the child and becomes particularly acute during adolesence when the child begins to change into an adult and to live his own life with a newborn thirst for freedom. The need for a wholesome relationship at this period is as obvious as it is difficult to achieve. To see the youth's point of view is more imperative during adolescence than at any other age. But to look at earlier childhood further, the innumerable frustrations through which a child must go, and the many more unnecessary ones, permit a parent to break down the good relationship that might have carried over from the fondling days of infancy. '"Don'ting" a child unnecessarily is a fertile cause of poor cooperation. But the question may be asked, What can be done for the child who persists in opening the refrigerator and taking all the lids off the bottles, who must throw things in the living room or across the dinner table, and ?who throws himself on the floor when you show affection for his little sister? The LESSON DEPARTMENT first thing to do is to inquire into why he does these acts, because if you don't know his reasons, your treatment is likely to fail. He may open doors and bottles because he is in an "opening and closing" stage of exploration. Perhaps he has nothing else to do. One wise mother gave just such a boy plenty of small cosmetic bottles, and some larger ones, suitcases to open and close with large bottles inside and smaller ones inside them, and a wallet with snappers and papers to put in and take out. Throwing tendencies perhaps require harmless opportunities to throw?plus plenty of long-suf- _ fering vigilance when the skill in throwing breaks loose in the dining room. Thoughtful correction in time will teach the child where to throw and where not to throw. When the child throws jealousy tantrums, sometimes it is a sign he is not being given normal outlet for his affection. Care should be taken not to stop too short in showing affection to the older child when the newcomer is born. Give him reasonable opportunity to learn to share with another. In other words, frustration calls for substitution of legitimate outlet for the child's activity. This method happens to be the simplest way of managing children, or adults, and it also has the great advantage of preserving good relationship between parent and child. Children are much like fish in one respect; they can't be driven but they can be baited. The parent who becomes irate at her utter futility in driving the child to do what she wants is like a fisherman who swears because the fish won't take his hook. Perhaps the bait is wrong. This fact has profound implications for moral and religious teaching. Many is the lost soul who might have been saved if we had not been 195 quite so over-zealous and had been better strategists. The preaching and nagging about proper conduct are a potent solvent for the bonds of good feeling between the parent and the child. When the bond is broken, the tow rope on a rough sea is severed. More than that, the breaking of faith may so embitter the child that every ideal you taught may be violently disliked, particularly during adolescence; and when authority has been overthrown, all of the idols must be smashed forthwith to prove that the emancipation is complete. Salesmen formerly spent most of their time expounding the virtues of their product, but too often they forgot to ask if the consumer wanted it. Now the needs of the consumer, his wants, determine the strategy. In our moral and religious teaching, to make the moral and religious ideals beautiful, to surround them with the pleasant feelings of love and consideration in the home, to carefully point out how they satisfy the needs of the growing personality, and to avoid like the plague "scenes" of unpleasant preaching and commanding and threatening?these are the true steps in leading the hearts of the young to love the truth. Our children can learn to dislike our fine ideals just as the infant can learn to fear all furry objects when he is severely frightened by one. But if good rapport is maintained, if love and respect are always preserved, usually the child can be won over eventually. President Joseph F. Smith once said to a group of Sunday School workers, The Sunday School teacher should govern the children, not by passion, by bitter words or scolding, but by affection and by winning their confidence. If a teacher gets the confidence of a child, it is not impossible to accomplish every desired good with that child." (Gospel Doctrine 196 p. 368.) Don't fight his opposition as a general rule, but take him "into camp" with you and help him to rationalize his own point of view with a better one. Admit his problem, then try to help him solve it. A more subtle danger than the one just mentioned is that of being over-indulgent, over-solicitous about the child. Personalities are often crippled for life by the over-conscientious parent who protects the child so much that he fails in that development which can come in no other way than through making one's choices and taking the consequences. White rats have been guided through mazes in various ways so that they couldn't make any mistakes, i.e., so they couldn't enter any blind alleys. But it was learned by the experimenters that these rats didn't learn the mazes at all. When they were left later to their own choices to find food in the maze, they didn't find the food any better than if they had never been in the maze before. Somewhat the same outcome is to be expected of our children when the parents do all of the deciding, initiating, and taking of consequences of mistakes. This type of parent-child relationship is defective because the parent overshadows normal opportunities for the child to learn to be a responsible personality in society. No irreparable damage is done to our children if, as they begin to leave the shelter of their own dooryard, they appropriate the toys or enterprises of neighbor children and come home with skinned noses. Harm is done, however, if the parents uphold their children with no thought of the blame that should sometimes rightfully fall on the children. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE With all other considerations aside, good feeling between parents and children is one of the finest goals of human striving. It can abide throughout the growth period of the child only when his ultimate good takes precedent over the immediate wishes of the parent. The far-seeing love of the true Latter-day Saint home is the cornerstone for achieving this goal. Problems For Discussion 1. Interpret in the light of this lesson Doc. And Cov. 42:45: "Thou shalt live together in love, insomuch that thou shalt weep for the loss of them that die, and more especially for those that have no hope of a glorious resurrection." 2. With the two previous lessons in mind, discuss the appeal, "If you only loved me you couldn't do a thing like that. For my sake, why don't you try to do better?" What danger is there in thus putting the love our children have for us to "test"? Suggest an improvement on this procedure. 3. What significance would you attach to the fact that Burt, one of England's best authorities on delinquency, states that delinquency is associated with defective discipline in the home more often than with any. Other condition? What does this mean in terms of parent-child relationship? 4, Discuss the proposition that problem children do not need psychological treatment so much as their parents do. 5. What effect do you suppose poor relations between parents and their children in this life will have upon their relations in the hereafter?