LESSON DEPARTMENT 179 Leadership Week WE congratulate the Brigham "Young University on the success of the 1937 Leadership Week. President Franklin S. Harris and Harrison R. Merrill were outstanding in extending hospitality, seeing that everything moved smoothly, that all were comfortable and happy, and that every facility of the institution was available to their guests. The program was as always, very fine. One wished she could be in several sections every period. The hundreds who attended returned to their homes enlightened, inspired, enthused. We are all indebted to the Brigham Young University for this wonderful period when our vision is enlarged, our intellect quickened and our spirits fed. A Fine Spirit of Helpfulness WE have been deeply impressed with the evidence of kind thought that has been manifest by some of our subscribers. Enjoying the Magazine themselves they are anxious that others who cannot themselves subscribe may have it. One sister subscribed for ten of her friends. One of our well known writers sends several subscriptions to Great Britain each year. She furnishes the money and asks those at the head of the work there to suggest to whom the Magazine 'shall be sent. Box Elder Stake recently sent in $4.00, $2.00 from the Stake Board and $2.00 from the Fifth Ward of Brigham City. They asked that Sister Rich of the Canadian Mission suggest to whom these four subscriptions should be sent. This is a fine spirit of helpfulness and 'will do much missionary service. Lotta Paul Baxter Released E regret to announce that Sister Lotta Paul Baxter owing to the condition of her health has asked to be released from the General Board. She has been one of our most efficient and most beloved members, and we are sure all will join us in regretting her departure from our number and will earnestly pray that health, strength and happiness may be her future portion. Four New Board Members WE are glad to announce the addition of four new Board Members?Sisters Vivian R. McConkie, Leda T. Jensen, Beatrice F. Stevens, and Rae B. Barker. We are introducing these members to you in our next Magazine. Their past records show that they will do most efficient work,-and we know our Sisters will learn to love them as they work with them. Lesson Department (For First Week in May) Theology and Testimony Lesson 8 The Christ AND THE GATHERING OF ISRAEL Helpful References In the Bible: Deuteronomy 30:1-5; Isaiah 5:25-26; 11:11-12; 14:1-2; 35:4, 10; 43:5-7; 54:7; Jeremiah 3:12-15, 18; 16:14-16; 23:2-4, 7-8; 31:7-12; Micah 4:1-2; Matthew 15:24; 24:31; John 10:16; Revelation 18:4. See also "Ready References." In the Book of Mormon: I Nephi 10:14; 19:15-17; 2 Nephi 6:11; 9:2; 10:7; 30:7-8; Jacob 6:2; 3 Nephi 5:26; 20:29-33; 21:1; 26- 28. In the Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 29:7-8; 42:36; 45:17, 25, 43, 69; 57:1-2; 58:56; 63:36; 101:13, 20- 22, 64-69; 105:24; 110:11; 125: 2; 133:7, 26-35. Smith: The Way to Perfection, Chapter 20. Talmage: Articles of Faith, Chapters 18, 19. 1. Israel the Spiritual Leavening Agent in the World. It is of special significance that the Christ was born of an Israelite mother and brought up among the Israelites. It is perhaps of greater significance that His personal ministry was confined to Israelites. Why was this? It can scarcely be accidental. Nor to the Latter-day Saints is it such. In the economy of God the Israelite nation was seemingly chosen to be the spiritual leavening agent in the world. The Old Testament bears record of this, as also does the New Testament. These books cannot be properly understood without knowing that the salvation of the human race is in great measure linked up with the fortunes of the house of Israel. Jehovah, the pre-existent Christ, once said to Abraham, "I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations; and I will bless them through thy name; for as many as receive this Gospel shall be called after thy name, and shall be accounted thy seed, and shall rise up and bless thee, as their father." (Abraham 2:9-10.) Thus it is seen how the Redeemer planned to send forth His word by a people especially delegated and chosen. The declaration of the Christ to the woman of Samaria that "salvation is of the Jews" (John 4:22) is also in accord with the promise made to Abraham. On another occasion our Lord said, "T am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel." (Matthew 15:24.) When He appeared to the Nephites, the Christ confirmed and extended our understanding of the peculiar relationship existing between Himself and the House of Israel. (3 Nephi 15:11- 16, 20.) 2. Israel To Be Gathered Preparatory To Reign of Peace. Israel through the centuries has LESSON DEPARTMENT. Been alternately blessed and punished according to her regard or disregard of the covenant made with God. She has been scattered, but even in this the wisdom of a wise Creator can be seen. The Savior taught, as did the prophets before Him, that Israel should eventually be gathered to help bring to pass God's purposes preparatory to a reign of peace among men. While speaking of the latter days, Christ declared, "And now I show unto you a parable. Behold, wheresoever the carcass is, there will the eagles be gathered together; so likewise shall mine elect be gathered from the four quarters of the earth." (Pearl of Great Price, An Extract from 'a translation of the Bible, verse 27.) 3. Not All of Israel To Be Gathered To Palestine. Unfortunately, the Gospels do not contain in fulness the Savior's instructions concerning the gathering. They. Are limited in their scope; we have to rely on the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, to give us a clearer insight to His interpretation of this doctrine. It is plain that the Christ in His teachings about the Gathering refers to distinct groups of Israelites. We shall see this as we proceed. "And I will remember the covenant which I have made with my people; and I have covenanted with them that I would gather them together in mine own due time, that I would give unto them again the land of their fathers for their inheritance, which. Is the land of Jerusalem, which is the promised land unto them forever, saith the Father." (3 Nephi 20:29.) This scripture cannot mean that all of the House of Israel will be gathered to Palestine. Doubtless it refers to the greater portion of them, the house of 181 Joseph mostly being excepted. Christ in speaking to the Nephites, said, "And it shall come to pass that I will establish my people, O house of Israel. And behold, this people will I establish in this land, unto the fulfilling of the covenant which I made with your father Jacob; and it shall be a New Jerusalem." (3 Nephi 20:21-22.) The Jaredite prophet, Ether, was also permitted to see in vision the establishment of the remnant of the house of Joseph on this continent. "Behold, Ether saw the days of Christ, and he spake concerning a New Jerusalem upon this land. And he spake also concerning the house of Israel, and the Jerusalem from whence Lehi should come?after it should be destroyed it should be built up again, a holy city unto the Lord; wherefore, it could not be a new Jerusalem for it had been in a time of old; but it should be built up again, and become a holy city of the Lord; and it should be built unto the house of Israel. And that a New Jerusalem should be built up upon this land, unto the remnant of the seed of Joseph, for which things there has been a type.... Wherefore, the remnant of the house of Joseph shall be built upon this land; and it shall be a land of their inheritance; and they shall build up a holy city unto the Lord, like unto the Jerusalem of old; and they shall no more be confounded, until the end come when the earth shall pass away." (Ether 13:4-6, 8.) It is thus plain that the house of Joseph, comprising the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh, will be gathered and remain on this continent. They will inherit it together with the righteous Gentiles. (3 Nephi 21:22-28.) 4. The Savior Speaks of the Lost Tribes of Israel. The Savior, while yet among the 182 Nephites, referred to a distinct body of Israelites other than the Jews and His immediate audience. He declared, "'And verily, verily, I say unto you that I have other sheep, which are not of this land, neither of the land of Jerusalem, neither in any parts of that land round about whither I have been to minister. For they of whom I speak are they who have not as yet heard my voice; neither have I at any time manifested myself unto them. But I have received a commandment of the Father that I shall go unto them, and that they shall hear my voice, and shall be numbered among my sheep, that there may be one fold and one shepherd; therefore I go to show myself unto them." (3 Nephi 16: i-3.) The "sheep" referred to by the Christ without doubt were the so-called "lost" tribes of Israel, the Ten Tribes, for our Lord had already appeared to the Jews and to the remnant of Joseph as represented by the Nephites. But the Israelites mentioned by Him can scarcely have been the ancestors of the body of Israel in the Church today, as many people contend. We should certainly have had some traditions about the appearance of the Christ to them, but we have not. Our patriarchs pronounce us as mainly of Ephraim. The Doctrine and Covenants speaks plainly of the "ten tribes" and makes a special distinction between them and the other portion of Israel. The Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in a joint revelation say, "And Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel froth the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north." (Doctrine and Covenants 110:11.)