Panguitch Stake N September, 1936, a radio program was given by the new Panguitch Stake Relief Society board honoring the retiring President and her board members. The material considered was the life of President Elizabeth Henderson, from birth until she retired as President of the Panguitch Stake Relief Society. Each Ward in the Stake participated, after which a tribute to the retiring officers was read. This tribute was presented in the form of a poem by Sister Eleanor Bruhn. The first stanza had for its special theme Service; the second, the fidelity to the lesson work; third, fellowship in Relief Society and service to the Lord; fourth, devoted particularly  CORNISH WARD, BENSON STAKE to "Aunt Lizzie" as the President was familiarly known; and in all of this the development made possible through Relief Society was expressed. Special attention was called to the unselfishness of the President, and following the tribute to Sister Henderson each one of her board members was honored by a special stanza suggested by her predominant qualities. The whole poem was an expression of love and honor for those who had carried the work so successfully during the past, and it breathed hope and faith for the new officers. A birthday cake with fifteen candles and gifts for each of the retiring members were presented to the board. After the serving of light refreshments the delightful entertainment came to a close. Benson Stake THE above picture is a most interesting group of sisters known as the Relief Society Birthday Club. A very delightful custom has grown up in the Cornish Ward of Benson Stake intended to do honor to the sisters whose lives are well advanced, and who have given years of service in Relief Society work. A party is held for each member on or near the date of her birthday. There is a committee appointed from the Ward Relief Society which looks after all the details, except refreshments, which are planned by the Visiting Teachers in the particular district where the honored guest resides. The Teachers and Executive Officers of the Ward supply the materials.