[Vol22 | June 1935 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department (For Second Week in November)
Theology and Testimony
Lesson II?Messages From LIBERTY JAIL
1. The Exiles. The closing months of 1838 were fraught with much unhappiness and suffering for the Latter-day Saints. Already it had become apparent that they must leave their homes in Missouri and seek an exile elsewhere. At that time the membership of the Church in Missouri was estimated at between twelve and fifteen thousand, with a property ownership of nearly two million dollars. The leaders of the Church were arrested and held in jail on the slightest pretext or no pretext at all. Finally with all three members of the First Presidency in prison, the responsibility of removing the Saints from Missouri to Illinois fell upon the shoulders of Brigham Young. The trek continued through the months of January to April of 1839, under most trying and insuperable hardships. The Prophet himself and five companions were left behind in Liberty jail, and others at Richmond.
2. The Prophet Imprisoned. Throughout the year 1838 the Prophet and others of the leading brethren were repeatedly imprisoned. In November of that year he was brought before Judge Austin A. King at Richmond. Witnesses against the Prophet were called and sworn at the point of the bayonet, while those for the defense were arrested by the militia and thrown into prison, not being allowed to appear. This mock investigation continued for several days until finally on the 28th of November most of the prisoners were released. The Prophet, however, and the following named brethren, held on the charge of treason and murder, were committed to Liberty Jail: Hyrum Smith, Sidney Rigdon, Lyman Wight, Caleb Baldwin and Alexander McRae. During the investigation the prisoners were confined in chains and subjected to various forms of humiliating abuse.
3. Liberty Jail. There were no jails in either Daviess or Caldwell counties, and hence the brethren were sent to Liberty, Clay County, pending the time they were to appear for trial. Elder B. H. Roberts describes the appearance and construction of "Liberty Jail" As follows: The building "faced the east, and was a scant two hundred yards from the court house. It was built of rough dressed limestone, of yellowish color. Its dimensions were twenty by twenty-two feet, and the walls were two feet thick. It had two floors, hence two rooms?an upper one and a basement, which formed a dungeon. In the east end was a heavy door made strong, and of great thickness, by nailing inch oak boards together with iron spikes. In the south side of the upper room there was a small opening, a foot and a half square, with strong iron bars, two inches apart, firmly imbedded in the stones of the wall.' " (Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 526) The ceilings of the jail were low; the ventilation was extremely poor; and the lower room was practically without light.
4. It was within this place under the most unsanitary and repulsive conditions, that the Prophet and his companions were imprisoned for five months. The food is described as very inadequate and of poor quality. At times visitors were not permitted, and at other times there were not a few, friends and enemies alike. Driven on by threats of death from the guards and by the squalid conditions under which they lived, the prisoners made one or more attempts to escape, but without success. By the close of February, 1839, practically the entire membership of the Church, including the Prophet's wife, had migrated to Illinois.
5. Escape of the Prisoners. Meantime the brethren on the outside were doing everything possible to bring about the Prophet's release. Fearing that this might be done, or a change of venue secured, Judge King hurried the prisoners off to Daviess County, April 6, 1839, where they were tried before a prejudiced court and found guilty of "murder, treason, burglary, arson, larceny, theft, and stealing." A few days after this verdict was rendered. The prisoners secured a change of venue from Daviess to Boone county, and a mittimus was made out by Judge Burch, without date, name or place. Immediately thereafter the brethren left for Boone County in charge of the sheriff and four aides. When the party was one day out the sheriff exhibited the unsigned mittimus and informed the brethren that he had been instructed by Judge Burch not to take them to Boone county. After thus exposing the plan that had been laid for the escape of the prisoners, the sheriff told the brethren he was going to take a good drink of whiskey and go to bed and that they could do as they pleased. Accordingly, when all of the guards were asleep except one, the brethren by the assistance of this guard mounted their horses and rode away. Some ten days later they reached their families and friends who had preceded them to Illinois.
6. The Dungeon-Temple. Although Liberty Jail was a dungeon ?small, unclean, poorly ventilated, and practically without light, yet the Prophet's presence transferred it into a sanctuary of spiritual learning. It was a haven of comfort to which the stricken and scattered Saints turned for solace and instruction. It was a place of meditation and prayer, where Joseph held communion with God. Such a place?a meeting ground between heaven and earth? is more than a prison; it is a temple of spiritual learning, made such by the influence of those who were there. This prison still stands? 1935?and is occupied as a residence.
7. During the long months of Joseph's imprisonment at this place he was never disheartened or subdued. He was impatient with the ways of sinners, but ever constant in belief that God would overrule all for the good of those who loved him. In the midst of his own suffering he dispatched messages of joy and comfort to those who were awaiting his return. He forgot himself and lived for others alone. His was the attitude of a prophet that saw beyond prison walls, beyond his own personal discomfort, to the Saints outside, and to the glories that awaited those who proved faithful. But we must turn attention to some of the things that he taught?imprisoned. And part of the time in chains.
8. Undaunted in Adversity. Under date of December 16, 1838, the imprisoned Prophet wrote to the stricken and scattered Saints in part as follows: "Know assuredly, dear brethren, that it is for the testimony of Jesus that we are in bonds and in prison, But we say unto you, that we consider that our condition is better (notwithstanding our sufferings) than that of those who have persecuted us, and smitten us, and borne false witness against us." (History of the Church, Vol. III, p. 226)
9. Further, "Dear brethren, do not think our hearts faint, as though some strange thing had happened unto us, for we have seen and been assured of all these things beforehand, and have an assurance of a better hope than that of our persecutors. Therefore God hath made broad our shoulders for the burden. We glory in our tribulation, because we know that God is with us, that He is our friend, and that he will save our souls. We ask no favors at the hands of mobs, nor of the world, nor of the devil, nor of his emissaries, the dissenters, and those who love, and make, and swear falsehoods, to take away our lives. We have never dissembled, nor will we for the sake of our lives." (History of the Church, Vol. III, p. 227)
10. Hope, Pity, and Accusation. At the opening of each New Year human beings are usually softened with love and brotherly kindness, but the enemies of the Prophet remained cruel and relentless. On the first day of January, 1839, still in jail, the Prophet uttered the following significant words: "The day dawned upon us as prisoners of hope, but not as sons of liberty. O Columbia, Columbia! How thou art fallen! 'The land of the free, the home of the brave!' 'The asylum of the oppressed'?oppressing thy noblest sons, in a loathsome dungeon, without any provocation, only that they have claimed to worship the God of their fathers according to his own word, and the dictates of their own consciences." (History of the Church, Vol. III, p. 245)
11. Regard for the American Constitution. Even though he was deprived of his rights and unjustly imprisoned, yet he had this to say of the American Constitution: "The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner; it is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of its liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun. We, brethren, are deprived of the protection of its glorious principles by the cruelty of men." (History of the Church, Vol. III, p. 304; see also D. And C. 101:76-80)
12. Blessings Upon the Saints. The Prophet was ever praying for the welfare of the Saints. The following is significant of his love for them: "What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it upstream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints." (D. And C. 121:33)
13. A Basic Pedagogical Principle. "No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile ?reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy." (D. And C. 121:41-43)
14. The Anguish of the Prophet. The Prophet had been imprisoned for four months; twelve thousand of his people had been exiled in the dead of winter; and his appeals for justice had failed to bring relief. Out of the midst of this distress, he called upon God in childlike earnestness: "O God, where art Thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth Thy hiding place? How long shall Thy hand be stayed, and Thine eye, yea Thy pure eye, behold from the eternal heavens the wrongs of Thy people and of Thy servants, and Thine ear be penetrated with their cries? Yea, O Lord, how long shall they suffer these wrongs and unlawful oppressions, before Thine heart shall be softened toward them, and Thy bowels be moved with compassion toward them.... Remember Thy suffering Saints, O our God; and Thy servants will rejoice in Thy name." (D. And C. 121:1-6)
15. The Heavenly Answer. And the Lord said: "My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; and then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes. Thy friends do stand by thee, and they shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands." (D. And C. 121:7-9) "The ends of the earth shall inquire after thy name, and fools shall have thee in derision, and hell shall rage against thee; while the pure in heart, and the wise, and the noble, and the virtuous, shall seek counsel, and authority, and blessings constantly from under thy hand. And thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors.' (D. And C. 122:1-3) "Know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience and shall be for thy good. The Son of Man hath descended below them all." (D. And C. 122:7-8)
Suggestion for Discussion and Review
1. Compare the Mormon exile from Missouri with their later exile from Illinois.
2. Compare the prisons of today with the one in which the Prophet was incarcerated.
3. Why do you suppose that the enemies of the Prophet provided a means for his escape?
4. In what respects might the jail at Liberty be regarded as a "shrine of spiritual learning," that is, while the Prophet was there?
5. The Prophet was undaunted in adversity. Why?
6. How do you account for the Prophet's love for the American Constitution, in spite of the persecution to which he was so often subjected?
7. How many of the Lord's promises given in paragraph fifteen have already been fulfilled? Explain.