[Vol22 | June 1935 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic]

Teachers' Topic
GENERAL INSTRUCTION
THE Teacher's Topics will be based on Proverbs taken from the Book of Proverbs in the Old Testament. Each home will be asked to have a Bible ready when the teachers call. The Proverb is to be read in each Home. Each home will be asked to read and discuss the Proverb during the month.
THE BOOK OF PROVERBS
THE Book of Proverbs introduces us to the wisdom literature of the Hebrews. The sages who wrote them believed that wisdom would give sagacity and common sense that would lead to happy prosperous lives. Julius A. Bewer says, "There is a wealth of wisdom, of sober and realistic observation, of sharp epigrammatic characterization, of kindly humor and biting sarcasm, of warm personal exhortation and urgent appeal that makes the Book of Proverbs a veritable mine of good counsel for the art of right living." The teachings of these wise men were very practical. While there are some elevated religious proverbs, they are mostly drawn from secular life and describe the fortunes that may be expected to come from certain conduct or types of character. Self interest is the all pervasive note. The motive is always personal happiness. They concern themselves not at all with making others happy, yet were these wise men religious for thus only could they be happy and prosperous, so there is a devout spirit manifested in their teachings. These writers were concerned with the whole range of life. They treated good manners, morals, family relations, social intercourse, professional and business matters and public life. They put the teachings of the Prophets into usable language, and while they lacked the prophetic enthusiasm they kept a balance between form. And spirit, maintaining always that wisdom is the true norm and guide of life. They addressed themselves to individuals rather than to nations. Their interest was not only in the Jewish people but in the whole of human life. Hence, the Book of Proverbs is of universal application. While Jewish tradition gives to Solomon the credit for the authorship of the Book of Proverbs, students of the Scriptures feel certain that they are not the work of one writer. Their language, style, the social and political conditions they imply lead to the conclusion that they were written by different people and at different times. The drift of their teachings is uniform. The motives. For right conduct they hold forth are mainly prudential. They show no tendency to speculation or to doubt. They emphatically proclaim "Be good and you will prosper, be wicked and you will suffer." We wish these teachings had been grouped in logical order. It is interesting to gather together those that deal with the same subject. "Each verse contains a complete Proverb. Each Proverb consists of two members. The two members stand almost exclusively in antithetic parallelism the second confirming or enforcing the first by declaring some contrasted truth which forms, as it were, its counterpart."