[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | March | Issue: 13 | Title: MY VALENTINE. | Author: Unknown]

MY VALENTINE.

AH, hurry away my valentine
Nor stop 'till you reach the love of mine 
Whose image floats before my eyes
And seems an angel from the skies. 
Yes, go to her and my love proclaim
My love that will ever be the same,
Through the storms that rage and the suns that
	shine
She will be forever the love of mine
Her hair once golden is silvered now, 
And furrows are traced o’er her noble brow;
While on her cheeks that were once so round
The rosy tint is no longer found.
Her form is perhaps a little bent, 
Though ’twas once admired where’er she went;
Her hands are a trifle hardened too,
She says by labor, I fear 'tis true;
And by some who knew her it has been said
She has lost the lightness of her tread; 
Yet naught of her worth has been lost to me,
She is still my love and will ever be.
Her eyes retain the same love-light
As when first I knew them so grandly bright;
Her voice, her touch have the same sweet powers
To soothe and calm life’s troubled hours;
The smile she wears, be it e’er so faint,
Is such as no earthly hand can paint;
And her loving heart is as warm and true
As the mind of mortal ever knew.
Be there aught of worth she can do for me,
She will never question how hard it be;
Nor will ever think her toil unpaid,
Nor count the sacrifices made,
If only my love in return I give—
If only a worthy life I live.
She has gone to the very gates of Death
Through her love for me, and with gasping breath
Has returned to look upon me and smile,
As though pain had been pleasure all the while.
Ah, why should not my love endure?
Why confidence be insecure,
Reposed in one so true and good,
In the noblest sphere of womanhood?
To my mother dear is my valentine,
For my mother dear is this love of mine.
	ALOFA.
Samoa, Jan. 23rd, 1894.


"A BOARD of five ladies has been ap-
pointed by the directors of the Cotton
States International Exposition at Atlanta,
Ga., and the ladies have begun the pre-
liminary work for the Woman's Building
and exhibit."


[Column 1]
