[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | March | Issue: 13 | Title: MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG. | Author: Unknown]

MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
WEDNESDAY January 31st was the an-
niversary of the birthday of Sister Zina D. H. Young, President of the Relief Society,
a mother in Israel and one of the most dis-
tinguished women of the age. Sister
Young whose maiden name was Hunting-
ton was born in Watertown, Jefferson Co.,
State of New York Jan. 31st, 1821, and is
therefore seventy three years old. She has
been connected with the Church since she 
was a very young girl and has participated
in the most notable events. Her life has
been full of thrilling incidents from the 
time when she went with her father and 
mother to Missouri. 
	On the day mentioned above a work was
performed for about two hundred of her 
dead relatives in the Logan and Salt Lake
Temples, which was more gratifying to 
Sister Young than any rich or costly present
that could have been given her for her use
or adornment.
	At 3 p. m. her daughters Mrs. Maria Y. 

[Column 2]
Dougall and Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie gave
her a party at the residence of Mrs.
Dougall on West Temple, where about 
seventy-five of her dear friends gathered by
invitation in honor of this celebrated wo-
man’s birthday. The large and elegant
parlors were bright and attractively decor-
ated for the occasion, and several bouquets
and vases of flowers were sent in by near
relatives and intimate friends which added
much to the pleasure of the guests. Other
suitable presents were given among them 
one or two books. There were some fine
musical selections but the time was mostly 
given to social enjoyment conversation and friendly greeting. 
	Refreshments were handsomely served 
and of the most delicious quality, and the 
guests did full justice to the feast which
had been so lovingly prepared. Among 
the distinguished people who were present
were President Lorenzo Snow, and wife
Sisters Emma Woodruff, Sarah Jane Can-
non and Sarah M. Kimball and B. W. 
Smith, Patriarch Joseph Horne and wife,
Hon. W. W. Riter and wife, Hon. James
Sharp and wife, Hon. Hugh Dougall and
wife, Sisters Emily D. P. Young, Priscilla
M. Staines and many other brethren and
sisters.
	The party was very enjoyable and was
another testimonial of the high esteem in 
which Sister Young is held by the people 
among whom her lot has been cast these
many years. The following letter is from
Canada and shows how the sisters there
celebrated the memorable anniversary day.

CARDSTON, January 31st, 1894.
	The Y. L.M.I.A. met as usual at the resi-
dence of President Zina Y. Card's, in honor of 
our much loved and highly esteemed sister
Zina D. H. Young. Opened by singing
“Redeemer of Israel,” prayer by Sister
Katie Knowlton. Continued by singing
"'Til the Resurrection Day.” President
Zina Y. Card then stated that this was her
mother’s birthday, and wished the sisters
to celebrate it by rejoicing in a testimony 
meeting; she knew the spirit her mother
had in the Temple would be in our midst.
Sister Hannah Anderson, said she was
pleased to meet with the Y. L. and she 
loved to speak of Aunt Zina Young. For 
she was a good noble woman, and had done
more good in the kingdom of God, than 
any of us can do.
	Annie Archibald and Minnie Smith each
bore a faithful testimony to the truthfulness
of this great work. Each felt that they 
had been highly edified since they had com-
menced to attend the Y. L. M. I. A. Min-
nie May and Lucinda Woolf felt pleased
to embrace the opportunity of bearing their
testimony. Felt we were blessed in having
Aunt Zina Young coming to visit us once
in a while; and would be glad if she 
could come again and be with us all the
time and mingle her sweet voice with the
rest of us; asked God to bless her and all
the sisters. Sister Katie Knowlton said
she was thankful to be able to attend her
Young Ladies meeting and bear her testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the gospel. 
Asked God to bless Sister Young that she
might live long upon the earth to continue
her good works. 
	Counselor Elnora Wight spoke of the bless-
ing that Aunt Zina had given her long ago, 
said it had been a great comfort to her, and 
that she always felt a tender feeling for her, 
thought her face was always full of sweet-


ness. Asked God to prolong her days that
she might be able to come and see us again
here in Canada.
	Elizabeth Rollin, Effie Stoddard, Martha
Brown, Nellie Lieshman, Rhoda Hinman,
Lola Stoddard, Dora Hinman, Mary Ann
Parrott and Martha Baker each said they
were thankful of having the privilege of
bearing their testimony. Asked God to
bless our noble sister. Each wished her
“Many Happy Returns.’’ Knew she was a
noble good woman, and deserved much
praise.
	President Zina Card then gave a brief,
sketch of her mother’s life; said she knew
the spirit of the Lord would be with her,
and she knew that she would know we
were speaking of her goodness. Asked the
Lord to prolong her days. Said it was a
great comfort to her to know and to hear
the sisters bear their testimony in regard to
her coming to visit us again; she wanted to
spend all the time she could with her dear
mother. Closing prayer by President Zina
Card.
	P. S.—Dear Aunt Zina: I could not be
present at the time of this meeting on ac-
count of sickness. But I feel to add my
blessing with the rest of my dear sisters.
May God the giver of all we enjoy bless you
and prolong your days.
	May peace be your happy lot, dear sister.
That you may never want, but always have
plenty. Ma sends love; so also does Sarah.
All are enjoying pretty good health.
	Yours Lovingly,
		Nellie Hinman, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


