
PAID PERMIT NO. 969 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Vol. 30 No. 8
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman President
Marcia K. Howells First Counselor
Belle S. Spafford Second Counselor
Vera W. Pohlman Secretary-Treasurer
Donna D. Sorensen
Anna S. Barlow
Anna B. Hart
Alice B. Castleton
Vivian R. McConkie
Achsa E. Paxman
Gertrude R. Garff
Priscilla L. Evans
Leda T. Jensen
Mary G. Judd
Leona F. Wintch
Florence J. Madsen
Rae B. Barker
Luella N. Adams
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
Nellie O. Parker
Marianne C. Sharp
Pauline T. Pingree
Agnes M. Bolto
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 30 AUGUST 1943 No. 8
SPECIAL FEATURES
Diurnal Ensemble Celia A. Van Cott Back of Frontispiece
The Latter-day Saint Family Elder Milton Bennion 461
President Rudger Clawson Elder George Albert Smith 463
Pioneer Homemaker Julia A. Caine 464
Ideals Edna K. Ward 468
General Secretary-Treasurer Vera W. Pohlman 481
Table of Magazine Subscriptions In Relation to Relief Society Members 484
Pictographs of Magazine Subscriptions In Relation to Relief Society Members 487
Magazine Promotion Work Counselor Belle S. Spafford 494
Common Things Elsie Sim Hansen 504
FICTION
Tomorrow's Cup Chapter V Anna Prince Redd 474
The Princess Ruby Scranton Jones 479
GENERAL FEATURES
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 471
Editorials:
President Rudger Clawson President Amy Brown Lyman 472
Train Up a Child In the Way He Should Go Marianne C. Sharp 473
Notes From the Field:
"Relief Society Magazine" Campaign General Secretary-Treasurer Vera W. Pohlman 497
LESSONS
Theology The Gathering of Israel 505
Messages to the Home Ordered Living 509
Home Topics Tools for Housecleaning Tasks 510
Literature The Bible Epic 512
Social Science American Statesmen (Continued) 513
Stories From the Book of Mormon Lehi's Travels to the New World 518
POETRY
Diurnal Ensemble Celia A. Van Cott Back of Frontispiece
High Noon Lies Hushed and Still Frontispiece
Sincerity Alice Morrey Bailey 462
My Words Roberta Bates 467
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION 57,000

DIURNAL ENSEMBLE Celia A. Van Cott
DAWN
White aspens drip quicksilver dew below Each leaf-fringed bough where lupins nod and blow; From purple sage gray-mottled grouse arise On whirring wings into metallic skies.
The white swans lift from blue lagoons and wing Through platinum mists; gay purple martins swing Up greensward slopes and foaming white cascades, Atilting wings in daring escapades.
Across the dawn, pale pistillated green Lies fused in crescent waves of rosy sheen; Through pink-flanged clouds a scintillating ray Of golden light bursts through to pattern day.
DAY
A linnet trills his morning melody Beside a nest couched in a willow tree; The mother lifts her palpitating breast Where young stretch yellow mouths in hungry quest.
High noon lies hushed and still; no soothing breeze Stirs lagging leaves on dusty roadside trees; Birds seek relief from waves of heat that come Like molten metal from the copper sun.
The cattle browse upon the shadowed hill Through blue-eyed grass; wild pungent odors spill Their fragrance on the slowly cooling air And dusk descends like wordless lips at prayer.
DUSK
The soothing peace of dusk is shattered by The nightbird's scream and loon's wild shrieking cry. Through lily pads green speckled bullfrogs slide Into black lacquer from each marshbound side;
A heron skims across the lake, and flies To grass-lined nest: below gray charcoal skies. A twangy breeze sweeps down the sage-clad hill; A ripple laps the shore, then all is still.
Below a thin white moon gray storm clouds swing And darkness holds close every living thing; One paling amber star alone gives light For all the prowling creatures of the night.
No human hand can pattern life, or birth Of light, the heaven's pageantry, or earth; Nor can it mold one atomistic part Of mortal man or his emotive heart.

"HIGH NOON LIES HUSHED AND STILL"
VOL. 30, NO. 8 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1943
The Latter-day Saint Family
Its Ideals and Responsibilities
Elder Milton Bennion General Superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union
THE perpetuation of the race is a major social purpose of the family. This is universally recognized by thinking people everywhere. The Latter-day Saints accept this but in a much more impressive and far-reaching way than do any other people; this because of their belief in the eternity of the family relationship and the eternal progress of man.
Sexual purity, while long and widely recognized as an ideal, and even among some primitive tribes enforced by severe penalties for its violation, receives a new and much more sacred sanction in the teachings of the Latter-day Saints. Parents are, of course, strictly bound, themselves, to practice chastity in the proper meaning of that term. With this as a foundation, they are religiously obligated to develop in their children the highest ideals of family life and sex relations. This calls for understanding not only of the nature of children and youths in general, but also for careful study of the nature of each child for whose moral and religious education the parents are primarily responsible. This responsibility cannot be shifted to any other agency. The Church and the school should, of course, supplement the educational efforts of the family, and the civic community should do its best to build favorable and eliminate unfavorable influences for the proper moral development of children and youths. It is a great mistake, however, to assume that they, individually or collectively, can relieve the family of its responsibility. One of the tragedies of the war situation is that some mothers, either for what they conceive to be patriotic reasons or for The CoverLake McDonald, Glacier National Park. Photo by Hileman. Page 461 462 financial gain, will leave their children without proper guardianship while they are employed outside the home. A mother's duty to her children is her first duty also to her country. One of the greatest dangers to our country, viewed through the generations, is the character demoralization of her future citizens. Without strength, purity, and integrity of character on the part of citizens generally, there can be no national security or achievement worth saving. ' 'In the training of children, emphasis should always be on the positive side. Wholesome pleasures and stimulation of ambition for service and high achievement may be supplemented at opportune times and circumstances by warnings against temptations to take a downward course, but even this may be done with youth in such a way as to lead them to picture in imagination the dire consequence of evil practices. When a youth pictures vividly to himself the consequence of indulging his appetites or passions contrary to the teachings of the Church, it will have far more weight with him than will mere dogmatic teaching or parental commands, although under some circumstances this method may be necessary, especially with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943 children. Even they, however, are generally more able to think and to understand more than most adults give them credit for. 'They should be given a chance to think and to make some decisions for themselves. Parents should, of course, see that the children are led to revise wrong decisions and never to act upon judgments that may be morally or religiously detrimental either to themselves or to others. Arbitrary commands on the part of parents sometimes have the reverse effect of that anticipated. This may be true of attendance at religious gatherings. Sometimes, attempts to force youth in these matters may lead to deception or rebellion and sometimes to hatred of the obligations that parents attempt to force upon them. Even when, out of respect for parents, they yield to the parental admonition, they sometimes cease the activity as soon as parental authority is outgrown. A teacher in Ancient Greece is credited with saying that it was his business to teach boys to love the right. 'That is a primary obligation of parents toward their children. Until they acquire a love of the right and the habit of acting upon that love as a motive, their characters will be imperfectly formed. SINCERITY Alice Morrey Bailey Never sing to me, I beg, the songs I want to hear Lest they, unwilling, forced, may come discordant to my ear. I'd rather have you, trusting that their joyous truthful ring May touch in me an echo, singthe songs you like to sing. President Rudger Clawson Elder George Albert Smith President of the Council of the Twelve HE following quotation is taken from Some Impressions of My Father by Samuel G. Clawson, son of President Rudger Clawson: "Life left no residue of bitterness in him; impression and memories left no scar. He never indulged in selfpity; never tolerated self-esteem. There was no elation when he won. He either won and turned victory into wisdom for the next encounter, else he endured and waited. He never lost because he saw time as part of endless eternity." Brother Clawson, who passed away Monday, June 21, 1943, presided over the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles for eighteen years and has been a member of the Council for forty-five years. I have been privileged to be intimately associated with him for forty years. To know him was to love him. His kindly, gentle ways have endeared him to all who knew him. His quiet, thoughtful mien gave his co-workers confidence in him, his judgment, and purposes. He was a friend to everyone. His kindliness made him the confidant of the heartbroken and weary. He visited and cheered the sick, inspired and gave hope to the discouraged. Undeviating loyalty to the Presidency of the Church was an outstanding characteristic of the life of President Rudger Clawson. He was a consistent and industrious, hard-working executive. He presided with dignity over the Council of the Twelve Apostles making the stake and mission visiting appointmnts both for this. Quorum, the PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON First Council of Seventy, and the Presiding Bishopric. He was careful and considerate in his budgeting of assignments, endeavoring to divide the burdens equally. He took his full share of the work and utilized every ounce of his energy to take care of the responsibilities placed upon him as long as his strength permitted. All his public utterances were marked with toleration. His discourses were full of substance and deserving of careful study. A proverbial patience, a flawless faith, a fidelity to the truth coupled with a devotion to the Church and all that it stands for, have made achievements possible which will remain eternally to the credit of Rudger Clawson. Page 463 A Pioneer Homemaker Julia A. Caine A NEW world was opened in 1803 to the expanding Americans who were pushing beyond the western hills. All life seemed to revolve around new ideas and dreams of homes to the west of the broad Mississippi. Word of the great purchase was carried into the isolated hamlets of New Hampshire by postrider, and here men gathered on street corners and talked of moving to the new country, Louisiana, the land beyond the Mississippi. While excitement was at its height in the town of Hillsborough, New Hampshire, a baby girl was born who was to traverse that great territory far into the west and was to establish the first home in the Great Basin. The tiny baby, Harriet Page Wheeler, cared little for her father's talk of the great Napoleon, Indians, and Lewis and Clarke, but these ideas were everyday conversation in the little home, and the West held a promise of adventure as she grew up in New England. Her own home was the typical frontier house of the small settlements where the family was taught to do all things needed for its comfort. She learned to weave her own clothes, trim her own hats, and cook for the family. At the age of sixteen, she was ready for a real adventure in the fabulous West. School teachers were scarce in those days, and a seventeen-year-old gitl who could teach reading, writing, and arithmetic might easily get a position in the familiar little schoolhouse. Harriet packed her Page 464 Caine trunk and set forth for western New York where friends had secured her the job of schoolmarm at Phelps. The young teacher had a school attended by children of all ages. She was very dignified as she listened to the primer class sing their alphabet and as she helped the older students with their fractions. Indian stories in the old readers were her special delight and she must have dreamed often of a land even farther west then frontier New York. The schoolmarm boarded around in the village, went sleigh riding, and made friends with everyone. One of the town's young men soon became her constant companion and eventually, upon becoming the wife of Isaac Decker, Phelps became her home. But America was moving west, and any move to a new frontier held out golden promise. The Deckers joined this moving throng, and finally came to settle in the Ohio country where land was cheap. At New Portage, their home was the typical frontier dwelling. Each morning the family was up at 5 o'clock and breakfast was eaten by lamp light. The boys aided their father in the barnyard, the girls helped with the household tasks, and soon learned to weave, bake bread, and sew. The browneyed Harriet was building her frontier home as her people before her had builded in New England. "TRAVELERS were few in this land of little hamlets, and the family welcomed a preacher who A PIONEER HOMEMAKER talked of wonderful things that had happened in New York State. How the tired housewife must have enjoyed hearing 'of rivers and hills so near to her old home in Phelps. The wandering preacher was asked to return and the family began to read the books he discussed. They had attended many revival meetings in the past, but this man talked of a new religion that followed the old teaching of the Biblea religion of joy and promise. Here happiness was the keynote. He spoke of a gathering of his people to the West. Soon the Decker family gathered their belongings, joined the Latterday Saint Church, and moved west to Franklin, Ohio, near Kirtland, the home of many Latter-day Saint people. They joined wholeheartedly with their new companions, and, when the Church was in need of funds, the father of this little family gave his entire savings to help his people. Like all Latter-day Saint families, this family was looked upon with distrust by non-Mormon neighbors, who soon began to avoid them. What courage it must have taken to join with other Latter-day Saints and leave for the far Missouri! The turbulent Westerners in Missouri hated the quiet industry of this people who built towns so quickly on the best river lands. Many of the early settlers had come to the frontier either to procure large slave holdings or because they did not fit into the orderly society of the East. Mormon homes grew too rapidly into settlements. Frontier Missouri finally succeeded in driving the Mormons out. So back across Missouri moved the 465 tired little band, and in 1841 they settled on land at a bend of the Mississippi River, later to be known as Nauvoo the Beautiful. Here the well-built houses and shaded streets brought memories of New England. The Decker family now hoped that they had found a permanent home. Yet, even now, the little dwelling was not secure. Isaac Decker had tired of the continual moving and no longer felt enthusiastic for the society that shut him apart from other companions, and so he and his wife, whose whole soul was dominated by religious fervor, parted. Later, she married Lorenzo D. Young and made a pleasant home on the bank of the Mississippi. When the terrible months of persecution came and the Prophet-leader was killed, mobs threatened the beautiful Nauvoo, and Harriet was one of the first to make preparations to move to the West. HE broad Mississippi was frozen as the wagons waited in front of the little home on that cold February day in 1846. The children climbed inside; Lorenzo Young helped his wife into the wagon, and they turned toward the river. Across the ice and on to the Missouri moved the people, trusting in their leaders, who were men of God, to lead them to a new home. When the early spring of 1847 came, Winter Quarters, the temporary resting place of the Saints, was a bustle of activity. Songs of the West rang out and there was talk of California. There was. Also talk of missions to the Indians and how even now the elders of the Church were preaching to the Lamanites. 466 Definite plans were made for a small company to go farther west and to find a home for the people. Harriet's husband was chosen a member of this party. Harriet, suffering from maleria, begged to be taken with them. Brigham Young yielded to Lorenzo and Harriet's desire and agreed to let her go. Two other women also went with this band of scouts over the mountains to find a refuge and a home. 'They were Clara Decker Young, wife of Brigham Young and daughter of Harriet, and Ellen S. Kimball, wife of Heber C. Kimball. Two children accompanied Harriet. On April 7, the heavily loaded wagons started the long trek west. Seeds, plows, chickens, pigs, and cows made the caravan a picturesque sight. Each night the wagons formed a circle with interlocking wheels into which the cattle were driven. Each evening the women cooked over the campfire. Songs were sung around the fires which awakened echoes on the Platte River that had previously known only the whoop of Indian braves or the more riotous songs of the fortune seeker. Each morning this band of pioneers was up at five o'clock and by seven the train was moving on toward the Rockies. Rafts were built to ford the streams as the band pushed west. In late July the pioneers crossed the South Pass where eleven years earlier Narcissa Whitman had kneeled in thanksgiving for the right to carry the white man's Book to the Indians; but the path of these pioneers lay to the south. The Oregon had become the destination for too many traders and homeseekers. Soon the wagons crossed the rugRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943 ged Uintahs and wound down nartow Echo Canyon, where boulders and brush made it hard going for the wagons. The men had to cut a trail; rocks had to be moved. When the turn was made into East Canyon, the way seemed almost impassable. 'The canyon itself was steep; wolves lurked in the underbrush, and rattlesnakes lay in wait for the unwary. The crooked stream was willow-fringed, and rocks made the frequent crossings very slow and precarious. Everywhere huge peaks towered, and the July sun beat upon the toiling men as they tried to clear a way. At last Big Mountain was reached, and from its summit they glimpsed a broad valley which lay over yet another mountain. This must be the place Bridger had told of! This was the valley Goodyear had described. They hoped it was better than the traders had pictured. Now the little band rallied its strength, and by midday, Brigham Young and his brother Lorenzo and their wives were on the benchland east of the Great Salt Lake Valley. The broad stretches of treeless country shimmered in the heat. The women looked over their new home; a lizard ran across the foot of Harriet. She was tired. No house, grass or trees rested her weary eyes. She heard Brigham Young say, "This is the place," and she burst into tears. THE journey had been hard and now this! The sage brush, the sunflowers, nothing looked like home to her as she cried, "Lorenzo, we have traveled fifteen hundred miles over prairies, deserts, and mountains, but feeble as I am, I would rather journey A PIONEER HOMEMAKER a thousand miles farther than stay in this desolate place." But this was to be home. Lorenzo immediately plowed a small tract of land, onto which the water from City Creek was diverted, and he planted the first potatoes in the valley. The day following the entrance into the valley, a strange little assembly gathered, and a little band of worshippers thanked God for their new home. 'They were advised to make a fort for protection, and the next day the work of planting and home building began. At first Harriet's house was in the log and adobe fort, but this was so different from her usual home that she was very unhappy. Her new baby, who had been born in September, fretted in the mud-roofed cabin, and all the houses were so close together that Harriet lacked the privacy she craved. She was a home builder, and stockade life was disagreeable to her. In December, therefore, Lorenzo completed a log cabin of his own outside the fort some distance away. The other members protested at this move because of the danger of Indians, but Harriet thought only of homemaking. Even after an unfriendly Indian did invade her cabin 467 one day, she still refused to leave. It was in January, as she rocked her baby, that the rude savage invaded the little house and demanded "biscuit." Through a ruse, she loosed her watchdog, a powerful mastiff tied in the next room, and took the bow and arrows away from the Indian who had been wounded by the dog. Then, binding up the shoulder of the sullen native, she sent him on his way, and continued her life outside the fort. Spring had hardly arrived before the beauty-loving Harriet was hard at work making her house a home. She had brought the first children into the little settlement. Her son was the first white boy to be born in the Valley. Now she began to plan her home. Lorenzo brought a small locust tree from the mountains, and Harriet planted it in the front of her house. This was the first tree planted in the Valley. Her yard was the present yard of the Bee Hive House. This intrepid woman had dreamed of the great West, but always as a place of homes. She realized that dream as she planted trees and gardens. Men may plan cities, but women build homes. Salt Lake City is a city of homes and trees, and Harriet Wheeler Young was its original homemaker. MY WANTS. Roberta Bates I only want a little house, A lilac tree beside the door. A house with windows clean and bright, And sunlight dancing on the floor To the lilting music of childish laughter; A hearth whereon a kettle sings; Some birds to nest in the lilac tree, And a patch of sky to try their wings. Food Preservation Edna K. Ward HERE are several methods 'of "preserving" the home food supply of fresh fruits and vegetables during the summer growing season. 'To know that no fruits nor vegetables have been wasted, and to have an adequate winter supply of these important foods will be a great satisfaction to all homemakers. Latter-day Saint housewives have always been interested in preserving the summer supply of fruits and vegetables for winter use, and have practiced the adage of "waste not, want not." Vegetables and fruits may be preserved by canning, drying, freezing, and storing. It is the purpose of the following discussion to explain briefly the last three methods. DRYING Drying or dehydration of fruits and vegetables means that enough water is removed to stop the growth of molds and other organisms. If done properly, it will also preserve much of the flavor, color, and food value. Dried products occupy less space for storing. Drying Vegetables 1. Select vegetables that have reached the table-use stage. 2. Clean thoroughly, remove all blemishes. 3. Precook or steam. This prevents excessive loss of food value, sets the color, and hastens drying. Steaming is preferable to boiling in water. Any large kettle in which a rack arrangement can be placed to keep the vegetable up out of the water niay be used Page 468 for steaming, provided the kettle has a tightly-fitting lid. Snap Beans Cut in one inch lengths Steam 15 to 20 minutes Dry 4 to 7 hours Peas Steam 10 minutes Dry 3 to 5 hours Corn Split each row of kernels lengthwise before cutting and scrape cob with a knife to get all the milk from the cob. To 4 quarts of corn add: 1 cup cream or rich milk  cup sugar 2 tablespoons salt Mix and boil for 20 minutes stirring constantly to prevent scorching. Spread in shallow pans and dry in the oven or dryer, stirring often. Dry until the kernels will break with clean glass-like fracture. Spinach Leaves or Other Greens Strip out heavy midribs from chard or other large leaves. Steam 1 to 3 minutes Spread on trays covered with cheesecloth, dry 2 to 4 hours in the oven. Oven Drying For most families the oven is large enough to dry all necessary foods. It is convenient and inexpensive. Cover the racks with cheesecloth or other thin material. Set the temperature control at 150. Open the oven door about every hour and change the position of the trays to give uniform drying. The temperature may be increased to 250 and FOOD PRESERVATION the oven door left slightly open all the time if desired. Drying Fruit Practically all commercially dried fruit is treated with sulphur. This is to improve the appearance, keeping qualities, and food values. After sulphuring, the fruits are sun-dried. They should be covered with cheesecloth or screens to prevent flies or insects from contaminating them. Apples Apples are the most commonly dried fruit. 'They are sliced in quarter-inch slices and may or may not be sulphur treated and dried in full sun. Fruit that is sufficiently dried has an elastic springy feel. Most fruits such as cherries, peaches, apricots, and pears are canned for home use. These fruits may also be dried, however. The Utah State Agricultural College Extension Service in Logan will supply detailed methods of sulphur treatment and drying these fruits. Drying Herbs Parsley, mint or sage may be easily dried for winter use. Hang them inside with the leaves down, and when dry, remove the leaves and store them in glass jars. 4 Storing Dried Products Be sure that foods are thoroughly dry. Sun-dried fruits should be heated in the oven at 200 before storing. Store in paper bags, covered jars, or airtight tins. Preparation for the Table Soak overnight or for several hours (about one pound of vegetables per pound of water). Drain the water into a kettle, bring it to a 469 boil, add the dried product and cook until tender. Do not overcook. FREEZING This method of food preservation is comparatively new, and is becoming increasingly popular. The natural fresh flavor, appearance, and food values are satisfactorily maintained. Present research indicates that quick freezing does not destroy vitamins A, thiamin (B:), riboflavin (Bs), or ascorbic acid (C). Vitamin losses increase if the preparation for freezing is delayed. Following are some rules to insure high-quality frozen products: 1. Select high-quality fresh products ready for immediate use. 2. Clean and prepare to preserve natural color, flavor, and food values. 3. Pack or wrap in reasonably airtight containers. 4. Freeze in quick freeze room where temperature is 10 or 15 degrees below zero. 5. Store in lockers where temperature is kept at zero. 6. Keep products frozen until ready for use. 7. Cook products requiring cooking in such a way as to retain the most food values. Freezing Fruits Fruits that freeze satisfactorily include all kinds of berries, cherries, apricots, peaches, figs, plums, and prunes. 1. Select fruits ready for table use. 2. Wash carefully, discard underripe, overripe, or bruised sections. 3. Cut large fruit (apricots, peaches, prunes) in halves or slices. 4. Pack in waxed containers, fruit jars or enameled tins. (Do not use rub- ' ber rings on fruit jars.) 470 5. Use sugar, (1/2 cup to 1 quart of fruit) ot cold syrup (342 cups sugar to 1 quart water).; 6. Keep fruit as cool as possible and get to the locker at once. 7. Freeze at 10 to 15 degrees below zero. 8. Store where temperature is kept at zero with no more than 5 degrees variation. Freezing Vegetables Vegetables that freeze satisfactorily include asparagus, green beans, lima beans, broccoli, chard, corn, peas, spinach, and cauliflower. To Prepare Vegetables for Freezing 1. Select as for table use (get products to locker as quickly as possible; no more than two hours should elapse between time of harvesting and freezing). Z. Clean and wash thoroughly. Cut, shell or slice according to type of vegetable. 3. Scald vegetables in boiling water. Use a wire basket or mosquito netting bag. Be sure water is boiling. Scald small amounts, 5 to 6 pounds. Do not over-scald. Time: Asparagus2-3 minutes Beans (Lima)2-3 minutes Beans (Snap)2-3 minutes Broccoli3-5 minutes Cauliflower2-3 minutes Corn (cut)z2-5 minutes Peas1-1/2 minutes 4. After scalding, place at once under cold running water and leave until the vegetable is as cold as the water. Remove from water as soon as the vegetables are cooled. 5. Place products in waxed containers, fruit jars with rubber-rings or all sealing lids, or enameled cans that are airtight. 6. Pack vegetables dry or in a 2% brine solution. In the brine pack method, vegetables are packed dry in containers, and then 1/ cup of brine is poured over each pint, leaving 2 inch RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943 head space in pint containers, and 4 inch in quart containers. Brine Solution 4 teaspoons table-salt dissolved in 1 quart warm water 5 1/3 tablespoons table-salt dissolved in 1 gallon warm water Chill brine before pouring over. Vegetables. (The brine solution should be used as the cooking water when vegetables are used. ) 7. Keep the vegetables as cold as possible until they reach the locker. 8. Quick freeze and store in locker. HOME STORAGE Several vegetables lend themselves to storage better than to any other method of preservation. Carrots, beets, celery, onions, late cabbage, parsnips, sweet potatoes, potatoes, and turnips may be stored as they come from the garden. Cabbage Vitamin C is one of the important food nutrients in cabbage. Raw cabbage is one of the cheapest year-round vitamin C foods. It also contributes calcium, phosphorus, and iron. Cabbage may be stored and used fresh. It may also be made into sauerkraut and packed in jars. Sauerkraut Use fully matured heads. Shred and place in stone jars. Use alternate layers of cabbage and salt in proportion of one pound of salt to forty pounds of cabbage. Pack firmly in stone jar, cover with a clean cloth and a board or plate on which is placed a weight heavy enough to cause the brine to come up to the cover. Keep at about 86 F. For about 10 days to allow it to ferment. Remove skum as it forms. Pack in glass jars and add enough brine to fill jar. (Continued on page 478) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ERNARD SHAW has stated that woman's emancipation, with the growth of feminism, has not tended to discourage masculinity in men, but has tended to discourage boorishness, a trait of the weak who are trying to conceal their weakness. "THERE have always been men who believe that women like to be dominated by the "stronger sex." Ralph A. Habas, in the April issue of Facts, discusses this question thoughtfully in an article, "Do Women Want Domination?". He takes the negative viewpoint, and says that an attitude of voluntary cooperation should be the keynote of a happy marriage; neither dominance nor submissiveness, but a deep-seated regard for each other's personality. "THE magnitude of America's Red Cross movement may be gauged by activities in its Brooklyn, New York, headquarters, reported by Louis Markey in "Twenty-four Hours a Day," (Red Book, April 1943.) Most of the 43,000 workers are women, generally unpaid volunteers. In the Home Service Division, contacts are established, when necessary, between American families and their sons overseas (about 8,000 cases monthly). In the Blood Donors' Division, twenty cots are occupied nearly all the time. Stationary canteens are operated by 2,000 women. 'There are 1,000 nurses' aids, 200 Gray Ladies, 300 staff assistants, 500 stenographers and clerks, and 100 F. B. I. Assistants. In the Public Education Division, 250,000 women have taken courses in first aid, home nursing, nutrition, and diet. The workers deliver 5,500,000 surgical dressings monthly. 'OURAGE in Women: The mother of the five Sullivan brothers killed on a torpedoed boat says she would "'do it again" for America, and carries on the heavy work of the farm with her husband. Her last surviving child, Genevieve Marie, joined the WAVES. MERICAN factory girls, packing chemical supplies for an urgently needed overseas shipment, were severely burned by the fumes, but continued at their posts until the task was completed. British factory gitls, rendered sightless by explosions, ate preparing for a continuance of useful life in a new school for the blind, where they learn braille and housework. MRS. L. JENSEN of Murray, Utah, has contributed six fine sons to the war effort. All hold the Melchizedek Priesthood, and have been active Church workers. Mrs. Jensen has been active for many years in Relief Society work, and her husband was a ward bishop for seven years, Page 478  EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 30 AUGUST 1943 President Rudger Clawson TRUE and trusted friend of the General Board of the Relief Society was the late President Rudger Clawson. He was appointed by the First Presidency of the Church, in September 1919, "to audit the books of the General Board, examine the methods of accounting employed and to make recommendations regarding the bookkeeping and accounting as conditions might require." He thus became special advisor and supervisor of the business and financial affairs of the Board, which duty he faithfully and efficiently performed. This able and experienced accountant consolidated the accounts of the Board; set up a modern system of bookkeeping, and then for years supervised the operation of that system; with painstaking care he reviewed the accounts and regularly examined the receipts and disbursements; guarded the expenditures; and annually audited the books and at all times gave sound financial advice. He thus set up for Relief Society a safe and wise pattern of procedure which has been easy to follow. As a professional bookkeeper and auditor of long experience, President Clawson's contribution to the General Board has a value so great that it can hardly be measured. With painstaking care President Clawson also examined and became familiar with the Relief Society stake and ward record books, and with the Page 472 annual financial, statistical, and narrative reports sent in annually by these organizations to be audited and compiled by the General Secretary for presentation to the General Board and to the women of the whole organization. Few Relief Society women were more familiar with the inner workings of the organization, and no one was more proud of the systematic and painstaking efforts and accomplishments of stake and ward officers and workers in carrying on these practical affairs of the organization than was President Rug Clawson. Hardly a week in the year passed without a visit to Relief Society headquarters by this good and faithful man. Keenly did he sense his responsibility, and greatly interested was he in the affairs of the organization. 'This close association over a period of more than twenty years, together with his kindness, friendliness, courtesy, and good humor endeared him not only to the executive officers, but to every member of the staff. President Clawson was consulted regarding many of the varied problems of the Society as a whole, and his wise and fatherly counsel and advice were always very helpful. President Clawson was a living example of loyalty and devotion to the Church. No sacrifice was too great for him to make for the Gospel of the Master. He was a great defender of the faith. While he had EDITORIAL always a mild-appearing manner, yet for the right he was always aggressive. He always manifested that same courage which he exhibited when, as a young missionary in Georgia, he bravely faced the firing squad of that threatening and infuriated mob which had brutally taken the life of his missionary companion; and as he stood beside the dead 473 body of his associate and listened to the continued threats of the mob, he even bared his breast and told them to shoot. This surprising attitude on his part so startled the mob that they turned away, leaving him alone with the body of his friend and companion in the dense woods of GeorgiaAmy Brown Lyman. Train Up a Child In the Way He Should Go  the worth of souls is great in the sight of God." Thus did the Lord speak to the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1829. In view of this general declaration, how great a responsibility rests upon parents who take upon themselves the sacred obligation of bringing certain spirits into this world through their lineage, clothing them with temporal bodies, and passing on to those spirits much of their physical and mental characteristics. What a strict accounting will be required of parents as to the manner in which they guarded and protected, trained up and set in the path of righteousness those immortal souls specifically entrusted to their care! There is no duty more obligatory upon this earth than the duty resting upon parents to rear their children properly. When parents are called upon to account for the manner in which they have trained their children, what excuse will be accepted for laxness or neglect in the training? Will any mother be able to point to any other service she may have performed as being more vital and important than the proper rearing of her children? In accepting any type of employment, the prime concern of a mother should be the question as to whether or not her children will be properly and adequately cared for during her absence. ) What are some of the activities of a Latter-day Saint family which serve as loops of steel to bind the family together and strengthen it to live, as a unit, a righteous life? One of the strongest bonds. Certainly, is family prayer, the uniting of a family. In a spiritual oneness. Seldom is a family drawn more closely together than at such times. Any righteous activity or observance of a law of the Lord entered into by an entire family will guide that family along the straight path. Among such activities may be mentioned the proper observance of the Sabbath, the keeping of the Word of Wisdom, refraining from any criticism of Church au- (Continued on page 522) Tomorrow's Cup Anna Prince Redd CHAPTER V Synopsis: Janet, projectingly reared in Washington, D. C., lives in constant dread of the San Juan country of Utah where her husband, Paul Morgan, has an Indian trading post on the mesa. She plans on their moving to Washington before the birth of her baby, but does not disclose this intention to her husband. Upon returning home with Paul after a happy week spent on the mesa, they find that Janet's sister, Rhae, and her husband, Warren Newsbaum, have arrived for a short visit with the announced intention of taking Janet back to Washington with them. The next morning Paul is hurt when he saves Warren from being dragged by a broncho. A few months later, while Paul, restored to health, is absent on a roundup, an Indian, Mike, threatens to kill Janet. She seeks refuge in the Devil's Corridor where she becomes unconscious. HE minute Dr. Potsworth's old Ford rattled into the yard at El Toro he was out of it, his short legs pushing through the sand and up the flagstone path to the house. He panted to a stop as Paul threw open the door, flung his hat aside and grumbled nervously: "Can't a respectable doctor turn his back on a patient but there's mischief to pay? Janet was laughing and well only a few hours ago!" "You saw her? You were here?" "Of course. I come as often as the weather and roads will let me. Why, the place looks like the leavings of a tornado! What's been going on here?" "IT wish I knew," Paul gritted. "Hurry, doctor, please!" "What a mess." Dr. Potsworth examined the room professionally. Page 474 "Quite an operation. An amputation or two; a few broken joints" "Never mind the room," Paul begged. "Janet's in here, Doc. Hurty!" He threw open the bedroom door. "I found her unconscious in the Devil's Corridor." "Hurt?" "T can't tell. Something pretty bad must have happened. I came home to find Taos knifed in the throat, Juanee gone, and the place smashed to bits." One look at Janet, lying inert, beads of perspiration along her hairline, and Dr. Potsworth became absorbed. At the sound of their voices, Janet stirred restlessly. Paul took her hand and began to chafe her fingers gently. "Will you be able to handle this, Doc? You'll know a specialistIt was all my fault. I" "Take it easy, Paul. Of course I can handle it. We'll get help when we need it." "Then do something. Don't just stand there looking at -her!"' "There isn't anything to do. Not now. 'Tomorrow, maybe." "I can't stand it till tomorrow. It's all my fault, I tell you; I left her alone. I don't even know what happened!" - "Whatever is was, it happened after I left here. Evidently it had something to do with Janet's collapse. But I'm inclined to think this might have happened anyway. Janet's lived with fear too long." TOMORROW'S CUP "Fear. Janet afraid? Doc, you're all wrong. Janet isn't afraid of anything! Why, she stands up to this country like a veteran! 'This was no ordinary fear." "No. It's evident that Janet had cause to hide in the Corridor. But that's not what I mean. You've sold yourself on the idea that this country belonged to the gods before they turned it over to you. Well,, it didn't. It's cold and hard and exacting; only you're too absorbed to see it. Janet's been afraid since the day she came to El Toro to live!" Paul groaned. '""Then let's get her out of here!" "Her only chance lies in rest and quiet. She must not be moved." "But what is it? What causes such things? If it wasn't fear, then what was it?" | "We don't know. Such cases are not uncommon, however." Dr. Potsworth turned from his long contemplation of Janet and went to the window. "Why don't you do something?" Paul implored. "Take her pulse; do anything except just stand there!" "Her pulse is all right. I counted the one in her throat. She's tired; she wants to rest." "And I thought mustangs couldn't break her spirit." "She may sleep this off." "But Janet isn't asleep. Even I can tell that!" "No. She isn't asleep, now, but she soon will be. She may sleep for days." Potsworth turned from the window. "Don't worry too much, Paul. I have the feeling that What might happen in this case, won't happen. I'll send for Mark Groneman if it'll make you feel bet- 475 ter. He's the latest authority on this sort of thing." Paul noted the break in Potsworth's sentence, and his heart sank. He wanted to ask, "Authority on what?" but shrank from the clarity of professional terms. If he could believe that Janet was all right, that she was going to be all right, then he could keep sane, and wait. But did Potsworth know? After all, he was getting on in years "T'll send the telegram to Groneman," Paul said. "There's no one else to go, and the phone is wrecked." Potsworth scribbled the message. Paul looked long at Janet,. Then he turned and went hurriedly out. ~ FE, was back before Potsworth expected him, even in his state of mind. "Possibly a dead horse on the ranch tonight, as well as a dead dog," he reproved. "'There's no use going off the deep end, Paul. I've told you that, for the present at least, Janet is all right." Paul nodded miserably. "'I'd like a clueThere's something unhealthy in store for someone. I wish Joe would come. And what do you suppose happened to that measly squaw?"' "Juanee is probably on her way here now. I fancy her leaving, and the fracas here, originated from the same source. Juanee's faithful as only a squaw can be. I'll warrant she's in trouble, too." Janet sighed deeply, but not a muscle of her body moved. "We're talking too much. Suppose you go out and straighten up a bit; pick up the pieces. I'll hold clinic in here." 476 "You'll stay all night?" "Yes. But don't you go stirring up trouble. Janet needs you here." Potsworth followed Paul out. "T'll be here, Doc, but that's no insurance for the Indian that started this." Potsworth looked at him shrewdly. "You've got a posse out?" "Within an hour every man in Grayson will be out after the Indians." | "Tt's an Indian, all right. Mike. And possibly that brat of his." "Mike! How do you know?" "Mike's blind in one eye, and can't shoot straight. See that bullet hole above your head?" Paul glanced at the casing of the door against which he leaned. Potsworth indicated a gouge in the wood. "Tt glanced off. I'll bet every bullet that was fired took the same angle." Paul picked up the empty shell. "That came out of my own gun!" "There'll be a straight bullet for Mike, and it won't glance off!" "Now, look here, Paul. 'The whole Indian nation isn't responsible for this. I'll hold you accountable if there's a feud stirred up. Those hotheads will grab the first Indian they meet. You've got to stop them. Now get out and fix that telephone wire so we can call off the dogs!" "Why didn't I have you do that instead of sending you to town, anyway?" he grumbled as Paul went. "For a bright man, I haven't much sense!" THERE'S the plane!" Paul raced from the patio toward the desert pasture. "That's Groneman, all right!" "That's a soft landing field." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943 "He'll make it! Things too regular!" "That's a perfect landing if I ever saw one!" Paul cried. "Look at the cowboys scatter; they expected the plane to bounce all over the country and end up in a bed of prickly pears." Paul was already halfway to the pasture; Dr. Potsworth hurried after him as fast as his shorter legs would take him, puffing and wheezing like his old car in a sand rut. Fifteen minutes later the two doctors were in Janet's room, holding a consultation. "Why did you send for me, Potsworth? You had this catalogued." Dr. Groneman had been watching Janet intently for several minutes. Exactly the same expression was on his face that Potsworth's had worn when he first saw her. "Tm gettin' old and seedy, Mark. Been out here so long I can't tell mumps from whooping cough." "You're as good an authority as we have on this sort of thing, Potsworth, I may as well go back, for any good I'll be. But I'd like to stick around and watch you work. How could anybody get nerve exhaustion in a place like this? It's the top of the world!" "Let's turn the patient over to your nurse and take a little of it in," Potsworth said. "I've been glued to this spot for-two days. I'm mighty thankful to have a nurse on the scene. Even our Indian woman was - gone when I got here." There followed days of waiting. Paul worked tirelessly at insignifcant things, saying little. Janet roused occasionally to a state that bordered consciousness, but most of the time she slept a detached, He doesn't like TOMORROW'S CUP feather-like sleep. 'The household lived on tiptoe. On the fifth morning, Paul followed Dr. Potsworth into the yard. Dawn was breaking, rose-hued over the desert. Wind brushed against his face with sympathetic coolness. Paul neither saw nor heard. "I can't stand this any longer, Doc," he said. "I thought I'd feel better if I didn't know the worst, but I don't. Nothing could be worse than the things I conjure up. What is it both you and Groneman imply, yet do not say, even between yourselves? What is it you fear?" "Paralysis." The word cut the air like hawk wings. Paul felt the pressure of blood in every vein of his body. Potsworth took his arm and they went back to the house. At the door Paul said doggedly: "If we could get her to a hospital" "We've discussed that endlessly, Groneman and J. We both agree that her chance is still in perfect quiet. If labor will hold off a few more days, the odds will be on her side. The shock of childbirth now 'might be too much." "And the. Baby?" Paul asked it, dreading the answer. "Several days overdue. That's the chance we have to take. Nature's pretty sensible, we can but help her out." " Paul pressed the doctor's hand and went slowly toward the store. "It's awfulthis waitingthis uselessness," he muttered. '"My fingers itch to clutch the hair of a redskin, any one of them, just so I'll feel like a man again!" But he'd given Doc his word not to go gunning for Mike, and he'd keep it. To the disgust of 477 the cowboys, he'd called off the posse. Only Indian Joe was left to dog Mike's trail. And Joe would do it. If only Juanee would talk! But until Joe came back she would not do that. She had been to her father's hogan and found them gone, hide and baggage, that's all Juanee would say. She cried silently by day and chanted from her hogan by night. Paul awoke to a gray day. By noon a storm broke over the desert. 'Trees turned somersaults. Rocks shivered and broke loose from the cliffs as thunder rocked the clouds into a downpour of rain. Burnteyed, Paul watched it come; watched Janet, too. Groneman stood looking out of the window. "Will this be a shock?" he asked Dr. Potsworth, indicating Janet. "On the contrary. 'This is something she can understand. She's heard the roar of surf against rocks; rain dripping from the roof; rivers on the rampage. This will be home to Janet." "There's never been a rain like this since Janet came here," Paul said. "II hope you're right." At the height of the storm Janet's baby came, living barely an hour, then Janet fell into a restful, natural sleep. "She'll be all right now, Paul," Groneman said. "She'll remember little of this." Grief overshadowed Paul's eyes. "Thenthen Janet will never sense her lossnor know the glory of motherhood?" Potsworth sighed. "She may or may not have another child." 478 Paul dug the tiny grave on a knoll overlooking El Toro, where it would catch the first and last rays of every sun. Alone, he carried the tiny casket to the little cemetery he had made. Janet knew that in the dim hours of the dawn she had held her baby RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943 in her arms; then they had taken it away.... When she was able to go out into the living room again it was May. The spring was full of golden days, the desert sweet with them. (To be continued) << Food Preservation (Continued from page 470) Many homes have good storage facilities. A cool, ventilated cellar under the house offers good conditions for storage of vegetables. Cellars with heating furnaces are usually too warm and dry, but often a room may be partitioned off where the temperature may be controlled by outside windows. Natural earth makes a better floor than concrete or brick because a certain amount of moisture is necessary. Outdoor storage cellars or caves are excellent for storing vegetables. Many farms have this type of cellar. It is built partly underground and offers protection from freezing, and keeps vegetables and apples in excellent condition. Write to the U. S. Department of Agriculture, Farmer's Bulletin No. 879, for the construction details of many types of cellars. We found a very simple method of storage quite satisfactory last year for keeping our Victory Garden products. Carrots, beets, turnips, and onions were put in boxes and bushel baskets, a lid placed over these containers, and holes dug in the garden soil to a little below the depth of each container, then leaves and a very small amount of soil were heaped over the containers. When we needed the products the leaves were removed, but replaced again after getting the desired amount. 'These vegetables kept very well until they were all used, sometime in January. This was a very simple method for the small amount of excess vegetables we had grown during the summer. Bibliography Stark, A. L., Drying Fruits and Vegetables for Home Use Farmer's Bulletin No. 879, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Home Storage of Vegetables Miller, Edna, U. S. Extension Div. U. S. A. C., Logan, Utah, Frozen Foods from Freezer Lockers.; Hygeia Ice Co., Salt Lake City, Locker Logic New Radio Series Te General Board of Relief Society wishes to call the attention of Relief Society members living within the radius served by radio station KSL, to two series of talks which will deal with present-day problems centering around the home and family. On Monday, July 12, at 6:30 to 6:45 p. M., Elder Bryant S. Hinckley will begin his weekly series of addresses, "The Home, The Workshop of the World"; and Thursday night, July 15, at 9:45 to 10:00 p. M., Elder Adam S. Bennion will begin a series entitled "When Two Generations Meet," The Princess Ruby Scranton Jones OIS SINCLAIRE, first grade teacher at the West Side School, waited impatiently for the children to remove their galoshes. "Sit straight," she said sharply and, giving the pitch, began the morning song. Some minutes after the tardy bell had rung, Robin Marshall hurried in and slipped into his seat. "Late again," Lois announced. "This will never do, Robin. You bring down our record." Robin hung his head. "He's always clean, at least," Lois thought as she noticed his nicely ironed blue coveralls with the folded handkerchief peeping from the breast pocket, and his blond curls brushed smooth. She couldn't say as much for most of her pupils. There was no excuse for letting children come to school dirty with their shoes untied and their hair not combed. She could hardly bear to look at some of them and nothing could have induced her to touch them. "Readerspage 6," she commanded. Then began the monotonous repetition, "I see the dog. The dog can run. I see the cat. The cat can jump." "Next, Robin." When he did not begin, Lois looked at him in surprise. He never lost the place and he was a good reader. "Robin," she repeated. "The cat," he began, "c can " She looked more closely. Big tears were falling on his book. "Carl," she said out loud, but she? Thought, "The big baby. Oh, why did I ever accept this job? I don't know anything about children of this age. Why didn't they put me in high school where I belong?" Lois got through the day somehow. Everything seemed to go wrong. Again and again Robin failed to recite. "The child must be sick," she thought. Usually he was all enthusiasm and smiles. When she came back from escorting the children to the door that afternoon, Lois sat down wearily, her head in her hands. This school had the reputation of being the least desirable school in town and it seemed to Lois that it was living up to its reputation. Miss Thomas, the second grade teacher, a woman past thirty-five, came in to borrow some colored chalk. "How do you stand it?" Lois stormed. "You've been here ten years." "Oh, it's a job," Miss Thomas answered listlessly. "Not much is expected here." She helped herself from the box on the desk. "Well, I don't intend to waste my life on such children," Lois went on, "Tl make such a record that the supervisor will notice and transfer me." She took up some pictures she had brought that morning and began to tack them to the wall. One was of a rosy-cheeked boy sliding downhill on his sled. His happy smile made her think of Robin again. What was the matter with the child, anyway? He was the one Page 479 480 bright spot in her day, usually, but lately he had failed her. If she was going to make a record, she had better begin with him. Lois put on her new squirrel coat and pulled her scarlet tam over her dark curls. Going back to the desk, she turned through her roll book and found Robin's address318 Sherman Streetnot too far to walk. She would go and have a talk with his mother.: Lois walked rapidly, for the wind was cold. As she approached the railroad tracks, she noticed that the snow got dirtier and dirtier and scraps of paper blew about. A shrill whistle sounded, and gates appeared from nowhere across her path. A long freight train moved by. Could a train have delayed Robin, she wondered? She must remember to caution the children. She had better not urge them to hurry. By the time the street was clear again, Lois was cold. She walked rapidly and soon found the number she sought. The porch was covered with muddy dog tracks. An old woman opened the door a few inches. "Im looking for Mrs. Marshall," Lois explained. "She lives at the back," the woman snapped, and closed the door. Lois went round the house. The snow had been cleared away but there was no pavement. Seeing a door at the side, she knocked. The door was opened by a young woman scarcely older than Lois. She smiled and Lois said confidently, "You are Robin's mother." "And you are his teacher." The woman stepped back courteously. "He has told me about your lovely coat. Come inwon't you?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943 Lois stepped in and was immediately sorry she had not taken off her galoshes for the bare floor was spotless. Mrs. Marshall drew a plain wooden rocker towards the range. "Sit here," she said, "you must be cold." Lois noticed that the room, though small, served as kitchen, dining room and living room. 'There was very little furniture. Some clothes hung on a line over the stove. '"Won't you take off your coat?" Mrs. Marshall asked as she put a shovel of coal on the fire. "No," Lois answered. "I can't stay. I just came to ask why Robin has been tardy so often lately." Just then a wail came from the clothesbasket on the table. Mrs. Marshall took out a tiny baby and held it to her shoulder. Then she began. "Wellyou see. I'm very sorry. It's my fault, I supposenot manag-. Ing." She stopped and fussed with the baby's blanket. "It must be hard to get small children up in the morning," Lois offered. "Oh, that isn't it." Again a pause followed. "It's just that it's so hard to dry his coveralls." I don't understand," Lois said. "Well, you see, I can't wash them till he goes to bed. It was all right when I could hang them out but now they don't get dry." The baby cried again so the young mother walked back and forth. Lois waited because she did not know what to say. Hesitatingly Mrs. Marshall continued, "We've been short of coal (Continued on page 521) Can Your Stake Increase Magazine Subscriptions? General Secretary-Treasurer Vera White Pohlman N 1921, when The Relief Society Magazine was in its eighth year, the General Board was faced with the necessity of increasing the subscription price because of higher costs of printing during and after World War I. Relief Society women throughout the Church, eager to maintain the subscription price at one dollar per year, pledged themselves to increase the circulation so that the price need not be raised. They fulfilled this pledge and the price has been maintained at one dollar per year ever since. Furthermore, a steadily increasing circulation has made it possible to offer a bigger and better Magazine during the past few years, still at the dollar rate. Now, in its thirtieth year, the Magazine is again threatened with a higher subscription priceagain because of increased costs due to war conditions. And again the circulation must be greatly increased in order to avoid raising the subscription price. The General Board believes that Relief Society members, officers, and Magazine representatives will give every possible support to the Magazine in order that its present high quality may be maintained without increasing the subscription price, just as did the Relief Society women of nearly a quarter century ago. In order that the various stakes and missions may fully realize their present Magazine subscription rates and the great opportunity for extending the circulation, Magazine subscriptions in relation to Relief Society members are listed in the accompanying table and pictographs for all stakes and English-speaking missions of the Church which submitted the official annual Relief Society report to the General Board. The chart lists all stakes in alphabetical order, followed by the Englishspeaking missions. Opposite the name of each stake and mission is a row of 20 symbolssome dark and some lighteach representing 5 per cent of the Relief Society members in the stake or mission. The dark symbols represent the proportion of members who subscribed for the Magazine in 1942; the light symbols represent the proportion of members who did not subscribe for the Magazine IN 1942. The General Board has never required a specified quota of Magazine subscriptions from the various stakes, wards, and missions, but it has recognized, in the honor roll and by award subscriptions, those Societies whose subscriptions equalled or exceeded 75 per cent of their members. Accordingly, the charts show an achievement line at the 75 per cent point. From this line, stakes and missions may observe the extent to which their 1942 Magazine subscriptions approached or exceeded this point. If every stake and English-speaking Page 48] 482 mission whose subscription rate is less than 75 per cent of the membership will make an effort to increase subscriptions toward this point, it should be possible to keep the Magazine subscription price at one dollar per year. At the end of each row of symbols is a rank number by means of which the corresponding stake or mission may be found in the preceding table, listed in order according to percentage of Magazine subscriptions in relation to members. This table shows, as of 1942, the number of members, number of Magazine subscriptions, and the percentage of subscriptions to members. It also shows the number of subscriptions to be procured during the calendar year 1943 in order for the stake or mission to have a subscription rate equal to 75 per cent of its members, together with the approximate number of Latter-day Saint women in the stake or missionfrom all of whom Magazine subscriptions may be solicited. For example, for the 161 stakes and missions included in the table and chart, a total subscription list of 75,157 would be required to represent 75 per cent of the 100,320 members of Relief Society in these stakes and missions, but there are approximately 165,813 Latter-day Saint women in these same stakes and missions from whom to procure the 75,157 subscriptions. Similar computations may be made in the stakes and missions with respect to their local Relief Societies.
Attention is especially directed to the annual report in the June-July issue of the Magazine, to the table at the bottom of page 425 showing the extent to which Relief Society officers and class leaders subscribe for the Magazine. This table shows that nearly all (97 per cent) of stake officers and board members subscribe for the Magazine, that nearly two-thirds (65 per cent) of the executive officers in wards and branches are Magazine subscribers, and that 81 per cent of the class leaders take the Magazine. Figures are available in every stake, ward, and mission Relief Society annual report for 1942 from which local rates may be computed.
All subscriptions procured by the local Magazine representatives may be included in the count of subscriptions, whether or not the subscribers are members of Relief Society, and also those subscriptions procured within the boundaries of each local ward or branch which are mailed elsewhere, such as gift subscriptions.
It should be borne in mind that as the number of members increases or decreases during 1943, the subscription percentage will also fluctuate. For example, if a stake procures the number of subscriptions listed in the table as representing 75 per cent of the members, the subscription rate for this stake at the end of 1943 would be less than 75 per cent if the number of members has increased, or more than 75 per cent if the number of members has decreased. Magazine representatives should therefore check frequently with their Relief Society secretaries to ascertain the current membership count.
THE high-ranking stakes and missions which procured Magazine subscriptions equal to or exceeding 75 per cent of their members for 1942 head the table. These are the Australian and the Western States Missions, and South Los Angeles, San Diego, Big Horn, San Francisco, Union, Cassia, Phoenix, and Bear Lake Stakes. These stakes and missions are also represented in the Notes from the Field of this issue where they tell of methods used in achieving these rates.
Of the total of 161 stakes and English-speaking missions listed in the table and charts, only these 10 report subscriptions equaling or exceeding 75 per cent of their members. It is especially noteworthy that the Australian Mission and the South Los Angeles Stake each procured subscriptions in excess of their membership. Also worthy of special mention are two districts of the Northern States MissionIllinois North and South with a percentage of 92, and Wisconsin with a percentage of 76, and the South Alabama district of the Southern States Mission with a percentage of 77. Mission districts are not listed separately in the table and chart because not all missions are organized into districts with respect to Relief Society work. These three high-rating mission districts were recognized, however, in the Magazine subscription honor roll in the May issue of the Magazine.
Each year, local Relief Societies, as well as stakes and missions, whose subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine equal or exceed 75 per cent of the Relief Society membership, are compiled into an honor roll and published in the Magazine. Each local Magazine representative achieving this goal is awarded a one-year gift subscription to the Magazine. This honor roll is based on the annual Magazine subscription reports submitted by local, stake, and mission Magazine representatives.
A total of 383 local Relief Society Magazine representatives achieved a place on the honor roll for 1942 and were awarded gift subscriptions, as shown on the honor roll in the Magazine for May 1943, supplemented by the June-July issue, page 412. But these 383 local Relief Societies (284 of them in stakes and 99 in missions), represented only 17 per cent of the total of 2,273 local Relief Societies throughout the Church. Only 8 or 6 per cent of the 144 stakes achieved a rating of 75 per cent, and only 2 of the missions. The missions, however, cannot all be compared in this respect, inasmuch as several of them are in non-English-speaking countries, and reports from some of the English-speaking missions in faraway places could not reach us under wartime shipping conditions.
Many of the local Relief Societies failed to submit subscription reports to their stake or mission officers, and the General Board received no compiled reports from 99 of the stakes nor from some of the missions from which reports could have reached the office. It is unfortunate that in some of these non-reporting stakes and missions there were local Magazine representatives who had achieved excellent Magazine subscription rates but whose records did not reach the General Board for inclusion in the honor roll either because the local Relief Society failed to submit its report or because the stake or mission failed to send in the compilation.
The rates shown are based on members and subscriptions as shown
CAN YOUR STAKE INCREASE MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS? 483
484
in the regular annual report. These figures should have been exactly the same as those submitted on the subscription reports from Relief Society Magazine representatives, but these figures were in agreement in only about one-fourth of the stakes and missions. In all remaining stakes and missions either the count of members or count of subscriptions was in conflict in the two reports. This is surprising inasmuch as there was only one source of information for each figureMagazine representatives were instructed to procure the count of members as of December 1, 1942 from their respective Relief Society secretaries, and secretaries were instructed to procure the count of subscriptions from their respective Magazine representatives. The regular annual Relief Society report must necessarily be considered as the official report and therefore the figures as printed may not agree in all instances with figures submitted by Magazine representatives, including those printed in the honor roll. It is conceded that in many instances the number of subscriptions as reported by Magazine representatives may have been more accurate than the number shown by the secretary on the annual report, but without evidence to this effect the only alternative is to accept for this purpose the figures in the regular annual report. It is hoped that the recognition of this discrepancy will lead to more accurate reports for 1943.
Discrepancies of this sort account for inclusion in the honor roll of two stakes which on the basis of the annual report are not shown in the accompanying table and chart as having achieved a goal of 75 per cent or more.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
TABLE SHOWING, FOR 1942, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS IN RELATION TO RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS In 144 Stakes and 17 English-speaking Missions
RANK
STAKE OR MISSION
MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS IN RELATION TO MEMBERS
Subscriptions to equal 75 Per cent of Members
Estimated Number of L.D.S. Women


Members
Subscriptions
Per cent
TOTALS

100,320
53,325
53.16
75 per cent and over | 1 | Australian Mission | 215 | 262 | 121.86 | 161 | 422 | | 2 | South Los Angeles | 851 | 872 | 102.46 | 638 | 1,360 | | 3 | San Diego | 309 | 266 | 86.08 | 232 | 706 | | 4 | Big Horn | 799 | 686 | 85.85 | 599 | 833 | | 5 | San Francisco | 542 | 442 | 81.64 | 407 | 749 | | 6 | Union | 299 | 242 | 80.93 | 224 | 420 | | 7 | Cassia | 182 | 147 | 80.76 | 137 | 259 | | 8 | Western States | 730 | 556 | 76.16 | 548 | 894 | | 9 | Phoenix | 460 | 349 | 75.86 | 345 | 396 | | 10 | Bear Lake | 544 | 408 | 75.00 | 408 | 737 |
65-75 per cent | 11 | Moapa | 593 | 441 | 74.36 | 445 | 646 | | 12 | Young | 198 | 146 | 73.73 | 149 | 245 | | 13 | Juarez | 167 | 123 | 73.65 | 125 | 186 | | 14 | Idaho Falls | 693 | 501 | 72.29 | 520 | 2,609 | | 15 | North Idaho Falls | 701 | 504 | 71.89 | 526 | 1,084 | | 16 | Zion Park | 313 | 224 | 71.56 | 235 | 468 | | 17 | Wasatch | 671 | 478 | 71.31 | 503 | 1,238 | | 18 | Granite | 1,063 | 752 | 70.74 | 797 | 1,993 | | 19 | Rigby | 913 | 636 | 69.66 | 685 | 1,392 | | 20 | Twin Falls | 389 | 271 | 69.66 | 292 | 620 | | 21 | Ensign | 751 | 523 | 69.64 | 563 | 1,588 | | 22 | San Juan | 418 | 289 | 69.13 | 314 | 341 |
*No report from Oahu Stake.
CAN YOUR STAKE INCREASE MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS? 485
RANK
STAKE OR MISSION
MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS IN RELATION TO MEMBERS
Subscriptions to equal 75 Per cent of Members
Estimated Number of L.D.S. Women


Members
Subscriptions
Per cent
| 23 | Long Beach | 824 | 568 | 68.93 | 618 | 1,402 | | 24 | Snowflake | 630 | 431 | 68.41 | 473 | 686 | | 25 | Provo | 683 | 464 | 67.93 | 512 | 4,567 | | 26 | Uintah | 667 | 451 | 67.61 | 500 | 1,070 | | 27 | Maricopa | 893 | 602 | 67.41 | 670 | 1,151 | | 28 | Pocatello | 1,380 | 930 | 67.39 | 1,035 | 2,378 | | 29 | Reno | 346 | 233 | 67.34 | 260 | 531 | | 30 | Cache | 1,038 | 691 | 66.57 | 779 | 1,729 | | 31 | Boise | 440 | 292 | 66.36 | 330 | 569 | | 32 | Kolob | 704 | 465 | 66.05 | 528 | 1,520 | | 33 | Star Valley | 674 | 442 | 65.57 | 506 | 896 | | 34 | Weber | 829 | 543 | 65.50 | 622 | 1,449 | | 35 | Lost River | 266 | 174 | 65.41 | 200 | 335 |
55-65 per cent | 36 | Southern Arizona | 371 | 241 | 64.95 | 278 | 486 | | 37 | Burley | 618 | 401 | 64.88 | 464 | 1,042 | | 38 | Lake View | 569 | 367 | 64.49 | 427 | 816 | | 39 | Big Cottonwood | 679 | 436 | 64.21 | 509 | 1,178 | | 40 | Seattle | 511 | 326 | 63.79 | 383 | 635 | | 41 | Franklin | 747 | 475 | 63.58 | 560 | 1,035 | | 42 | Gridley | 197 | 125 | 63.45 | 148 | 348 | | 43 | Nevada | 421 | 267 | 63.42 | 316 | 541 | | 44 | Taylor | 542 | 342 | 63.09 | 407 | 740 | | 45 | Raft River | 181 | 114 | 62.98 | 136 | 210 | | 46 | Palmyra | 850 | 534 | 62.88 | 638 | 1,416 | | 47 | St. Joseph | 582 | 366 | 62.88 | 437 | 708 | | 48 | Oakland | 920 | 578 | 62.82 | 690 | 1,363 | | 49 | Rexburg | 1,224 | 768 | 62.74 | 918 | 1,696 | | 50 | Nampa | 317 | 197 | 62.14 | 238 | 356 | | 51 | Montpelier | 571 | 351 | 61.47 | 428 | 848 | | 52 | Bannock | 365 | 224 | 61.36 | 274 | 537 | | 53 | Western Canadian | 62 | 38 | 61.29 | 47 | 71 | | 54 | New York | 176 | 107 | 60.79 | 132 | 94 | | 55 | Emery | 774 | 470 | 60.72 | 581 | 1,068 | | 56 | Portneuf | 456 | 275 | 60.30 | 342 | 671 | | 57 | Morgan | 304 | 183 | 60.19 | 228 | 481 | | 58 | Timpanogos | 515 | 310 | 60.19 | 386 | 843 | | 59 | Lethbridge | 463 | 278 | 60.04 | 347 | 664 | | 60 | Northwestern States | 1,306 | 784 | 60.03 | 980 | 1,509 | | 61 | Malad | 604 | 361 | 59.85 | 453 | 840 | | 62 | St. George | 649 | 388 | 59.78 | 487 | 997 | | 63 | West Jordan | 739 | 436 | 58.99 | 554 | 1,525 | | 64 | Alpine | 614 | 362 | 58.95 | 461 | 1,087 | | 65 | Sacramento | 470 | 277 | 58.93 | 353 | 724 | | 66 | South Salt Lake | 699 | 406 | 58.08 | 524 | 1,626 | | 67 | Humboldt | 164 | 95 | 57.92 | 123 | 278 | | 68 | Yellowstone | 651 | 372 | 57.14 | 488 | 970 | | 69 | St. Johns | 331 | 189 | 57.09 | 248 | 369 | | 70 | Blaine | 461 | 263 | 57.04 | 346 | 738 | | 71 | Mount Graham | 637 | 360 | 56.51 | 478 | 882 | | 72 | Farr West | 538 | 303 | 56.31 | 404 | 890 | | 73 | Emigration | 856 | 479 | 55.95 | 642 | 1,858 | | 74 | Alberta | 704 | 391 | 55.53 | 528 | 932 | | 75 | North Sanpete | 808 | 448 | 55.44 | 606 | 1,018 | | 76 | Garfield | 405 | 224 | 55.30 | 304 | 463 | | 77 | Teton | 443 | 244 | 55.07 | 332 | 710 |
45-55 per cent | 78 | Box Elder | 1,228 | 674 | 54.88 | 921 | 2,203 | | 79 | Idaho | 342 | 187 | 54.67 | 257 | 740 | | 80 | South Sanpete | 773 | 421 | 54.46 | 580 | 1,090 | | 81 | Chicago | 351 | 190 | 54.13 | 263 | 252 | | 82 | Duchesne | 243 | 129 | 53.08 | 182 | 423 | | 83 | Uvada | 381 | 202 | 53.01 | 286 | 538 | | 84 | Deseret | 730 | 386 | 52.87 | 548 | 913 | | 85 | Eastern States | 349 | 183 | 52.43 | 262 | 392 | | 86 | South Davis | 1,112 | 581 | 52.24 | 834 | 2,012 | | 87 | Logan | 1,047 | 545 | 52.05 | 785 | 1,761 | | 88 | San Bernardino | 349 | 179 | 51.28 | 262 | 414 | | 89 | Bear River | 1,011 | 516 | 51.03 | 758 | 1,414 | | 90 | California | 624 | 316 | 50.64 | 468 | 1,188 | | 91 | Liberty | 1,405 | 709 | 50.46 | 1,054 | 3,528 | | 92 | Beaver | 478 | 240 | 50.20 | 359 | 837 | | 93 | Northern States | 959 | 480 | 50.05 | 719 | 1,376 |
486 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
RANK
STAKE OR MISSION
MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS IN RELATION TO MEMBERS
Subscriptions to equal 75 Per cent of Members
Estimated Number of L.D.S. Women


Members
Subscriptions
Per cent
| 94 | Blackfoot | 936 | 468 | 50.00 | 702 | 1,380 | | 95 | Northern California | 608 | 303 | 49.83 | 456 | 811 | | 96 | Ogden | 1,708 | 850 | 49.76 | 1,281 | 2,854 | | 97 | Kanab | 402 | 200 | 49.75 | 302 | 488 | | 98 | North Central States | 302 | 150 | 49.66 | 227 | 338 | | 99 | Weiser | 435 | 215 | 49.42 | 326 | 564 | | 100 | Minidoka | 440 | 217 | 49.31 | 330 | 652 | | 101 | Shelley | 597 | 293 | 49.07 | 448 | 773 | | 102 | Bonneville | 1,167 | 567 | 48.63 | 875 | 2,105 | | 103 | Washington | 391 | 190 | 48.59 | 293 | 543 | | 104 | Millard | 659 | 318 | 48.33 | 494 | 860 | | 105 | Tooele | 820 | 394 | 48.11 | 615 | 1,624 | | 106 | Los Angeles | 661 | 318 | 48.10 | 496 | 964 | | 107 | Wells | 1,616 | 771 | 47.74 | 1,212 | 2,688 | | 108 | Salt Lake | 984 | 469 | 47.66 | 738 | 2,039 | | 109 | Carbon | 1,052 | 496 | 47.14 | 789 | 1,518 | | 110 | Lehi | 479 | 223 | 46.55 | 359 | 879 | | 111 | Woodruff | 534 | 247 | 46.25 | 401 | 708 | | 112 | Utah | 840 | 388 | 46.19 | 630 | 2,052 | | 113 | North Weber | 700 | 323 | 46.14 | 525 | 1,236 | | 114 | Riverside | 911 | 419 | 45.99 | 683 | 1,755 | | 115 | San Fernando | 717 | 329 | 45.88 | 538 | 1,233 | | 116 | Sugar House | 1,014 | 457 | 45.07 | 761 | 1,823 |
35-45 per cent | 117 | Summit | 286 | 128 | 44.75 | 215 | 450 | | 118 | Mount Jordan | 550 | 242 | 44.00 | 413 | 1,073 | | 119 | San Luis | 419 | 183 | 43.67 | 314 | 549 | | 120 | Oquirrh | 872 | 378 | 43.41 | 654 | 1,844 | | 121 | South Sevier | 504 | 214 | 42.46 | 378 | 714 | | 122 | Pasadena | 747 | 313 | 41.90 | 560 | 1,228 | | 123 | Santaquin-Tintic | 470 | 192 | 40.96 | 353 | 874 | | 124 | Juab | 484 | 197 | 40.70 | 363 | 842 | | 125 | Lyman | 418 | 169 | 40.43 | 314 | 429 | | 126 | Hyrum | 772 | 305 | 39.50 | 579 | 1,148 | | 127 | Highland | 609 | 237 | 39.00 | 457 | 1,287 | | 128 | Southern States | 1,457 | 566 | 38.84 | 1,093 | 1,983 | | 129 | Benson | 700 | 271 | 38.71 | 525 | 887 | | 130 | East Central States | 491 | 183 | 37.27 | 368 | 670 | | 131 | Denver | 426 | 158 | 37.08 | 320 | 587 | | 132 | Nebo | 635 | 234 | 36.93 | 476 | 1,064 | | 133 | Sevier | 680 | 248 | 36.47 | 510 | 962 | | 134 | Mount Ogden | 705 | 257 | 36.45 | 529 | 1,551 | | 135 | Smithfield | 673 | 244 | 36.25 | 505 | 904 | | 136 | Grant | 1,071 | 386 | 36.04 | 803 | 2,015 |
25-35 per cent | 137 | Oneida | 659 | 235 | 35.66 | 494 | 885 | | 138 | South Summit | 446 | 159 | 35.65 | 335 | 850 | | 139 | Texas Mission | 680 | 242 | 35.58 | 510 | 850 | | 140 | East Jordan | 612 | 217 | 35.45 | 459 | 1,308 | | 141 | North Sevier | 380 | 132 | 34.73 | 285 | 602 | | 142 | Pioneer | 1,132 | 393 | 34.71 | 849 | 2,755 | | 143 | Sharon | 608 | 211 | 34.70 | 456 | 1,463 | | 144 | Parowan | 944 | 323 | 34.21 | 708 | 1,424 | | 145 | New England Mission | 195 | 66 | 33.84 | 146 | 80 | | 146 | South Ogden | 623 | 207 | 33.22 | 467 | 1,240 | | 147 | Hawaiian Mission | 475 | 157 | 33.05 | 356 | 609 | | 148 | South African Mission | 110 | 36 | 32.72 | 83 | 229 | | 149 | Inglewood | 705 | 227 | 32.19 | 529 | 2,163 | | 150 | Gunnison | 430 | 137 | 31.86 | 323 | 628 | | 151 | North Davis | 849 | 263 | 30.97 | 637 | 1,645 | | 152 | Moroni | 452 | 139 | 30.75 | 339 | 562 | | 153 | Wayne | 377 | 106 | 28.11 | 283 | 425 | | 154 | Canadian | 148 | 41 | 27.70 | 112 | 202 | | 155 | Cottonwood | 811 | 211 | 26.01 | 608 | 1,725 | | 156 | Central States | 441 | 112 | 25.39 | 331 | 688 |
Under 25 per cent | 157 | British Mission | 594 | 148 | 24.91 | 446 | 867 | | 158 | Panguitch | 371 | 89 | 23.98 | 278 | 507 | | 159 | Roosevelt | 412 | 89 | 21.60 | 309 | 293 | | 160 | Portland | 637 | 136 | 21.35 | 478 | 779 | | 161 | Moon Lake | 236 | 36 | 15.25 | 177 | 273 |
[VISUAL CHART SECTION - showing pictographic representation of magazine subscriptions in relation to members for 1942, with each magazine symbol representing 5 percent of members in stake or mission. Chart shows filled magazines for subscribers and unfilled for non-subscribers for various stakes including Alberta, Alpine, Bannock, Bear Lake, Bear River, Beaver, Benson, Big Cottonwood, Big Horn, Blackfoot, Blaine, Boise, Bonneville, Box Elder, Burley, Cache, Carbon, Cassia, Chicago, Cottonwood, Denver, Deseret, Duchesne, and others]
CAN YOUR STAKE INCREASE MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS? 487
[Chart continues with stakes from Emery through Lethbridge showing pictographic magazine subscription rates]
488 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
[Chart continues with remaining stakes and missions showing pictographic representation]
CAN YOUR STAKE INCREASE MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS? 489
[Chart continues through final entries]
490 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
[Chart continues through final stakes]
491
[Chart continues through remaining entries including missions]
492 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
[Chart concludes with final stakes and missions]
493
Magazine Promotion Work
Counselor Belle S. Spafford
THE Relief Society Magazine is published monthly by the General Board for the spiritual, educational, and cultural advancement of Latter-day Saint women, and to further the work of Relief Society. In order for the Magazine to fulfill its purpose, three divisions of Magazine work must be well done:
First, the Magazine itself must be a publication of merit. Contents must be well selected and carefully edited; they must be interesting and profitable to Latter-day Saint women. The Magazine, from cover to cover, must be attractive to the eye, with every detail of such quality as to evoke the pride of publisher and Magazine representative alike; and subscribers should be able to readily recognize it as a high-class and valuable periodical. The publication of an attractive, worthwhile Magazine is made possible through the excellent contributions of gifted and authoritative writers, able artists, and a well-equipped Magazine staff.
Second, the Magazine must be extensively distributed among those for whom it is planned. No matter how splendid it may be, it is of little value unless circulatedand the wider its circulation, the greater is its value. A person will seldom make an effort to possess an article, irrespective of its worth, unless someone arouses his interest in it and points out that it has definite value to him as an individual. This is particularly true with regard to subscribing to a magazine. Someone must make the prospective subscriber
Page 494
appreciate the value of the magazine in relation to his needs; then, a subscription will usually be forthcoming. This work of distribution is the special responsibility of stake and ward officers and Magazine representatives.
Third, the Magazine must not only be circulated, it must be read. Otherwise, it cannot fulfill the purpose for which it is published. Many people have the reading habit and read the Magazine thoroughly without any special stimulation; others read it because they feel a special need for certain information which it contains or for the recreation or entertainment which reading it provides; still others need to be frequently stimulated to read it, or they would seldom open its pages. It is safe to say that the average person reads that which is brought to his attention, and is exceedingly responsive to suggestions from those whose opinions he values. Relief Society officers, Magazine representatives, and Relief Society members may greatly stimulate Magazine reading by calling to the attention of the women, at every favorable opportunity, articles, stories, poems, etc., published in the various issues. Throughout the year, Magazine content should be kept before subscribers in an enthusiastic, converted way.
At this season of the year, the second important phase of Magazine work holds the special attention of many Relief Society officers and Magazine representatives. Although the time for the four-weeks intensive
MAGAZINE PROMOTION WORK
Magazine promotion work is optional, many stakes conduct this program during the fall months, September and October.
In planning this program, one question is uppermost: "How may we be successful in selling the Magazine?" Someone has said, "He who is mentally equipped with a thorough knowledge of the goods he sells and a study of human nature, who possesses an attractive personality, enjoys good health, is absolutely honest, and in love with his work, can hardly fail to make a successful salesman."
IN approaching her work, perhaps the first consideration of the Magazine representative is to determine who may be regarded as prospective subscribers. The Relief Society Magazine is not for Relief Society members alone, but is needed in the home of every Latter-day Saint woman. Every woman in the ward who is not already a subscriber should be regarded as a prospective subscriber. Prospective subscribers might profitably be classified; for example, the probable, the less probable, and the least probable. It has been estimated by successful sales organizations that the most hopeful group of prospects yields fifty times the results over the least hopeful group, in proportion to the time and energy expended.
It is recognized that certain advance information is valuable in selling; for example, the name, the size of the family, approximate ages of family members, the interests, ambitions, and needs of the family, their Church auxiliary affiliations, etc. The Magazine representative should also know the names of those who are
495
already subscribers and the expiration dates of their subscriptions; the names of those who have been but who are not now subscribers and, if possible, the reasons why their subscriptions were discontinued.
Successful Magazine representatives have a clear idea of Magazine content and a strong conviction of the worth of the periodical. "Know and value your merchandise" is a must in successful selling. The Magazine representative should be sufficiently familiar with Magazine content to be able to tell enough of any article, story, etc., to interest a prospective subscriber and to enable that person to see the value of the publication in relation to her individual interests and needs.
The wise Magazine representative gives careful consideration to how best to present the worth of the Magazine in a clear, intelligent, and appealing manner. The special ideas and incitements that might be used with each individual to arouse in her a desire to subscribe are thought through and evaluated. Generally speaking, it is more effective to stress the values to be derived from receiving the Magazine month after month than to merely enumerate, article by article and story by story, the content of one or two issues. It is usually profitable to briefly review one or two articles or stories which strike a point of interest, but to deal with every bit of content, article by article, is highly impractical.
In calling upon a woman in the interest of securing a Magazine subscription, the experienced representative always carries copies of one or two issues of the Magazine with herone of these a current issue. People
496
like to see what they are buying. Good judgment is used in getting a hearing. A time is selected for the interview that is convenient for the prospective subscriber and the visit is not extended too long. However, the representative endeavors not to appear rushed nor does she ever have a demanding attitude.
In selling it is advisable to appeal to the individual interests and needs of each woman solicited. Appeals that have been successfully used in selling The Relief Society Magazine are: (1) activity in Relief Society, (2) interest in homemaking, (3) desire for education, (4) desire to keep up with Church news and viewpoints, (5) desire to be familiar with movements, trends, and activities important to Latter-day Saint women, (6) ambitions for children, (7) need for high-class, entertaining reading matter. These are usually more effective appeals than just loyalty to Relief Society, although the loyalty appeal may be effective where others fail.
The appropriateness of the Magazine as a giftMother's Day, Christmas, birthday, etc.is an appeal which often results in a subscription.
Magazine representatives occasionally encounter objections to buying; such as, "I don't have time to read"; "I already subscribe for more magazines than I read"; "I can't afford to subscribe"; "I take the Era or The Children's Friend, and one Church magazine is enough," etc. The wise representative anticipates these objections and is fortified to dissolve them without argumentation; she has an answer ready that will casually set the objection at nought. A favorable comment of someone whose
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
opinion is respected, often removes such an objection. Frequently, the strongest objections are overcome by leaving a sample copy of the Magazine in the home.
Copies of some back issues are now available upon request at the office of the General Board, and representatives are urged to take advantage of this offer.
Business-like procedure is extremely important in selling. A receipt book, a good pencil or other needed supplies should always be at hand and necessary information should be accurately recorded. Thus the representative wins the confidence of the subscriber and avoids mistakes.
The spirit with which Relief Society Magazine representatives approach their work has perhaps been responsible for more sales than any other one factor. They regard their work as an important Relief Society call, far-reaching in its influence. They take pleasure in showing the Magazine, striving always to make a friend for the periodical and for Relief Society even though they may not always make a sale. They recognize in their assignment a work of service, worthy of their time and best effort.
The following articles published in The Relief Society Magazine contain helpful suggestions for selling. While some of these articles deal primarily with suggestions for stimulating the work through the union meeting, they contain enough help for ward representatives to justify a careful reading of them.
"Service and Selling," Vida Fox Clawson, May 1938, page 336.
"The Magazine In the Mission," Lewella R. Christiansen, May 1938, page 305;
(Continued on page 503)
NOTES FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CAMPAIGNS
THE table of accomplishment with respect to Relief Society Magazine campaigns during 1942 shows, in the middle of page 484, the eight stakes and two missions which procured subscriptions equal to or exceeding 75 per cent of their Relief Society members. These stakes and the Western States Mission were asked to send brief reports of methods used in achieving their high rates. The reports received are published herewith in the same order in which these stakes and mission are listed in the table, followed by one report from an additional stakeOakland.
Because of distance and time limitations, no report could be procured from the Australian Mission which stands at the head of all stakes and missions in the Church with a subscription rate of 122 per cent. This mission has had a consistently high rate during the past few years. June Cannon Orme is the mission Relief Society president and Violet Cook is the mission Magazine representative.
South Los Angeles Stake (California)
UNDER the direction of Stake Relief Society President Hazel Till NeVille, and her first counselor, Ruth Ryan, in charge of Magazine work, and Rosine Bauer, stake Magazine representative, the South Los Angeles Stake achieved a Magazine subscription rate of 102.5 per cent in 1942, exceeding its own excellent rate of 86 per cent of the year before. Following are excerpts from statements from these three leaders:
From Hazel T. NeVilleWe are indeed happy our stake was so willing and able to achieve our goal of 100 per cent of our enrollmentto procure 872 subscriptions as compared with a membership of 851. This was accomplished through the fine leadership of Sisters Ryan and Bauer, and our faithful ward representatives. No high pressure methods were used. It seemed every one concerned felt it was a work of love. We, as a stake, feel the Magazine is greatly needed at this time. We need to be buoyed up in spirit, and to be reassured that all things work together for good in the lives of those who serve the Lord. The strongest appeal in our Magazine work was the self-help concept. The point of attack was what the Magazine had to offer in opportunities for spiritual uplift and intellectual growth. We felt it was our opportunity to plant and make grow a testimony of the Master's work, to stimulate women to think, to read, to act. We want our Relief Society women to really live, to discover for themselves the great sustaining power of a strong religious faith. We are proud of our workers' accomplishment and feel sure the Magazine will inspire and direct the women of our stake for good.
From Counselor Ruth Ryan:
Goal Set First a goal was set"a Magazine for every member." Ward representatives and
Page 497
498
presidents met with us and agreed upon this goal.
Methods Used Special group assignments were carried out by means of names given to a group of women, each of whom was to call upon a number of homes and introduce Magazine. By this method one ward secured fifty new subscriptions.
Encouraging letters were sent out to the wards each month enclosing a self-addressed postcard to return as a report on ward activity.
Excerpt from Magazine given in Relief Society meeting once a month by a well-prepared person.
Two-and-one-half-minute talks on Sunday based on material in the Magazine, with no sales talk interjected.
Checked with ward clerk monthly on new people in the ward so that they could be approached.
Magazine left in the home for a brief time with articles marked that would attract reader's individual interest.
Attention to Magazine as a lovely gift.
Luncheons where Magazine representatives and ward presidencies met together to discuss ward problems and get complete outline of how to accomplish our goal.
Poster displayed.
Prize for most successful ward.
From Rosine Bauer, Magazine RepresentativeIn 1942, the month of June was selected as the month for a campaign. All new families were to be contacted in all the wards to obtain as many new subscriptions as possible. All officers and visiting teachers were asked to cooperate and give their support. There was a two-fold purpose in having this campaign in June: First, the new subscriber receives the July issue which contains the first lessons for the coming year; Second, a June campaign does not conflict with campaigns for other Church magazines.
Thorough instructions and helpful suggestions were given to ward Magazine representatives at special meetings and by means of mailed material. Great emphasis is given to the importance of following up promptly on renewals as they occur from month to month. It is realized that the united effort of stake and ward officers, as well as of the Magazine representatives,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
is essential to accomplishment of the established goal and that it is important for the Magazine representative to realize that the Magazine is a valuable spiritual, and temporal guide to its readers.
Gift subscriptions were received at The Relief Society Magazine office at Christmas time in 1942 from each of the thirteen officers and class leaders of the Walnut Park Ward of the South Los Angeles Stake. These were for Relief Society women in faraway places or missionaries.
San Diego Stake (California)
MARY McKAY CHRISTIANSEN, president of San Diego Stake Relief Society, whose first counselor, Carolyn Westover, also serves as stake Magazine representative, submitted the following report:
The degree of success attained by San Diego Stake in the Magazine campaign was due to the close cooperation of stake and ward representatives, checking on expirations as listed on the pink slips, monthly reports of progress, and frequent suggestions on methods of obtaining new subscriptions. Giving encouragement to representatives, and having them feel the importance of their position, gave stimulus to their efforts. When the stake preparation meeting was held at the beginning of the season's work, they were part of the group receiving instructions. A luncheon held between sessions, where they were especially honored for their achievements, was a fitting climax to a program given on the merits of the Magazine. The visiting teachers on their monthly calls have opened a way for subscriptions by drawing attention to articles printed in the Magazine and explaining the benefits and pleasure of having it in the home. With the added support of bishops and the cooperation of all Relief Society women, the Magazine campaign was brought to a successful close, which after all is only a challenge for bigger and better accomplishments. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) BIC HORN. STAKE of which Hulda M. Lynn is stake Relief Society president, is another stake which has maintained a high Magazine subscription rate for several years. Ann E. Gwynn, the stake Magazine representative, writes: Early in 1940, we divided our stake into two geographical sections, and called meetings at both places to which we invited the ward presidents and counselors, the ward Magazine representatives, and any others who would care to come. These meetings were in charge of our stake Magazine representative. 'The purpose was to instill into the minds of the sisters the need for the Magazine, and the benefit to them if they would study its contents. Our stake Relief Society president and all board members pledged themselves to help in every way they could, by taking more than one subscription and in other ways. This enthusiasm seemed to carry over to the ward presidents, their officers, and ward Magazine representatives, who in turn worked out ways and means to make it possible for the sisters to get the Magazine. We found that when we were all enlisted for the single purpose of selling our Magazine to the sisters, and with it our Relief Society work, that in unity there is strength, that our Heavenly Father did bless our efforts, as He will continue to do if we are humble and prayerful. Four wards of Big Horn Stake, Worland, Burlington, Kane, and Basin Branch sent gift subscriptions during 1942 to be distributed at the discretion of the Magazine office to missionaries or others in need of the Magazine. San Francisco Stake (California) LOUISE E. ARNSTEN, who serves both as secretary and Magazine representative of the San Francisco Stake, under direction of 499 Stake Relief Society President Esther D. Stephens, reports: Any success that we have had along this line was due particularly to the efforts put forth by our ward representatives. Our stake is a large one in distances covered. Some of our wards cover an area of 30 miles. Due to the restrictions placed upon travel in these days, I, as stake representative, have not been able to contact them personally, as we did formerly. During our intensive drive, which we hold from June fifteenth to July fifteenth each year, we meet together at one of the homes for a luncheon meeting. Here each of the ward representatives outlines her past methods as well as those she intends to employ during the current drive. Ideas are exchanged in this manner. I have always found that the ward representatives keep an accurate personal record of the subscriptions in their respective wards. Each of them has been very faithful in keeping in contact with her subscribers and sceing to it that subscriptions are renewed and kept up to date, as well as obtaining new ones. As has been mentioned before, they are lirnited as to travel facilities. Many of them are actively engaged in numerous activities outside their homes and Church now, such as Red Cross, and defense work, or at least some members of their immediate families are, all of which causes them to have less time than ever before. In spite of these handicaps, however, they are doing their work faithfully and well. We are very proud of the fact that Sister Josephine Danford of Sunset Ward was able to obtain 104 per cent. She, as well as all the representatives, made use of the telephone as well as personal visits to obtain subscriptions. What is of most value is that each of the representatives, herself, is enthusiastic. About the Magazine. 'They have all had the advantage of having it in their own homes for many years, and therefore realize its value, and are able to sell it to others. Union Stake (Oregon) HE following comment on the Magazine campaign in Union 500 Stake is from Mildred S. Snider, stake secretary-treasurer: We first attribute our success with the Magazine to the very high quality of the Magazine itself, which makes it very desirable to our members; next, to the diligence and untiring efforts of our ward representatives. From reports from our wards we find which are up on their quota, keep a record of the Magazines, and contact each subscriber a month preceding the expiration date. One of our outstanding representatives gave a few minutes' talk each month at work-andbusiness meeting on the most interesting articles in the current Magazine. All these methods helped to reach the goal. Ellen S. Bean is stake Relief Society president and Della Rees is stake Magazine representative. Cassia Stake (Idaho) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943 SOCIETY MAGATINE ANE R. HALE, Cassia Stake jue Magazine representative, writes: The success of the Relief Society Magazine drive was attained through the interest and efforts of the ward Magazine representatives, also the support and cooperation of Relief Society officers and members. A thorough house-to-house canvass was made in each ward, and with a determination to teach a high percentage, the representatives worked constantly at the drive. The Magazine was also featured in ward Relief Society conferences by a special number on the program. Annie M. Mercer is Relief Society president of this stake. Western States Mission LUCEAL R. CURTIS, mission Relief Society president, writes as follows of methods for promoting Magazine subscriptions, both those which proved successful in 1942 and those planned for the 1943 campaign: When it was so apparent that transportation would be limited, that all forms of activity would be greatly curtailed, that more and more families would, of necessity become stay-at-homes, we took definite THERMOMETER CHART USED IN 1942 MAGAZINE CAMPAIGN IN WESTERN STATES MISSION Branching from the central thermometer for the entire mission are thermometers of two paired mission districts, each with horizontal bars representative of its branch Relief Societies. Steps to follow the counsel given by the General Authorities, to place good reading material in the homes of the Latter-day Saints. We took as our slogan, "Every Relief Society member a Magazine subscriber and reader." To help us accomplish our project we employed the spirit of friendly competition and visual aids, as follows: NOTES FROM THE FIELD A large chart was prepared based on the thermometer idea, with a picture of a thermometer for each district and each Relief Society within each district in the Western States Mission. Each district was paired off to compete with a district of comparable size, and each Relief Society had a thermometer chart for the district to which it belonged as well as for the competing district. (The accompanying illustration shows the chart for one of these pairs of mission districts, with bars showing rates for each of the branches in these districts. The large chart for the entire mission was an extension of this diagram.) 'The progress made was marked up in red on the thermometer at the end of each two-week period, both on the master chart at the mission headquarters and on the individual charts. Frequent encouraging bulletins kept the mercury soaring. These charts were introduced at our annual Relief Society conferences in the various districts, and nearly all Magazine representatives were ready for the start on September 1. These charts were displayed prominently in the branch meeting places, with a list of the names of the women whose subscriptions had been entered. Husbands and children asked questions about the list and, as a result, many gift subscriptions were given to mothers, grandmothers, daughters, shut-ins, etc., in our mission. While we did not quite reach our goal of having 100 per cent of the Relief Society members subscribe for the Magazine, many branches went way over the 100 per cent mark and, as a result, 76 per cent of the Relief Society members in this mission are blessed with the Relief Society Magazine in their homes. We were working for a record because of the increased spirituality in the homes of our Latter-day Saints as this excellent material is made available. For the 1943 campaign, we have an alarm clock chart of which a mimeographed copy, with movable hands, will be on display in every branch Relief Society. (See accompanying illustration.) The large hand will point to the mission percentage and the short hand to the branch percentage. The alarm will ring the first day of September for all Western States Magazine representatives to start for another year to place 501 ITS ALARMING BUT ITS TRUE ITS TIME TO RENEW OR BUY A NEW RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ALARM CLOCK CHART FOR 1943 MAGAZINE CAMPAIGN IN WESTERN STATES MISSION Movable hands point to percentage of Magazine subscriptions in relation to membersthe short hand to the rate in the branch displaying the chart and the long hand to the rate for the entire mission. Choice literature in the homes of Relief Society members. We will try to gain the 100 per cent mark by midnight, November 30, 1943. We have set the date at November 30 so that we might get a complete report to the General Board by the last day of December. Weare sure that the fine groups of women in the Western States Mission, having tasted the benefits of last year's Magazine in their homes, will again respond to our Magazine goal. "Twice Blessed," a short skit used by the Western States Mission, in, connection with its 1942 Magazine campaign, is on file in the office of the General Board. Copies of this skit will be issued without charge to 502 Relief Societies requesting them. This skit demonstrates good methods of salesmanship and can be easily produced. Phoenix Stake (Arizona) MILDRED SMITHSON, Phoenix stake Magazine representative, reports: Our Relief Society Magazine campaign was held during the months of October and November. Plans and preparations for this drive were discussed at a luncheon and meeting held in my home. Those present were the presidents and Magazine representatives of each ward, Stake Relief Society President Mable Mortensen, and her counselors. As our theme we used Leah D. Widtsoe's statement, "The Relief Society Magazine is always a good companion for me and when I read it faithfully I am always built up and feel that I can carry on, no matter what life may bring." We asked that each one carry this message to the members of the wards as they were visited. Sister Mortensen gave us a very inspiring and encouraging message. Each one present expressed her plans and intentions regarding her job. Many good ideas and suggestions were given to each other. At this meeting I became acquainted with the Magazine representatives for the first time. Since then, I have tried to keep in close touch with each one by telephone and visits. We took advantage of every opportunity to tell others about the Magazine and to encourage them to have it in their homes. I believe our success can be attributed to those sincere, steady, and energetic representatives who never overlooked an opportunity to renew a subscription or sell a new one. Bear Lake Stake (Idaho) AMY M. ATHAY, stake Relief Society president, and Gertrude R. Price, stake Magazine representative, jointly accounted for the success of the Magazine campaign in the Bear Lake Stake as follows: The good record of the Bear Lake Stake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943 in putting over the Magazine drive for 1942 was largely the result of the achievements of the two previous years. For, when a ward has once gone "over the top," pride in so doing helps much in the next year's campaign. Since union meetings were discontinued, where the Magazine department was held, other ways have been worked out for communicating with the ward Magazine representatives, although we all miss the union meetings. Some of the factors which have helped much are: correspondence, call by telephone, and personal visits by the stake. Magazine representative; in some wards, a complete canvass of the ward by the ward Magazine representative with regular followup work, especially checking of the slips sent out at the time of expiration of the Magazine subscriptions; the helpful, encouraging support of Relief Society ward presidents, who often get several subscriptions themselves; the dependable, untiring, enthusiastic ward Magazine representatives, the alert checking, kindly assistance and support of the Relief Society stake president, Magazine representative, and other stake officers, have all been effective; the appreciation for fine reading in the Magazine, the enjoyment of the lessons, the true spirit of Relief Society work manifest by the majority of our sisters helped us reach our goal. Oakland Stake (California) "VWVE Buy OUR Magazine to READ." Ruth S. Hilton, president of Oakland Stake Relief Society writes that this is the new slogan for this stake's Magazine publicity work. She continues: Various members of our stake board have prepared splendid short talks on various articles, editorials, or bits of verse appearing in the current issues and then we've found occasions where these talks would be given before groups of women. We hope that by stimulating the actual study of our Magazine and treasuring many of its finest messages, we will have no need to say very much about the subscription list. This list should take care of itself if we all read and read intelligently each issue, COMMENTS FROM MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES NTERESTING comments from stake and ward Magazine representatives were published in the May issue of the Magazine, pages 353 and 354, preceding the honor roll. Here are two additional statements: From Los Angeles Stake Jen Sasine, Magazine representative of Arlington Ward, the only ward in the stake which appears on the honor roll, wrote after receipt of the May issue of the Magazine: I'd like to express my appreciation for having won a place on the honor roll in the May Magazine. For the past three years I have worked in the Relief Society, and this year was my first as Magazine representative. I have enjoyed my work very much because it gave me the opportunity of knowing the sisters in the ward much better. From Cache Stake Lettie B. Rich, Magazine representative of Cache Stake, sent the following comment which _highlights the enthusiasm and determined effort of the several hundred local Magazine representatives in the stakes and English-speaking missions of the Church: One of my Magazine representatives called today for material. I asked her how she was getting along. She replied, "Fine, I have a good pair of legs and a bike so I'm going to put my time to good advantage." That surely is the spirit that will carry us through. GIFT SUBSCRIPTIONS THE largest gift subscriptions received during 1942 for distribution at the discretion of the Magazine office to those in need of the Magazine came from wards of the South Los Angeles and Big Hom Stakes, as already mentioned along with the preceding reports from those stakes. We acknowledge here other generous gift subscriptions received from the Littlefield Ward of the Moapa Stake, Farmington Ward of the South Davis Stake, and North 20th Ward of the Ensign Stake. These gift subscriptions have been received with great appreciation by those to whom they were sent, principally missionaries and officers of new mission branch Relief Societies who may not have been able to subscribe immediately themselves.  Magazine Promotion Work (Continued from page 496) "Selling," Edith Wilson, May 1939, page 332. Factors Contributing to Success In the Magazine Drive," Camille W. Halliday, August 1940, page 545. "Directing Magazine Activities Through the Union Meeting," Leone G. Layton, May 1941, pages 306-308. "Information for Relief Society Magazine Representatives," Vera W. Pohlman, August 1942, pages 555-556. Notes From the Field, Vera W. Pohlman, August 1942: "Relief Society Magazine Campaigns," pages 563-565. "Magazine Gift Subscriptions," pages 565-567. "Comments From Magazine Readers," pages 567-569.
COMMENTS FROM MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES 503
Common Things
Elsie Sim Hansen
GRANDMA BAKER reached for the hot pad and slowly opened the oven door. The delicious aroma of newly baked bread flooded the room. Simultaneously the front door opened and closed with a bang. Things always happened with a bang, when Jimmie arrived.
"Gee! Grandmom, I just knew you would be baking bread."
"Now Jimmie, don't tell me you could smell this bread baking down at school."
"Not quite, but almost," laughed Jimmie.
Somehow, although Grandma Baker would not admit it, even to herself, this brown-eyed, tousle-headed grandson was a special favorite of hers. Jimmie realized this and there was a deep affection between them.
"Don't suppose you have a slice or two of that bread to spare?"
Despite the wishful tone of Jimmie's voice, Grandma was sure that the sparkle in his eyes was still there. They both knew it would not be many minutes before the desired bread would be in Jimmie's hands.
"Grandmom, why don't more people bake bread? I think it has the best smell in the whole world."
"Yes, Jimmie, I think you are right. There is just something about the smell of home-baked bread that makes a body hungry."
Grandma's thoughts began to wander. Yes, perhaps that was what was the matter with the world. It was hungry; not enough of the old
Page 504
things left, the common things, the friendly things that brought folks closer together.
Grandma's thoughts were quickly swept back to the present, as Jimmie started spreading the second slice of bread.
"Land sake, child, you won't want any dinner, eating all that bread."
"Oh yes I will, Grandmom. By the time I play ball over in the vacant lot for a couple of hours I'll be starved."
Then after a thoughtful pause, Jimmie continued. "Just think, Grandmom, all this nice bread and not a slice of it rationed. Bet there are a lot of kids who wish they had some."
Grandma smiled, and put her arm around the boyish shoulders. "I guess there are, Jimmie, we are fortunate. Have you ever stopped to think how many wonderful things there are in this world that are not rationed? The blue sky, the flowers, the birds, the trees, and the sparkling brooks? Our kind Father in Heaven created all these fine things and they are ours, free to enjoy, but few people take time to appreciate them."
"Miss Jeffry, our geography teacher, told us that the whole map of the world may be changed after the war, and that if we win, the whole world will be free like we are. We will win, won't we Grandmom?"
"Sure we will, Jimmie. This war is going to do a lot of harm, but it might do a lot of good also. It will make people realize that the best things in life are the common things."

Theology
Articles of Faith
Lesson 18The Gathering of Israel
Tuesday, November 2, 1943
(This is the second of five chapters that deal with Article 10)
Article 10: "We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes;..."
Lesson Aim: To show that through the mercy of the Lord, Israel is being gathered.
CONDENSATION OF CHAPTER 18, TALMAGE'S, ARTICLES OF FAITH
The Gathering Predicted
Dire as was the chastisement decreed on Israel for their waywardness, amounting as it did to their dissolution as a nation, wandering as outcasts among alien nations, who have never ceased to treat them with contumely and insult, they have been sustained by the sure word of promise that a day of glorious deliverance and blessed restoration awaits them.
The sufferings of Israel have been but necessary chastenings by a grieved yet loving Father, who planned by these effective means to purify His sin-stained children. Israel are not lost unto their God. In spite of their sin the Lord said: "And yet for all that, when they be in the land of their enemies, I will not cast them away, neither will I abhor them, to destroy them utterly, and to break my covenant with them: for I am the Lord their God." (Lev. 26:44; see also Deut. 4:27-31)
As complete as was the scattering, so shall be the gathering of Israel.
Biblical Prophecies Concerning the Gathering
Among the early prophecies concerning the gathering of Israel we hear the Lord declaring that it shall come to pass that when thou, Israel, "shalt return unto the Lord thy God, and shalt obey his voice according to all that I command thee this day... Thou and thy children, with all thine heart, and with all thy soul; That then the Lord thy God will turn thy captivity, and have compassion upon thee, and will return and
Page 505
506
gather thee from all the nations, whither the Lord thy God hath scattered thee. If any of thine be driven out unto the outmost parts of heaven, from thence will the Lord thy God gather thee, and from thence will he fetch thee: And the Lord thy God will bring thee into the land which thy fathers possessed, and thou shalt possess it; and he will do thee good, and multiply thee above thy fathers." (Deut. 30:2-5)
Isaiah spoke with no uncertain words of the assured return and reunion of scattered Israel. (Isaiah 11:11-13; 54:7-8)
Jeremiah also voiced the will and purpose of God concerning Israel's subsequent deliverance. (Jer. 16:12-16)
"Backsliding Israel," "treacherous Judah," are the terms of reproof with which the Lord addressed His recreant people. "Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord; for I am married unto you: and I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion." (See Jer. 3:12-18; also 23: 8; 25:34; 30:3; 32:37)
Ezekiel also declared the Lord's plan of Israel's restoration. (Ezek. 37:21-22; also 11:17; 20:34-42; 28:25; 34:11-13)
Amos clearly evidences that the reestablishment is to be permanent. (Amos 9:14:15)
Jesus of Nazareth also spoke of this important event: "And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other." (Matt. 24:31)
Book of Mormon Prophecies
The gathering of Israel claimed the attention of many prophets whose teachings are recorded in the Book of Mormon. We have noted
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
Lehi's discourse in the valley of Lemuel, in which that patriarch-prophet compared the house of Israel to an olive tree, the branches of which were to be broken off and scattered; now we may add his prediction regarding the subsequent grafting-in of the branches. (I Nephi 10:14; see also Jacob, Chap. 5.)
Nephi's predictions constitute some of the most comprehensive utterances concerning the restoration of the Jews. (1 Nephi 15:19-20; II Nephi 9:2; 25: 16-17, 20; also III Nephi 5:21-26; Chapter 29; Mormon 5:14)
It is evident from these and many other scriptures that the time of the full recovery or redemption of the Jews is to be determined by their acceptance of Christ as their Lord. When that time comes they are to be gathered to the land of their fathers; and in the work of gathering, the Gentiles are destined to take a great and honorable part. (II Nephi 10:7-9; 30:7; III Nephi 5:26; 20: 29-33; 21:21-27; Ether 13:8-10)
Latter-day Revelation Concerning the Gathering
Latter-day revelation concerning the gathering not only predicts the gathering of the saints to Zion, but announces that the hour for the gathering has come: "Wherefore, prepare ye, prepare ye, O my people; sanctify yourselves; gather ye together, O ye people of my Church.... Yea, verily I say unto you again, the time has come when the voice of the Lord is unto you: go ye out of Babylon; gather ye out from among the nations, from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other." (Doctrine and Covenants 133:4, 7;
LESSON DEPARTMENT
29:7-8; 31:8; 33:6; 38:31; 45:25; 77: 14; 84:2)
Extent and Purpose of the Gathering
It is evident that the plan of gathering comprises:
1. Assembling in the land of Zion of the people of Israel from the nations of the earth.
2. Return of the Jews to Jerusalem.
3. Restoration of the Lost Tribes.
Moses, who was the representative of Israel's God when the Lord set His hand the first time to lead His people to the land of their appointed inheritance, came in person and committed to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the Ten Tribes from the land of the north." (Doctrine and Covenants 110:11)
Israel the Covenant People
The Lord has designated the people of Israel as especially His own. He covenanted with Abraham (Gen. 12:2, 3; 17:6-8; Gal. 3:14, 16), and confirmed the blessings upon Isaac
507
(Gen. 26:3-4) and in turn upon Jacob who was called Israel (Gen. 35: 11-12). And now in the day of gathering, the Lord is again bringing His people together to honor and bless them. The Redeemer was born in the flesh through the lineage of Abraham; and the blessings of that divine birth are extended to nations and every individual in mortality.
Restoration of the Lost Tribes
It is thought that while many of those belonging to the Ten Tribes were diffused among the nations, a sufficient number to justify the retention of the original name were led away as a body. Their exodus from the north to Zion is an important part of the gathering. (Doctrine and Covenants 133:26-34)
Note: Since the present location of the Lost Tribes has not been revealed, and there is a wealth of knowledge that has been revealed, it is deemed advisable that no discussions nor speculations be entered into concerning the present location of the Ten Tribes.
SUGGESTIONS FOR CLASS PROCEDURE
Suggested Songs
"Guide Us O Thou Great Jehovah," by Robert Robinson-Annie F. Harrison, Relief Society Songs, p. 23; Latter-Day Saint Hymns, No. 184.
"O Ye Mountains High," by C. W. Penrose, Relief Society Songs, p. 12; Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 198; Latter-Day Saint Hymns, No. 19.
"Pilgrim Chorus," Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 270.
"Beautiful Mountain Home," by George Manwaring-A. C. Smyth, Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 162.
The class leader should plan her lesson well in advance. Since passages of scripture from the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants are essential to a discussion of this lesson, the class leader might appoint, well in advance of the presentation of the lesson, three committees, each committee to be responsible for the reading of passages from one of these three books.
508
Each committee should not exceed three in number including the chairman. At the time the lesson is presented, committees should sit in front of the class, grouped according to the book assigned to them. As the lesson proceeds, the class leader should call on committee members for desired passages bearing on the phase of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
lesson under discussion. This will impress upon class members that the standard works of the Church all deal with the important subject of the gathering of Israel.
Class members should be encouraged to bring their own books to class and as passages are read they should find them in their own books and follow the readings carefully.
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL
We have been gathered to the valleys of these mountains for the express purpose of purifying ourselves, that we may become polished stones in the temple of God. We are here for the purpose of establishing the Kingdom of God on the earth. To be prepared for this work it has been necessary to gather us out from the nations and countries of the world, for if we had remained in those lands we could not have received the ordinances of the holy Priesthood of the Son of God, which are necessary for the perfection of the Saints preparatory to his coming. (Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925, page 186)
The Jews and JerusalemJerusalem is not to be redeemed by our going there and preaching to the inhabitants. It will be redeemed by the high hand of the Almighty. It will be given into the possession of the ancient Israelites by the power of God, and by the pouring out of his judgments. Jerusalem is not to be redeemed by the soft, still voice of the preacher of the Gospel of peace. Why? Because they were once the blessed of the Lord, the chosen of the Lord, the promised seed. They were the people from among whom should spring the Messiah; and salvation could be found only through that people. The Messiah came through them, and they killed him; and they will be the last of all the seed of Abraham to have the privilege of receiving the New and Everlasting Covenant. You may hand out to them gold, you may feed and clothe them, but it is impossible to convert the Jews, until the Lord God Almighty does it. By and by the Jews will be gathered to the land of their fathers, and the ten tribes, who wandered into the north, will be gathered home and the blood of Ephraim, the second son of Joseph, who was sold into Egypt, which is to be found in every kingdom and nation under heaven, will be gathered from among the Gentiles, and the Gentiles who will receive and adhere to the principles of the Gospel will be adopted and initiated into the family of Father Abraham, and Jesus will reign over his own and Satan will reign over his own. (Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925, pages 186-187)
In speaking of the gathering, we mean to be understood as speaking of it according to scripture, the gathering of the elect of the Lord out of every nation on earth, and bringing them to the place of the Lord of Hosts, when the city of righteousness shall be built, and where the people shall be of one heart and one mind, when the Savior comes; yea, where the people shall walk with God like Enoch, and be free from sin. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, 1938, page 93.)
The greatest temporal and spiritual blessings which always come from faithfulness and concerted effort, never attend individual exertion or enterprise. The history of all past ages abundantly attests this fact. In addition to all temporal blessings, there is no other way for the Saints to be saved in these last days, (than by the gathering) as the concurrent testimony of all the holy prophets clearly proves, for it is written"They shall come from the east, and be gathered from the west; the north shall give up, and the south shall
LESSON DEPARTMENT
keep not back." "The sons of God shall be gathered from afar, and his daughters from the ends of the earth." It is also the concurrent testimony of all the prophets, that this gathering together of all the Saints, must take place before the Lord comes to "take vengeance upon the ungodly," and "to be glorified and ad-
509
mired by all those who obey the Gospel." The fiftieth Psalm, from the first to the fifth verse inclusive describes the glory and majesty of that event. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, 1938, page 183)

Visiting Teachers
Messages to the Home
Sources of Strength
Lesson 2Ordered Living
Tuesday, November 2, 1943
TO live affirmatively, purposefully, abundantly, is possible for each of us, and to do it is a major achievement. To fill one's days with useful work, to do well the task immediately in front of one is to be happy now and to make secure the future. A well-ordered life is free from lost time, lost motion, desultory effort, and needless worry. Plan your work and work your plan, is a good motto. Well-organized, effective work is the panacea for most of the ills of life.
Benjamin Franklin, one of the wisest and greatest Americans, followed consistently and successfully what he called "the scheme of employment for the twenty-four hours of a natural day." His day was well-balanced and perfectly organized. He had rest, recreation, and work. In the morning he asked this question: "What good shall I do this day?"; and in the evening, this question: "What good have I done this day?" He lived a long and useful life and made a better contribution to the time in which he lived and to his country than almost any other man. He is one of the best examples in history of a self-made man.
One of the secrets of really great living is having ideals and standards and then living up to them. When we cherish lofty ideals and strive heroically to attain them, we are made both strong and happy. What we become depends in no small measure upon our ideals. We unconsciously approach the ideals which we love and cherish.
Latter-day Saint women should exemplify the noblest womanhood, because they are the products of the ideals and standards of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They should be models of the finest motherhood, subscribing to the highest standards of Christian living. They should evidence a willingness to devote their lives to the service of others, and should be a constant source of encouragement and inspiration to those about them.
510
The doctrine of eternal progression, as taught by the Latter-day Saints, should make us a great people. The knowledge that we lived before we were born and that we will live after we die, that we came here to be trained for a higher and better world, carries with it an impelling motive to noble endeavor that should register in the life and conduct of each of us.
Discussion
1. What is your concept of a well-ordered life?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
2. What are the essentials of good living that should be included in one's plan of life?
3. Why are standards and ideals important?
References
Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, edition 1938, pp. 53, 255-256
Relief Society Magazine, July 1941, p. 467
Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925, p. 329, paragraph 2

Home Topics
For optional use on Work-and-Business Day
Modern Housekeeping Methods
Lesson 2Tools for Housecleaning Tasks
(Care and Storage)
Tuesday, November 9, 1943
HOUSEKEEPING is highly interesting and important work. Housecleaning can be brisk, efficient, and stimulating or it can be grim and time-consuming. Much depends on the tools at hand. The more efficient the tools, the faster the work. And, naturally, the results will be better, too.
Important items of cleaning equipment and materials include:*
Vacuum cleaner and attachments Carpet sweeper Applicator for floor wax Corn or fibre broom dust mop wet mop (string or cellulose sponge) scrubbing brush (long handle preferred) dust pan (long handle preferred) toilet-bowl brush Whisk broom or upholstery brush 2-4 treated dust cloths (combine 1 pint hot water and  cup lemon oil. Dip cheesecloth squares into solution. Press solution through cloth thoroughly; squeeze out excess moisture and then dry thoroughly) 6 cheesecloth squares (24" by 24") 2 flannel polishing cloths
*For a more complete list, see America's Housekeeping Book, pp. 140-142. We must remember that this list represents the ideal, and many items are not obtainable at present due to the war.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
3 cellulose sponges (for kitchen, washroom, and cleaning basket) 2 floor cloths (for kitchen and bathroom) Silver polish Wax (paste, liquid or self-polishing) Lemon oil Mild scouring powder or whiting Toilet-bowl cleaner Carbon tetrachloride (dry cleaner) Household disinfectant Mild soap (chips, flakes, beads, grains) Paint cleaner
Cleaning tools are good servants only when they receive proper care. A vacuum cleaner lags on the job when the dust bag is clogged with dirt; a soiled duster or mop is little better than none at all; and a carpet sweeper can't pick up surface dirt if its brush is snarled with lint and hair, if the dust pans are filled to overflowing, or if the bristles are worn too short to touch the carpet. A few minutes a day spent in cleaning and caring for equipment will pay good dividends in service.
Cleaning Basket
A small inexpensive open market basket with a handle makes an excellent cleaning basket which can be carried from room to room quite easily. A fitted oilcloth lining with pockets to hold small objects is easy to make, and helps to keep the basket in order. With a cleaning basket there will be no need for hurried trips back to the source of supply for forgotten items.
Check the contents with the following list before you start your cleaning program:*
Whisk broom or upholstery brush (for brushing draperies and upholstery) 1 treated dust cloth (for daily dusting) 2 cheesecloth squares (for washing and drying woodwork)
511
Cotton waste (for applying polishes and cleaners) 1 flannel polishing cloth (for rubbing or polishing) 1 cellulose sponge (for washing woodwork, walls, etc.) Art gum eraser (for removing soiled spots from walls or from lamp shades) Furniture polish or lemon oil or wax Mild scouring powder or whiting Carbon tetrachloride (dry cleaner) Scissors
One item that is generally overlooked in both house plans and apartment layouts is space to store cleaning equipment. Mops and brooms behind doors, the vacuum cleaner in the hall closet, dusters and polishing cloths tucked away in odd cornerssuch haphazard storage is the general rule, even though it means hundreds of extra steps and a great deal of petty annoyance. Perhaps you have always accepted this state of affairs, with definite irritation to be sure, but have never actually given much thought to a satisfactory solution.
A careful study of floor and wall space will lead to ideas no matter how hopeless the situation may seem at first glance. On page 138 in our textbook, America's Housekeeping Book, you will find a good illustration of what can be done if you can find wall space 29 inches wide and 78 inches high, plus one shelf and one drawer in another location. This is not ideal, but it is a great improvement over half a dozen storage places. If you can find a corner space, so much the better. On page 139 of the textbook is shown an ideal storage closet for cleaning equipment which you may be able to build in some unused space.
*For more complete list, see America's Housekeeping Book, p. 142.
512
Often there is an extra clothes closet on the first floor which is used for haphazard storage and which might well be transformed into an adequate cleaning closet. Closets can be made convenient through the addition of shelves, racks, drawers, and partitions at very little expense. Shallow shelves down one side, a shelf running the width of the closet within easy reach, clips for holding brooms, mops, etc. on the remaining wall space, on the door a shoe bag with pockets for holding dusters, floor space for the vacuum cleaner, carpet sweeper and pailand you have an orderly, efficient cleaning closet.
Of course problems vary. Each homemaker must face her problem and work it out according to her circumstances. However, if you can find any space at all, you can with a little patience work out a satisfactory storage place. Be sure to place the tools that are used most often in the most accessible positions.
An hour or so spent in planning and working
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
out storage space will be worth your while. "A place for everything and everything in its place," is a first principle of law and order. Storage space that is both adequate and convenient, contributes a great deal to the efficiency of the homemaker.
Questions for Discussion
1. Discuss: "Cleaning tools are good servants only when they receive proper care." (Example: vacuum cleaner, dusters, carpet sweepers, etc.)
2. What method have you used to successfully store household tools? In the light of the class discussion can you see room for improvement?
3. To save time and energy, what method do you use for assembling tools and cleaning supplies in the room to be cleaned?
4. A practical demonstration on the use and care of one or two specific cleaning tools might be interesting and helpful.
Reference
America's Housekeeping Book, Chap. 21, p. 131

Literature
The Bible as Literature
Lesson 2The Bible Epic
Tuesday, November 16, 1943
EPIC and story in earlier times carried essentially the same meaning. Like lyric and song, the two words were practically synonymous. Through the long years, however, the term epic has acquired a more expansive meaning. As commonly used today, epic implies a composite story, with each part helping to develop the larger tale. Often the story group centers in some hero: as in the Odyssey, which depicts the adventures of Odysseus; or in Hiawatha, which portrays the
LESSON DEPARTMENT
life story of a great Indian leader. Sometimes the epic deals with a distinctive phase of tribal or national life. Whatever its nature, however, it is made up of various stories, set together as spokes in a hub, or links in a chain, to effect the central purpose.
A number of such "story cycles" or story groups are to be found in the Bible. At the beginning of Genesis, for example, is the epic-like Story of Creation. Following this, comes another story group dealing with the Deluge and its sequences. In another closely linked series of stories, the Patriarchal period is portrayed. Exodus opens the great epic of Moses. Around this leader, story after story is given to portray not only his life, but also the people whom he led out of bondage; and the development, during their wanderings, of a theocratic nation intent on the repossession of a "Promised Land." After this comes another story series dealing with the conquest of Canaan under Joshua, and the varied fortunes of that realm under the leadership of different warrior chieftains, called Judges.
Yet another story group, epic in its spirit and sweep, portrays the rise of the kingdom of Israel. David, the shepherd boy, plays the leading role in this story cycle. Other interesting characters also have important parts; and many intriguing dramatic situations arise as the composite story develops.
This epic begins with a pastorala simple tale of devotion and romance set amid scenes of country lifethe story of Ruth. Most folk know this girl of old Moab as a faithful daughter-in-law, who, bereft of her
513
young Hebrew husband, clings to his mother and his religion. An oft-quoted passage from the Bible, Ruth's lyric plea to her mother-in-law, who has advised the girl to remain in Moab, begins:
Entreat me not to leave thee, Or to return from following after thee: For whither thou goest, I will go; And where thou lodgest, I will lodge; Thy people shall be my people, And thy God my God. (Ruth 1:16)
It was not the literary charm of this classic story, however, that won for it the place of importance it holds in the Bible. It is there primarily because its heroine, Ruth, through her marriage with Boaz, became the ancestress of kings. The story opens an epic that still vibrates through all the world, a story that reaches from Ruth, through David, down to Mary and her divine Son, the Savior of Mankind. Read in this light, the story takes on new meaning.
Another charming mother-tale that weaves into this epic of Israel's kings is the story of Hannah and her little son, Samuel. This pure child, given to the temple, not only helps to keep God's house a holy place; but he rises to be a maker of kings. When the people, harassed by their enemies, clamor for a king, the Prophet Samuel at first denies their plea. But as they persist, he prays to the Lord for guidance, and the Lord tells Samuel, "Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee; but they have rejected me that I should not rule over them." And Samuel, warning that the king will take away their sons and daughters for soldiers and handmaidens,
514
deprive them of lands and substance, and burden them with taxes, finally gives them a king.
Troubles, as the foolish folk were forewarned, begin to multiply. Saul, chosen largely because of princely bearing to be the first king of Israel, fails. He is more of a soldier than a saint. He assumes authority that belongs to the priesthood, and receives sharp warning from Samuel in the unforgettable words: "To obey is better than sacrifice." (I Samuel 15:22)
Meantime, David, the shepherd boy, through slaying Goliath, has won high favor with Saul. A deep friendship ripens between the youth and the king's son, Jonathan. Saul's daughter is given in marriage to David, then comes cankering jealousy in the heart of Saul. He forgets the source of real power, and seeks strange spirits. Samuel, meantime, instructed by the Lord, secretly anoints David king; but David, out of respect for God's anointed other king, will not assume the throne. Finally, Saul and Jonathan fall in battle, and the young warrior becomes king and builder of a greater kingdom of Israel, laying the foundation for his son Solomon to reign in all his glory.
Dramatic situations, crises and tragedies come to David. He sins and is severely rebuked by Nathan, the courageous prophet, for God is no respecter of persons. Yet David, unlike Saul, repents, and is permitted to carry forward, though not without punishment, to the close of his constructive reign.
These are but a few hints of this great Biblical epic. It rises to high literary qualities, moving with clar-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
ity and force from beginning to close. Lyrical expressions add to its beauty in places; and lessons of life are concretely, impressively, portrayed. To feel its power and its artistry, however, one must read and reread the masterful story.
Discussion and Activities
Select as many as can be treated profitably in the allotted time.
1. Name three or more individual stories that are woven together to make the epic-like story of the Patriarchs of Israel. (See Genesis, Chapters 12 to 50.)
2. What are the values to come from studying each individual story in its relation to the whole epic?
3. Read aloud the first chapter of Ruth. What do you observe as to the story movement, the life-giving expressions, the music of the lines?
4. (a) Why is this story properly placed between Judges and Kings? (b) What is the vital relationship that links Ruth with Mary, the mother of our Savior?
5. Select from the epic of Saul and David some story of dramatic appeal. Read aloud passages which carry the loftiness and the sweep characteristic of epic literature. See I Samuel 21: 6-11.
6. What vital lesson did Thomas Paine find in the story of Samuel, and use in his essay "Common Sense" to help stir our forefathers in their fight for freedom?
7. Give a quotation from this epic of the Kings of Israel that has impressed on you a fundamental life lesson or religious truth.
8. What individual story in the epic is a favorite with children? Test your answer by reading the story to some of your children, grandchildren or little friends.
Text
Bible, King James Translation
References
See References, Relief Society Magazine, June-July 1943, pp. 442-443.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 515

Social Science
What "America" Means
Lesson 9American Statesmen (Continued)
Tuesday, November 23, 1943
"As are the leading men of the State, such is the State."Cicero.
(With this short sentence, Cicero, a Roman orator who lived at the time of Christ, began one of his orations. He declared as citizens are good, so will government be good. Government grows out of the lives of people who inaugurate laws.)
IN two short lessons on "American Statesmen," this and the preceding lesson, we can only suggest a few of the outstanding men who have made contributions to our ideals of freedom and democracy. The men we have chosen for brief study took an active part in solving political problems that arose in our country. The men whom we will consider in this lesson are John Marshall, Henry Clay, John C. Calhoun, Daniel Webster, Abraham Lincoln, Grover Cleveland, William McKinley, and Woodrow Wilson, all of whom made important contributions to American political thought. Four of these men, Abraham Lincoln, Grover Cleveland, William McKinley, and Woodrow Wilson, became presidents of the United States. John Marshall was the greatest legal light that ever sat in the Supreme Court, and the other three, Webster, Calhoun, and Clay, composed the triumvirate who led the debates on important questions in the Congress of the United States previous to the Civil War.
ONE of the most outstanding characters of the American bar was John Marshall, the first Chief Justice of the United States. He was also an historian, soldier of the American Revolution, and an envoy at one time to England. Born in Virginia in 1755, he became of age two months after the Declaration of Independence was adopted, and took part in two of the principal campaigns of the American Revolution. He experienced the sufferings at Valley Forge during the winter of 1777-78. After the war, he began the practice of law, having taken lectures on law at William and Mary College in his native state. He gained distinction and was a member of the State Legislature of Virginia for many terms. In January 1801, he was appointed Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States where he did his noblest service to the nation. You will recall that it is the Supreme Court of the land that interprets the meaning of the Constitution when great cases of law are involved. In the first major case presented to him, he pro-
516
claimed the final right of the judiciary to pass on the constitutionality of every act of Congress. This is why we call the judiciary of our Government the law-interpreting power. Marshall was noted for his simple ways of living, his honesty, and steadfastness to right. A lady said at his funeral: "His great humility was the most impressive thing about his character." One of the most dramatic decisions handed down by Marshall was that of the Dartmouth College case in which Daniel Webster took part in defending his own Alma Mater. The Dartmouth College case grew out of the question as to whether or not the State Legislature of New Hampshire had the right to rescind the original charter granted in England in 1754.
MANY a boy and girl has learned parts of the orations of Daniel Webster. Daniel Webster was among the greatest orators of his day, and served as United States senator from the state of Massachusetts for thirty years. His most noted opponents in the United States were John C. Calhoun of South Carolina and Robert Treat Hayne from the same state. Both Calhoun and Hayne opposed the policies of Webster in some of the most noted speeches ever made in the Senate. The questions at issue were that of States Rights, the protective tariff, and Negro slavery. The South had from the first stood for States Rights or the doctrine that a state has certain sovereign powers over that of the National Government. The South opposed a high protective tariff on the ground that a tariff did not protect the agricultural
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
interests in that section. Slavery had grown up in the South as an institution which was needed for the raising of cotton and tobacco. Webster was in favor of a high protective tariff, and was opposed to the doctrine of States Rights, and Negro slavery.
The great compromiser of those days was Henry Clay, one of the ablest lawyers and statesmen of that day. He was the chief supporter of the Missouri Compromise. This was in 1819, when a long and bitter struggle took place between the proslavery and anti-slavery parties over the admission of Missouri into the Union. Clay was the author of the Compromise which admitted Missouri on a slavery basis. His greatest compromise measure was that of 1850, which no doubt postponed the Civil War for ten years. This compromise grew out of the question as to whether or not California, and other western areas including Utah, should be admitted to the Union as states. Calhoun proposed that they become slave states, while Clay advocated the doctrine of allowing the people to decide for themselves. California was admitted as a free state, and while the Latter-day Saints in Utah asked for statehood under the name of the State of Deseret, it was denied and Congress organized Utah Territory. Brigham Young was made its first governor.
WEBSTER, Calhoun, and Clay died in the early part of the decade beginning in 1850, and they left the country in unusual ferment. How to describe the social, political, and economic conditions in a few words up to the time of the Civil War would be a difficult thing to do.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
James Truslow Adams, the eminent American historian has written:
During the decade between 1850 and 1860, the American people had been forced by circumstances to meet great political differences. The South had suddenly, due to the inventions of the North and of England, found itself one of the richest and most important economic sections of the earth. Its prosperity depended on its slave-grown cotton. Yet the world had increasingly demanded that the South should rid itself of slavery, though it could offer no suggestion as to how to do so. The South was forced into a position of defence, which meant expansion, and this forced the South more and more out of the main currents of the modern world. Men knew that a crisis would come some day that would threaten the very life of the Nation.
With the election of Abraham Lincoln in 1860, that crisis came. With the secession of the Southern States in 1860-61, the great Civil War was precipitated, the results of which left the South in a ruined condition. On January 1, 1863, Lincoln issued his formal proclamation. That the slaves in the states that were in rebellion should be free. This was a terrific blow to the economic, social, and political life of the South.
To understand Lincoln's feelings during the Civil War it is best to read his First Inaugural Address, given March 4, 1861, and his Second Inaugural which was even more striking in its sustained emotion: "... Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray..." "With malice toward none...." The soul of Lincoln was in what he said. One thing which made Lincoln a great statesman was the fact that he learned how to speak the truth. He loved truth more than he loved position or anything else in
517
the world. His power over men lay in his profound sincerity. When the war was over, his reconstruction policy was foreshadowed in his own words: "If we are wise and discreet, we shall reanimate the states and get their governments in successful operation.... I hope there will be no persecution, no bloody work after the war is over." His larger ideals of Americanism are seen in his Gettysburg address, delivered November 19, 1863. (See American Citizens Handbook, p. 245.)
From the death of Lincoln to World War I, America grew in wealth and influence among the nations of the world. A new age was born. Millions of foreigners came to our shores, becoming good American citizens. America has been developing the lofty ideals of its founders, for the people are naturally religious and have, as Frederick Harrison says, "kept alive the zeal for learning, justice, and humanity." No nation of all history has developed the institutions of civilization as has America; no other nation has held more sacred the democratic institutions and the faith and belief in the Christian religion.
Since Lincoln's day, America has had great and wise statesmen, all of whom have played their parts in preserving our Government with its high ideals. They have added to its renown; they have been men who have stood for the sacredness of the Constitution and the highest principles of government. In closing, we name three of the statesmen of these years: Grover Cleveland, William McKinley, and Woodrow Wilson.
518
Questions and Suggestions for Study or Reports
In discussing this lesson on the statesmen, you may not agree with the author in his selection of the great statesmen of our country. Every American has his own favorites, and his opinion is respected, as he in turn respects the opinions of others. This right of preference is part of our American rights.
1. Find out from some good American history something additional about the lives of the following men: John
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
Marshall, Daniel Webster, John C. Calhoun, Henry Clay, and Abraham Lincoln. Find out something about Grover Cleveland, Wm. McKinley, and Woodrow Wilson.
2. Can you explain the causes of the Civil War?
3. What two great generals came to the front in that war?
4. Brigham Young was a great statesman. Why? Daniel H. Wells was also a great statesman. Find out something about his life.

Stories from the Book of Mormon
For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science.
Lesson 2Lehi's Travels to the New World
Tuesday, November 23, 1943
Note: For the full effect of this lesson it is imperative that the teacher and the members of the class have at hand the Book of Mormon.
Lesson Objective: To show that belief in God is best evidenced by a willingness to serve and obey Him.
In carrying forward the lessons under the title Stories from the Book of Mormon much can be gained by a study of the leading characters of this sacred record. One such character was Lehi. The history of a great nation was dependent upon his willingness to obey the will of God.
He first appears upon the Book of Mormon scene as a righteous man who lived 600 years before the birth of the Savior, in the city of Jerusalem. This great city, this royal city, was ruled then by King Zedekiah whose kingdom was that of Judah. In name, Jerusalem was holy, for there had been built the Temple of the Lord. "Its busy streets were crowded with a mixed multitude. Priests and Levites who officiated in the ordinances of the law of Moses, worshipers from the other tribes of Jacob, warriors of the armies of Judah, courtiers and attendants on the king, the merchants from Egypt, from Tyre and Sidon and from many other parts, artificers in various trades, all these combined to make it wealthy and renowned, a busy mart of trade, a center of civilization...." (Story of the Book of Mormon, pp. 20-22, by George Reynolds.)
Lehi, his heart not being set upon the riches of the world, looked with
LESSON DEPARTMENT
unconcern upon the great treasures and fine adornments which had been brought to beautify the homes and great public buildings of this chief city in all Israel. People, he could see, because of their riches had forgotten the Lord. The prophets who came to warn were persecuted and sent away. Riotous living was sought after, and care or concern for the commandments of God brushed aside.
Knowing the wrath of God, Lehi yearned to know His will as to the fate of this people. He was told that Jerusalem would be destroyed because of the iniquity of her inhabitants, and that many of her people would be carried off into captivity. Further did the Lord instruct him, that he too should go and warn the city of the disasters that would shortly come unless the people would repent. This Lehi did, only to meet with the same persecution as did other prophets before him. But because of Lehi's faithfulness the Lord spoke unto him in a dream saying: "Blessed art thou Lehi, because of the things thou hast done; and because thou hast been faithful and declared unto this people the things which I commanded thee, behold, they seek to take away thy life." "And it came to pass," continues Lehi's son Nephi, "that the Lord commanded my father, even in a dream, that he should take his famiy and depart into the wilderness. And it came to pass that he was obedient unto the word of the Lord, wherefore he did as the Lord commanded him. And it came to pass that he departed into the wilderness. And he left his house, and the land of his inheritance, and his gold, and his silver, and his precious things, 519 and took nothing with him save it were his family, and provisions, and tents, and departed into the wilderness." (I Nephi 2:2-4) Lehi's belief in the word of God was not a passive one. He put into practice the counsels of the Lord by showing a willingness to forsake all earthly things for the greater values of the spirit. With but enough provisions to sustain 'life, he took his family and traveled to the borders of the Red Sea. (Reynolds) In company with him was his wife Sariah, and also his sons Laman, Lemuel, Sam, and Nephi. Other children are mentioned later, some of whom were born in the wilderness. Nephi, by nature a sweet and willing boy in following his father's wishes, soon found favor in the sight of God. Not long after finding a home in the wilderness for his family, Lehi again had a dream which he revealed to his son Nephi, saying: "Behold I have dreamed a dream, in the which the Lord hath commanded me that thou and thy brethren shall return to Jerusalem. For behold, Laban hath the record of the Jews and also a genealogy of thy forefathers, and they are engraven upon plates of brass. Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me that thou and thy brothers should go unto the house of Laban, and seek the records, and bring them down hither into the wilderness. And now, behold thy brothers murmur, saying it is a hard thing which I have required of them; but behold I] have not required it of them, but it is a commandment of the Lord. Therefore go, my son, and thou shalt be favored of the Lord, because thou hast not murmured." (I Nephi 3: 2-6)
520
It is mainly through the faithfulness and obedience of Nephi that the record of the Jews was obtained from Laban, which made it possible for Lehi and his family to have the word of God, for which, writes Nephi, did his father thank the God of Israel. Lehi knew that with God's word the nation to follow him should not dwindle and perish in unbelief. (I Nephi 4:13)
For purposes of this lesson which deals with the character of Lehi, it is necessary to omit many interesting details that happened to this man, his family, and Ishmael's family, as they traveled through the wilderness and over the ocean to the land of promise, a land choice above all other landsthe Americas. The highlights of this journey include the struggles that Lehi and his younger son Nephi had in keeping the spirit of humility present in the hearts of Laman and Lemuel. These sons found it difficult not to harden their hearts against God. It was mainly because of the rebellious acts of these brothers that the traveling, the building of a ship, the voyage across the great waters, and the need for cooperative living in the land of promise were made more difficult for Lehi. Much time and energy was lost in the corrections and rebukes which he frequently was called upon to administer to these two wayward sons.
Yet it was in these strivings toward the right that Lehi's character and steadfast faith took root and developed. His was a faith that resulted in worksa willingness of spirit that showed his belief in God through service. It was in this service that many of the plain and precious truths of the Gospel were explained in the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
words of counsel which he gave his family. Because of the sweetness of his spirit, and because of the deep parental love he had for his own, he poured out his soul in words of earnest hope, relating again and again the dreams he had known through the grace of the Lord. No finer sermon has ever been preached than that to be found in I Nephi, chapter 8, entitled, "The dream of the tree, the river, and the rod of iron."
Answers to questions such as these which follow are made plain by Lehi's words describing his dream: Why are many people quick to see that faith, repentance, and baptism are the steps one takes to become a member of Christ's church, and yet why do so many fail to act upon their beliefs? Why are the great multitudes of men and women unable to understand the will of God?
After a brief class discussion of these questions have I Nephi, chapter 8, read. For further interpretation of Lehi's dream read also I Nephi 15:25-36.
Questions for Active Reading and Discussion
With the help of other suggested readings given below, have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the passage given to discover plain and precious truths of the Gospel brought to light in the Book of Mormon. If time permits, have each member of the class add a passage of his own selection from within that part of the Book of Mormon (I Nephi, and II Nephi, chapters 1 to 4) that tells of the life and words of Lehia passage that has brought new meaning to a Gospel truth.
1. Lehi and his seed were promised the land of America for their inheritance. He and his family worked hard to
LESSON DEPARTMENT
realize this promise. America has ever demanded sacrifice from those who would seek its shores. Why? Read II Nephi 1:1-11.
The next question may be used if needed
521
for class activity, or it may be assigned for home study.
2. Why has God permitted joy and misery, and good and sin to be in this world? Read Lehi's explanation of "opposition in all things" to his son Jacob. (II Nephi, chapter 2.)

The Princess (Continued from page 480)
lately. Right after the baby came John broke his leg so we've had doctor bills to pay. When the children are asleep, we let the fire go out. The clothes don't dry much till John makes the fire in the morning."
Still Lois could think of nothing to say.
"And then, you see, I have to iron them before Robin can get up." She closed the ashpit door with her foot and sat down. "I guess I'm fussybut I'm afraid of damp clothes. Robin has never been very strong."
Suddenly Lois felt dazed and weak. She wondered if she would be able to stand. Her one desire was to get up and rush out. At last she said in a meek, low tone, "I see. Don't worry about it." She got to her feet. "It doesn't matter if he is late. I'm sorry I made him feel bad today." She stopped because she could not keep her voice steady.
Mrs. Marshall got up too. She said, "Robin is so happy in school. He loves you. He tells me all about your pretty clothes, even the color of your handkerchiefs. John and I sometimes tease him by calling you 'The Princess.'" Then she looked a little embarrassed. "Only in fun, you know. We think the public school is the greatest thing in the world. It gives our child everything."
"No," Lois said, shaking her head. "No," more firmly, "It couldn't give him his sweet smile. You are the one who gave him that. And the schools couldn't do much either without homes like yours to back them up. It's people like you that have made America great."
She took hold of the doorknob, then turned back to Mrs. Marshall. Touching the baby's cheek lightly with her finger, she looked up suddenly into the mother's eyes, her own swimming. "And I think you have everything too," she said. "Everything a woman wants most."
Hastily she went out, closing the door softly. "Oh, God!" she prayed. "Make me worthy to be their Princess."

Short-story Article to Appear in September Issue
The concluding article on short-story writing by Pearl Spencer which was scheduled to appear in the August issue of The Relief Society Magazine (see announcement June-July Magazine, page 394) will appear in the September issue of the Magazine.
522 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
Train Up A Child in the Way He Should Go (Continued from page 473)
thorities, the absence of card playing, and the paying of an honest tithing, picturing the blessings which may be inherited through marriage in a temple for time and all eternity, and demonstrating the joy of having a family. Attending Church meetings together, singing songs together, playing wholesome games together, and reading the scriptures together, will also help to mold an entire family into a righteous pattern.
Perhaps one of the greatest causes for concern on the part of the mother in this day is the proper guarding of her daughter at nighttime. Teenage girls should always be properly supervised when outside the home in the late evening and night, whether they are returning from Mutual or a party. How few of our present delinquency problems would exist if young girls were kept close to the family circle and more attractive recreation were offered them within the home. This is a parental responsibility which mothers, more than fathers, should undertake to provide.
As mothers of Zion, let us awaken to the responsibilities resting upon us today. Remember the admonition of Solomon, the wisest man of his time, "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." No joy in the world is comparable to that experienced by parents whose children love the Lord and manifest it by living in accordance with the law of the Lord. No care, no solicitude, no attention, and no sacrifice that a mother makes in order to train up her child in the nurture and admonition of the Lord will ever be wasted. The riches of eternity are for such as these.M. C. S.

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES AND SUBSCRIBERS
ALL large cities are now adopting zone numbers as part of the regular mailing address, and The Relief Society Magazine must hereafter be so addressed to all subscribers affected by this ruling. Therefore, when sending in new or renewal subscriptions, subscribers and Magazine representatives are urged to include the correct zone numeral along with the name of the city with respect to every subscription. Subscriptions not so designated cannot be handled in the Magazine office until the required information is obtained.
MAGAZINE APPRECIATION
"I AM a man 25 years oldto be married next month. Of all the monthly publications, we will plan to have The Relief Society Magazine in our home always. Not alone because of the fine material presented pertinent to the L. D. S. Women, homemaking, etc., but also because I thoroughly enjoy reading the splendid articles which are published by your organization."

Is a College Education Necessary Today?
To men and women of foresight and wisdom there can be only one correct answer, an unqualified YES
Brigham Young University offers the student unsurpassed opportunities:
A Broad Curriculum covering the academic needs of most young people! A superior Faculty! Outstanding Library and Laboratory facilities! Special attention to Character Building! A rich Lyceum Series! A well planned Social Program! A Friendly atmosphere! A Beautiful college setting!
Academic work will in no way be restricted by the war. Enrollment, as usual, is open to all who are qualified.
Address your request for the 1943-44 catalogue to
The President Brigham Young University Provo, Utah
Autumn Quarter Begins October 1

"L. D. S. Training PAYS"
Day and EveningAll the Year......
Helping young people increase their chances for success  by multiplying their power to serve.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City

The BIBLE as LITERATURE
Beautiful, artistic recordings of the classics of Bible Literature, which can be played on any phonograph are available in the following albums:
"The Voice of the Bible" (Bibletone A) 3 Records...........$3.75 Five Psalms, including the Twenty-third, The Sermon on the Mount, The Lord's Prayer:
"The Voice of the Bible" (Bibletone B) 3 Records.........$3.75 David and Goliath, The Ten Commandments, Divine Promises
"Bible Readings Album" 5 Records..........$15.00 "Sweet Singer of Israel," "Comfort Ye My People," "Remember Now Thy Creator," "Job's Wisdom," "The Prodigal Son," "Charity," "The Resurrection"
All of these are recorded in models of beautiful English, beautifully read.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Intermountain Distributors for Linguaphone English and Foreign language recordings
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

WE NEED NOT REMIND YOU....
Of the necessity for conservationlooking to home needs of the future. For a hundred years, under the direction of inspired leadership, 'Mormon' women have led the world in preparingin times of plentyfor the lean months and years to come.
Nowmore than everthe need is urgent to preserve, for winter's use, the bounties of summer's harvest.

