[Vol4 | December 1917 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Unusual Mothers]

Unusual Mothers. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has produced some of the best and noblest mothers known to the ages. The constant reiteration by present-day writers that frequent childbirth entails weakness and deterioration upon both mother and children is so false in itself, and so misleading in its effects upon the rising generation, that we have decided to present in our pages some illustrated sketches of mothers who have given birth to large families of children. We would like our readers to study the faces of these women carefully and to observe the brief data which accompany the pictures, drawing their own conclusions as to the potency and value of righteous motherhood for both women and their children. We commend this series to our eugenic friends in the East, and feel sure that our sermon of facts will be more potent than any broadside of words with which we might offer arguments for unrestricted families. We are proud of these women, and very proud indeed to know that one and all of those who appear in this series are not only unusual mothers, but remarkable women, intelligent citizens of this commonwealth, and faithful Latter-day Saints. MARGARET ANN WHITLOCK. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Margaret Ann Whitlock was born December 25, 1842, in Morley Settlement, Hancock county, Illinois. In the year 1851 she came to Utah with her parents and settled in Manti, Sanpete county. Here she was married to Mr. J. H. Whitlock, in 1857. Shortly after marriage they were called by Apostle Orson Hyde to go to southern Utah to help build up the Dixie country. Prior to this time they had been living in a small log house, but had just completed a new house ready to move into at the time of their call. They soon made ready and started on the journey. Sister Whitlock labored for six years in rearing children and helping materially to build up the country. Her chief occupation outside of rearing her family and doing the housework, was carding, spinning, weaving, and making all their clothes. The family left Dixie and came to Sanpete county, and settled in a little place called Mayfield. Here Sister Whitlock added the profession of obstetrics to her other activities and acted as 
 1 MARGARET ANN WIlITLoCK midwife and nurse for forty year-, waiting on about five hundred mothers. For twenty years she served as head teacher in the Relief Society. She is the mother of sixteen children and has reared five orphan children beside her own healthy family. She was near unto death several times, but by the help of the Lord, and the prayers of her brethren and sisters, she is still living and her health is fairly good. At the time of this writing she is able to do her own housework and attends her Relief Society meetings regularly. She says: "I know that the Lord has blessed me in many ways, and feel thankful for his blessings." HETTIE FROST ALLRED. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Little Frost Allred was born Nov. 13, 1845, in Hancock county, Illinois. In 1845 she and her parents went with the Saints to Iowa, where they lived until 1861, coming to Utah that year by ox team. They first settled at Draper, later moving to Spring City, Sanpete county, where she married Stephen H. Allred. Feb. 12. 1867. Sister Allred is the mother of ten sons UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 
 and six daughters, fourteen living to mature manhood and womanhood. She has always had good health and her children and children's children are strong, healthy men and women. Sister Allred was stake president of the Y. L. M. I. A. for years. She has two daughters who have taken out degrees. She has taken care of her farm for years, and was the pioneer in flower and kitchen gardening in Sevier county. She has also been an arduous temple worker and is devoted to that work still. JULIA A. TAYLOR DABELL. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Julia Taylor Dabell was born May 10, 1857, at Ogden, Utah. She is the daughter of Pleasant G. and Clara Lake Taylor. While a small child she moved to Harrisville with her parents, where the early part of her life was spent. She was married April 28, 1873, in Salt Lake City, to Alfred K. Dabell. She has given birth to sixteen living children, three of whom died between the ages of one to four years. She has thirteen living, grown children who are proud to call her mother. There are thirty-three grand children. The mother of this large family has not only been a mother t#t, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. to her own family, but has been a blessing in hundreds of homes for wars in caring for the sick. She has had no fear in quarantine herself, in contagious diseases, and in helping others in time of sorrow; she is now sixty years of age, but continues to work among the sick. Sister Dabell has two boys who were among the first to respond to Uncle Sam's call. So she has raised her family, helped her neighbors and friends, and is now helping her nation!