[Vol4 | December 1917 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: A Tribute to the Birthday of the Prophet Joseph Smith Eliza]

A Tribute to the Birthday of the Prophet Joseph Smith. An Unpublished poem by Eliza R. Snow Smith. In genial fellowship we hail this day, And our commemorative service pay  Entwine fresh garlands for th' auspicious morn Of that blest day when Joseph Smith was horn. Longcenturies of Time had come and gone. With prophets of the living God unknown; From heaven's high courts no voice or sound was heard  From realms of light no angel form appear'd; The people "heap'd up teachers false" and vain, "With itching ears" and thirst for worldly gain, And Christendom with all it's boasted lore And hireling priests, ignored the gifts and power Of the pure Gospel which our Savior brought, And which, in fulness, his apostles taught. To check the swelling tide of wickedness  The noble and the pure in heart to bless, And God's unchanging" purpose to fulfil. Required a prophet to reveal his will. The prophet came, and early in his youth He held the mighty keys of light and truth  Of wisdom, knowledge, and to usher in A Dispensation, and its work begin. Harmoniously in him at once combined Goodness of heart and strength of master mind. Embodying childlike, sweet simplicity With superhuman, God-like majesty. 
 lie. with the keys that okl Elijah held. Thick clouds of darkness from the grave dispellid, Unlocked the prison doors, as Jesus did, Which long had hound the spirits of the dead. Thro' him, the Priesthood of the Almighty God Has been restored to earth  "the iron rod." Which o'er all nations shall extend its sway In righteousness, to crown the latter day. Bold as a lion, none but God he feared. An<l yet, as humble as a child appeared When he approached his Maker, to implore Strength to endure the weight of wrongs he bore. And when he intercession made with God For aid to spread the Gospel light abroad. To bless and save mankind from guilty strife Though men. in blindness sought his precious life. We celebrate our glorious era's morn. The day the prophet Joseph Smith was born; A mighty destiny hangs on that birth. That yet will revolutionize the earth; Xot only earth, the worlds beneath 't will move. It has already stirred the world above: The heavens The Father, were God, opened and his and at once beloved Soncame down To the great prophet, then a humble youth. And lighted up the eternal lamp of Truth. "The gates ajar"  now angels come and go From heaven to earth, and spirits from below. Wherever the gospel Jesus taught has spread The nations tremble with foreboding dread. All Christendom is filled with rage and fear. While "broken reed" to broken reed draws near. To war with God. the wicked now combine. And hostile sects in mutual efforts join. Here in St. George. Jehovah's temple stands, A monument of faith in God's commands; Emblem of purity and holiness. The worthy living and the dead to bless. It speaks in strains of more than mortal speech. And more than human thought has power to reach. That God is with us. And it testifies That Joseph Smith, the great and good and wise, GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 665 Is God's true prophet, and his memory dear The hosts above, and Saints on earth, revere. He changed the current of life's ebbing tide, And forced the ship of Life to upward ride: In plainness marked the "narrow way" to God, And sealed his testimony with his blood. The poetess was 76 years old when this exquisite poem was composed and read by her, at a memorial meeting in St. George, Dec. 23, 1880.