[Vol4 | December 1917 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department]

Home Science Department. Janctte A. Hyde. DEMONSTRATIONS TO BE USED WITH LESSON ON POOD VALUES. These suggestions are made as supplementary to the I Ionic Science lesson in our Guide. A. A table set with samples of food in amounts to agree with cuts in lesson. Each sample to be accompanied with a card denoting food values. See lesson table. B. Demonstrations of meals for children. C. Members of class to bring one article containing a hundred calorie portion. D. A sample meal of poor combinations, either too much starch or too much protein. A meal showing the correct combinations.
The Home Science lessons will treat on conservation of food, taking up as subjects: Plain Facts about Food, Spring Vegetables, Economy and Methods of Preparation; Cereals: rice, v/hole wheat flour, rye and corn bread, and bread-making; Products and by-products of the Dairy; Review of Canning and Drying lesson; Beans, peas, lentils and meat; Conservation of Clothing; Textiles and Fabrics, Choice and Care; Shoes and Hose; Conservation of Health of Children: Health the Best Gift; Conservation of Peace within; Christmas and the Prophet's Birthday. Because of the pressure upon our time and energies through war activities, added to the regular heavy responsibilities of our Relief Society work, the Board has decided to relieve the situation somewhat by discontinuing for this year, at least, the study of Literature. We hope the result will justify our action. Very few books need be purchased in the lesson work for the corning year. All our people have the sacred history of the Nephites, and we trust that all of our members have in the home, George Reynolds' Story of will follow his work in some the Book of Mormon, as our detail. Lists of U. S. Bulletins lessons suitable for the Home Science lessons will be given to be distributed from the Washington office of Senator Reed Smoot. Our new surname book has grown to such proportions and 714 RELIEF SOCIETY* MAGAZINE. so many difficulties have had to be overcome, that we are unable to present it to you for a little time longer. However, students w ill find help for this year's lessons in any good general history. Encyclopedias and geographies will serve as text books for the Facial History lessons. May the Lord add his blessing to all