[Vol4 | December 1917 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Poem | Title: My Christmas Musings (Poem) Hazel S. Washburn]

My Christmas Musings. 'And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him (Luke 2:33). Hazel S. Washburn. I wonder, .did the mother of the Christ-child know The value of the gift she helped bestow Upon this world of bitter unbelief: I wonder, if her vision ever guessed The greatness of the future still to be; If sometimes grim foreboding, unconfessed, Brought whispers to her soul of Calvary With all its wondrous magnitude  and awful grief. Tho' surely Mary knew her son divine I doubt she sensed his mission at the time  Or realized his glorious destiny. I think an all wise "mercy" kindly hid The future from that loving mother's ken. For could she  knowing of Gethsemane, And being human  joy in human pain Tho' with the glorious recompense of all eternity? T hold my own wee offspring in my arms And wonder, if for him there waits a crown of thorns, And if for him, also, the cup is filled! And though my soul in anguished protest cries. Yet still, I would not have it otherwise Than as the Father willed. December Entertainment By Mo rag. Winter has many pleasures. Sometimes we think they outnumber those of any of the other seasons of the year. Thanksgiving clay ushers in the time of gaiety and pleasure and it is hardly over before we begin to plan for the holidays of the year  Christmas and New Year. There are two days on which we should gather together in our family circles and in public assemblies to celebrate with songs of joy and gratitude. On Christmas day we join with all the civilized world to commemorate the birth of the Savior of the world  God's greatest gift to man. Because of this gift, and because to his lowly cradle in the manger, the wise men came bringing their gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh, the custom has grown amongst us, to remember our friends and loved ones with Christmas gifts and greetings, for only by giving gifts can the true meaning of the great gift of peace and good will be impressed. The 23rd of December should be celebrated by the Latter-day Saints in memory of another precious gift from our Father in heaven: the Prophet of the nineteenth century. Joseph Smith. The Prophet's birthday falls on the Sunday before Christmas this year and doubtless will be honored throughout the Church with special services and programs. For your Home Evening this month, have a Joseph Smith program, sing the appropriate hymns (there are many of them), et the smaller children tell the story of the birth of Joseph. The first vision. The older members may speak of him as a prophet, as a teacher, and of the bringing forth of the Book of Mormon, and of the martyrdom. All may bear testimony and sing of his wonderful life and achievements. LIFE OF CHRIST IN SON. (For Christmas Service.) Hymn, "Far, Far Away, on Judea's Plains." P>ass solo. "Nazareth." Hynm. "When Christ was Born in Bethlehem." Hymn. "Behold the Lamb of God." Song. ''Galilee." Song, "Master, the Tempest is Raging." Solo. "There were Ninetv and Nine." DECEMBER ENTERTAINMENT. 699 Hymn, "I Think When I Read that Sweet Story of Old." Solo, "The Lord is My Light." Hymn, hymns.) " 'Tis Midnight and on Olive's Brow." (Gospel Solo, "The Holy City," or "Calvary." Hymn, "He Died, the Great Redeemer Died." Hymn, "Easter Morning." Hymn, "I Know that My Redeemer Lives." CHRISTMAS CARD PARTY. This may be held a few days before Christmas or on Christmas Eve. Send invitations written on Christmas postals. Arrange a corner of the room as a post office, presided over by some one costumed as Santa Claus. After a good lively game or two, or some music, pass around plain cards and pencils and see who can write the prettiest verse or sentiment for a Christmas card. These may be addressed and given over to the postman for delivery. Award a Christmas calendar as a prize. All who attend the party can be notified in advance that pencils or cards will be delivered to whomsoever they are addressed. The hostess will, of course, prepare some of her own. After singing a Christmas carol or two pass around paper and write a round robin letter to the absent ones  a missionary, or it may be a boy in the training camp, or the trenches. Let everyone write something  even the babies can make their mark. If a flashlight picture can be taken, enclose one and be sure and mail the letter at once. The letters, gifts and postals may now be delivered to the guests by Santa, or if a change is preferred, let one of the girls be costumed as the spirit of Christmas, all in red and green with holly berry wreath and wand. Serve raspberry or red currant punch, dainty sandwiches, individual mince pies, red and green apples, nuts and Christmas candies. GIFT SUGGESTIONS. For the absent ones a dainty booklet in a serviceable cover, containing snapshots of the home places, the various members of the family and even of the family pets. One sister made a snapshot of the homes of her various brothers and sisters, mounted them on cards, tied these together with Christmas ribbon, added a greeting and Christmas sticker on the outside card, and lo, a dozen or more hearts were made glad by her thoughtful effort. The cost was trifling, but the originality of the gift and the personal touch made the small remembrance valuable. Christmas "
 photos are always appreciated, also subscriptions to good magazines. Why not make this a magazine Christmas. Father and brother will surely like to receive the Improvement Era as their favorite monthly. Mother and grandma both need their Relief Society Magazine subscriptions renewed, while big sister and little one, too, must have their Journal and Children's Friend, and, o\ course, the whole family read the Juvenile. Those who solve their Christmas problem in this way will live in the hearts of their loved ones, not through Christinas alone, but throughout the year. Now a blessed and happy Christmas to one and all. CHRISTMAS MONEY. A novel way to send a money gift at Christinas is to choose a Christmas postal or card with a funny man's figure on it. Make a slit under his arm and insert a folded greenback. Underneath or on the reverse side write the following jingle: "I introduce my friend Bill Green As fine a chap as you've e'er seen. If you need an apron, or jabot new, Or warmer gloves when hands are blue, Just tell your need to jolly Bill; I les full of cheer and right goodwill, Whate'er you need without a doubt He'll find a way to help you out." Or: Paste a dime in four corners of a postcard, cover each with Christmas stickers. Enclose in envelope with following message: 
 here are some dimes, to use sometimes When you'd like a treat, of candy sweet, Or von want to go to a picture show. L. M. G. THERE'S A WAV OCT. Maud Haggarley. Xo matter what trials beset thee, No matter what terrors betide, No matter if fortune forsake thee, Or false be the friend at thy side,  Be steadfast and true to thy purpose  Thy ideal high never doubt  The lowering clouds must soon vanish Thy Father shall point the way out. Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. American troops in France began actual fighting with the Germans on October 25. Russia is facing German invasion threatening Petrograd, and anarchy threatening the whole country. Killed, 4,000; injured, 10,000, was the result of a powder magazine explosion at Steifel, Austria, in October. Congress closed in October with proportionately the largest list of appropriations known in the history of the United States. Baseball interest in the United States for 1917 culminated in October, when the Chicago club defeated the New York club in the world series. Holland bids fair to be German prey, now that the British advances in Belgium threaten the U-submarine bases at Ostend and Zeebrugge. Sugar shortage in the United States means a shortage all over the world, where the supply for 1918 is not more than half that available in 1917. Brazil has declared war against Germany. This leaves only three Stations with the American nations that have not broken releaser. At Marysvale, Utah, the largest potash plant in the world was destroyed by fire in October, thus materially interfering with the production of potash for fertilizer. Ireland is giving more trouble to Great Britain in this war, and another scheme for supplying the Irish rebels with arms from Germany has been uncovered. Utah now is highly regarded in the Eastern States, is the record from those who know the facts. Quite a transition from conditions of twenty years ago. "Mormon" Church services have been arranged for at 
 Camp in the Lewis, 181st brigade Washington, of the where there army American are over 2,000 there. gathered "Mormons" Germany in by no means beaten as yet in the war, as shown by her offensive campaigns in Russia and toward Italy, many American newspaper stories to the contrary notwithstanding. Dr. George Michaelis, the recently appointed German chancellor, has had to resign. The Socialists in the German reichstag were unanimous in demanding that he step down and out. Several air raids were made over England in October by German airplanes and Zeppelins, killing nearly 100 people. Six of the Zeppelins were shot down in France, on their return trip. In northern Syria the rate of deaths from starvation during October is said to have exceeded 1,000 per day; yet that part of Syria is one of the most productive food sections of Asiatic Turkey. British and French troops on the western battle line in Europe inflicted several severe defeats on the Germans during October, thus showing the superiority of the former in that war section. Submarine warfare in October continued to exact a heavy toll in sunken ships, but the losses in German submarines increased more rapidly than did the number of merchant vessels destroyed. Young girls have been forbidden to be present at Fort Douglas, Salt Lake City, after 7 p. m. on any day. The military order was timely, and welcome to those interested in the welfare of the young people. I. W. W. ACTIVITIES in the United States diminished greatly during October, owing to the government's stern attitude toward the leaders of the organization, many of whom were indicted for violations of law. The "Mormon" Church is the first general church organization to subscribe for government bonds in aid of the United States government. The amount voted by the Church Conference in October was $250,000. CURRENT TOPICS. 703 The second loan asked for by the government in 1917 reached nearly the $5,000,000,000 aimed at, there being over 8,000,000 subscribers, the intermountain States doing their full share. The next loan will be called for about February, 1918. Drafted men to the number of 198 were sent back to Utah from the army training camps, because some of the district boards, notably in Salt Lake City, had not been sufficiently careful, thereby putting the government to considerable unnecessary expense. Lord North Cliffe, of the British war mission in the United States, says the end of the war is at least three years off, while General Leonard Wood of the United States general staff says ten years. At any rate, there is no prospect of an early peace. The fighting armies of the world now at war reached the enormous total of 38,000,000 men in October, the Teutonic allies having 10,600,000, and the Entente allies 27,500,000. Practically all of the former and half of the latter are on the fighting line. Woman suffrage picketing at the White House, Washington, seems to have had some influence in its persistency. President Wilson has announced himself as favoring the submission of the equal suffrage question to the voters in all the states where there is only male suffrage. Austrian troops were driven back by the Italians early in October, but in the latter part of that month the Austrians, reinforced by several hundred thousand Germans, took the offensive and inflicted on the Italians the greatest defeat that the war in Europe has registered to date. Candy intoxication, or the abnormal appetite for candy which has developed in America, especially among the young people, during the past five years, is likely to receive some setback in the fact that the amount of sugar available for coofections in 1918 will be less than half that for 1917, thus working a sort of partial prohibition. Palestine news for October is not voluminous, but is significant. The British railway being built from Egypt, and to run entirely through Palestine into northern Syria, has been constructed across the desert to Hebron. Thus the Turk no more will menace the British Great line Britain's possessions on soon on the Mediterranean the will Egyptian be the front, for Palestine front, if, indeed, that end has not been attained already. ROOK REVIEWS. "Children's Stories and How to Tell Them." A charming and very useful book comes to our table from The Home Correspondence School Press, for the benefit of mothers, teachers and all who amuse or instruct children. It is simple, direct, full of splendid illustrative material, and we recommend it highly to our own members, to Sunday School and Primary workers, and to all parents. Price, $1.50. ' "Old Testament Studies." Dr. J. M. Tanner issues an excellent and helpful volume for all who would be more familiar with the Bible and its contents. Clear, without pedantry, suggestive of scholarship, yet direct in treatment, the book will prove a welcome addition to home and to all our auxiliary organizations. For sale at Deseret Sunday School Union Hook Store "Pioneering in the West." Among the few detailed narratives of the early pioneering days of Winter Quarters and Utah. we have a new addition, the story of Howard Egan, as revealed in his diaries, edited and published by his sons. II. R. Egan and W. M. Egan. The book is well illustrated, full of interest, life, motion, and above all. informed on every page with the spirit of reverent faith and trust which animated the pioneers of this state. For sale at Skel ton's Pub. House, Salt Lake City. MY CHRISTMAS PRAYER I la Fisher. 0 Christmas spirit, breathe upon us all Abundantly; for while the carols ring A rest and quiet stills our surging souls. And we remember Christ, the Master King. How void of earth's vain glory was His birth! II is life, how full of suffering and care! His death  dear Lord, the thought of Calvary Makes our afflictions easier to bear. O Christmas spirit, put within our hearts The power to heed Christ's message in this day Of tribulations, great iniquities, While love and charity tend toward decay. O Christmas spirit, give us fortitude! When shall good will and peace be earth's again? When shall the hush of harmony begin To penetrate the selfish hearts of men?