VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1886.	No. 2.


BRIGHAM YOUNG.

Written by Hannah Cornaby for the celebration of Brig-
	ham Young's Birthday; held in Spanish Fork, June
	[--] 1880.

	Successor, he, to Joseph Smith,
		First in this dispensation,
Whose blood wa shed in Carthage jail—
	A stain upon this nation,
His mantle fell on Brigham Young,
	The chosen one to lead
God's people in these latter days,
	His gathered flock to feed.

The sheep were fed and safely kept,
	Within the Gospel fold,
For wolves were ready to devour
	The young as well as old.
E'en as the Prophet Moses led
	The ancient chosen band,
So Brigham, in these latter days,
	Led Israel to this land.

For more than thirty years was he
	The mouth piece of the Lord;
And thus by revelation taught
	The precepts of His word;
And, Moses like, when full of years,
	He left his labors here;
'Twas but to labor in God's cause,
	Though in another sphere.

The memory of the just is blest,
	It will not pass away,
Though kingdoms crumble into dust
	And nations should decay:
The great and good, the pure and true
	Forever will endure,
As firm as the eternal hills,
	As lasting and as sure.

Since earth's foundations first were laid,
	A men began to be,
Their deeds of worth are handed down
	To live in history.
Each age we know has added some
	As worthy of a name,
Among their fellow men renowned
	With never dying fame.

But few among the favored throng
	Have won a name so great
As he, the Prophet of the Lord,
	Whose birth we celebrate.
A Seer and Revelator wise,
	His mission made him so,
For God was with him to instruct
	And guide His people too.

His mantle on John Taylor fell,
	Who next in order stood;
He, through each trial had been found
	Most loyal, true and good.
God bless our aged President,
	And make his heart rejoice,
May we receive his teachings long,
	Although denied his voice.

All hail! we say, to Brigham Young,
	The day that gave him birth
Should e'er be kept and handed down
	'Mong choicest days of earth.
Children were his especial care,
	'Tis good for them to raise
Their hearts and voices on this day
	In words of love and praise.


[Column 1]

A FORCIBLE PROTEST.

MY DEAR EDITOR:
	Considering it my duty to help maintain the
right of franchise, awarded us by our Legis-
lature, and seeing it endangered by the pas-

[Column 2]

sage of the new Edmunds bill, through  the
Senate, I take the liberty of entering my pro-
test. Claiming that the right of suffrage is a
part of a voter's property, its value is inestim-
able; you can as well make a law to deprive us
of our homes if the right of franchise can be
taken away or imparied. It is a right we high-
ly prize, because it is the right preservative of
all other rights. Why is it that we are to be
deprived of this right? Because we have
dared to vote for an honest government, and
against rapacity and fraud; because we have
dared to vote for our friends—for men that
have borne the burden, and helped to develop
and make the Territory; men who sought to es-
tablish a perfect Union, who strove to insure do-
mestic tranquillity, to promote general welfare
and secure the blessing of justice. And we
say to those who would deny us this right, the
right to vote for men of our choice, to pause
and consider before they are plunged into the
gulf of political disgrace, ignominy and ruin.
	Who ever heard of such disgraceful doings
in courts of justice as we hear of in the courts
of Utah. Our judicial courts are a disgrace
to any nation. Why our judges, and even
deputy marshals, presume to take, or assume
as much authority as the most despotic king
that ever wore the ermin[-], and we are denied
the right of trial by a jury of our peers, but
have test oaths and packed juries.  None are
allowed to sit on a jury that even believe in
the principles of our religion.  We ought to
be able to look to the judicial tribunal for
protection against illegal or unconstitutional
acts;  we ought to have independent judges and
enlightened juries as citadels of popular Liber-
ty, as well as for private justice.  "What we
possess is hardly fit to be called our own, un-
less we feel secure in its possession, and this
security, this feeling of perfect safety cannot
exist under a wicked or even a weak and igno-
rant administration of the law. There is no
happiness, there is no liberty, there is no en-
joyment of life unless a man can say, when he
rises in the morning, I shall be subject to the
decision of no unjust judge to-day."—Webster.
Can we as a community say that we shall be
subject to the decision of no unjust judge to-
day or to-morrow?  No, we do not know, when
we lay down at night, whether we will not be
dragged from our beds before morning to testify
before an unjust judge against our husbands
(which is unconstitutional) and after being in-
sulted, and plyed with questions that are inde-
cent, and which ought to cause the blush of
shame to mantle the brow of any gentleman,
held under bonds for contempt. Can such
things be done with impunity? Oh, no! The
Lord will deal out even-handed justice to those
who have used such despotic and unwarrant-
able power, and have manifested such unhal-
lowed and wanton disregard of their oath of
office. Let them beware! for the wrath of an
offended God will overtake them and cut short
their days of wickedness, for so far can they
go and no further, and although it may look
dark for an oppressed and outraged people,
those who live according to the will of God,
and are humble before Him, there is a bright
future, and they can see the bright sunshine
behind the cloud, and the day of their deliver-
ance is nigh. Although our brethren, and
some of our sisters, free citizens, have been,
and are imprisoned, immured in prisons, count-
ing the slow revolving hours of their captivity,
and spending their nights in prayers and

[Column 3]

dreams of their wives and children, counting
the time when they will again enjoy their so-
ciety, and the blessings of home, they are
happy and contented, for they know that they
have the love and confidence of their families,
the blessing of Almighty God, and the esteem
and respect of all lovers of equal rights and
constitutional Liberty. True heroes! who can
hold up their heads with the emblems of true
nobility, honor, trust and integrity stamped
upon their brows, suffering for the truth, like
unto their Master, and woe be unto those that
fight against God, for they will have their por-
tion in the day of judgment. Jesus says, "In-
asmuch as they persecute you, blessed art
thou, for so did they unto me, and the servant
is not greater than his Master."
	It is said to-day, "Why does not the Lord
take care of His people, if you are the Lord's
people? Why does He not confound your
enemies and prevent His servants from going
to prison." Just so they said in the days of
the Savior: "If Thou art the Son of God
come down from the cross, and we will be-
lieve;"  and they spat upon Him and mocked
Him, and gave Him vinegar to drink, until
He was fain to cry, "Father, if it is possible,
let this cup pass." Then why should we fear
the frowns of men, or why should we murmur?
No, we will not complain, but seek for strength
to enable us to stand firm and true to our in-
tegrity to God and our religion, and as there
is no middle course, let us be found on the
right side.  As we will be held accountable to
God for the use we make of the talents the
Lord has given us, if we hide them under a
bushel, it is our duty to defend our rights and
our religion, and not be ashamed to acknowl-
edge our Father before the world, and to de-
fend every principle of truth revealed to us
for our salvation, and let our walk and con-
duct be such that we can have the approbation
of our Father in heaven; let us nobly take our
part in the great work of the last days. We
have the right to worship God according to our
own convictions, and no one has the right to
say what we shall incorporate in our creed as
our religion. Although Congress may take
the responsibility, they do it in opposition to
the spirit and intent of the Constitution. We
ask the members of the House to stop and con-
sider, and we ask all lovers of constitutional
liberty, equal rights and free governments to
use their influence with the members to vote
against the bill now before the House, as it is
a bill against all the laws of a Republican gov-
ernment, and strikes at the very foundation of
this Republic, and will be a disgrace to the
American people; it is the essence of despot-
ism, and will have a tendency to create discord
and unsettle the union, will effect the nation
at large, and it will cause trouble nearer home
than Utah.
		S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., March, 1886.


JOSEPH SMITH AND CELESTIAL
MARRIAGE.

	The communication from President Joseph
Smith, with the accompanying affidavit of 
William Clayton, which we publish in this
issue, will be interesting to a large number of
our readers. It will tend to clear up in the
minds of those who are not familiar with the
details of the manifestations of the Prophet


[Column 1]

Joseph Smith on the subject of celestial mar-
riage, some apparent discrepancies which are
perfectly harmonious when correctly under-
stood.
	The revelation on celestial marriage pub-
lished in the Doctrine and Covenants, was
given July 12th, 1843. The principles it con-
tains, with further intelligence on the same
subject, were revealed to the Prophet many
years before, but not formulated in writing for
the Church. Acting under instructions from
the Lord, the Prophet had several wives
sealed to him before the date of that revela-
tion, and they are referred to in verse 52.
There are other matters spoken of in the re-
velation that pertained to the time when it
was written, showing that the statement in
the heading, as it appears in the book, is cor-
rect; namely, that the revelation was given on
that date, although the doctrines it contains
were made known and had been acted upbn
under  special instructions previous to that
date.
	Those opponents of plural marriage who
deny that it was taught and practiced by the
Prophet Joseph, in face of testimony enough
to establish any fact beyond the possibility of
rational contradiction, frequently refer to the
utterances of the leaders of the Church in
Nauvoo against the teachings of certain per-
sons on polygamy; and also the denials and
affidavits, of several ladies concerning poly-
gamy and spiritual infeism.  These statements
are cited as evidence that Joseph and Hyrum
Smith were opposed to plural marriage, and
that it was denied by some of the ladies who
afterwards avowed their own marriage to the
Prophet or his brother Hyrum.
	But examination of the history and the
facts will disclose that there is no real contra-
diction between the alleged conflicting state-
ments, nor between the action of Joseph and
Hyrum in regard to polygamy and the doc-
trines laid down in the revelation of July 12th,
1843. Polygamy, in the ordinary and Asiatic
sense of the term, never was and is not now a
tenet of the Latter-day Saints. That which
Joseph and Hyrum denounced and for preach-
ing which without authority an Elder was cut
off the Church in Nauvoo, was altogether
different to the order of celestial marriage in-
cluding a plurality of wives, which forms the
subject of the revelation.
	So with that spiritual wife doctrine which
lustful men attempted to promulgate at that
period. Joseph the Prophet was just as much
opposed to that false doctrine as any one could
be. It was a counterfeit. The true and di-
vine order is another thing. The errors which
those ladies who signed the affidavits declared
were not known to them as doctrines of the
Church were not, are not, and never will be
part of the creed of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. They were con-
scientious in their statements. Joseph and
Hyrum were consistent in their action against
the false doctrines of polygamy and spiritual
infeism, instigated by the devil and advocated
by men who did not comprehend sound doc-
trine nor the purity of the celestial marriage
which God revealed for the holiest of pur-
poses.
	It has been frequently asserted by the ene-
mies of the Church that President John Tay-
lor, in France, publicly denied that the Church
entertained the doctrine of plural marriage.
Investigation for the purpose of learning facts
will show that he did no such thing. Directly
he denied nothing; indirectly he disputed the
assertion that polygamy and certain infamous
doings were part of the creed of the Church.
In answer to the charges he simply read a sec-
tion of the Doctrine and Covenants relating to
the subject of marriage.
	Until the open enunciation of the doctrine
of celestial marriage by the publication of the
revelation on the subject in 1852, no Elder

[Column 2]

was authorized to announce it to the world.
The Almighty has revealed things on many
occasions which were for His servants and not
for the world. Jesus enjoined His disciples on
several occasions to keep to themselves princi-
ples that He made known to them. And His
injunction, "Cast not your pearls before swine,
lest they trample them under their feet and
turn again and rend you," has become as fa-
miliar as a common proverb. In the rise of
the Church the Lord had occasion to admon-
ish his servants in regard to revelations that
were afterwards permitted to be published:
	"I say unto you, hold your peace until I
shall see fit to make all things known unto
the world concerning this matter."
	"And now I say unto you, keep these things
from going abroad into the world until it is ex-
pedient in me."
	"But a commandment I give unto them that,
they shall not boast themselves of these things,
neither speak of them before the world, for
these things are given unto you for your profit-
and your salvation."—(Doc. & Cov.)
Under these instructions Elders had no
right to promulgate anything but that, which
they were authorized to teach. And when as-
sailed by their enemies and accused of practis-
ing things which were really not countenanced
in the Church, they were justified in denying
those imputations and at the same time avoid-
ing the avowal of such doctrines as were not
yet intended for the world. This course which
they have taken when necessary, by command-
ment, is all the ground which their accusers
have for charging, them with falsehood.
	The doctrine of celestial marriage, including
the plurality of wives, was revealed to Joseph
Smith the Prophet by the same power and
from the same source, as all the other revela-
tions contained in the book of Doctrine and
Covenants, and they stand or fall together.
The Church was commanded at its inception to
receive the revelations and precepts which God
would manifest through him, and this is one of
them, to the truth of which the heavens have
borne witness at least as much as to the divini-
ty of any others. That Joseph practiced what
he taught and was himself the husband of
several wives in the holy order of celestial
marriage, has been thoroughly authenticated,
and the affidavit of William, Clayton forms
one more strong and important link in a chain
of evidence that is so complete and convincing
as to leave no room for reasonable contro-
versy.
     The world may not receive the glorious doc-
trine of eternal matrimony by which husbands
and wives are made one forever, nor the princi-
ple of plural marriage, which is an essential
part of that doctrine. But those who have
come out of darkness into light, and have
learned how to know the voice of the Good
Shepherd, will see the beauty and divinity of
that comprehensive revelation, and hearken to
the spirit which leads in the way to the con-
tinuation of the lives, wherein are exaltation
and dominion and power in the presence of
God and His Christ throughout the eternal
ages.
	Deseret News, May 20, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACTS.

	MISSIONARY BOY'S LETTER.

DEAR MISS IDA:
*	*	I received the letter,	*	the coun-
sel was good, and just such as we were given
by the brethren of the Twelve.  Send me
another like it, only a great deal longer.  I
have not heard from Milo since we separated
on the 29th ult., but he was to go to Virginia
after visiting his relatives in Kentucky. Leav-


ing him was the next thing to leaving home
and mother.
	The scenery over the D. & R. G. cannot be
surpassed. It is awfully grand! My compan-
ion, James Campbell, of Salt Lake City, and
myself, have been out on two trips, but did
not get an opportunity to preach, our labors
 being confined to private conversation. Some
parts of our field of labor have been canvassed
by the Elders in times past, and in other parts
the people have never seen an Elder. In the
mountain districts, among the poorer classes,
we find some people who are very friendly, and
appear quite willing to investigate the princi-
ples of the Gospel, but the more wealthy, who
are located on the low lands, manifest a total
indifference, and care to have nothing to say to
us after they find out who we are. The day
will come, and that speedily, when they will be
willing to accept the truth, and when they
know not where to find it.
	This is truly a day of gleanings, and the
blood of Israel is hard to find. The people
are bound down by sectarian traditions and
a false Christianity, from which it seems they
cannot extricate themselves. This country is
worn out and unfruitful, and the religion of
the people more barren than the soil, for the
soil does bring forth some fruit, but the fruits
of their religion are evil. We are generally
treated far better by those who make no pro-
fessions of piety. The people are generally
very poor but they give us the best they have.
No one could ask more. Those who possess
more of this world’s goods have no place for
us, or the principles we teach, as a rule. One
night we were hunting lodgings until 9 o’clock,
being passed from one place to another until 
we had been turned away nine times, but by
strong argument, we prevailed on the tenth
one to give us a bed, but we had no supper.
Next morning they gave us breakfast and
seemed quite friendly, but wanted no “Mor-
monism.”
	I do not feel as well here as I do in Utah,
but still I cannot complain much. I have felt
quite cheerful and light-hearted, generally,
and if I can have the faith and prayers of the
Saints in my behalf I shall enjoy my labors.
I have had but one letter from Utah since
leaving, but I learn from Elder Morgan that
matters are getting worse.	*	 *	*
	Ever praying for the welfare of all the
Saints in Zion, and craving an interest in
your faith and prayers, I remain,
	Your true friend and thankful student,
					GEO. W. BAKER.
	May 20, 1886.


PRESIDENT YOUNG'S BIRTHDAY.

	How President Brigham Young’s birthday
was celebrated at Provo City, by the Primary
Associations, June 1st, 1886.
	At 2 p.m. a very large crowd of fair young
juveniles assembled at the Brigham Young
Academy to commemorate the natal day of
President Brigham Young. The hall was
decorated with flowers, and the bust of our late
worthy President was on the stand. A very
interesting programme was carried out by the
children, consisting of songs, recitations, etc.,
after which addresses were made by President
A. K. Smoot, Prof. K. G. Maeser and Sister
A. K. Smoot, giving a characteristic sketch of
President Young’s life. After this. dancing
was participated in until half past six, and all
returned home feeling it was a day long to be
remembered.
	We have not heard from the other wards
yet, but it was decided that it should be uni-
versally celebrated throughout Utah Stake.
				A. K. Smoot, Prest.,
				GRACE SMITH, Ass’t Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

﻿


DO YOU EVER THINK OF ME?

	When the shades of ever are falling
		O'er the blue and lonely sea,
	When the whip-poor-will is calling,
		Do you ever think of me?
 
	When the great church bell is swelling
		Its music o'er the lea,
	When of absent friends you're telling,
		Do you ever think of me?

	When the silver stars are gleaming
		Through the blue immensity,
	When of other days you're dreaming,
		Do you ever think of me?

	And, oh! when the white clouds linger
		In the blue and azure sky,
	When fond fancy's trembling finger
		Like a needle points on high,

	Do you then with sighs remember,
		Hoping in the yet to be—
	How we parted in December,
		And breathe a prayer for me?

	Does the moon light softly glowing
		On shrub and flower and tree,
	Does the sound of waters flowing,
		Bring to you sweet thoughts of me.
							BELLE DALTON.
January 31st, 1886.


A FEW REFLECTIONS.

If God will grant the Spirit's aid,
	To write I'll make an effort;
There is so much that might be said
	To edify and comfort—
To my dear sisters I address
	The thoughts that may be given;
I'm sure the Lord delights to bless
	His daughters here in Zion.

I'm sure the Saints of latter days
	Are blest beyond all measure,
Above the rest of Adam's race,
	With Gospel's richest treasure.
What God revealed to Joseph Smith
	Should claim devout attention,
For it embraces all the truth
	That I can think or mention.

First, we repent and are baptized,
	So are our sins forgiven,
And then the Holy Ghost receive—
	Most precious boon from heaven;
God's spirit granted from above
	Doth strengthen good endeavor;
It teaches charity and love,
	And peace and virtue ever.

It teaches us in mortal life
	A gentle, kind behavior;
To carefully avoid all strife,
	And imitate the Savior,
Who's full of wisdom, grace and love,
	And is our Mediator;
He pleads before the throne above
	Our cause with the Creator.

We've various gifts the very same,
	That Jesus said should follow
Those who believed upon His name,
	And in His footsteps follow;
A mighty gift to mortal ones,
	The gift of healing, surely;
We cannot set a price upon,
	It is God's mercy purely.

It is His will that we should claim
	The gifts, which He is granting,
To humbly call upon His name,
	And faith should not be wanting,
That we might reap the rich reward,
	The healing of distresses,
And not forget to praise the Lord
	Whom He so richly blesses.

A gift there is, to Saints most dear,
	The gift that is discerning
Of spirits, that we may beware,
	And know of them concerning,


That we may not be led astray
	By those who are deceivers,
But follow in the narrow way
	Of firm and true believers.

There's many a grace and many a gift
	To Saints on earth are given;
Lord, lead our tongues in purest drift
	To praise the God of heaven;
O may we have, from day to day,
	A greater inclination
To keep in wisdom's narrow way
	In walk and conversation.

Oh, Thou! who know'st our weaknesses,
	Help us in each endeavor
To lead a life of righteousness,
	And worship Thee forever.
So may we triumph in thy might, 
	Thy Spirit guide our speeches,
Be valiant in the cause of right,
	And gain eternal riches.

		MAREN MITCHELL.
Riverdale, June 8, 1886.


A COMPARISON.

	Only a piece of water-soaked wood—yes,
that is all, but shall I tell you what it shows
to me? A morning, dull, cloudy, fierce winds
and fiercer sea; a road, grass-grown and smooth;
a carriage, drawn slowly on, now near the
spray-dashed shore, now lost to sight of sea
and spray, but always with the rude, hoarse
roar of the ocean's voice resounding in our
ears. The place, the Sandwich Isles, which
little mission of easy, happy Saints, has held
more missionaries from dear old Utah than any
other on this big, whole globe, according to its
size.
	That sea—no words could ever tell its match-
less glory, no brush could ever paint its glisten-
ing, rapid, restless grace. How could they
do so, when God it is who speaks to us, weak
finite mortals, through the awful roar, and He
whose finger paints the ever changing hues
and shades on ocean's broad old face.
	The storm had been a furious one, and high
and heavy dashed the surf, and as we rode
along we all were hushed to that slow silence
that falls alike on all who feel themselves so
near to nature's heart-beats. How small, how
infinitely small one weak and puny arm would
be to put between a soul and all eternity in
such a sea! Vast are Thy wonders, O God!
	At last, as mortals do, we broke the spell of
silence and began to talk of all we saw around
us.  The shore was strewn with relics of the
last night's storm. Broken shells and bits of
sponge, with chalky looking corals, and all
along a very network of green and pale pink
sea weeds, and as we wandered on, now pick-
ing up some pretty toy or turning over rub-
bish in search of something rare, my friend
held up to me this rotten piece of wood.  He
brought it, saying it had traveled many a
weary mile on just such waves as now
beat down upon the shore. "'Tis redwood,"
said my friend, "and all the way this tiny chip
has come, from those huge forest trees, that
grow on California's hills." And so I took it;
and as I looked at it, so many curious thoughts
arose unbidden in my mind—how long it had
been cut from off the parent trunk, whose
hand had felled the giant tree, how many
years its glorious crown of green had shaded
some sweet spot of earth.
	Our talk soon flew to other things, and,
after that, we turned our horses homeward.
But in and out of all our chatter, that bit of
wood and its attendant history was dwelling
on my mind. We passed along the road, now
dotted on each side with the natives white-
washed cottages, while here and there a brown
grass hut, that stands among its haouri (civil-
ized) neighbors, with quite an air of low
apology, as if 'twere well ashamed to look
them in the face. And then I thought of that


small block of wood—a fragment from the
parent tree, broke off by some relentless power
and cast, like these poor natives' far away pro-
genitors, from off the parent Nephite stem,
and cast adrift to bear the ocean's moods, and
land at last on these fair, sunny isles, and they,
like it, are soaked and sodden—sodden with
vice and soaked in all the waters of incon-
stancy and lust; and they, like unto it, have
now at last been gathered up by an Almighty
hand, and He is sending here His workmen,
that on them may shed the light of His pure,
Holy Spirit, so drying up the dull waters of
pollution, and with His tools He will mould
and fashion them at last into one of those
clean and chosen vessels, which shall be lifted
up at that last day, saith the Lord God of
Israel!
		HOMESPUN.

S. Y. Gates


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.

	The way to do good is to be good. There
must be light, then it will shine.—Cannon
Fleming.

	There is nothing so sweet as a duty, and all
the best pleasures of life come in the wake of
duties done.—Jean Ingelow

	God weigheth more with how much love a
man worketh than how much he doeth. He
doeth much that loveth much.—Th omas a Kem
pis.

	While reason is puzzling herself about the
mystery, faith is turning it into her daily
bread, and feeding on it thankfully in her
heart of hearts.—. D F. Huntington

	If we practise goodness, not for the sake of
its own intrinsic excellence, but for the sake
of gaining some advantage by it. we may be
cunning but we are not good.—Cicero.

	The best name by which we can think of
God is Father. It is a loving, deep, sweet,
heart-touching name; for the name of father is,
in its nature; full of inborn sweetness and
comfort.—Luther.

	In eternity it will amount to more to have
given a cup of cold water, with right motives,
to an humble servant of God than to have
been flattered by a whole generation.—Dr.
Cumming.

	The warm sunshine and the gentle zephyr
may melt the glacier which has bid defiance
to the howling tempest; so the voice of kind-
ness will touch the heart which no severity
could subdue.—Herder.

	All that is good,generous, wise,right—what-
ever I deliberately and forever love in others
and myself,—who or what could by any possi-
bility have given it to me but one who first had
it to give?  This is not logic: this is axiom.—
Carlyle

	Trust Him when you cannot trace Him. Do
not try to penetrate the cloud which He brings
over you and to look through it. Rather keep
your eye fixed steadily on the bow that is on
the cloud. The mystery is God’s; the promise
is yours.—Macduff


The defeat of the Home Rule bill in Eng-
land is to Irishmen what the defeat of the
woman suffrage bill in this country is to
women.  In each case the final triumph is
deferred.
	The Woman Suffrage Society of Englewood,
Ill. will celebrate July 4 as 'Foremothers'
Day."  The Rev. Olympia Brown and Mary
Allen West have been engaged as speakers.
The ladies will send refreshments, and an in-
teresting programme has been prepared.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00;  one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50;  per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 15, 1886.


[Column 1]
	MRS. NEWMAN'S EXTRAVAGANZAS.

	We have had the privilege of perusing the
pamphlet containing the "Notes of a Hearing be-
fore the Committee on Education and Labor,"
United States Senate, May 7th, 1886. The hear-
ing was referred to in the last number of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. It says, first of all,
	"Proposed establishment of a school under the
direction of the Industrial Christian Home Asso-
ciation of Utah, to provide means for the self-
support of the dependent classes in that Terri-
tory, and to aid in the suppression of polygamy
therein." Then follows the Memorial, which sets
forth the arrangements entered into, in detail, and
closes by saying, "The demand for such an insti-
tution is found."
	First. In the anomalous condition of Utah
Territory under Mormon regime.
	Second. In the fact that there is not a single
benevolent institution in the Territory for the de-
pendent classes.
	Moreover, it is hopeless to expect a Mormon
legislature to appropriate funds to meet a condi-
tion of things which the Mormon leaders declare
does not exist, or to establish an institution which
shall contribute towards the disintegration of the
Mormon Church.
	"Hence national obligation is apparent."
	"The principle is fundamental in a republican
form of government to protect its helpless minori-
ties, especially so when these minorities are
women and children.
	"The question of self-support is based in the
solution of the problem of the disruption of poly-
gamous households.
	"It is a well-known fact that there are many who
would voluntarily abandon polygamous relations
if facilities for self support were provided.
	"Furthermore, it is futile to legislate against ex-
isting relations and make no provision for the
terrible exigencies which arise in the execution
of law.
	"Fathers and mothers whose moral nature has
survived the wreck of polygamous life will at
least hesitate to impose upon their children imme-
diate disaster by either voluntary or enforced obe-
dience&nbsp;to national law.
	"Therefore, it is with confidence in that justice
which is the apotheosis of mercy, that we your pe-
titioners, in behalf of those who cannot speak for
themselves, except by their silent appeal to the
nation's God, ask of your honorable body the ap-
propriation of $100,000 to the Industrial Christian
Home Association for the construction and equip-
ment of such an institution as is herein specified.
			Respectfully submitted,
		JEANETTE H. TERRY, Prest.,
					Park City, Utah Territory,
		MARGARET D. ZANE, Vice Prest.,
				Salt Lake City, Utah Territory,
		CORNELIA A. PADDOCK, Secretary,
				Salt Lake City, Utah Territory.
	Also signed, George A. Lowe, Ira E. Lyons,

[Column 2]
Hector M. Scott, James M. Darling, George E.
Ellis, Henry W. Lawrence (per Angie F. New-
man, Vice President at Large, Trustees Salt Lake
City.) Testimonials from clergymen and others,
well known as anti-Mormon, are next given, after
which follows the argument.  We had thought to
take it up in full and correct the false statements,
but it would perhaps be a waste of time; there-
fore we will only notice a few glaring errors. In
the first paragraph of her argument she says:
	"I am here in behalf of women whose lips are
sealed by the Priesthood, whose hands are
shackled by their own ballots, of which I can
give proof if necessary; women who are denied
the right of petition by the very men who enfran-
chised them. A notable instance of the right of
petition is when 473 women of Utah petitioned
to the national Congress against the admission of
Utah as a State, and when the names were re-
ported in Utah many of these women, under the
 most severe pressure, were obliged to make public
retraction, and to declare that their signatures
were fraudulently obtained."
	We would very much like to know when this all
happened, if Mrs. Newman, or any of these
trustees, whose names are attached, can give
these particulars definitely; we should be glad to
learn how and when all this occurred, and who
any of these women are who were "obliged to
make public retraction?" In fact, we would like
one single name furnished us. This is all nonsense:
it is impossible to imagine where Mrs. Newman
could have fished up this story.
	In the next paragraph Mrs. Newman says she
has a right to speak in behalf of "motherbood out-
raged and compromised children crying for bread."
There are no children in Utah crying for bread,
nor any lack either of food or clothing; there are
no poor houses or orphan asylums needed for
"Mormon" children, but the same cannot be said
of other States and Territories. She also says; "I
am here because in my veins flows the blood of
the Pilgrim Fathers," and so on. How many
"Mormons" there are who might say the same
thing if that would entitle them to special privileges.
It is utterly impossible in a newspaper article to
take up the argument entire; one can only touch
some particular points, and show, perhaps, a trifle
or two concerning the manner in which she deals
with the subject, and the unfairness with which
she treats women who have expressed decided
views upon plural marriage; women who have
lived in it, and consequently must know more
about it than she possibly can; women as pure and
as noble as any the blessed sun ever shone upon,
women of education, cultivated taste and refine-
ment.
	The lady goes on to say, "The foundation, the
perpetuity of this government is based upon the
subjugation of women. Polygamy, whatever one
says to the contrary, is the initiative and the ulti-
matum. The primal effect of polygamous life is
to build prison walls about its victims, whose pon-
derous gates never swing outward except to crush
the hand that tampers with the locks." This may
be very pretty and sensational, and may move the
hearts of the Committee and of Congress, but it
lacks the vital element of truth, and will not stand
the test of reason, common sense, or the facts,
which are and must be evidence as against sensa-
tional reports or pathetic appeals. She invalidates
her own statement, when she says, in another part
of her argument, how easily divorces are obtained,
but she grossly misrepresents when she says,
"There are scores who have been divorced from
one to ten and fourteen times, of which there is
abundant record." Here is another statement
made which Mrs. Newman should be prepared to
prove. But it is as false as it is cruel. When the
lady makes such assertions as these she should
bring forward the proof, by telling of at least one
instance in which there has been a number of di-
vorces.

[Column 3]
	Mrs. Newman says that in the Mass Meeting in
the theatre "the American flag was draped in irony
above the speakers." Have not the Latter-day
Saints as much right to the flag as other citizens?
and they certainly honor it quite as much, and the
liberty, of which it is the symbol, is as dear to
them as to Mrs. Newman, or any one else. She
further adds, "I listened for four hours to a repu-
diation of national sovereignty, a vilification of the
Federal officers, and a vindication of illicit alli-
ances, which made me shiver. The report of that
meeting has been greatly toned down, as my own
notes and the notes of Dr. Jackson, of Fort
Douglas, and others, will amply attest." Then
she adds that she will use their own stenegraphic
notes, that she may not be charged with injustice,
and goes on to make quotations from Dr. Pratt,
Laura Minor and Dr. E. R. Shipp. However, she
proves nothing, but to repeat the slander and
falsehoods that have been going the rounds of
the country for years. Speaking of the number
of wives she declares that "in Utah a patriarch
has ten, fifteen or twenty." Here is another
chance for her to tell who these men are who have
this extra number of wives, as we who live here
do not know of such families. She also asserts
that one half of this people are in the practice of
plural marriage; another false statement. Her in-
formation, according to her argument, is of the
most complete and varied character; she knows
more than any old settler in the country, but what
she affirms exists only in her inflated imagination.
	Does Mrs. Newman fancy that "Mormons"
don't know the deceit, treachery and in-
famy that prevails to an alarming extent in the
world? Congressmen need not go outside the
District of Columbia to find unhappy and unhal-
lowed marriage relations in monogamy, and this
woman, no doubt, knows it well. If Congress
wants to make an appropriation for women to be
educated to earn their own living, the best place
to begin is at the Nation's Capitol, for in Utah
such charitable institutions are not needed, nor
will they be patronized by "Mormons." Not at all.
	After expatiating largely upon a national flag she
brought here from Cincinnati, and, by the way,
the "Mormons" brought the first national flag that
ever was brought here, and planted it on the tops
of the mountains, and had as much pride in see-
ing it wave—aye, more than Mrs. Newman, with
all her boasted patriotism, for to them it did mean
liberty and freedom, and she would destroy the
freedom, happiness and peace of the homes
created under its shelter and protection, she
brings inthe following sensational paragraph, which
she no doubt thinks will stir the feelings of those
sage congressmen to the very centre of their souls.
It reads thus:
	"Gentlemen, I do not make to you a needless
plea, for night after night I have stood on some
table land in that fair valley. I have looked upon
that silvery lake, asleep in the quiet moonlight,
the silent stars keeping their watch in the sky, the
shadow of the granite mountains falling over the
city, and stilling the pulses of my own throbbing
heart, I have heard a wail, long, deep and terrible,
coming up from thousands of hushed voices, from
lips dumb in their cold agony, come sweeping up
to the ear of the Omnipotent, and in its choral
tone. I have heard the refrain of the Kathayan
slave, in the pen at Oung-pen-la. 'My Father, I
cannot die so; I cannot die so. Send some
blessed evangel to open the gates of thy mercy.'
Gentlemen, shall we find in you the 'blessed evan-
gel' of their long vigils?"
	There is much more in a similar strain. Now,
we will tell you what she might have heard if she
did not, instead of the mournful refrain she pic-
tures, the prayers and hymns from a thousand
homes arising in gratitude to God for His favors
and blessings, and interceding with Him to pro-
tect them and their little ones from those, who
under the guise of law, are bringing sorrow, misery


and desolation, ruined homes, blighted hopes, and,
all the attendant evils, cruel and remorseless, that
result from religious persecution.  If Mrs. New-
man has a human heart, if she can feel for those
whose sorrows should make them sacred, especial-
ly so to all their own sex, who possess genuine
womanly tenderness, she must know the torture
the anguish of soul the Edmunds law
is inflicting upon innocent women and child-
ren; and to insult them by asking alms from the
National Congress, to which they themselves are 
appealing through petitions, eloquent and strong, 
with forcible truths for simple justice and a hu-
mane administration of law, is too great an insult
to be borne without remonstrating, protesting and
declaring against such measures.  The tables will
turn by and bye, and the persecutors of this peo-
ple will need aid and assistance far worse than
the "Mormons" need it now.  The relief the
"Mormons" want is justice, and those rights and
liberties guaranteed by that glorious Constitution
of our common country, nothing more. Having
these and the blessing of God upon their efforts 
and endeavors, happiness and prosperity will
abound, and many people will flock hither and 
find peace and security, and oppression and bond-
age will be unknown.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	THE Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. 
conference of Tooele Stake was held June 12th 
and 13th, in Grantsville, Mrs. M. A. Hunter presid-
ing. Sisters E. Howard and H. M. Whitney of 
this city were in attendance, and give an interesting
report of the proceedings. 
	THE annual meeting of the Sixteenth Ward
Relief Society of this city will be held to-day. 
Notice of these meetings will appear in our next
issue.  The annual meeting of the Relief Society
and Y. L. M. I. A. of Granger will be held to-day in
the ward house at that place; Sisters M. I. Horne,
B. W. Smith and Nellie Colebrook will attend. 
	THE conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held on Friday, the 25th of June, in 
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms in this
city. It is desirable that there should be a good 
attendance of the officers and members from all
parts of the Stake. The Primary conference will
be held on the Saturday following, June 26th, in 
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. 
	THE Tucker Edmunds Bill has been reported
by the Judiciary Committee of the House of Repre-
sentatives of the U. S. Congress.  It is harsh
and cruel in its measures with respect to Utah and 
those who respect the liberty of conscience could
scarcely wish for its passage, whatever opposition
they may feel towards "Mormonism."  It is not
very likely to be reached this session, at any rate, 
and before another session of Congress there may 
be great changes in the affairs of the nation. 
	FROM Sister Betsy C. Glover and from Sister
Catherine Woodbury we have received charming
bouquets of choice and fragrant flowers to grace
the editorial table. Many thanks for these beauti-
ful remembrances, which call forth sentiments of 
love and esteem. Flowers are always a fitting
gift, though simple, the modest wild flower carries
as many memories with it as the most highly culti-
vated, exotic, perhaps even more. We also extend
our thanks to Sister Mary Gray for the delicious
cherries sent us, not only this year, but it seems to 
have become an annual token of her affectionate
generosity. It is sweet to be remembered by one's
friends, and trifles often tell more than an elabor-
ate display.


[Column 1]

SOME SOUND REASONING.
	
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER.—In reading the papers one is
struck with the unqualified and groundless ex-
pressions, so frequently falling from the lips, and
flowing from the pens of speakers and writers on
those questions which relate in any manner to the
Latter-day Saints.  I notice a fair sample of this
wholesale, unreasoning declamation against an
unpopular people, in a short letter, recently pub-
lished in the Deseret News, over the signature of
Helen M. Cougar, copied from the "Inter 
Ocean.
	She makes use of the following language:
"every right minded woman in the country wants
polygamy in Utah Stamped out, and the sooner
the better."
	As a woman I claim the right to dispute this
proposition as emphatically as it has heen made.
I am aware how very unpopular it is in the world
to take this position, but America is a great and
a free country and I presume I have the same
right of free speech, and to my opinion, and per-
haps as good authority to sustain my position as
she has.
	The strong prejudice in the mind of this lady,
as in the minds of those of her class, and the
public generally, perhaps, upon this subject, arises
from their education, traditions and the many
other circumstances surrounding them which in-
fluence their thoughts.
	But there are thousands of women "in the coun-
try," not excepting Utah, who have been brought
up under these same traditions and circumstances,
and educated in the same schools of learn-
ing and experience in the world, who through
deeper research and thought on the subject and
more thorough investigation have come to the op-
posite conclusion which warrants my emphatic de-
nial of the charge as above stated.
	The presumption is, and it is a fair presumption
from my standpoint, that the lady who made this
broad assertion has studied the politics of the
country more thoroughly, and has paid more at-
tention to the subject of woman's suffrage than
ever she has done to the subject of plural mar-
riage among the Latter-day Saints, and while I
readily concede to her the right to speak for her
political friends, I doubt her authority as to the
"wants," or desires of "right minded women,"
or upon the question involving the right minded-
ness of women, at all on this subject let her speak
for herself, and for those who hold the same views
that she does, if they do not object, but that this
class will include "every right minded woman in
the country," is a part of her assertion which I
deny.  I claim that intelligent ladies who have
passed through the narrow limits of the views en-
tertained by this lady upon matters of religion,
in all their details, into broader conceptions of
God's law, and who have perhaps studied poli-
tics, equally with herself, but through earnest in-
quiry and investigation, and prayerful study and
reflection have become convinced that plural
marriage, as designed, sanctioned and commanded
and blessed by Almighty God from time im-
memorial, as demonstrated by the Holy Scriptures;
and as practiced by the Latter-day Saints, is
neither criminal nor sinful, will come as near to
being "right minded women," as this "promi-
nent lady" does, or those of her class; and it is my
opinion that there are thousands of these "right
minded women in the country," who do not "want
polygamy in Utah stamped out" nor to hear it
interfered with in the least, either by such bigoted,
presumptuous, arrogant and tyranical men as Sena-
tor Edmunds, the Congress of the United States,
or by the supposed "right-minded women of the
country" who do not understand the Latter-day
Saints nor their religion, and are not authorized
to speak for them.
	Again this lady says:—"polygamy can be

[Column 2]

done away with on constitutional principles."
When the Constitution is silent upon the question
of polygamy," and does not refer to religion at all,
except that "no religious test shall ever be re-
quired as a qualification to any office or public
trust under the United States," and, in its first
amendment, that, "Congress shall make no law re-
specting an establishment of religion or prohibit-
ing the free exercise thereof," it would certainly
be interesting to know how plural marriage in 
Utah, an essential part of the religion of the Lat-
ter-day Saints, "can be done away with on Con-
stitutional principles?"  Yet she further says; "If
men in Congress are incapable of killing this
monster of polygamy, that they have nursed by
their shilly-shallying, lo, these many years, then
let the Loziers take their seats for a time and it
will be done without adding another wrong to the
great wrongs already inflicted." She has an idea
it would seem, that the "great wrongs already in-
flicted," are the failures, from time to time, of
Congress to settle the Mormon question and that
the methods of doing this, or killing the monster
of polygamy "to be adopted by the "Loziers,"
would be speedy, effectual and harmless!
	This can be regarded only as a meaningless
boast or hoax, unless she can show us that the
ruination of our homes, the destruction of peace-
ful and happy families, the unjust and cruel inter-
ference with the sacred rites of religion, by secu-
lar authorities, and the innumerable attendant,
terrible consequences, that must ensue, would not
be as "great" and as infamous wrongs if com-
mitted by the cold blooded, heartless Nero of the
Senate Mr. Edmunds, and a male Congress, who
have already demonstrated, notwithstanding all
their cunning ingenuity and sophistry to gloss over
the ugly fact, how utterly impossible it is to touch
the question of plural marriage in Utah, except by
the passage of cruel, proscriptive, retroactive,
or ex-post-facto and unconstitutional laws, in-
cluding stringent, "religious test" oaths which are
directly forbidden by the Constitution, expunging
the rights of citizens without process of law, also
the violation of sacred contracts, and the disrup-
tion of pure and peaceful communities, and the
plundering of helpless families, and ruining them
by fines imprisonment and costs, inflicted upon
their natural protectors, and attempting the utter
spoliation of an industrious, peaceful, moral, re-
ligious and intelligent people, a people law abid-
ing from the beginning, and still so, in spite of the
illiberal, partial, cruel and unjust laws enacted ex-
clusively against them, and mercilessly and wanton-
ly enforced; the attempted political capture, and
degradation and corruption of one of the most
prosperous, best governed, purest, happiest, and
and blest Territories of the United States in-
volving untold and unspeakable anguish and sor-
row and misery, needlessly—wantonly upon hon-
orable men, innocent women and helpless children. 
Would all these evils become less if committed by 
the "Loziers" temporarily filling the seats of con-
gressmen? Could the women suffragists accom-
plish, under the Constitution, or by constitutional
means, what they have no warrant for doing, nay,
what they are forbidden to do by the constitution,
any more innocently or harmlessly than perfidious
politicians are now trying to do?
	There is but one way for them to do any different-
ly and that would be to wisely withdraw from the
attempt, as they only can do constitutionally, and
leave the great "Mormon problem" to settle itself.
But in the judgement of this lady, polygamy is a
"monster" which must be grappled with and
"killed!"  Thus her inconsistency becomes appar-
ant.  While she opposes interference by con-
gress with the established rights of female suff-
rage in Utah, she soundly berates Congress for
"shilly-shallying, lo for these many years" with
the Religion of the Latter-day Saints, and the
sacred rights of their plural marriage rights
established for long years before there


was any law of Congress making plural marriage
a misdemeanor, and with which constitutionally
Congress had no right to interfere; and because
Congress had not violently and without just cause
or provocation abolished plural marriage which
she regards without reason as a great “monster”
which should be killed.” O consistency! thou
art a jewel!”
	I am, affectionately, your sister in the Gospel.
								J. L. S


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DESERET UNIVERSITY.
CHANCELOR O. F. WHITNEY.
The Hon. Board of Regents, the Faculty and
	Students of the University.

	Ladies and Gentlemen—:I confess that I ap-
pear before you in the role of a speech-maker
on this occasion with a great deal of re-
luctance. The task of addressing an audience
like this is one so new and strange to me that
I naturally shrink from the undertaking. I
feel something like a boat loosed from its
moorings and left to drift wherever the winds
and waves list to carry it.
	But while the experience of this occasion is
entirely new to me, the subject upon which I
suppose it is expected I should say something—
that of education—is one that is near and dear
to my heart. Not because I am a practical
educator, or school teacher. for I am not; nor
because of the office which your legislative
representatives have done me the honor to place
upon me. But because I have a deep and
abiding interest in the great cause of human
advancement, and desire to befriend any and
all agencies having that as their object.
	Before me and around me are some of the
educators of the present and the future. Some
whose hairs are silvered with the frosts of com[-]
ing age, who are growing gray in the service
to which they have devoted the best part of
their lives; others, younger in years and ex-
perience, but active and efficient workers in
the tutelary harness; to these it would become
me to say but little. I was a schoolboy under
Dr. Park, as were also several members of the
present Board of Regents. I prefer to address
the burden of my remarks to another class—
those who are pupils still,or teachers who have
only just passed their novitiate, and are stand-
ing on the threshold of their professional
careers.
	If I say that a great future is opening up
before you, I say it not with the tongue of
flattery, but with the solemn voice of friendship.
Whether you become great to correspond with
that future is another thing entirely, and de-
pends largely upon the uses to which you put
the time allotted you, and the talents with
which you are endowed. These may be many
or few, but they are a sacred trust, a steward-
ship, for which an account must some day be
rendered to the Almighty Giver. It is our
duty to ourselves and society to prepare for
the responsiblities which life imposes, and then
discharge them faithfully and fearlessly as
fast as they come before us. You who have
attended to the first part of this requirement—
that of reparation—have done well, thus far.
It remains to be seen how you will perform the
rest.
	As to what constitutes greatness, opinions
may differ. I shall content myself with cit-
ing the definition given by the greatest Teacher
the world has ever seen—Him who “spake as
never man spake,” before or since. Said He:
“Whosoever will be great among you, let him
be your minister, and whosoever will be chief
among you, let him be your servant.” This,
then, is the pathway to glory and success; to
labor for the welfare of others. Greater is he
who serves, than he who is served and this is

[Column 2]
peculiarly the teacher's mission and oppor-
tunity.
	I hope there is no one here—nor do I believe
there is, who imagines himself or herself per-
fectly educated, and that nothing remains to
be acquired after leaving school.  I remember
hearing a child asked by its teacher—the first
one it had ever had—where it had learned its
letters, as it happened to have mastered the
alphabet at home. "I never did learn ’em,”
the little one replied, "I always knowed ’em,”
it being the child’s supposition that nothing
could be learned out of school! I have found
that some older children are imbued with the
same idea. The mind of man can never
cease to learn. At school we only sharpen and
make keen the weapons we are to use in the
great warfare awaiting us.
	But if it were possible, any time, for us to
comprehend within the scope of our narrow in-
tellectuality all human learning, we need not
suppose that even then we should “know it
all.” We live in a progressive age. The
present eclipses in many things the past, but
it is destined itself to be over shadowed by the
future. As we proceed, “Alps on Alps” will
arise to greet us, and the summit of one at-
tainment will only prove the point look out to
heights still unsurmounted. Much of the so-
called science of to-day may be the recognized
folly of to-morrow, and precious truths now
unknown, despised. or covered with the dust
of neglect, will yet be eagerly sought for and
prized as becomes their worth. “Eye hath not
seen, ear hath not heard, nor hath it entered
into the heart of man to conceive”of the sublime
possibilities locked up within the treasure
house of times to come. The sun of education
has scarcely more than dawned, even upon the
wisest minds. The highest hill tops are but
tipped with the golden splendors of its rising.
What do we dwellers in the valley know? The
windows of our minds should be ever open to
admit the sunlight of knowledge. Never let
conceit or bigotry close the shutters and draw
the blinds.
	There is a brighter day dawning, also for
our University. For many days it has been
passing through the narrows, and at times the
clouds have frowned darkly overhead. But it
will yet emerge out upon the broad ocean of
prosperity, where a clear sky and smooth sail-
ing await it. I feel that I but voice the senti-
ments of all who are here, and thousands more,
when I wish the officers, teachers and students
all, continued success, and long life to the
University of Deseret.

	 GOVERNOR WEST'S ADDRESS.

	Mr. President, Gentlemen of the Board of
Regents and Ladies and Gentlemen:

	I came here this morning to witness these
interesting exercises, not expecting to take any
part whatever in them. I am satisfied, with
you, that I have found much pleasure here and
I think also much profit. Of course in this
institution which is beginning its career of
glory, I feel some pride to know that I am
present on the occasion when it sends forth its
first accredited graduates. I think it is a
privilege which I will remember in long years
to come along with these young gentlemen who
have interested us with their beautiful well
considered addresses—that I with them will
look back to this day as one of honor and one
that I esteem highly. Now I would not have
said a word here except for the very flattering
call that this audience has made, and I hope
you will excuse the stammering manner in
which I speak. I hope that this insitution
will remain long and prosperous to educate the
youth of this land, and send them forth good
citizens, and noble men and women; and point
out lives for them that will bring blessings
 and honor, blessings also to those with whom
they associate, in all the private and public

[Column 3]
walks of life. God bless all efforts for educa-
tion and for improvement and for the rising of
poor humanity to that level that will entitle
them to citizenship in that other and better
world.


A GENTILE LETTER.

		CHICAGO, January 25th 1886.

DEAR AUNT MERCY:

	I need not say that I am always pleased to 
get a letter from you and Mary Jane. At 
first I was thinking of keeping all Mary Jane's
letters in one batch and yours in another, but
on looking it over I find your letters so de-
lightfully mixed that it would be like parting
the Siamese Twins to attempt to separate them,
so I keep them together. I have been just
counting the pages, and I find there are 52
solid pages of reading matter, and as I always
keep them about me I suppose they create a
sphere which instinctively makes me kick at
anything which I may happen to read or hear
against your people. You must not think be-
cause I am silent about it that I fail to read
all the special passages to which you and
cousin direct my attention, whether in the
Book of Mormon or in the Doctrine and
Covenants, but the fact is that my mind is in
just that particular mental state that I cannot
pronounce any definite opinion on them. I 
regret to say that so far failure has attended
my efforts in the direction of putting my
thoughts in some readable form, setting forth
my expressions in connection with my recent
visit to your City, and so I suppose I mu[-]t
give it up as a bad job. As a matter of fac[-]
however, my visit among you has impress[--]
me very favorably as compared with all my
previous notions about your people and be-
lief, and apart from any other consideration.
I am glad that I have had the opportunity of 
remaining for a while in Salt Lake City, as
I have been enabled to use my own eyes and
ears to assist me in forming a judgment as to
what Mormonism really is, and what
kind of people the Mormons are. The
Christian world have made up their minds that
you are all a bad lot, and so that's the end of
it.  Having prejudged your case so emphatic-
ally, it is no wonder that the press studiously 
conceal anything that may happen to be re-
ported in your favor, and no wonder that they
vie with each other in bringing into promi-
nence anything and everything that can possi-
bly be construed as derogatory to your religion,
and thereby pander to the popular prejudice.
     The fact is that there is a great deal about the
Mormon faith that is peculiar, and opposed to
our modern notions of civilization, and which
without sufficient explanation is very apt to
mislead people generally into very wrong con-
clusions.  For instance, the theocratic element 
in your religion lays you open to the charge 
of disloyalty, and I suppose you will admit
that you would all gladly hail the re-establish-
ment of the theocracy  of the olden time
when God was wont to rule his people both in 
temporal as well as in spiritual matters, and
for the matter of that I venture to say that
every sincere Christian, whether Mormon or 
Gentile would rejoice at the advent of Him
of whom it is said that thrones and principali-
ties and dominions are to be made subject to
Him I would be very sorry to say or think
that there was necessarily any disloyalty in in-
dulging in these glorious anticipations. but the
world, blind to spiritual things, is very apt to
associate the expression of such sentiments
with disloyalty,—so it was over 1800 years ago.
and human nature is pretty much the same
now as it was then.  Then again the doctrine
of Plural Marriage is one at which people hold
up their hands in holy horror.  My instincts.


[Column 1]are all in favor of single marriage, but my
short visit to Salt Lake has taught me at least
this one lesson that Mormon polygamy is a
totally different thing from that which is prac-
tised in Eastern countries, with which it is
often confounded, subject as it is to such re-
strictions as must prevent a really immoral
man from entering into it with the sanction of
your Church. There can be no question with
those who sincerely believe the word of God
that it was once [-]ractised with the Divine ap-
proval, but then it is contended that slavery
was likewise a permitted institution, and that 
it is in the order of God's providence that 
both these should be done away with in the
onward progress of society, that in their place
and time they both served a useful purpose,
but that neither of them was intended to be
permanent; and that now society has outgrown
all such conditions. I am not learned enough
to enter into any argument upon this subject,
but I am free to admit that while I was in
your city, I certainly failed to see any of the
terrible effects which the practice of polygamy
is popularly supposed to produce. I
must say that the families which I visited ap-
peared to be very comfortable and happy, and
as far as I could see the greatest harmony
prevailed among them contrary, of course, to
what I was led to expect, as I had been told
that just as inevitably as that 2 and 2 make 4
so polygamy introduces in the family relation-
ship, the element of discord, but judging from
what I saw and heard there was no indication
that this was the case with your people.
	I have had the pleasure of an introduction to
a,few of the "victims" of this terrible evil, but
instead of the ladies observing the prudent
silence which I naturally looked for with re-
gard to this matter, I was surprised to find
that they, one and all expressed themselves
quite unreservedly about it, and in terms of
unqualified approval. The average Gentile,
you know believes that "multiplication is
vexation", but evidently the Mormon is doing
his best to multiply and replenish the waste
places of the earth, and he believes in having
his [-]quiver full of them," and that, too, with
the full concurrence of the Leahs and the
Rachels. It was certainly very novel to me to
hear them style each other "brothers" and
"sisters"; this implies a very close relationship,
and the natural inference is that you feel
something of the same filial affection towards
one another which members of the same family
are supposed to have, and whatever objections
may be urged against your religion this feature
of it is certainly worthy of all praise. Again
I notice that you have the greatest confidence
in the rulers of your Church, believing as you
do that they are guided in the administration
of your affairs by Him who cannot err. Now
I am sure if Christians generally could believe
as you do in this matter they would not only
cease their opposition but gladly enlist them[-]
selves in your ranks, but that is just where
they decidedly differ from you; and in fact do
not hesitate to brand you as a priest ridden
and all that sort of thing. Whatever may be
the truth in regard to this, however, it is clear
to me from the manner in which your rulers
have looked after your temporal interests, that
they are men of remarkable sagacity. In the
first place they could hardly have selected a
more beautiful spot than Salt Lake and its en-
virons, although in the light of recent events
they might have chosen a safer one, but I re-
fer more particularly to the arrangements which
are made to meet the requirements of the emi-
grant, be he poor or otherwise, who perhaps
from a distant land and speaking a different
language comes for the first time to your little
Zion, as apart from the substantial assistance
he may derive from your admirable tithing 
regulations,he receives what to him is of inesti-
mable value the very best advice from men

[Column 2]
competent to give it, as to where and how he
may advantageously locate himself and family,
and is in no danger as men similarly circum-
stanced in the East often are of being defraud-
ed by unprincipled agents. It is further credit-
able to you that you have no paupers among
you, owing, as I understand, to your system of
house to house visitation,whereby the temporal
as well as the spiritual needs of your people
are carefully enquired into and promptly at-
tended to. The fact that industry and economy
are regarded by you as a part of your religion
may also to some extent account for the ab-
sence of this pauper element; of course under
any circumstances it is not to be looked for to
any great extent in a small community like
yours, as compared with more largely popu-
lated cities, but the methods which you adopt
appear to me to be singularly well adapted for
nipping anything of the kind in the bud, and
assuming that you are destined to grow into
a great people, you have only to persist in your
present course, and I do not see how you can
ever be cursed with this evil. It is true that
if you continue to set up what you conceive to
be God's will in opposition to established law
there will be many individual cases of suffer-
ing, but in this matter it appears you are all
pledged to contribute help where help is really
needed. So that after all you are not entirely 
without your good qualities despite the whole-
sale denuncication which is meted out to you
by your enemies,but the fact still remains that
you are Mormons, and that settles the matter
in the eyes of the civilized world. I am sorry
for you, but I suppose it cannot be helped. It
was confidently hoped that Judge Zane would
bring you to your senses, but so far I do not
think he can congratulate himself upon his
success; he was doubtless under the impression
that his pitiless measures would be met with
some sort of compromise on your part, and did
not take into his calculations that what he
wished you to concede was a vital part of
your reliigion.
	And now, dear Aunt, I am sure you will be
tired of this long winded letter, but as I did
not reply to your letter sooner I thought I
would make up for my remissness by sending
you a long epistle.	*	*	*	*	*
			Your affectionate nephew.
						WM. THOMPSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	WEST SIDE CACHE VALLEY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	DEAR SISTER:—There was a district confer-
ence of the Primaries of Clarkston, Newton
and Trenton held at this place May 22nd, 1886.
We were favored with the presence and good
counsel of Sisters Molen and Burton of the
Presidency of the Primaries, also Sister
Adeline Barber, President of the Relief Society
of this Stake, and Sister Hopukina, from the
Sandwich Islands. Meeting opened with sing-
ing, “Beautiful Zion.” Prayer by John
Jardine. Singing, “We want to see the Tem-
ple.” Coun. Sarah Shumway asked the ques-
tions from the Bible question book, which
were answered in a very creditable manner.
Recitation, Sarah Stewart, of the Clarkston
Primary; Song, Ann Funk, of the Newton
Primary, “Take me back to Home and Mother.”
Sister Hopukina spoke a short time in her na-
tive language. Adam Godfrey of Clarkston
recited verses from the Testament; Mary Bar-
ker of Newton recited verses from the Testa-
ment; Song, Martha Rigby and Minnie Funk,
of Newton; Dialogue, Olive Beck and Minnie
Funk, of Newton. Prest. Elizabeth Griffin
reported the Primary of Newton to be in good 
working condition. Song,  Eliza Barson,
Sylvai Thompson and Agness Shumway, of


Clarkston. Prest. Caroline G. Thompson re-
ported the Primary of Clarkston to be doing
well.  Sadie Shumway spoke a piece—“Not fit
to be kissed;” Recitation, Sarah Jensen and
Jeanie Barker, of Newton. Sister Maud Bur-
ton spoke a short time on the Word of Wisdom.
Recitation, Sarah Ann Jensen, of Clarkston,
“Our Baby.” Bishop John Jardine spoke a 
few minntes. Sister Barber spoke on Temple
duties. Peter Jensen of Newton spoke a piece,
“The Crow;” Agnes Shumway of Clarkston
recited “Ben Fisher;” Sister Hopukina sang a
song;Sister Barker of Newton and Prest. Mary
Griffin of Clarkston each made remarks. Jane
Molen then addressed us; talked on a great
many interesting topics, and all felt to rejoice.
Bishop John Jardine moved that we give the
sisters a vote of thanks for their visit to us.
Prest. Caroline G. Thompson also thanked the
sisters for their visit, and thus passed one of the
best days ever spent on the west side of Cache
Valley. Singing, “Lord dismiss us." Bene-
diction by Coun. K. A. Jensen.
		  Your sister in the Gospel,
				   SUSAN J. JENSEN, Sec.


WOMEN HOME MISSIONARIES.

	Mrs. Mary Freeze, President of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Salt Lake Stake, and Mrs. E. L.
Crowther, of Logan, left the latter place to
visit the Oneida Stake, with Mrs. Fox, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of that Stake, and
her two Counselors, in behalf of the Relief 
Society. District Conferences were appointed
at Malad, Oxford, Gentile Valley,Mink Creek
and Franklin, at all of which places the
Young Ladies' and Primaries were also met
with. Ten or twelve meetings were held dur-
ing the ten days trip, all of which were
sustained by the priesthood and brethren,
old and young. They drove about one hun-
dred and fifty miles, and some of the roads in
that new country are not the best in the
world. The courtesy of the brethren, who
drove, the generous hospitality of the sisters,
and the gracious welcome and kindly greet-
ings of all will never be forgotton. The
memory of the exercises of the young will
ever be a pleasing one to all who listened; the
clear bird like voices of the boys, girls and
young ladies seemed inspirational, and the
gentle grace with which the calls were re-
sponded to, especially considering they had
not been notified, gives the result of training
of Sabbath schools, Primaries and other or-
ganizations, and places them above praise.
	The teaching of the visiting sisters was re-
ceived with attention and gratitude; but there
is a dark side to the picture; viz., the warfare
made upon us by our enemies. Three of our
brethren left Mink Creek on the same morn-
ing we did, to go to Blackfoot to receive sen-
tence for keeping the laws of God; others
went from Franklin, and though their hearts
must have been torn and bleeding, they
parted with wives and little ones with a forti-
tude born of minds in which God reigns.
	Some of the traveling sisters were also
passing through the fire, and were therefore
well prepared to give sympathy and kind
words of counsel and consolation. Still an-
other sad case was witnessed by them of a girl-
wife, whose condition calls forth the sorrowing
sympathy of all who look upon her sweet sad
face. Through the gross usage she received at
Blackfoot, and the imprisonment of her hus-
band her reason has been entirely dethroned.
He, after six months absence, returned to find
her in this pitiable condition. When the
Lord comes out of his hiding  place to take 
vengeance on the wicked,who would wish to be a 
U. S. Judge?
	On Sunday, the 23rd, Mrs. Presendia Kim[-]
ball, Mrs. Zina Young and Mrs. Zina Y


Williams visited Franklin and all attended
meetings together.
		ELIZABETH L. CROWTHER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN'S VOICE.
	
	Woman's voice should be heard in defense
of her rights, those of her family, and of all
she holds dear. A true patriotic spirit and
feeling should actuate her to do good in any
and every sphere, though she may be derided
 under the appellation of "female rooster."
There are some of the opposite gender who
would intimidate us and try to make us be-
lieve we do not know anything but to wash,
scrub, make or mend for the whole household.
Do not be daunted, my sisters, in raising your
voices in the cause of truth and justice; we 
have immortal souls, and have a right to think
and act according to our honest convictions
and aspirations. 'Tis woman who moulds and
forms the minds of both men and women, and
that first teaches them to lisp their infant
prayers; who,by her watchful eye, attentive ear
and wordsof advice and caution,leads and guides
for good the rising generation, when father is
away, or too busy to attend, as many give evi-
dence, to such little affairs, as they would
term it, that are woman's duty. A mother has
this weighty, important duty,  besides tending
to outside affairs, when the father is absent, or
should he, through sickness, be incapable of
attending to his business. Mother of sheer
necessity must take hold, not only in her own
affairs, as some are pleased to term it, but she
must also give her mind and strength in the
direction of where bread and butter comes
from, and if a widow, left with several small
children, and no provision made by her hus-
band, in case of such an event, is left to her
own resources to battle with the stern realities
of life. Woman, what would be your lot then
if you knew nothing beyond home duties: if
your thoughts, and the reason with which God
has endowed you, had not many times reverted
in other directions.
	Then exercise your God-given intelligence,
and rank side by side with your partner, and 
help him to see and realize that women have
rights and privileges;exert your energies and in-
fluence in and outside the home circle;maintain
your sense of justice and exercise it; go to the
polls and vote for municipal and other officers,
who are to conduct affairs to which you and 
your children are to be subject; have a voice
in whatever concerns your relative welfare and
the welfare of the community in which you
live.
	Can a settlement or nation be built up with-
out the aid of woman? Verily, no; the man
is not without the woman in the Lord, and 
vice versa.
	Away with such narrow-mindedness that
says woman's voice must not be heard except
at home or trying to lead her children. One
of our leading men of to-day taught in my
hearing, if any one needs language to talk 'tis
woman, to teach, guide and counsel her off-
spring, that by her tongue, good actions and
wise example a noble race of men and women
may spring up, that will learn to govern king-
doms.
     Then, woman, strive to gain an intelligent,
patriotic spirit, that you may diffuse the same
through your household, that those going out
therefrom may not be misinformed, or ignorant,
and know nothing but to eat, drink and sleep.
If there are men who do not know your worth
and position before your Maker, show them
that you sense it, and that it is not out of
a woman's line to comprehend the stateof affairs
by which she is governed. Sisters, let us not
lie dormant and see our brethren and sisters
trampled upon, as it were, and insulted by
self-asserted powers and unjust laws. I rejoice
in the spirit and influence of such women as

[Column 2]
assembled at the theatre in Mass Meeting to
pass resolutions and protest against such un-
lawfulness. Jeers aud uncouth remarks should
not deter us from our duty, when we know, by
our God given agency we are right; shall we
stand by as mere blocks, as though we had no
sense or reason in our natures? No, it does
not meet the end sought, for this is a perverse
generation; you will be happy in the thought
and consciousness of having done your part to-
ward ameliorating the wrongs against this peo-
ple. Can any one possessing the Spirit of 
God stand meekly by and their hearts not be
stirred by such indignities? I say no, no! we
may be learning to govern ourselves, and if
our enemies smite us upon one cheek, turn to
them the other also; but may our hearts ever 
beat in unison with the Spirit of God to dictate
us in the affairs of life, is my prayer.
						   M. A. TILL.
Provo.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mary Anderson is to have her portrait
painted in character, as "Salammbo," by Alma
Tadema.

	Miss Mary F. Eastman will speak on the
Indian Qustion at the coming meeting of the
Progressive Friends, at Longwood, Penn.

	The Queen Regent of Spain will maintain
and educate at her private expense the chil-
dren of those who perished in the recent tor-
nado at Madrid.

	One of the newly-appointed directors of the
People's Bank in Stockholm is a women.

	The publishers of Miss Cleveland's book say
that it has had a larger sale than was se-
cured for Queen Victoria's book in England.

	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar sailed Saturday May
29, for Ireland to study the Irish question
among the people. She expects to return
about September 2.

	The sixteenth aniversary of Dicken's de-
cease was celebrated at Boffin's Bower (1031
Washington Street,) Boston, June 9.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending May 25, 1886, as follows:
	Anna Dormitzer, New York, N. Y., Paint
and Brush Bucket.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Alpine, Utah, Elvira Healy, beloved wife of
Hyrum Healy, and daughter of John and Elvira Carson,
born February 28th, 1852; died May 24th, 1886. De-
ceased was an exemplary wife and mother, devoted to her
religion and family. She will be missed by many living
friends. Deceased leaves a husband and four beautiful
little children to mourn her loss.

									MYRA.


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on a short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box [---] SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.

[Vertical Writing on the Left Side]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!

[Sketch of a Sewing Machine]

[Vertical Writing on the Right Side]
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Machine. It has been 
In the Market 23 Years.

Young Brothers,
38 Main Street,	Old Constitution Building,
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic."

ESTABLSIHED OCTOBER, 1863.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies. 

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

