VOL. 15.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1887.	No. 20.


[For the Exponent.]
UNDER THE APPLE TREES.

My love, this orchard shade is full
Of breathing thoughts of thee;
'Neath every overreaching bough
Thy face I almost see.
'Twas here we met and sweetly talked,
'Twas here we came and gladly walked,
In the shade of these apple trees.

Thy footstep seemeth still to fall
Upon my listening ear;
That same dear voice my name to call,
I almost, almost hear.
O throbbing heart, one moment still;
Cease, breeze, my eager ears to fill
By rustling these apple trees.

Thy welcome presence liveth near,
Just only out of reach;
I catch, inaudible, but clear,
The spirit of thy speech;
I stand beside thee once again,
Apart from sorrow, fear or pain,
As I lean on this apple tree.

The whispering leaves to me repeat
The precious words you said;
The hopes we cherished, pure and sweet,
Their olden radiance shed;
And happy memories wake and smile,
As here I rest a little while
In the arms of this apple tree.

I know the angels hovered near
This Eden bower of rest,
And smiled, and lowly bent to hear
The holy thoughts expressed,
And treasured them, my king, my love,
To place on record bright above,
As we talked ’neath these apple trees.

I know, whatever may betide
In this world dim and low,
Our souls shall yet be satisfied
With love like a river’s flow;
And so good night, my love, till when
Elsewhere or here we meet again.
Good night, ye dear apple trees.

	LUELLE


MRS. HEMANS AND MRS. BROWNING.

Dear friends, for so I hold ye here, in high and holy
	thought,
How do I love to soar afar to heav'n on your bright
	wings!
Mine own fall dull and heavily, but your sweet songs have
	brought
Unto a faltering, struggling heart a glimpse of lovelier
	things.
How dare I say I love ye, when I fear from your high
	places
Ye might smile, as half in scorn, at a mortal's vanity.
Still I love ye, love ye truly, thanking heaven for your
	graces,
Sent to gladden earth with flowers, breathing heaven's
	own purity.
Flow'rs immortal have ye scattered, planted deep in fertile
	soil;
Error deep have ye combated, truth and love reward your
	toil;
Truth and Love have been your watchword, wreathed in
	flow'rs of chastest dyes;
In your paths there springs a gladness; round your names a
	glory lies.


Woman's joys—how well ye tell them; woman’s griefs, how 
	well ye know!
Woman’s wrongs, how ye repel them, by the light of
	truth ye throw.
Childhood's sweetness—how beneath your artist pens its
	bright hues shine;
Human life and human loving—how ye make it all divine!

How ye soar on wings of glory, how ye play on harps of
	gold!
How entrancing is your story, how divinely is it told!
Joy it were to sit a listener, lowly, meekly at your feet,
But for one short hour, in breathing from your lips the 
music sweet.

Dear Felicia, child of sorrow, child of love and purity!
How in  days of girlish dreaming was my soul enwrapped
	in thee.
Type of all things sweet and tender, bright and pure thy
	high verse seemed.
Still meeting thee in heaven with the glad my spirit
	dreamed.

Yet how could I?  I who never can attain to thine high
	place,
How could I so poor, unworthy, lacking all thy glorious
	grace,
Think to meet thee and to win thee for a friend by might
	of love,
In a sphere where I shall only find how far thou art above?

Still, let me go on dreaming, though the dream may be
	illusive,
That in heaven I shall meet thee and shall clasp thine
	hand in mine,
And the love-light in mine eyes shall beam so bright that
	no delusive
Words could tell thee aught but that on earth my love
	was truly thine.

Then, dear friend, I thall be satisfied, for well I know that
	heaven 
Is more merciful and kind, more full of love than earth
	can be;
And though I never may be great, the light which God
	hath given
May light my path enough to find the heav’n that shelters
	thee.
	RUBY LAMONT.
Glenwood, Utah, March 6, 1887.


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	How these words awaken a train of thoughts,
and stir the emotions of the soul. "Fifty years
ago" the wedding bells rang, and the solemn
words, "until death doth part," were pro-
nounced. How bright the future seemed to
those young hearts! and yet were they only
joined for this life? For a time, perhaps, they
thought so; but when the glorious principles
of truth were unfolded to their honest hearts,
a second time they stood before the altar. O,
how beautiful the words sounded! "for time
and all eternity."
	But I wished to tell you of a pleasant, social
party we had in celebrating a golden wedding
in our little town of Glenwood, the first, I be-
lieve, that ever occurred here.
	On the 26th of February, 1887, the family
and friends of Brother and Sister Powell, more
familiarly  known as Grandpa and Grandma
Powell. We were invited to supper at 6 p.m.,
at the residence of Brother E. Payne's. As
we entered the room, what a beautiful sight
met our eyes, not only were the tables groaning
with delicacies, but a towering wedding cake
was placed in the centre of the table, the top
decorated with wax orange blossoms, and a
motto, "God bless the aged pair," encircled


around them. Soon the bride and groom
arrived, somewhat surprised. After hearty
congratulations, we were seated, the stalwart,
healthy sons and daughters placed near and
around them. How their hearts must have re-
joiced to think they all were faithful to the
everlasting Gospel. The whispered, "Father,
mother," by the eldest daughter, "we have
made you a few presents,” mentioning them
one by one, “and here is a small wedding cake
sent you by a young sister." The grateful ac-
knowledgments, and "God bless you all!"
caused a tear of love to fill each eye.
	After supper it was announced that we
should adjourn to the large Co-op Hall, where
all the adults, young men and maidens of the
town were gathered to do honor to the occasion.
Many hand-shakings and good wishes were
offered the bride and groom. Dancing was in-
dulged in until ten o'clock, when the large
wedding cake was brought in, placed upon a
stand in the centre of the hall, and the aged
pair seated beside it.
	After remarks by Bro. A. Heppler, who
spoke of their many good works and faithful-
ness, which had endeared them to all present,
a company of young ladies sang, "Will you
love me when I'm old?" The cake was then
distributed to about one hundred and sixty-five
persons. While passing it, "Dear heart, we're 
growing old," was sung, and as we watched the
tears glisten in the eyes of the aged pair, we
felt that their thoughts were of long, long ago.
Dancing was again resumed, and the young
and old danced together. Every face bespoke
joy and happiness; care and the Edmunds-
Tucker Bill were forgotten, for God's people
know in whom they trust. At 12 p.m. we dis-
persed, feeling that it was a time long to be
remembered.
				LOUISANNA HEPPLER.


WORKING WOMEN.

	There are in the United States 2,647,157
women who earn their own living.
	Of this number 2,242,252 are classed in the
following occupations: laborers, mainly agricul-
tural, mill operatives, seamstresses, domestic
servants, and teachers--with the exception of
the last the most menial and worst paid of em-
ployments. In any of these industries it would 
be a low estimate to say that the supply of 
workwomen is ten times greater than the de-
mand. This statement will be amply corrob-
orated by the experience of any establishment
which employs women in large numbers, or by
the personal experience of any one who seeks
the services of a workwoman in any of these
capacities.
	Thus we find a social condition, which, while
obliging nearly 3,000,000 women to depend  up-
on their own exertions for a livelihood, offers
them a field of labor so circumscribed as to
afford employment for not more than one-
tenth of the number. Enormous overcrowd-
ing, fierce competition, and a consequent un-
due pressure upon wages must necessarily fol-
low such a state of things.
	The five industries mentioned contain the 
following number of women: laborers, 600,080;
mill operatives, 152,163; domestic servants,
938,910; seamstresses, 334,026; teachers, 154,-
375	Those classed as laborers are chiefly
found in the Southern States, and include, of
course, a large number of negro women, al-
though the sight of white women working in


[Column 1]
﻿the fields is a familiar one to the traveler, es-
pecially in the States of Tennessee and Ken-
tucky.  Thousands of women are also employed
as porters and laborers in stores and ware-
houses in the large cities of the North.
	The number of women given as mill opera-
tives, includes only those engaged in textile
manufactures, but the number engaged in
other manufactories would greatly swell these
figures.  Twenty years ago, there were not 300
women employed in cigar manufacture; to-day
there are 19,884 in the tobacco industries, and
the number is rapidly increasing.  The trade
of cigar-making is injurious to men, but fear-
ful in its effects upon the health of women and
children.
	Twenty-one thousand and seven women are
employed as boot and shoe makers.  In this 
industry they do the binding, sewing-on of but-
tons, etc., which is paid by the piece and very
poorly.  In all these manufacturing pursuits
women are restricted to the meaner sort of work,
and rarely rise to positions of trust, skill, or 
management.  The chief requirement of their
work is a certain manual dexterity, which is as
easily acquired by a child as a women, conse-
quently the wages and qualifications of the
woman are kept at the level of those of a child.
Under this system, factory women must re-
main in the lowest grade of employment; the
experience and trustworthiness of maturer years
are of no use in bettering their condition. It
is, therefore, not strange that we find so many
factory women wanting in that intelligence,
energy, and spirit which accompany a sense of
responsibility and trust.
	Nothing is more effectual in producing ab-
jectness of character and deadening the moral
and intellectual nature  than  a mean, servile 
condition which holds out no hope of change
or improvement, and in which the compensa-
tion is insufficient to afford the means of a com-
fortable living.
	We may well argue a prevailing state of
public ignorance regarding the evils of work-
ing women's condition, when one of the daily 
papers of this city uses, as an argument in fa-
vor of their present position in industry, the fact
that 45 per cent. of the employes in numerous
manufacturing enterprises are women.  The
beasts of burden, or the steam which furnishes
the motive power, are as much a factor in the
exercise of any intelligent, thinking purpose
as the women employed in these industries.
And although the number of women in these
pursuits should be doubled, filling the places
in them they now do, the evil would only be
increased and intensified.
	Trade unions have become a recognized
power in determining, in great measure, the
hours and wages of workingmen.  By means
of thorough organization they now form a
large and powerful class, whose claims are met
with respectful consideration by employers.
But this protest of labor against oppression of
all sorts is practically unavailable to women.
As an eminent English writer says: “The strikes
of workingmen are feared; those of working-
women laughed at.” This fact is recognized
by the employer, who well knows that he can
buy his labor cheaper from unorganized than
from organized labor.
	Carroll D. Wright, U. S. Com. of labor,
makes the following strong statement on the
condition of women in the cotton mills: “What
are these women but the very weakest and most 
dependent of all the people? They have no dis-
position to agitate.  All that is possible to
them is to toil, scrimp, and bear.  Now for
men, the strong, those who bear rule, the
sovereigns of the land, the hours of labor are
but ten all over the country in about every em-
ployment where they preponderate.  But
where the women and children preponderate
the hours of labor, as a rule, are eleven or more.
And the question is, why is it, in this land,
which aims at equality and justice, that the

[Column 2]
weakest, the most helpless and dependent, are
loaded with the more hours, while the strong,
the able-to-bear, and the controlling ones have
the less hours to work?”
	Many noble societies, even in this city, have
been founded for the amelioration of the con-
dition of factory operatives, but these do not
reach the cause of the evil   It is justice, not
charity, these women want from society.  The
even-handed goddess is the only reformer that
can reach the root of these and many other
social wrongs.  The woman who affects the
promotion of one capable factory woman to a
position of trust and management, has done
more to elevate and give encouragement to the
whole class than would she, who should organ-
ize a score of dilettante charities for their
benefit.
	The trades dependent upon the needle form
a history of human misery unequaled by the
industrial condition of any working class the
world has ever seen.  Is not Hood’s song of the
shirt so pitiful in that it is so true?  Here, too,
women suffer from the same want of organiza-
tion, the same eager competition born of over-
crowding, the same low wages that mark the
other leading occupations.  It is true that the
best of skilled labor commands good wages and
the fashionable dressmakers often acquire a
competency, but these are but a handful com-
pared to the vast army of needle-women who
work for a mere pittance.   The influences
which tend to depress woman’s industrial
condition bear the most fearful significance in
the lower grades of its workers,—the sewing
woman who makes a heavy pair of working
pantaloons for seven cents, and by working con-
tinuously at the machine can make ten pairs
in a day of from 12 to 15 hours.  Provided
no time is lost, their average weekly wages are
$3.80, but to reach even this sum they are
obliged to work seven full days, only occa-
sionally taking Sunday afternoon for a holiday.
The condition of the shirt makers is still worse;
they receive but 6 to 8 cents apiece, and can
earn only from 30 to 50 cents a day.  Vests
are made for 3 to 6 cents apiece.  Miserable
attics and cellars form the only homes of
these women, and their tenure even of these is
precarious, depending upon the uncertain for-
tunes of an employment in which, owing to
the enormous overcrowding, the most frivolous
reason serves as a pretext for a dismissal.  Such
a woman’s food is insufficient and unwholesome,
her clothing of the meanest description, and
if she have a best dress for Sundays or holi-
days it is often in the pawn shop to meet the
exorbitant rent she is obliged to pay for even
her wretched tenement.  A cloak maker, who,
with a friend occupies two rooms on the top
floor of a large tenement house on the East
Side, states that they never have a warm meal
or meat except for their Sunday dinner.  The
remainder of the week they subsist on bread
and tea or milk.  She also added that they
were better off than many other sewing women.
And yet it is work demanding experience, skill,
and taste in its higher departments and require-
ing neatness, deftness of hand, and care in all.
Its products are among those most in demand;
the garments of the women and children of
the wealthy classes are marvels of beauty and
workmanship, while the changing dictates of
fashion require the constant services of the
sewing women.  The question naturally arises,
Why then are the wages of seamstresses so
shamefully low and the struggle for existence
so tragic for them?  It must be obvious to the
most superficial observer that, even with the
present excess of supply over demand in this
branch of work, thorough organization could
effect much in raising the wages of needle-
women.  But here the greed of monopoly is
limited by no restrictions or resistance.  The
poor sewing woman, isolated in the midst of a
great city, falls an easy prey to this gigantic
evil of modern society.  The multiplication of

[Column 3]
stores of ready-made clothing means an in-
crease of the system which allows the manu-
facturer to grind down the wages of “slop work”
to the pittance which merely enables the sewing
woman to exist,—to live in any sense that im-
plies a rational existence she does not.  To
these women even the lowest wages of the
workman would mean riches and abundance.
And yet it is the man who complains the most
loudly and effectually. Michelet says that the
workman needs so many more things than the
workwoman, that one could say of them
what is said of the English and Irish labor-
ers, “The Irishman when he is hungry asks
only for potatoes; but the hungry Englishman
demands meat,  sugar,  tea,  and above all
beer.”
	The position of domestic servant possesses
many advantages over the condition of a fac-
tory or sewing woman both by the increased
comfort and cleanliness of its surroundings and
its better compensation.  But in no other em-
ployment do we hear more bitter complaints of
inefficiency.  This is almost wholly due to the fact
that, in the city, domestic servants are mostly
drawn from the tenement-house districts or the
newly landed immigrants from Castle Garden,
who, without previous training, are expected
to perform skillfully the complicated duties of
a modern household.  With the best inten-
tioned, proficiency is only gained by many
failures and long experience, while the more
thriftless  and  careless   go  to  swell   the
ranks of inefficient servants who, being always
in search of a place, serve to keep wages at the
lowest rates.  But if girls were trained for do-
mestic servants as boys are trained to become
carpenters and masons, the work would
speedily command the consideration and wages
that other skilled labor does in the market.
	Upon women possessing wealth, leisure, and
influence, must the evils of the present state
of domestic service chiefly rest, since they have
it in their power, not only to provide them-
selves with skilled servants by organizing and
encouraging schools of cookery and other
branches of domestic economy, but of becom-
ing benefactors to thousands of their own sex
by raising domestic service to the rank of a
skilled employment.	
	And yet to enter domestic service is one of
the most common remedies proposed for bet-
tering the condition of working women.  Do
the advocates of domestic service ever stop to
consider that it is one of the employments
open to women which is already crowded to its
utmost capacity, and that to precipitate any
more untrained women into a field of labor
which does not afford any adequate means of
training for those already there would be a
most disastrous remedy for the evils which now
prevail?  Nearly a million women are filling
the position of domestic servants, and yet the
intelligence offices are crowded and every ad-
vertisment brings scores of applicants.  It is
better servants that are needed, not greater
numbers.   Another  evil  in  the  working
woman’s condition arises from the fact that
however hard she may work she cannot, at
the present rate of wages in the occupations
fully open to her, hope to save money.  It is
with the greatest difficulty she can provide for
the immediate wants of the present; thus all
openings which require the smallest amount of
capital are closed to her.  A man, starting at
the lowest round of the industrial ladder, can,
by habits of steady industry, thrift, and econo-
my, rise to the highest position in his trade or
profession, can look forward to the pleasures
of a comfortable home, of educating his chil-
dren, and enjoying a competency in his old
age.  But for the working woman there exists
no such plans or hopes.  The hopelessness of
her condition is one of its saddest features.—
North American Reviiw.
					      IDA M. VAN ETTEN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿LINES

SPOKEN IN THE GIFT OF TONGUES, BY SISTER CLARA
H. JAMES, AT THE Y. L. M. I. A. CONFERENCE,
SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 10TH, 1886.

	Trembling and faint, in voice and hand,
		Poor mortals we, so weak and frail!
	Yet by our Father's grace we stand—
		All power is His, we will not fail.

	We will not fail, if by His word
		We live and walk the narrow way,
	And heed the teachings we have heard
		Of truth and wisdom here to-day.

	No selfish aim, or worldly pride
		Must claim our thoughts or win our hearts;
	The lowly Jesus is our guide,
		What peace and trust His love imparts.

	Though hard and heavy oft the road,
		Yet patiently we must endure;
	Great are the promises bestowed,
		And God is Truth, His word is sure.

	That law 'gainst which the nations fight—
		Polygamy, so named of men—
	Will live, for it is true and right!
		Though trampled, crushed, 'twill rise again.

	The word of wisdom was revealed
		For a grand purpose, and to be
	To us a strength, a guide and shield—
		Let us sustain it and be free.

	Oh! blessings on this humble group
		Of sisters, pure in heart and true!
	The King of heaven doth kindly stoop
		To own and bless each one of you.

	He looks upon the labors done,
		So small, we think, of little weight,
	And yet He smiles upon each one,
		And counts her portion rich and great.

	Father, to Thee, eternal praise!
		be merciful, our sins forgive!
	And teach us in Thine own sweet ways,
		That charity by which we live.

	Inspire our thoughts, direct our speech,
		Lead us by Thine own hand, and then
	No powers of darkness can o'er-reach;
		Praise God forever more. Amen!

   Interpretation given by Sister Rida Taylor; arranged and 
written by L. Greene Richards.


[Column 1]
WASHINGTON LETTER.
	Before this reaches its destination the tele-
graph will have notified you what disposition
the President has made of the Utah, or anti-
Mormon bill. It has now been in his hands
for six days, and the wisest men are as unpos-
sessed of knowledge as babes, as to the disposi-
tion that will be made of it by him. The fact
that he is so long in returning it challenges the
confidence of those who have persistently as-
serted that he would sign the bill upon its pre-
sentation to him. It must be remembered that
the hands of the President are full, so full that
it is almost impossible for him to give as close
attention presumably as he could wish many
measures presented for his approval.
	The delay in the return of the Utah bill to
the House, even if he signed, gives justification
for one favorable inference—that his mind was
not made up on the question. The statement
has been made again and again in certain
papers in your vicinity that the President
would assuredly sign the measure if it came to
him, and that without delay. I have noticed
a disposition on the part of your public to
place some faith in the reports thus sent from
here. So far as I have had opportunity of
judging, these reports could not be more unreli-
able, and it is a matter of surprise that any
credence whatever is given them. The history
of legislation of interest to your people during

[Column 2]
this session must have demonstrated this fact
beyond a doubt.
	The President does not commit himself be-
forehand on any question, and his delay in re-
turning the anti-Mormon bill is unmistakable
proof that he deems its provisions of sufficient
importance to be carefully scanned. That it is
constitutional in all its details is gravely and
seriously questioned by many whose opinions
will and must command respect among the
most profound lawyers, and in several details,
some, it may be, practically unimportant to
your people, there seems little doubt that it is
constitutionally wrong and fundamentally
wrong and fundamentally bad. If President
Cleveland shall come to the conclusion that it
trenches on established principles, there is not
the shadow of a doubt that he will veto it. His
courage no one questions. And while all is
uncertainty, there seems to be a growing opin-
ion that he will refuse to sign it. This is
evinced by an occurrence in the House the
other day. A report had been started to the
effect that the bill had been vetoed, and the
statement ran through the House almost like
wildfire, and occasioned a great deal of com-
ment. Many of the members familiar with
the details of the bill do not hesitate to declare
that it ought to be vetoed, I think it might
be predicted with safety that if the bill shall
be vetoed, it will not be passed over his head,
and I almost feel like predicting that the Presi-
dent will return it unsigned.
	Whether, however, this feeling arises be-
cause of an earnest belief that it is inexcusably
bad legislation and a desire that it should be
condemned by the President, or because of a
solid reason, had better be left unexplained.
We are, the best of us, too apt to reason from
our prejudices rather than to them It looks
almost childish to suppose any man to stem so
wild a current as that which runs against all
things that bear the impress of "Mormonism,"
but Cleveland is a brave and honest man and
has already done things fully as surprising as
such an act would be.
	The Leagues in Utah do not want him to
sign it. Even if the redistricting and reap-
portionment of the Territory shall put power
into their hands it will not put all, and it is all
or nothing they want. Nor do they want the
bill even if every Mormon shall be excluded
by the test oath. I have been told that a
gentleman, Roberts by name, in Salt Lake,
and others who are citizens and Liberals, have
declared they did not want the elective even if
the Mormons were to a man shut out from the 
polls, the reason being that the men in the
mining camps would elect whom they chose
and the Leaguers, who have foisted themselves
to the front, would be cut out. If they do not
have the absolute control of the Territorial
taxes, treasuries and offices by a power which
is irresponsible and not amenable to the people,
if they, in other words are to depend upon the
suffrages of those who can vote, this gentleman,
Roberts and others, I am informed, have de-
clared they had a "d——sight rather the
Mormons continued to hold power." They
complain of the one-man power of Utah; they
go to the country and raise a storm against it
in behalf of the powerless miners of that
Territory, and in their bitter hearts and craven
minds they damn the possible approach of an
era that will see realized all for which they
cried so long and with such lusty lungs and
with such successful results. A reformer in
this age is a peculiar animal. He doesn't like
one man power because it is not the power of
his creation. With all appointive power in
the hands of a Governor, who hails from a
State that witnesses within its borders more
lawlessness in one week than has occurred in
Utah almost in its history, with these men who
are so anxious for the liberation of poor sinners
and enthralled Mormons, all would be well.

[Column 3]
But when it comes to dispelling Mormon en-
thrallment by placing in all and mighty power
the "honest miner" who contributes his fifty
cents a month to the fund which was inaugura-
ted that certain men might become the masters
of these very miners, who might enslave them,
the League leaders prefer "a—sight" that the
Mormons continue in control. There, reformers!
Bah! No young man with sense enough to 
keep out of an insane asylum would ever de-
sert the ranks of his father and friends to con-
spire and affiliate with a mob homogeneous
only in the desire for power. And this desire,
which burns so fiercely that no barrier which
principle and manhood might erect, would be
sufficiently high or strong to keep them from
overleaping it, if only they may hope for
power that can be used for vile personal ends.
Decent men can only pity the vain and igno-
rant youths who permit themselves to be lured
away by such; but when men of means and
recognized capacity can be ensnared, it is time
that they should be taken care of.
	I can promise, and I think with a degree of
safety, that there will, ere a great period
elapses, be a revelation or revelations regard-
ing these patriots; whom it were a compliment
to call mere scoundrels, that may cause many
an eye to open which has been closed in serene
and dreamy confidence. I name no names and
I am too clever by half to give any dates; but
the fuse is lighting and there will be an ex-
plosion. Stand from under, boys!
	Representative Tucker is here again, and
has not abandoned his determination to bring
up his resolution for a constitutional amend-
ment prohibiting polygamy. There remain
but five more working days for Congress, and
the appropriation bills are away behind. By
a recent decision of the chair, appropriation
bills take precedence over other matters, and
the chances therefore of recognition by the
Speaker for the purpose of calling up indi-
vidual measures is not as favorable as it has
been. It will not, however, be a matter for
surprise if he shall succeed in getting it up,
and some action being taken on it before the
adjournment.
	Tucker's chances for a judgeship, for which
he has been hankering, seem very slim indeed
His anti-Mormon rabies has not helped him
any.
	There has been a great demand for the
speeches made by Hon. R. T. Bennett in the
House, and Senator Call in the Senate. One
member of the House, not a Mormon affiliater,
ordered 3,000 copies of the last one given by
Representative Bennett as soon as it had been
delivered.
	While Senator Edmunds was talking in the
Senate Friday night, Senator Riddleberger in-
terrupted him and asked if there were not a
chestnut bell in the chamber. Comments are
unnecessary.—Deseret News.
						WALTON WOLD.
	Feb. 26, 1887.


I hold my conscience at  the will of no mor-
tal man.—William Penn.

	Whatever you dislike in another person,
take care to correct in yourself.—Sprat.

	Life is a quarry, out of which  we  are  to
mould and chisel and complete a character.—
Goethe.

	God meets those who are in the way; Satan
meets those who are out of it.—Harrington
Evans.

	Hearts are very much alike, and all need
lots of patience to keep them good and happy.
—Lousia M. Alcott.

	All false science, and all false philosophy is
refuted in the faithful preaching of "the truth
as it is in Jesus."—Dr. N. West.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy-six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.	
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50;  per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	March 15, 1887.


[Column 1]
			COMMENTS. 

	Since it has been understood that the Edmunds-
Tucker bill had become a law by default, the
President of the United States withholding his
signature, the situation in Utah thus brought
about has furnished a topic for conversation, dis-
cussion and  argument,  in  many  places and
among friends and foes.  A municipal election
following so soon after in one of the principal
cities of the Territory, gave a good opportunity
for expression of sentiment at the polls.  It
seemed to be the opinion of prominent men op-
posed in their views to the veritable citizens of the
Territory, that the Latter-day Saints could not
possibly take the test oath, which was formulated
for them by members of the Utah Commission.
The sequel shows that a large number of them
could, and therefore the real design of the clique,
who manipulate things here and make represen-
tations against the Latter-day Saints to the Con-
gress of the United States, are again thwarted in
their design to gain possession of all the local
offices in the Territory, at least.  It may be that
many changes will follow the enforcement of this
cruel law; but it has been so modified that those
who labored and clamored for its passage are
greatly disappointed.  It has certainly been
robbed of some of its worst and most objectionable
features.
	The municipal election in Brigham City on
Monday, the 7th inst., was very satisfactory to the
people who have settled and built up the country.
To have put their city into the hands of a minority,
who are at bitter enmity with the majority of its
citizens, would have been deplorable indeed.  It
is a thriving, industrial town, and the people have
exerted themselves to make it beautiful as well,
and they have kept down elements that are calcu-
lated to destroy and lead away the young, but
since the so-called liberal element has shown
itself there, liquor saloons have been started, and
the influence of these has already made itself
apparent, and it is in this and other such ways,
that the young people of Utah are to be civilized
by those would-be reformers who are determined,
so they have stated, to crush out and kill Mor-
monism.
	The women of Utah who have exercised the
privilege of the elective franchise for seventeen
years are, through the passage of this bill, excluded
from the polls, and without any excuse whatever,
simply because they are women, not for any real
reason for no complaint has ever been made
against the manner in which they have used this
right, bestowed upon them by the Legislature of
the Territory, except that the liberals have said
they voted as they were told, and voted with their
husbands, and this they call a misuse of the ballot.
The ballot is understood to be a free expression of
one’s political opinion, and in Utah, where for
many years the ballot has been a secret one, there
could be no reason for any one voting in any
other way, except as the person’s own intelligence

[Column 2]
dictated, whether man or woman.  The writer is
well acquainted with the exercise of the elective
franchise in the hands of the women of Utah,
knowing, perhaps, as many women interested in
the suffrage for woman as any other person in the
Territory,having been for quite a number of years
vice-President for Utah of the National Woman’s
Suffrage Association, and practically interested
in affairs of that kind, and the advancement and
enfranchisement of women everywhere.  And
having been one of the three women named in a
petition presented to the courts here against
women voting, and trying “to compel the assessor
and register of voters to erase and strike from
the list of voters the names of Emmeline B. Wells,
Maria M. Blythe and A. G. Paddock, and also
the names of all women whose names thereon ap-
pear on the aforesaid list.” etc.  This case was
decided in favor of women and the names of
women were continued upon the voters’ lists and
women were allowed to vote at any and all elec-
tions in this Territory until the passage of the
Edmund-Tucker bill.  At the municipal election
in Brigham City,Monday, the 17th, two ladies pre-
sented votes and were rejected.  The case will
doubtless be carried through the courts, at any
rate it ought to be, and ascertain whether even
Congress can take the suffrage from any class of
citizens who have legally held it, and who have
not been accused of any misuse of the privilege.
To deprive women who have been voters of the
ballot is just as wrong as it would be to deprive
men, at least we see no reason why such is not the
case, and to submit to the indignity without pro-
testing and defending the position would not be
consistent with the courage and independence
manifested by the women of Utah in the past.  If
Congress can take the ballot from the women of
this Territory it can take it from the women of
Wyoming, and there is no telling how soon they
might attempt it.
	The women who assembled in convention in
Washington, during the month of February, made
a vigorous and forcible protest against the action
of Congress in the matter, and also presented a
memorial to the President of the United States,
urging him to veto that particular clause of the
Bill which disfranchised women voters, which we
publish in full in this issue.
	The restoration of the dower, about which so
many law-makers and pretended friends of all
women have said so much, is a positive injustice
to the women of Utah, and cannot be too severely
deprecated, as it prevents any provision being
made for plural wives and children, and would
place women, who have entered into the most
sacred covenants of marriage, from the strongest
religious convictions, on a level, so far as it is
possible for them to do it, with that unfortunate
class of women in the world whom men dishonor
and then cast off at their pleasure.
	It is true, beyond contradiction, whatever the
world may think, that “Mormon” women know
what they want  better than these regenerators,
either men or women, can tell them, and as for 
suffrage and rights, they know what they are en-
titled to, and will and can defend their own posi-
tion.  As for the principle of plural marriage, they
have steadily maintained their convictions in re-
gard to it, and all the persecution brought to bear
will not shake the confidence they have in its di-
vine authority, nor can it take away the belief from
any one, whatever may be done or legislated
against its practice.  Hindering women from vot-
ing will not help to abolish the principle, for they
will have no promise to make and no oath to take,
and consequently can talk all they like, and there
will be no restraint; thus it is that in everything
almost that the enemies of this people seek to ac-
complish, they thwart their own purposes, and by
and bye they will be caught in the meshes of the
net they have set to catch the Latter-day Saints.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE are pleased to be able to announce that the
picture of Lucy Smith, the mother of the Prophet
Joseph, has just been received (yesterday, the 14th
inst.), and copies will be sent as soon as practica-
ble. Persons entitled to them, living near, had
better call for them, as it will save rolling and
perhaps creasing them.

	WE have received, by courtesy of the respective
members of Congress who made them, several in-
teresting and excellent speeches. Senator H. W.
Blair of New Hampshire, on Woman's Suffrage,
December 8, 1886, presenting logical and, one 
would think, conclusive arguments in favor of the 
enfranchisement of women. Senator Joseph E.
Brown of Georgia, on the same subject, taking
the opposite view of the matter, and presenting
all those beautiful and flowery reasons that a re-
fined and thoroughly cultivated Southern gentle-
man is accustomed to use in favor of woman's 
delicacy and incapacity for public duties. If
every woman had a husband like Senator Brown,
perhaps this question would never have been
raised, but women as well as men have to fight
the battle of life, and therefore they need the pro-
tection of the ballot and courage to stand, and
such practical education as will prepare them to
defend their rights, politically, and stand equal
with man as well as educationally. The stirring
and timely speech of the Delegate from Utah, of
which mention has been made before in our
columns, and the minority report in favor of the 
resolution asking for a constitutional amendment
providing for woman's suffrage. This minority
report is signed by members of the Judiciary
Committee of the House, E. B. Taylor, W. P.
Hepburn, L. B. Caswell, and also A. A. Ranney,
who, although not one of the Committee who pre-
pared the report, adds his name below and says,
"I concur in the opinion of the minority, that the
resolution ought to be adopted."


HENRY WARD BEECHER PASSES
	AWAY.

	New York, March 8, 9:45 a.m.—Beecher is
dead.
		DEATH-BED DETAILS.
	New York, March 7, midnight.—A message
just received from Brooklyn says that a very de-
cided change for the worse has taken place in the
condition of Beecher, and that the members of 
his family are gathered about his bedside.
	Many telegrams were received during the day,
but none of them have been opened.
	10 o.clock p.m.—Mr. Beecher is steadily failing,
but we do not think he will die to-night.
					W. S. SEARLE, M. D.

	At 10:30 the house was closed for the night.
	A meeting of parishoners of Plymouth Church
was held in the lecture room commencing at 8 p.
m.  The room was crowded with male and female
members of  the  congregation and  not a few
friends from other churches, and there was scarce-
ly a dry eye to be seen from the beginning to the
end of the proceedings. Mr. Tilney presided and
Rev. Dr. Hallidie opened the meeting with a
moving prayer, in which he decided that their
beloved pastor might not even be allowed to
seem to suffer, but that he must speedily attain
unto that rest prepared for him. After singing a
hymn, Jackson offered prayer and the chairman
then read a portion of Scripture commencing:
“Finally, beloved, be strong in the Lord and in the
power of His might, which is able to keep you
from failing,” etc.
	It seemed as if those words were a message to
him who was leaving them, because it seemed as
though he were a born warrior. In all the past


[Column 1]﻿
years he had to fight and struggle; there had al-
ways been something for them to battle with and
he had fought the fight.  There has never been
any flinching, never any turning back.
	The following letter from Mrs. Beecher was
read:  "To the beloved members of Plymouth
Church:  I cannot speak my thanks to each and
every one of you for the sympathy and love and
devotion manifested in these last days, sad days
for your pastor.  He can no longer speak to you
for himself.  Then permit me to do it for him, for
myself, for my family.  Each word of love from 
the people so dear to your pastor’s heart has been
a comfort and balm to a heart wrung almost to
bursting.  How he loved his church you will only
learn in its fulness when you stand with him in
heaven.  To each and every one of you, my earn-
est thanks and most earnest blessiug.  Pray for
his wife and children soon to lose their truest
companion and tenderest father, and if we must
relinquish all possible hope of his full recovery,
oh,  beloved,  pray  that  his  departure may be
speedy, that we may not be long agonized by this
struggle  between  life  and death.  Pray, if he
must leave us, that before another day dawns he
may receive his crown and be forever with his
Lord.
		(Signed)		EUNICE N. BEECHER.
	New York, March 8.—Henry Ward Beecher
began  to  sink  slowly after midnight  and the
watchers at his bedside soon saw that the end was
near.  Beecher passed quietly away while asleep;
he never recovered consciousness after the paraly-
sis stupefied his mind.
			BEECEER'S WILL.
	In the name of God, amen!  I, Henry Ward
Beecher, of the City of Brooklyn and State of
New York, hereby revoking all other and former
wills by me heretofore made, do make, publish
and declare this to be my last will and tastament.
	First—I hereby authorize and direct my execu-
tors, or such of them as shall qualify at my death,
to collect and receive the amount of my life in-
surance, to invest the same and pay the proceeds
of such investment to my wife during her life in
equal quarterly yearly payments.
	Two—I hereby give, bequeath and devise unto
my executors, or such of them as shall qualify, the
net residue and remainder of my estate, both per-
sonal and real of every kind, in trust for the bene-
fit of my children, and I hereby direct that my
said executors distribute and apportion my said
estate among my said children in such manner
and form, and at such time or times as shall, in
their judgment, be  for  the best interests of my
said children, giving unto my said executors full
power to sell and mortgage such and so much of
my real and personal property as they shall deem
best, and to invest or distribute the proceeds of
such sale or sales as herein provided.
	Third—It is my will that if any of my said
children should die before the complete distribu-
tion of my estate, as above provided, their children
shall stand and take in place and stead of the said
parents, taking per stripes and not per capita.
	Fourth— I hereby nominate, constitute and ap-
point my sons, Henry B. Beecher, William C.
Beecher and Herbert A. Beecher, all of Brooklyn,
New York, and my son-in-law, Bev. Samuel Sco-
ville, of Norwich, New York, executors and
trustees of this my will, and it is my will that no
bond shall be required of them or either of them.
	July 11th, 1878.
		(Signed)		HENRY WARD BEECHER.
	The witnesses are A. S. Barnes and G. D.
Blake of Brooklyn.
				THE FUNERAL.
	New York, March 12.—The remains of the late
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher were taken from Ply-
mouth church at 8:30 this morning and conveyed

[Column 2]
to Greenwood cemetery, where they were deposited
in the large receiving vault, where they will re-
main until the family select a lot for final interment.
All night long the church was guarded by Ply-
mouth Company G, and at 7 this morning the re-
mains were turned over to the Plymouth church
committee, who had charge of the burial.  Only
the family and close personal friends of the de-
ceased went out to the cemetery.  The funeral 
cortege proceeded from the church to Greenwood
cemetery by the shortest route.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HONOR TO WOHM HONOR IS DUE.
	
	I wish to place in your valuable paper a few
lines on the death of William Anthol McMaster,
who departed this life January 22nd, 1887.
	I was first acquainted with him in England,
when he was on a mission. I prayed the Lord if
He had a servant of His who had the power to
cast out devils and heal the sick to send such an
one to our house, in the City of Exeter. Bro.
McMaster was sent in answer to my prayers, and
stayed with us six days. My husband had been
out of his mind for some time, and sick. When
Bro. McMaster came into our door, the evil spirits
went out and left my husband in his right mind.
Bro. McMaster baptized my husband, a young
lady that was living with me, and myself in
Exminster Sea, and from that time I have rejoiced
in the Gospel of God. The other two have been
cut off from the Church.
	I know Bro. McMaster to have been kind to
the poor and needy ones, and always on hand to
administer to the sick, both by night and by day if
required. He had the gift of healing. I have
been administered to by him many times, and al-
ways obtained immediate relief.
	God bless his remains and crown him with
eternal joys. My sincere prayer is for the Lord to
bless his family.
						MARIA B. FORD.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

EDITOR WOMEN'S EXPONENT:	
	I thought I would try to write a few lines for
our valuable little paper, which is ever welcome,
bringing with it so much encouragement to the
sad and weary mothers, sisters and daughters in
Israel.
	I feel that it is necessary at this very eventful
and trying day that we should stand by one
another, and give each other all the encourage-
ment possible, and that we each one seek earnestly
to our Heavenly Father for His Holy Spirit to be
our constant guide, or we may be led astray at
any time, for we do not understand the ways of
God only by the Spirit of God; His ways are
higher than man’s ways, as the heavens are above
the earth; but He has said, “Take my yoke upon
you and my burden, for it is light.” But, dear
sisters, His must be the whole burden or it may
be very heavy; more than we can bear.  Let us
be sincere and honest in all our thoughts, words
and works, that we may gain little by little, and
eventually overcome our follies, and prove our-
selves worthy of the Spirit of God to be our con-
stant guide, then we cannot go astray.
	It has been foretold that we should be tried and
tested like gold seven times in the furnace, if we
were worthy. Oh! let us try to be worthy and
willing for the dross to be consumed and the gold
to be refined. 
	Let us acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
our trials, and learn some lessons of importance
from the same, is the prayer of your unworthy
sister,		
					E. J.
	Kane Co., Utah


OUR DUTY AS "DAUGHTERS OF
		ZION."

	Giving precedence to that which comes first by
nature and time, I would refer to the duty of a
daughter in her parents' house. God has sent us
all forth on a noble mission, and endowed us with
the requisite gifts whereby we can perform that
mission faithfully, and work out for ourselves an
exaltation, which will qualify us to dwell with His
holy ones in the eternal worlds.
	It is for us as women to see that the talents with
which we are endowed are not allowed to rust.
Filial love and respect are the qualities we should
first cultivate, to lighten a mother's burden, with-
out usurping her authority; to help as much as
possible, without displacing her; to secure for
her the ease, which years spent in toil and anxiety
for us render necessary, without making her feel
that she is no longer needed and her counsel un-
heeded; to obey our father as the head of the
household; to anticipate his wants, and be ever
ready to fulfil a daughter's duty.
	An excellent guide to a girl's character and dis-
position can be ascertained by her manner in the
family circle. If eyes brighten at her approach,
and voices welcome her coming, we may feel sure
that she is beloved; but if voices are hushed and
no interest is taken in her when she enters the
room, there is a feeling of suspicion that rises in
our minds as to whether she is doing her duty, or
acting in such a manner as to win love and confi-
dence in the sphere in which she is placed. A
woman's especial place is home. The very men-
tion of the word home calls up recollections of
our mothers or sisters, and the refined influences
that women exert there takes hold of the most
hardened and coarse natures, and makes us feel
truly there is "no place like home." Who is it
that has not felt at some time or other of his
life the sweet restraining power that the gentler
sex know so well how to use, and which will move
a strong will from the path of error, and by her
persuasion and gentleness, will be the good angel
of men's lives. In order to exert this influence it
is requisite for a woman to know all things that
pertain to the comfort of those around her. There
is an idea prevalent among the young ladies of
to-day, that housework is a far too degrading
thing to do, and to betray even a slight knowledge
of it is "exceedingly bad form;" but what an igno-
rant idea. What harm can it do a girl to learn how 
to cook, clean, sew, darn, etc.?	*	*	That
which constitutes our degradation is not when w
fill our proper place, but when we seek to fill some
other place than that which God and nature has
designed and appointed for us. And does not
that book, which we all profess to revere, give
greatest honor to the industrious? The women
that are held up as patterns are not the idle and
useless, but those who worked with both hand
and head. Our Savior's praise of our sex
was, "She hath done what she could."
	If some are fortunate enough to be able to em-
ploy servants to do the menial work for them, a
knowledge of the way it should be done will al-
ways win them the respect of those they employ,
and if, in this way, we are ever called to fulfil our
mission as a wife, we shall be able to materially
look after our husband's interests in that dearest
of all places, "home."
	Though we may not all be under the necessity
of engaging in such duties now, we ought, as a
matter of choice, to learn how to do them, for the
purpose of fitting ourselves for what we may re-
quire. Let no foolish notion, that work is degrad-
ing, hinder us from doing our duty. There are
more of the truly noble among those who work
for their daily bread, than among the highest
of the nobility of the land.
	There are many duties we miss performing be-
cause we want to do so much more than there is
any necessity for; we are so apt to look to the top of


the ladder before we put our foot on the first step,
and to aspire to be so great before we learn to
live in a humbler way.	*	*	*	*	*
	Let us, then, be determined not to listen to 
those who would turn us aside from a work which 
even angels might covet, and from a noble fulfil-
ment of a mission that alone constitutes our true
glory.
				MARION SCOLES.
	London, England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

BEAVER STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this Stake met in 
conference March 3rd, pursuant to adjourn-
ment, in the Latter-day Saints meeting house
of this place, Prest. Lucinda Howd presiding.
There was a good representation of officers and
members from the different wards; Prest. Mur-
dock and others of the brethren were also
present. The reports showed a healthy and
prosperous condition of the various branches.
	An excellent spirit prevailed, and the re-
marks of the sisters and those of the brethren
who were present, were replete with good coun-
sel and instruction. The proper training of
the young, the storing of grain and the inter-
ests of the EXPONENT were some of the sub-
jects dwelt upon. All those who spoke mani-
fested a firm reliance in our Heavenly
Father at the present crisis in our affairs, and
a determination to uphold all the principles 
which God has revealed, even unto death, if
necessary.
	The conference was adjourned for six months,
to meet at Adamsville. Benediction by Bro.
Daniel Tyler, this closing what was universally
felt to be the best conference of the sisters ever
held in Beaver Stake.
		Respectfully,
		LOUISA JONES, Sec. pro tem.

MOAB WARD, SAN JUAN STAKE.

	Report of the annual meeting of the Relief
Society of Moab Ward, San Juan Stake of
Zion, Emery County, Utah, held Feb. 19th,
1887, Prest. Sarah Burnham presiding.
Opened by singing, and prayer by Bishop R.
H. Stewart. After the reading of the minutes
of last meeting, the Secretary read the annual
report, which was satisfactory.
	Prest Burnham called upon Bishop R. H,
Stewart to address the meeting. He felt
pleased to meet with the sisters, and to con-
gratulate them upon the improvement that
was manifest among them; also felt to rejoice
because of the good spirit prevailing. Prayed
God to bless the Relief Society of Moab, and
gave some valuable instructions relative to the
various duties devolving upon the members as
mothers in Israel, and exhorted them to faith-
fulness in the discharge of the many require-
ments required of them. They should be hum-
ble and prayerful, and be united among them-
selves, etc.
	Bro. Edward Bolton said he was glad to 
meet with the Relief Society, and felt to en-
courage the sisters to go forward in their great
and good work. Was pleased to see the spirit
of unity apparent among them, and had no
doubts as to the improvements manifest. Com-
mented upon the importance of the Relief So-
ciety, as an able adjunct in building up the 
kingdom of God. Upon the mothers devolved
an enormous responsibility—the training of
the young was mostly in their hands; therefore,
they should seek for wisdom to enable them to
discharge their duties faithfully. They should
be united and sustain their President and all
placed in authority over them. Prayed God
to abundantly bless the Relief Society through-
out the various Stakes of Zion.

[Column 2]
	Prest. Burnham was glad to see so many of
the sisters together, and felt to endorse the 
many good counsels and instructions given by
the brethren. Spoke upon the necessity of
union combined with humility, and a) prayer-
ful spirit, etc., etc.
	Singing. Benediction by Brother Edward
Bolton.
				CLARA BURNHAM, Sec.


[Column 1]		
	ITEMS FROM ARIZONA.

MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:

	DEAR SISTER:—It gives me pleasure to send
you a few lines from Arizona.
	We have been very greatly blessed, for
which we are very thankful. We have had
a very beautiful winter in the "sunny south,"
with general good health, but we are in a very
scattered condition, which is very inconvenient.
	The EXPONENT is a very welcome visitor in
our midst. May it ever prosper in its noble
efforts of doing good.
	May the blessings of God be with you, my
sister, and all who labor with you in the cause
of truth.
						A SUBSCRIBER.
	St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, Feb. 21, 1887.

		ITEMS FROM SNOWFLAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a few notes from this little
settlement might be worthy of room in our
valuable paper, we take pleasure in sending
them. It is seldom we are heard from, but we
are trying to bravely fight the battles of life,
and prove ourselves valiant to the cause of
Christ on the earth.
	As a stake, we are having a rest now from
persecution, but we know not how long peace
may prevail, and we deeply sympathize with
those of our brethren and sisters who are not
so favored, but we know all will be well with
those who are not faint-hearted nor weary in
well-doing.
	Our Relief Society in this ward is doing very
well; we try not to let any go needy or desti-
tute; we strive to visit and comfort the sick, and
soothe the grief of those who are called to
mourn.
	We are very thankful for the recent visit of
Dr. E. S. Barney to our land. She came as a
stranger to us, but when she went away we felt
she was our friend and sister. She spent her
whole time, while here, teaching us things for
our good, and we shall ever hold her in grate-
ful remembrance for the good she has done us.
	We have had a pleasant, open winter, and
recently a rain and snow storm, which moist-
ened up the earth nicely for putting in crops.
Our brethren are busy now, fixing their water
ditches, and making a resevoir to store water
in for the dry part of the seassn. With the
blessings of God upon us, we hope to raise our
own bread, and not have to import as much as
we have had to do in past years.
	We prize our little paper very highly, as it
comes to us laden with good, and we pray that
it may always be a comfort in Zion.
	Praying for the welfare of Zion and the
spread of truth in the earth, we remain,
		Your sisters in the Gospel covenant,
						MARY J. WEST,
						LUCY H. FLAKE,
						MARY H. LARSON.

			ITEMS FROM PRICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	As we have not seen anything lataly in our
valuable paper about our little town. Price, we
thought we would write a few lines to let our
sisters know that we are laboring for the king-

[Column 2]
dom with the rest. We are trying to do as
near right as we can. We feel to sustain and
bless everybody who is interested in the great
work of Christ.
	We had a very enjoyable time here the 17th
of Feb. ult., in the gathering at the meeting
house to surprise Sister Jane Eldredge, Presi-
dent of the Primary Association of Price, on
her thirty-sixth anniversary. Singing by the
little Sunday School choir, as Sister Eldredge
was accompanied into the house by her hus-
band, together with several sisters, where a
number of tables were spread with all the
blessings that the earth could produce in the
shape of food, and surrounded by about 175
persons. A blessing was offered, and all par-
took with grateful hearts.
	After dinner, the following token was read
in respect to Sister Eldredge's energetic labors
with the Primary children:

	"A token of respect to our beloved sister,
Jane Eldredge, President of the Primary As-
sociation of Price, for her diligence and patient
perseverance in well-doing with the children
of this place, and feeling that she had more
than performed the duty assigned her, never
letting wind nor weather stop her in the per-
formance of the same.
	Therefore, dear sister, we say unto you, ac-
cept these small tokens of our respect and
gratitude, and may the blessings of our Father
rest down upon you with health and strength
to still go on for many years to come in the
good cause you have entered into with the
young. May every year be brighter than the
last.						SARAH COX.
	She was then presented with some presents
made by the Primary children, and also by
the Sunday School choir.
	Sister Eldredge was a little overcome with
joy and surprise, not looking for anything of
the kind. She thanked them for the honor
and respect shown to her, and also for the
presents they had bestowed upon her.
	There was dancing in the evening, and
toasts, songs and sentiments were freely given.
All had an enjoyable time.
						E. S. H.
						F. A MEAD,
						F. ALRED.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR EDITOR:

	The kingdom of heaven is for those who
seek for it; not many rich or noble, but the
humble and faithful and pure in heart. We
as a people are of the tribe of Ephraim, prone
to wander from the fold of God, but, oh! let us
return; now is the trying day, and we should
be willing to show our colors. Jesus said, “If
ye will not forsake all and life itself for the
Gospel and my name’s sake, ye are not worthy
of me.”
	Let us turn from our follies. Israel often
worshiped idols and went astray; are we not of
the same lineage? Let us not worship our
houses, lands, clothing or any property, for our
God is a “jealous God, visiting the sins of the
fathers on the children,” but if they walk not
in the path of their fathers he will turn away
His anger, reads the 18th chapter of Ezekiel.
Oh, what comfort to the erring ones! Let us
not be discouraged, but try more earnestly to
live our religion,keeping all the commandments,
observing the Sabbath day and fast days, for
there are great promises to those who do so.
Read the 57th chapter of Isaiah, and you
may understand the promises of the Lord
to the faithful; also the 3rd chapter of Malachi,
you will see the promises of the Lord to those
who pay their tithes and offerings, and those
who assemble to worship their God shall be re-
membered as a man will remember and reward


his own son that serveth him. “He will be
mine;” saith the Lord, “when I will make up
my jewels.”
	Let us read and study our Bible, Book of
Mormon and other Church works, that we may
be prepared when the Bridegroom shall come,
is the prayer of
			Your sister,
						E. JENSEN.
	Orderville.


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

	The National Woman’s Suffrage Association,
through this committee, respectfully present to
you a protest against that clause of the anti-
polygamy measure passed by Congress, which,
whether in the Edmunds bill of the Senate or
the Tucker substitute of the House, disfran-
chises the-non-polygamous women of Utah.
	The clause relating to the disfranchisement
of women has no bearing on the general merits
of the end sought to be attained by the measure,
since Mormon men are the majority of the
voters of the territory.
	The non-polygamous women of Utah have
committed no crime. Disfranchisement is re-
served by the United States government for
arch traitors.  Justice forbids that such a 
penalty should be inflicted on innocent
women.
	Non-polygamous Mormon women and the
Christian women of Utah being thus disfran-
chised--the former for their opinions and the lat-
ter for the opinions of the former—a precedent
is established subversive of the fundamental
principles of our government, and threatening
the security of all citizens.
	If Congress deems it necessary to disfran-
chise citizens because of injurious beliefs, dis-
crimination between sexes is manifestly unjust.
	It has been held by the foremost statesmen
of the nation that the right of suffrage once
exercised, becomes a vested right which cannot
be taken away. Gratz Brown once said, in
the Senate of the United States, that if the idea
that suffrage could be taken away at pleasure
once crystallized in the minds of the peo-
ple, it would “ring the death knell of American
liberty.” Mr. Vest, of Missouri, on the 25th
day of this month, said, on the floor of the
Senate: “Suffrage once given can never be
taken away. Legislatures and conventions
may do everything else; they never can do
that. When any particular class or faction of
the community is once invested with this
privilege, it is fixed, accomplished and eternal.
	Thus every argument for justice, equal legis-
lation and the safety of our republican form of
government calls for the defeat of this clause.
	We, therefore, respectfully urge you, as
guardian of the rights of all American citizens,
to veto any measure coming before you which
disfranchises the women of Utah.
		LILLIE DEVEREAUX BLAKE,
		MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,
		CAROLINE GILKEY ROGERS,
		MARY SEYMOUR HOWELL,
		CLARA B. COLBY,
		SARAH MILLER,
		ELIZABETH BOYNTON HARBERT,
		HARRIETTE R. SHATTUCK,
		LOUISA SOUTHWORTH,
								Committee.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Mrs. Abby Kelley Foster died in Boston,
Mass., at the home of her sister, Mrs. M. L. K.
Barton, with whom she resided, on Friday;
January 14. The next day was her birthday.
On it she would have completed seventy-six
years: Mrs. Foster was as well as usual until


Wednesday of last week, when she seemed very
tired and feeble. Thursday morning she was
too weak to get up.  On Friday afternoon she
died.  She suffered none, and seemed to sleep
away her life.  Her daughter was telegraphed
for, and arrived just before her mother’s
death.	
	Thus has passed from us the most remarkable
woman, in some respects, the world has ever
known. She came upon the stage of active
life when the anti-slavery movement began. 
She was a Quaker woman about twenty-six
years of age, teaching school in Lynn. Her
conscience summoned her to leave everything
for the slave’s sake. It is impossible to des-
cribe the situation. Slavery was entrenched
in the government and laws. It was sanctioned
by religion and upheld by all classes of society.
All the traditions of the world were opposed to
the speaking of women in public. Still stronger
were the forbidding, texts which imposed
“silence upon women.”  To undertake the
cause of the slave was to consent to such mighty
odds. It was to give up respectability, ease,
quiet, comfort, the hope of a competence. It
was to encounter mobs, to endure cold and
hunger, and fatigue, and to face death itself.
	Abby Kelley did not hesitate. She put her
tender shoulder to the work.  Never once, for
nearly thirty years was there space for pause
or rest. A weaker woman, or one with a fibre
less fine, would not have attempted, or would
have given up. To her the latter was impossible.
Think of the long years, the constant torture,
and the unflinching courage!  Verily she is
without a peer.  Over the highway she helped
to build, the slaves walked to freedom, and
over the highway whose foundation stones she
laid with bleeding hands, women are marching
to their equal rights.
	Those who remember Mrs. Foster fifty years
ago will recall the fair and comely young
Quaker woman, whose voice, sweet and clear
as a silver bell, penetrated to the farthest
listener. Those who have only seen her in
later years, will think of her as feeble, bent,
worn with the battle of life, and with a voice
hoarse from over use and much outdoor speak-
ing, “over-plied in liberty’s defense.” The
world is richer and better for Abby Kelley
Foster.—Lucy Stone, in Woman's Journal.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the "French Craze" for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
land scapes, etc., complete with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse, 
N.Y.


QUEEN VICTORIA’S “DRAWING-
ROOMS.”

	A “drawing-room,” as Queen Victoria’s re-
ception to ladies is called, begins at 3 o’clock
in the afternoon. But—more particularly of
late years—the Queen has not always been able
to remain throughout the ceremony. Perhaps,
after hours sufferance on her part, her Majesty


retires and the Princess of Wales fills her
place. But the Princess is not the rose. She
only lives near it, and the triumph of the day
is darkened for those ladies who, arriving a
little late, courtesy to the Princess instead of
the Queen. Accordingly it seems to have oc-
curred to some enterprising lady that if she
had her carriage at the gates of the palace an
hour before they were thrown back, she would
be in pretty good time. At the next drawing-
room some one bettered this, being there an
hour and five minutes early. The process has
gone forward till now the clanging of noon
from the clock-tower of Westminister is heard
adown a long string of carriages containing
ladies in lowest evening dress, sitting stonily
waiting whilst a mob of sightseers peer at
them as mercilessly as if they were framed
pictures of their ancestresses.


CONSTANCY IN THE SEXES.  

	A writer in Lippincott’s Magazine calls at-
tention to the fact that, while many novelists
have treated of love as indicating divided
affections on the part of men, almost no one of
them has represented woman as finding room
in her heart for devotion of two men at the
same time, or even of doubt as to which was
entitled to this tribute. Thackeray, who inti-
mates that Laura Bell might have preferred
Warrington to Pendennis, had it not been for
the obstacle of the former’s marriage, is the
nearest to an exception on this point among the
more famous writers This is a tribute, of
course, to the superior positiveness of woman
in fixing her ideal, and adhering to it. That
is an altogether unjust satire, as far as it applies
to the female sex, in the Spanish writer who
composed as an epitaph:	

		She who lies beneath this stone
		Died of constancy alone.
		Fear not: approach, O passer-by!
		Of naught contagious did she die.

	Trollope's favorite hero is one who hardly
knows his own mind as between two charmers. 
Howells humorously hints at the cause of the
inconstancy of his sex, when he says in his
“Indian Summer” that “after eighteen hundred
years of Christianity man is only imperfectly
monogamous.” Had novelists existed in the
days of polygamy they would have found an
easy way out of this dilemma for their heroes,
though it would have much lessened the avail-
able stock for their stories.—Boston Herald.


W. N. C. T.  U.
	
	NEW YORK, March 9, 1887.

KIND FRIEND:

	Will you please call attention to the offer of
a Prize Banner to the New England State,
which reports the largest per cent of increase
in membership, including regular and honorary
members of the W. N. C. T. U., and the "Y's;"
also the middle, Southern and Western State,
which makes this report, with one for the state
beyond the Missouri, having the largest per
cent of increase in its membership, and one
for the territory that leads in this respect dur-
ing the present year- Thus, the weakest state
is placed on a level, at the start, with the
strongest. The banners will be presented at
Nashville, next autumn, at the annual meeting
of the W. N. C. T. U.
	Please print this note and plead for a more
thorough canvas for names. It means the
spread of the total abstinence propaganda, and
that means victory.
			Yours for prohibition,
				FRANCES E. WILLARD.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN

	Miss Mary Booth, the editor of Harper's
Bazar, is said to be going to Europe for rest.
	Ex-Empress Eugene has applied to the city
government of Naples for permission to enter 
the hospital as a nurse, and care for soldiers
wounded at Massowah.
   	Hannah More, when she was told a tale
against anyone in her village, usually answered,
"Come, we will go and ask if that be true."
The effect was something wonderful. The tale-
bearer, taken aback, would begin to say, "Well,
perhaps there may have been a mistake," and 
beg that no notice be taken of the matter.
But no, the good lady would go there and then,
taking the scandal-monger with her, to make
inquiry and compare accounts. If all tale-
bearers could be treated in this way, few tales
would be told. 
	Mrs. Henry Wood, the prolific English
novelist who lately died, aged seventy, had
edited the Argosy for twenty years. A sketch
of her in the Pall Mall Gazette says: "Her life
may fairly be said to have been prolonged by
her intellectual activity and power of concen- 
tration." Her most popular novel, "East
Lynne," has been translated into French, Par-
see, and Hindustanee, and has been drama-
tized by several adapters. She is described as
a good Englishwoman, of strong domestic
tastes, and rather shrinking from publicity.
All her thirty novels were popular. Her
kindness to youthful literary aspirants was
great, and her conscientiousness in replying to
her many correspondents made havoc with her
time. Her circle of correspondents was wide;
only a week or two before her death, she re-
ceived a letter about one of her books from a 
stoker in the Persian Gulf.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	Municipal suffrage for women has been de-
feated in the Nebraska Legislature by a small
majority. 
	The women of Kansas are registering in
large numbers, to vote under the new municipal
suffrage law. A circular, urging them to do
so, has been issued jointly by the Kansas Equal
Suffrage Association and the Kansas W. C. T.
U. Public jubilee meetings have been held in
a number of [-]owns, and great enthusiasm pre-
vails.


Patents have been granted to women for the
week ending Feb. 22, 1887, as follows:
	Josephine Doriat, New York, N. Y., Means
for Serving Guests in Restaurants.
	Catharine C. Griswold, New York, Corset.
	Elizabeth Guion, New York, Medicine
Spoon. Dressmaker's Fitting Chair.
	Sarah A. Parke, Bay City, Mich., Sawtooth
Swaging Machine. 
	Elizabeth Wilson, Kokomo, Ind., Dust-de
flector.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Thrift of time will repay you in after life
with a usury of profit beyond your most san-
guine dreams.—Gladstone.

	Let us help the fallen still, though they
never pay us, and let us lend, without exacting
the usury of gratitude.—Thackery.

	A true woman is to a true man's influence
what the rolling process is to the furnaced gold,
for she rolls it into multitudinous sheets.


When we are most filled with heavenly love,
and only then, are we best fitted to bear with
human infirmity, to live above it and forget its
burden.—Maria Hvre.

	A man who lives a virtuous life and in the
pursuit of knowledge may have great joy with
only coarse rice to eat, water to drink, and
his bended arm for a pillow —Confucius.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister Annie
Sharp, who died suddenly at her homo in Preston, Oneida
Co., Idaho, Feb. 19, 1887, aged sixteen years, seven
months and nine days.
	
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from us by the hand of death, our beloved and respected
sister in the Y. L. M. I. A.,
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
have lost a true friend and faithful laborer, one who was
ever patient and faithful to her duty, and her good qualities
will ever endear her to our memories,
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
family in the loss of an affectionate and dutiful daughter
and sister.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be placed in
our record book, printed in the Young Ladies' Enterprise
and a copy given to the bereaved family.
					NELLIE PARKINSON,
					CASSIE WEST,		Committee
					LUCY M. SABIN,


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	It is with feelings of deep sorrow that we communicate
the death of our beloved young sister, Catherine E. Suther-
land, daughter of John and Ellen Sutherland, who de-
parted this life at the residence of her parents, Big Cotton-
wood, Salt Lake County, at 9 a.m., on the 22nd of Feb.,
1887, of fever and paralysis of the brain. She was aged
fifteen years, four months and twenty-eight days, and for
her age had great faith in the Gospel; was most amiable
and tender in disposition and manner. She was a regular
attendant at Sunday School, an assistant secretary, and led
the singing in the Primary Association; also a member of
the Y. L. M. I. Association. To know her was to love and
respect her. The funeral services were held at the ward
meeting house on the 24th of Feb., at 12:30. where a large
number met to pay their last respects.
									COM.

			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	In memory of our aged sister, Anna Maria Jasperson,
who departed this life Dec. 17th, 1886. She was born
Sept. 12th, 1809.
	Whereas, The Lord in His infinite wisdom has seen fit
to call from our midst our worthy and beloved sister, Anna
Maria Jasperson, and,
	Whereas, She was a true and faithful Latter-day Saint,
and a faithful member of the Relief Society of Goshen
Ward, and for many years honorably filled the office of a
teacher in the same, it is fitting that we record the high es-
teem and appreciation of her services. Therefore be it
	Resolved, That her counsel and example will be held in
grateful remembrance by our Society.
	Resolved, That we who have seen the ever willing and
cheerful spirit with which she performed every duty will
endeavor to profit by the same.
	Resolved, That it is the sentiments of our Society that
we spmpathize with the relatives, and that a copy of these
Resolutions be furnished them, one sent to the EXPONENT, 
and also placed on the minutes of this Society.

Sleep sweetly, dearest sister, from sorrow, grief and
	pain,
Thy labor is all over, it was not done in vain;
Thy faithful course here on this earth is worthy of imita-
	tion;
The day draws nigh when we shall see the Lord and His
	salvation.
					PIRENA JAMESON,
					MARTHA JENSEN,		Committee.
					JULIA S. MACKEE,


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail  
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant’s Shoes.	
	112,	114,	116,	118	East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

