Journal of Discourses, No. 5, Vol. I): “I will
tell you the truth as you will find it in eternity. If
your children do not receive impressions of true
piety, virtue, tenderness and every principle of
the holy Gospel, you may be assured that their
sins will not be required at the hands of the father,
but of the mother. Lay it to heart, ye mothers, for
it will invariably be so.	*   *   *	If you
suffer your children to grow up wild and uncor-
rected, when they come into the hands of their
fathers, and will not follow their counsels, let
them be disowned and have no portion in the in-
heritance; let them be disfranchised, be banished
from Israel, and not numbered in the books of the
offspring of Abraham.	*   *   *	If
children are not taught in their youth by their
mothers to revere and follow the counsels of their
fathers it will be hard indeed for the father ever
to control them. And when I undertake to con-
trol a child who wants to conquer me it shall be
death to him before I yield.	*   *   *   *			
Mothers, let your minds be sanctified before the
Lord, for this is the commencement, the true
foundation of a proper education in your children;
the beginning point to form a disposition in your
offspring that will bring to you satisfaction, com-
fort, honor and glory.” I would recommend every
mother to read this entire discourse, for it is full
of rich instruction upon this point, and is in per-
fect harmony with the revelations of God given
through the Prophet Joseph.
	Think for a moment. The little tabernacle that
you have been instrumental in bringing into this
world is quickened by a spirit that came from God
and esteemed by Him as of such intrinsic value,
as not to be allowed to come alone or unaccom-
panied, but is attended by a guardian angel, who
will, although an unseen observer, most certainly
testify to the treatment it receives at your hands.
With this view, then, shall we spend our entire
time in the decoration of our children’s bodies,
or in pandering to their appetites, neglecting the
development of those attributes of deity which
only require proper cultivation to give their latent
life all that strength and vigor which constitute
true manhood and womanhood? To whom belong
the principles of honor, integrity, virtue and truth?
To God. And these can only be manifest in the
flesh through the spirit which came from God,
and He will hold us responsible for this great
trust.
	We must remember, also, that our children be-
long to the Church with which we ourselves are
identified, and that we owe a duty to the Church
in regard to them, and we should preserve them
for the Church’s use. All the honor they receive
therein will come to us also if we have done our
duty, while their dishonor will cover us with their
shame if we have neglected our duty. One great
weakness that I have noticed in many mothers is
in their want of firmness. To kindly say no, when
no should be said, and maintain that position de-
spite tears and entreaties, will give strength to a
mother in the government of her family that is be-
yond estimate. For the want of this firmness
many a mother is a slave to her children, and she
finds in after life that she has lost all control over
them. I think it wise to early teach our children
the principle of sacrifice, for this is one of the
great essentials to our salvation and exaltation.
Those who have been truly great on earth have

[Column 2]
invariably learned this lesson, and that, too, gener-
ally in early life.
	We cannot guard too closely the morals of our
children. Have we the courage to say to them,
“You cannot go with that exclusion party or to
that dance, because certain individuals will be
there whose character is questionable?” Can we
say to them that they must not indulge in pleasure
seeking on the Sabbath day, that they cannot be
out at nights, and many other things of equal im-
portance? And when we have said this can we
hold firmly the ground we have taken although our
children should quote President So and So, or
Bishop So and So’s children or the children of
any other dignitaries as being allowed these in-
dulgences? Can we say to the son of our friend
and neighbor to whom our daughter is betrothed,
“It is now ten o’clock and Josephine must go to
bed?” Can we teach our daughters that rambles
in the darkness of night or loiterings at the gate
with feet upon the damp ground are both danger-
ous—the first to good morals, the second to
health?
	I recollect, some years ago, remonstrating with
a girl twenty-six years of age because of her
constant practice of sitting up with her lover until
a very late hour. Said she, “Why, Aunt Ruth,
can’t you trust me?” I replied emphatically, “No,
I cannot trust you.” She felt herself insulted at
the time, but the sequel proved I was right, for
she has cause to regret to this day that she trusted
herself too far. Mothers, you will be doing your
daughters a kindness to limit your trust in them in
this one particular, and exercise that surveillance
and motherly authority that are the true safe-
guards of virtue and maidenly purity, and they will
esteem you all the more highly in after years.
Such a thing as lost virtue among the daughters of
the Jews is a rare occurrence indeed, and their
virtue is due to an unceasing vigilance coupled
with a wise and proper exercise of parental
authority. For while Jewish parental kindness is
proverbial its authority is almost absolute, and is
in perfect keeping with the law of God both
Mosaic and modern.
	Our boys, also! Do we not too early in life
place them at too great a distance from us? For
example: Had we kept up the practice of kissing
them good night until they were well along in their
teens, we would have detected and corrected their
early habit of smoking, in hundreds of instances,
before the habit had become a confirmed one.
We might elaborate upon this subject to consider-
able length, but this one example will serve to
show how necessary it is for us to keep our child-
ren close to us; possess ourselves of their entire
confidence and never lose it, then our reward will
be all we can desire. True, some may be forward
and cut themselves loose from parental restraint
and authority, but the consciousness of having
done our duty will relieve us from those regrets
that always follow neglect.
	We hail with pleasure the elevating and cor-
recting influences of the Improvement Associa-
tions, the Sabbath Schools and the Primaries, but
a mother’s influence, wisely exercised from infancy
to maturity, is more potent than them all. Realiz-
ing this fact, let us double our diligence, having
in view, also, the many evils that exist among us,
and the avenues that are kept open night and day
to allure and decoy the youth of Zion from the
path of virtue and honor.
	One more word upon the subject of promiscuous
gatherings and I will stop. If the same strictness
in this regard were observed now as in the early
days of the Church, how many would be under
condemnation? In the month of October, 1837,
(if I mistake not) thirty-one persons were disfel-
lowshiped from the Church in Kirtland for joining
in a dance with the outsiders, and each one had to
make public acknowledgement of their wrong be-
fore they were restored to fellowship. Yet some
of our young people complain of the arbitrary rule
of the Priesthood when they condemn these pro-
miscuous associations.
								Aunt Ruth.


189	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HIGHER EDUCATION FOR WOMEN.

	I read, the other day, the synopsis of a dis-
course delivered by the noted Dr. J. P. Newman,
in his church in Washington. He is giving a 
series of lectures on the education of women,
which he dignifies by the title of sermons, and
lauds the sanctity of the Sabbath day to them,
which, in a measure, doubtless gives them the air
at least of sacredness. The length to which these
lectures, to adopt his title, discourses, have been
drawn out will be seen from the following:
	“I have sought,” said Dr. Newman, “a logical
connection in these discourses. First, ‘Woman
in history;’ second ‘Woman’s mission;’ and to-
night we shall consider ‘Woman’s education for
that mission.’ Next Sabbath evening we will
talk of Woman’s power in that mission,’ and the
following week of Woman’s power for that mis-
sion.”
This comes as nearly working a subject into dis-
tinctions withont a difference as well can be
imagined. While it gives evidence of a plenti-
tude of resource it also shows a lamentable ab-
sence of topics. Not that too much can be said
on the proper education of women, but that it can
be drawn into atmospheric thinness by confining
it in such limits. The changes in the title of sub-
jects give evidence of power to play with words,
to make verbal changes, but to leave the great
text ever the same.
	But these remarks are not to the point. Dr.
Newman understands education in the sense that
is now commonly accepted, and he looks but for the
accomplishment of that work of regeneration
among the women which, in times gone by long—
2,000 years ago—it was the Holy Spirit alone
could accomplish, while I can understand that
education with some, like the quack’s pill, is the
cure for all sorts, I do not understand how the
wise can view it in that light. For those who look
upon it so, there is much to unlearn. The power
of speech is not the gift of inspiration, and we are
still like children in many respects very easily
pleased, and more especially when our self-esteem
is appealed to. I do not take exception to Dr.
Newman’s position in the main, but the question
that presses itself upon me always is this; when
women shall have been accorded equal rights with
men—at least in matters that relate to education—
when women become educated as the most san-
guine advocate of education hopes for them, what
then? There is not a question that the admira-
tion of many for education is but another phase
of the insanity that inspires in some faith in a cure-
all pill. All this if undertaken should be com-
menced and carried on for results. The very last
and least result should be the desire for education
for itself alone. Education, power, virtue, tears,
smiles, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, are all for pur-
poses. When any of these become the great aim,
instead of a means only to a higher end, their
worth and their purpose become valueless and the
results attained will never justify the labor ex-
pended to secure them. Paul said he was not
ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, not because it
was a means, i.e., “for it is the power of God unto
salvation.” Without it the end could not be ob-
tained, therefore it was all important, not for itself,
but through it salvation might be had. Surely edu-
cation in the worldly sense of the day cannot be
of greater import than the Gospel of Christ, even
though professed disciples of Christ and the self-
appointed feeders of his alleged sheep, may see fit
to place it before the Gospel as a saving factor.
If the religion of Christ is but a means we can
give no more credit and accord no more power to
education. Though the great Word-Smith—Dr.
Newman—indirectly attempt to do so.


All wise people desire to be educated. They desire
it because it gives something superior to itself, and
that something is power. Power is desirable be-
cause more good can be done by its possession
than can be accomplished without it. Good should
be done and wished, for reasons and for ends
higher than the thing itself; and when we can do
all the good we desire there will come yet higher
reasons for the exercise of our powers than are re-
vealed to us. As we go on from faith to faith,
so we go on from power to power—the highest
motives now, becoming, by the lapse of time and
the development of our powers but secondary
considerations, that lead to walks and aims yet
higher. Not that we ever lose or cease to need
the old, but that the old motives, ways, ends and
aims are ever added to, are but the stepping
stones to that which is higher and nobler still. So
on through the eternal years; ever something to
strive for; ever new heights to soar through all
time. Were it otherwise there would come a time
when the immortal would have reached a limit,
when for the Infinite there could be no advance-
ment. That limit reached, the joy of life, the pur-
pose of immortality is destroyed, the infinite is
no longer infinite and religion and faith in good
become an idle mockery and the athiest alone has
the truth.
	Ah! it is said that those who profess the name
of Christ will reject his sweet and boundless phil-
osophy for the vain theories of the world which
do not satisfy and which are as dismally full of
uncertain conjecture as ever spurious religious
creeds contained. Wrapt up in their own learning,
in the consciousness of great individual powers,
men who aver themselves, to be guided by the light
of the Holy Spirit are lured into reasonings and
to theories that end gloomily enough, for their end
is soon reached and there is no purpose to them.
The heart of the wise man is never closed to any
light. No one guided by the Holy
Spirit will claim for education a cure
for the world's evils. God has made many
things to be done in this world. To perform one
of them—to be educated—is not all; it is but one
and yet it is much. It is not in real wisdom to
claim that education or universal suffrage, or tem-
perance or honesty will bring to the earth that
happy condition which is the wish of the righte-
ous and the promise of God. There are many
laws and they must all be observed.
	It is because all that we do here is for a greater
and a grander purpose that the Latter-day Saint
gives an intelligent reason for living and he alone
gives it. It is because the theories of the most ad-
vanced ministers are unsatisfactory and vain,
that atheism grows apace and that the religious
structure of the civilized world totters and is ready
to fall. The very ministers who advance these
theories realize how insufficient they are; they
cannot trust in their own claims; they are insin-
cere and being insincere are weak. Had they but
the strength to trust God and His Holy Spirit for
direction we would not see infidelity so rampant.
	Dr. Newman talks well. He tells much truth;
but he is without that day star which lights up the
understanding of the true and humble follower of
Christ and which tells us why we are here, whence
we came, whither we return and which enables us
to place a just value upon our efforts.
	All things, however high, are but the means to
things that are higher; and when women and men
have attained the education which Dr. Newman
would have them, the purpose of life is but
little nearer its fulfillment; the mission of both
has become more important and a wider field of
immediate necessities to fulfill that mission has
but opened. Not in education is salvation to be
found, though to be saved we must be educated.
The beginning and the end of righteousness is in
obedience to the Supreme Will, for in that
obedience lies the grand and enduring strength of
Christ-like humility.
								RUPERT.


190	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

EMERY STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Knowing that you have not lately heard
from us, the young ladies of Moab, I thought
I would write you a few lines:
	We were organized a few years ago, but for
some reason did not prosper. We were there-
fore lately reorganized, and our society is now
in a flourishing condition, with Fanny Standi-
ford as President; Priscilla Warner and Dell
Darrow, Counselors; Clara Burnham, Secretary;
Rose Stuart, Treasurer. We are having nice
weather, the fruit trees at this date being all
in bloom. We have general good health, and
withal a splendid climate.
	The EXPONENT is a very welcome visitor, I
do not know what we would do without it.
				Yours,	
					FANNY STANDIFORD,
					PRISCILLA WARNER.

				MENAN.	
					MENAN, May 3, 1887.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	As our voice has never been heard in your
paper, and as we think it is our turn to give
our ideas, we write, after having long talked of
it:
	Our associations are in a rather scattered
condition. We have ten fully organized, which,
as a general thing, are doing pretty well. We
have not visited as much as we would have
liked to, but there are so many inconveniences
that it is impossible at times to cross the
streams. However, our aim is to do good and
be a benefit to the young. Some say it is not a
woman’s place to preach the Gospel, but we
think, as sisters, that it is woman’s place to
know herself, to know her God, to be ac-
quainted with the principles of the Gospel, and
we certainly have the privilege to teach and
exhort all to do right, that by keeping the
commandments of God they may be blessed.
	We have a beautiful country up here; the
fields are beginning to look green, and the
health of the people is generally pretty good.
We have had a few deaths in our stake this
season, outnumbered many times, however, by
lots of fine babies.
				Your sisters,
				SUSANNAH R. LAWSON,
				MARY A. RICKS,
				MARY A. RAYMOND,
					Of the Stake Presidency.
				SUSAN L. STEPHENS, Sec.

			WASATCH STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The half yearly conference for the Relief So-
ciety of Wasatch Stake was held in the Heber
Hall, May 6th. On the stand were Prest. Emma
Brown and Counselors, presidents of the various
branches, Prest. Abram Hatch and Coun.
T. H. Giles of the Stake Presidency, several
of our bishops and other brethren. Services
began by the choir singing, “God spoke the
word.” Prayer offered by Bishop R. S. Duke.
Minutes of former conference read and adopted.
Our Stake contains nine branch organizations,
seven of which were represented as in a flour-
ishing condition.
	Prest. Brown in her opening remarks gave
some well-timed instructions to the secretaries.
	Bro. Giles followed with the same subject,
and gave a few hints regarding the correct fill-
ing out of the blanks.
	Our conference was attended by a large num-
ber of sisters. The remarks were such as
tended to strengthen and encourage all who
felt desirous of being built up in the Kingdom

[Column 2]
of God. Several of the brethren also addressed
us, and theiir remarks were well appreciated.
	The conference then adjourned for six months.
The choir sang an anthem. Benediction by T.
H. Giles.
	JOSEPHINE CLUFF JONES, Stake Sec.

	UTAH STAKE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Having a matter of business pertaining to 
the Relief Society, I feel like penning it to
you:	
	President Smoot, Sister M. Daniels and my-
self visited Benjamin and Lake Shore Wards
on the 16th of April. In the morning we held
meeting at Benjamin; had a good time; good
attendance of brethren and sisters; we took
dinner, then drove to Lake Shore. In the
afternoon held meeting at 3 p.m. for the pur-
pose of organizing a Relief Society. Mrs.
Annie Maria Ferguson was chosen for Presi-
dent, and she chose two counselors, who were
set apart by President Smoot, Bishop Argyle
and Counselors. This section of country is lately
settled; it is a new ward; they were all strangers
to me, but seem to be a good and united peo-
ple. It is a pretty country near Utah Lake,
six miles north of Payson.
	I believe the Relief Society in this Stake
will compare pretty well with any other; there
are good people here, and very ready to assist
in anything pertaining to the advancement of
righteousness in the land. At the present
time we are passing through trying scenes and
circumstances; it seems there is no way to look
for succor or strength but from our Father in
Heaven, who is able to give to all those that
seek Him.
	In the past eight months there have been
many changes. I have lost by death a brother
and sister, leaving a family of thirteen children
between them, and now I am called to undergo
another ordeal—my husband thrust into prison
for conscience’ sake, by those that have no
conscience nor feeling for God or man; but
there is a just God in heaven who will reward
everyone according to their merits. The scale
will turn some day, and the victory will be won
by the faithful.
	I hear that Sister Snow is quite poorly;
she has lived to a great age, and has done a good
work. May peace and comfort be her portion.
Love to all and much to you.
		Your sister in the covenant,
						MARY JOHN.

	TWENTIETH WARD, S. L. CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The  eighth anniversary of the Primary
Association of the Twentieth Ward was held
in the school house, April 21st, 1887, Prest.
Emma Toone presiding. After singing and
prayer, the minutes of the annual meeting of
April 29th, 1886, and the report were read and
approved. The programme for the occasion
was next carried out. It was as follows: Recita-
tion of Welcome, by four little boys; Recitation,
Katie Sansome; Essay on good manners, Al-
bert Romney; Duet, Ida Sansome and Ida
Savage; Reading, George Ottinger; Recitation,
“A Dream and its Answer,” by Misses Tovey
and Armstrong; Recitation, Master Evans;
Song, Alice Clowes; Dialogue, on Politeness,
by four young girls; Questions and Answers on
the Godhead, by the members; Recitation,
Pauline Held; Duet, by Sarah Nott and Lizzie
Pritchard; Dialogue, “What shall we Follow?”
by eight boys; Essay, “Character,” Lizzie
Pritchard; Organ Solo, Kate Romney; Recita-
tion, Pearl Culmer; Recitation, “Obedience,”
by the members; Recitation, Isabelle Romney;
Song, Irene Daynes; Dialogue, Katie Lee,
Willie and Lee Richards; Recitation, Kathie
Culmer; Recitation, Hugh Sainsberry; Recita-


tion, Artie Culmer; Duet, Lena Savage and
Kate Dunbar.
	Sister Toone made a few remarks, expressing
her good feeling towards the children, and
thanking them for their good behavior during
the meeting. She then called two of the little
boys, George Ottinger and Albert Romney, to
the stand to make a few remarks. Both of
them responded to the call, showing their obe-
dience to her by saying a few words.
	Sister Toone was presented with a nice satchel
by Sister M. Sharp, her first counselor, in be-
half of the children of the Primary.  Presents
were also given to the Secretary, Miss Selina
Puzey; Organist, Kate Romney; and Corres-
ponding Secretary, Lizzie Pritchard.
	Remarks were made by Bro. George Romney,
Prest. Ellen Clawson, Sister Felt, Sister L. A.
Wells, Bro. Salmon, Bro. Savage, Miles Romney
and Dr. Ferguson.
	Meeting adjourned for one year. Singing,
“Did you Think to Pray.” Refreshments were
then partaken of, after which the meeting was
dismissed.
	In the evening the parents and a few invited
guests met in a sociable capacity, and the fol-
lowing programme was carried out: Speech, by
Bro. Romney; Recitation, “Tom’s Little Star,”
by Cecilia Sharp; Song, Fannie Savage; humor-
ous reading, “Little Yacob Straus” C. W.
Stayner; Organ Solo, Kate Romney; Grand
shaking of hands and refreshments; Song,
Emma Simmons; Recitation, “How Miss Edith
Entertained her Sister’s Beau,” Belle Salmon;
Duet, Mary and Ellen Romney; Remarks, by
Bro. Salmon; Organ Solo, Joseph J. Daynes;
Reading, Bro. Willis; Recitation, John Airmet;
Guitar selection, Messrs. Ellis, Willis and Sim-
mons; Remarks, by Sister Presendia Kimball;
Address, by Bro. Puzey; Song, Fredrick Cul-
mer; Address, by Bro. Stayner; Comic Song,
Bro. Sainsberry; Address, by Bro. Dunbar;
Recitation, Bro. Airmet.	
						CECELIA SHARP.

			HYRUM, CACHE CO.

DEAR EDITOR:

	Thinking, perhaps, a few lines might be wel-
come, we thought we would inform you that
we are still alive as a Relief Society, and desire
to be useful in the kingdom of God.
	We held our nineteenth anniversary on
Monday, the 5th of May, 1887, at 10 a.m.,
Prest. Liljenquist presiding. There were
present Sister Luna Y. Thatcher of the Stake
Presidency, Sister Mary Freeze, Bishop S. M.
Molen and Sister J. E. Molen, Stake Prest. of
Primaries, and several brethren. After the
usual opening exercises, the minutes of the last
annual meeting were read and adopted. The
Secretary then read the following report:
	Statistical: Members, 240; meetings held,
20; average attendance, 40. Financial: On
hand, May 5th, 1885, cash, $18; property,
$14.21; real estate, $665; wheat, 700 bushels.
Received: Cash, $93.42; property, $70.71.
Disbursed: Charitable purposes, cash, $84.77;
property, $61.92; hospital, $6; home industries,
$10.65.
	Prest. Liljenquist made opening remarks.
and gave a good report of the labors of the
Relief Society during the past year.
	Coun. Johnsen testified to Sister Liljenquist’s
remarks, and thanked the young men who had
met to sing for us.
	Sister L. Y. Thatcher was pleased to meet
with the sisters of Hyrum. Said, “It is our
duty to sustain the authorities of the Church
with our faith and prayers. We are too apt to
criticise. Sisters, when you are in trouble and
sorrow humble yourselves and fast and pray,
and the Lord will remove the cloud and give
you the blessings you desire.”
	Sister Freeze said, “You have a good work-
ing Society, a band of noble women, which

[Column 2]
your Bishop should be proud of. Your report
is excellent. One good thing is you have but
little in your treasury; it is better to give it to
the needy than to lay it up. Let us be humble
and not wait for the Lord to humble us; if we
serve Him in prosperity He will not desert us
in the hour of sorrow.”
	Sister J. E. Molen spoke very encouragingly.
	Bishop Molen testified to the good work the
Society  had accomplished. Said, “I am
proud of our Relief Society.” He then pre-
sented the officers of the Relief Society for the
ensuing year. Prest. Liljenquist and all the
officers were sustained as before, excepting Sis-
ter Halversen and C. C. Hansen, who were
honorably released from their duty as teachers
on account of sickness. Sister M. Winge was
elected a teacher. Singing. Benediction by
Elder William Williams.
	2 p.m. Meeting called to order by Prest.
Liljenquist. Singing. Prayer by Elder H. E.
Nielsen. Singing.
	Sister Mary Freeze said, “Every principle of
this Gospel is ennobling, and especially plural
marriage. I have no doubt but that each one
wants a celestial glory; to me there is no sacri-
fice too great for this. If we want this glory
we must obey every principle. I would not be
out of it for all I have on earth or ever expect
to have, not even if I should have to lose my
life. We women are now disfranchised, but if
we cannot vote, we can use our influence for
good, and keep the commandments of God.”
Spoke of the word of wisdom, and urged the
young to keep it.
	Sister Thatcher spoke on the word of wisdom.
Said, “It is not only in eating and drinking,
but we should not overwork ourselves.” Gave
very good counsel to mothers on training their
children. “Make home happy and cheerful for
them; get them to obey you through affection,
not through fear.”
	Sisters Unsworth, Thorsen and Wilson en-
couraged the sisters to faithfulness.
	Elders C. C. Shaw, H. E. Nielsen and Wm.
Williams addressed the meeting.
	A few closing remarks by Prest. Liljenquist
and meeting adjourned for one year. Singing.
Benediction by H. T. Johnsen.
					C. LILJENQUIST, Prest.,
					N. M. NIELSEN, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	CORRESPONDENCE.

	Zenos, Maricopa Co,. Arizona,
	April 13, 1887.
DEAR AUNT EM:

	I hardly know why I have not written you
oftener, for I have so longed for a visit with
you, particularly since your eastern trip. I
have read the pieces about your visit to the
old home with much interest, for I have listened 
with childish delight to the tales of that same
New England village, for was it not also the
home of my mother? I can almost fancy I 
should feel at home there, although I never
saw the place.
	We are all in the usual health; indeed this is
a very healthy climate, and we may, with ordin-
ary care, enjoy the greatest blessing vouchsafed
to man—good health.
	We have very good opportunities for edu-
cating our children; much better, in fact, than
we thought we would have in a new country;
still not exactly as we would like, for we are
obliged to conform to the territorial law, which
is very good of its kind. Our Primary and
Young Ladies’ Associations, also our Sunday 
Schools, are in a prosperous condition.
	I wonder if in your travels sometime you
will not drift this way long enough to make us
a visit? We would find much to interest you.
We are in the midst of pre-historic ruins. A
gentleman by the name of Cushman has been

[Column 2]
excavating and examining some of them quite
recently, in fact he is not through yet. The
Smithsonian Institute of Washington are di-
recting his labors.
	Yours affectionately,
	F. P. ROBSON.

	BURHAM, New Mexico, May 8, 1887.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:

	After saying goodbye at your office, I re-
mained in the city until the 15th of April,
when I started by train for Thompson's Springs,
where we arrived at 11 p.m., and were obliged
to stay there two nights, in order to get con-
veyed to Moab, Emery Co., a distance of three
miles. We reached the Grande River in time
to cross before sundown, which we did in a
small boat, the wind blowing a regular gale.
We found kind friends awaiting on the opposite
side, and soon came in sight of the little town.
There are only a very few of our people here,
and during my short stay I really pitied them,
they are surrounded by such a rough element.
There are some good, faithful sisters here, but
they are unable to accomplish much with so
many things of an evil nature to contend with.
I was favorably impressed with their school
teacher, a very intelligent young lady from the
north; I felt she must be very lonely, being
away from home, as I had been. I was very
thankful to find that I could, after a few days,
continue my homeward journey, where I found
myself the eighth day from starting. I was so
rejoiced to see the dear ones at home again, and
press to my heart the little ones that for so
many years claimed a mother's love and care;
but all looked strange and new to me; I could
scarcely make myself think that the general
surroundings were the same as when I left, and
now, though I can say I most willingly assume
the oldtime responsibilities, it seems a little
harder to bear after so long a vacation, yet I
feel that the loving, encouraging words of my
many dear sisters there will prove of great
worth to me, if I can only keep them in mind.
Oh! I did feel to thank my Heavenly Father
daily, while there, that He had permitted me
to once more look upon the home and friends
of childhood, after spending nine years of iso-
lation in a New Mexico home. More especially
did I appreciate the privilege of spending a
little time in one sacred place, and the blessings
I received therein. O, it was so near Him
and the angels of light, and the sweet and
noble faces of those who labor there, would I
could keep them ever in my sight, and I feel
that the thought of them, and the grand work
that is being done in that holy house, will com-
fort me through many changing and weary
scenes the future may bring.
	How often I ask myself, “Will I be faithful
through the trying ordeals of the next few
years?” Oh, kind and loving Parent, give me
faith and strength to overcome and be worthy to
share in the rich blessing that shall be poured
out upon thy Saints who withstand the fiery,
trying times, and prove that the contact has
passed, and they remain pure and true to
Thee.
	This, I believe, is the prayer of each Saint
of God, and well we can say, “In Him alone
we trust, knowing well that all other powers
will fail.”
	Dear sister, I hope your health has improved,
and do trust that your life may be spared
many, many years to bless your sex, as you
have done, and that I may meet you and enjoy
your pleasant conversation often in life.
	There was something that was denied me
during my visit on account of bad weather, 
and that was visiting often my mother's grave.
I did feel it would be such a sweet solace to
kneel there and implore strength from above,
as I have in the long ago, but I was favored so
much that I will not complain.


Please accept this rambling letter, as I be-
lieve some of the readers of our EXPONENT
will be pleased to hear of my safe return to the
south.  I will try, ere long, to tell you some-
thing of the Navajos.
	Ever wishing to remember and be remem-
bered by the humble and good, I am,
				Your sister,
				MARY STEWART BURNHAM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A BIRTHDAY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	April 28th, 1887, being the 57th anniver-
sary of the birthday of President Catherine
Foreman, the members of the West Heber 
Ward Relief Society decided to give her a sur-
prise party, which, under the able management
of Sister Murdock and others, was a complete
success.
	They met at the Relief Hall to the number 
of forty, where tables were set, loaded with the
bounties of life, of which all freely partook,
after which the President received a present of
a black cashmere dress, the Secretary and
Treasurer also receiving suitable presents. This
was followed by many of the members testify-
ing of the faithfulness of the President, and in
having a good time generally.
				HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.


Beginning in September next, Miss Rose
Elizabeth Cleveland will be associated with
Mrs. Sylvanus Reed in the management of
a school for young ladies in New York City.
Miss Cleveland will become first assistant, and
will deliver lectures on American history. She
is not to engage in newspaper or magazine
work.


OBITUARIES.

	We feel to mourn the loss of our beloved sister, Elizabeth
Clifton, of Wallsburg, Wasatch County, who departed
this life on Thursday, April 27th, 1887, at 2 o'clock in the
morning, after a long and painful illness, which she bore
with Christian fortitude  Sister Clifton was born August
21st, 1822, in Chapel of Trith, Derbyshire, England. She
obeyed the Gospel in 1843, and emigrated to Utah in 1863.
Resided in Salt Lake City until 1874, when she moved to
Wallsburg, Wasatch County. On July 21st, 1879, she
was appointed by the voice of her sisters to preside over
the Relief Society, which she did faithfully to the last.
				FRANCIS KERBY, Acting Bishop.
	[Deseret News please copy.]

	DIED, at the residence of her daughter, Mary Ellen
White, in the First Ward of Beaver City, on April 25th,
1887, Ann Long W. Holbrook. She was born in York-
shire, England, October 6th, 1807, and with her husband,
Charles Woodhouse, embraced the Gospel in their native
land; in 1857 she emigrated to St. Louis, Mo., with seven
children, and there the hand of death fell heavily upon her
taking from her a kind husband and one child. Notwith-
standing this sore trial, through her indomitable courage
and perseverance, she, the following year, with her six re-
maining children, came to Salt Lake City, and resided since
then in different settlements of the Saints. At the time of
her demise she was the plural wife of Elder O. Holbrook of
Fillmore, Millard Co. She was full of integrity, true to
every principle of the Gospel as revealed in these last days,
liberal in donations and tithes, and faithful in the perform-
ance of the office of teacher in the Relief Society, which
position she filled a number of years; she was ever ready
to administer in word or deed as the occasion required, and
the Society of Beaver feel that we have lost one of Zion's
noblest daughters, a mother in Israel in very deed. Con-
doling with her bereaved family may we emulate her many
virtues.									  COM.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	It becomes my painful duty to unnounce the death of a
dearly beloved sister and co-laborer in the work of God.
	Sister Margaret Powell, widow of the late Daniel Powell,


was born in Penbrockshire, South Wales, October 31st,
1806. Was the mother of thirteen children, four of whom
are living. Sister Powell emigrated to this country from
Rymie, Aderdare, Wales, 1865, and to Utah in 1871. She
moved to this place, Samaria, Idaho, with her youngest
son, December 22nd, 1873, where she has resided ever
since.  During her residence here she acted in the capacity
of first counselor to the president of the Relief Society,
which position she honorably filled.
	On the 15th of this month, while preparing to go to Sab-
bath school, in the house of Sister M. D. Davis, which was
her home, she suddenly fell dead.  A coroner's inquest was
soon called and a verdict rendered to the effect that the
deceased came to her death from natural causes.
	On the following day the funeral services were held in
the Samaria school-house, and after the benediction the
deceased was followed by the vehicles of the officers of the
Relief Society, Y. L. M. and Primary Associations. The
vehicle containing the corpse wended its way to the grave-
yard followed by numerous vehicles containing friends of
the deceased.  At the grave-yard we engaged in prayer, a
hymn was sung, then all that was earthly of our Sister was
confined to mother earth.  The spirit had taken its flight to
Paradise.		Respectfully your Sister in the gospel,
					M. D. DAVIS, Pres. Relief Society.


ANOTHER ART GRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the “French Craze” for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York,Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N.Y.


﻿BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I’d Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy’s Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won’t You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don’t Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor’s Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack’s Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N.Y.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1838.

Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
  We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre

