VOL. 15.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1886.		No. 8


THE FARM HOME.

You're weary grown, my girls and boys,
	Of this calm, quiet country life;
You long again for city scenes,
	The busy spirit and its strife;
You miss the lights adown the streets,
	The bands of music, daily news;
Could choice direct us, and not need,
	I, too, that brighter life would choose.

Yet here in grandeur, mountains rise,
	And every month new beauties bring,
From autumn's wealth of richest dyes
	To graceful tints of lovely spring;
And birds that charm and lure thee on;
	And luscious fruits, that few can buy,
While gentle creatures of our own
	Reward our care and please the eye.

The girls, with weary patience, still
	Keep on their way, as women do,
But boys will stop a hundred times
	Some gay-winged creature to pursue;
And when recalled, their flying steps
	Halt all the way through blooming clover—
"O, I'm so tired, I'm almost dead,
	It only needs the pushing over."

But yet the time will come to them,
	It may be many years from now,
When they'll remember with a laugh
	The ills that shadowed childhood's brow;
They'll recollect the walnut trees,
	Whose bower-like branches droop around,
And how they gathered in the fall
	The nuts where leaves o'er spread the ground.

They'll recollect the trees that bore
	The earliest fruit, the latest, too,
Their garden patches, where each one
	Planted just what it pleased them to;
And how they played at hide and seek
	All through the orchard long and wide,
And laughed at bare legs dangling down
	From boughs where some one sat astride.

They'll recollect how once there came—
	When snow was deep and night wind cold,
A man of prayer and prophecy—
	Of hymns he sang and truths he told;
That seemed like legends pure and sweet,
	Yet of the future, not the past;
And how the present, humble poor
	Would end in blessings at the last.

Thanks be to Him for this retreat,
	Where worldly teachers have no place,
And may He guard our humble home
	By His own power and His grace;
Here may God's lessons and His love
	Grow in their souls each year, each day,
Deep rooted trees, that, reaching high,
	No storms can break or tear away.

This spot of earth, so lowly now,
	Within their memory yet will be
The sacred center where drew round
	The visions of futurity.
From missionary fields afar,
	My boys, at times, in thought will turn
To this, the altar of their hearts,
	With deeper love its worth to learn.

And on the silver string of time,
	Mem'ry will gather for my  girls
Souls here they loved and truths they found
	Worth more than gold—more pure than pearls.
And when o'er all these fields so fair
	Ten thousand Saints their dwellings rear,
Not lonely then, I'll see them smile,
	Contented that our home is here.

			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, June [-]0th, 1886.


[Column 1]
	PRINCESS STREET, EDINBURGH

	It is said that Princess Street, Edinburgh, is
the finest in the world, and one can readily be-
lieve it. It is the first one sees, whichever of
the two lines of railroad he may enter the
city by. In olden times the celebrated Castle
Hill, a position almost impregnable, was par-
tially surrounded by a moat, which in later
days was converted into a large canal, or dock.
The Edinburgh then existing was built on the
side of the dock on which the Castle is situated,
and is now known as "Old Edinburgh," as dis-
tinguished from the modern part of this re-
markably beautiful city. On the old side the
buildings were of irregular height, yet built
comparatively together, and followed the shape
of the ground, which rises as it runs toward
the west, and terminates abruptly in a huge
cliff or overhanging the precipice, on the verge of
which is built the walls surrounding the Castle.
As the eye travels from the east to the west,
noting the old fashioned architecture of the
fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, which is still
preserved, with its delightful irregularity and
bold projections intermingled with portions as
deepened in shadow as the other is full with
light, the Castle (towering above on a hill or
cliff whose perpendicular sides are of impreg-
nable rock) fulfills the purpose of a climax,
and is one of sure magnificence and unques-
tioned grandeur. As the buildings have fol-
lowed the line of the old docks, of course they
run nearly east and west. But a small portion
of this once water way is now used as a rail-
way depot, while the remainder has been con-
verted into one of the sweetest and most at-
tractive public gardens the eye could wish to
rest on. These gardens are in breadth perhaps
150 rods or more, with the exception of the
portion used for the railway, and being of an
undulating character, give opportunity for
that pleasing variety which is the charm of
landscape gardening. Running east and west
along the north side of these gardens is Prin-
cess Street, the right side skirting the gardens,
and the north devoted to business places—the
principal hotels, club houses and fashionable
business establishments being located on it.
	Here "New Edinburgh" begins. Going over
to the north side of the gardens, one can either
ascend their grassy slopes, or climb an eleva-
tion in the "old city,” [-]ud, till his heart fills
with pleasure, gaze down o[-] the fair-grounds
and view the new or modern Edinburgh
stretching away for miles beneath his feet,
while from the north, or new side, the bold
front of Castle Hill, and the broken and fan-
tastic architecture of the old city lend a charm
to the intervening gardens, that is inexpressibly
captivating. The view is materially enhanced
because of the absence of anything to break
the prospect. The only buildings between
Princess Street, for the length of the gardens,
and "old Edinburg," are the Academy of De-
signs and the Art Gallery. The rare beauty
of Princess Street is due to this unbroken
view of the old city and to the breadth of
view and unlimited variety of scenery it pre-
sents (from frowning and massive cliffs and
undulating and grassy slopes to the terraced
walks, rural retreats and health distilling foun-
tains embraced within the remarkably limited
area of the gardens) and not because of the
magnificence of the buildings which, (though
they are fairly massive and pleasing to the eye)
adorn it on the north side, and mark the be

[Column 2]
ginning of new Edinburgh. Another feature
which contributes to the beauty of this street
is the superb monument of Sir Walter Scott,
which stands at the north east corner of the
gardens, and looks like an unwearying sentinel,
visible alike from the new and the old side. At
the east end of the street rises the Calton Hill.
On this, and over looking Princess Street,
stands the monument to Nelson. Still further
east, though not so high, but on the same emin-
ence, are the few fluted columns which mark
the spot where Edinburgh began the erection
of a monument to Scotland's greatest lyrist,
Robert Burns. Because, however, of a failure
of her citizens to contribute, and their nig-
gardly refusal to accede to the modest request
of Glasgow (that the Glasgow coat of arms
might be placed on the monument when com-
pleted, conditioned upon her furnishing suffi-
cient means to complete the magnificent work)
it remains as though only commenced, and is
now popularly known os "Scotland's Disgrace."
Still further away is the highest point in the
vicinity, which is also visible from this street,
called "Arthur's Seat." Walking the length
of this rare street, and it is not very long, one
can see that which will delight alike the ad-
mirer of old styles of architecture, as shown
in "Old Edinburgh;" the student of history
whose ancient lore is revealed by the silent
tongue of the old Castle and its scarred and
precipitous foundation; the lover of modern
civilization as displayed in parks and architec-
ture of a more recent date, and those who love
nature in her varied forms. There is no season,
no hour, when this street does not present a
succession of scenes of rare beauty and sublimi-
ty. The gray and rosy dawn, the deepening
twilight, the cloudy hours, the full blaze of the
mid-day sun, or its first rays or fading tints,
the tender glory of the young moon, and the
broader, fuller and purer light of the glowiug
orb of night with its deeper shadows, each re-
veals beauties known only to itself, and in
forms that vary with the changing hours. The
old city with its rugged front looks like another
world in the darkened night, when from out
the numberless windows (which rise higher
and higher above the unfathonable blackness
beneath) the light gleams forth, just as we
might imagine fires, in infinite numbers, burst-
ing through a solid and impregnable wall, so
high that the blue sky and its starry gems
seem to rest upon its serried and broken bat-
tlements. And when the soft haze of linger-
ing eve, mellowed by the tender and loving
glory of a rising moon, reveals but dimly the
outlines, toning down and hiding the deep
scars in the rugged cliff, it seems like some
fair world lifted far up into the azure heavens,
so ethereal and tender that even a breath
might dissolve, yet inaccessinle because of the
solemn darkness beneath. Is it a wonder that
this street should be the unrivalled?
							R. W. S.


THE BISHOP OF DURHAM ON
		WOMEN'S EDUCATION.

	The Bishop of Durham yesterday presented
the prizes to the pupils of the Stockton High
School for Girls, and in the course of an ad-
dress remarked that when he was informed that
sound religious instruction was given in the
school, he decided to accept the invitation to
be present. (Applause.) A man without re-


ligion appeared to him to be a very sorry crea-
tute—indeed, only half a man; but a woman
without religion was a libel on humanity.
(Applause.) The education of women was
becoming every day more important. There
were many reasons for this. First of all,
there was the reason as old as the hills, that
women were the great educators of the human
race. There was another reason,and that was,
that besides their home influence, women
were every day taking a more conspicuous part
in literature—(hear, hear)—and there was one
branch of literature which they had made es-
pecially their own. He referred, of course, to
fiction. Now, there was no greater influence
in morals or religion than the novel or ro-
mance, no greater influence for good or for
evil. And this department of literature, as
he had said, women had made especially their
own. A third reason for the higher education
of women was that avenues of scholastic and
professional life were opening to them in every
direction. Girls' schools of divers grades
were increasing daily, and there could be no
more honorable profession for a lady than that
of training young girls. (Applause.) In 
other ways, too, the work of women was daily
more appreciated. We had our deaconesses
and missionaries, and certainly no persons could
do more useful work for the Church of Christ
than those deaconesses and missionaries. (Ap-
plause) Regarding accomplishments, he had
not a word to say against them in themselves,
It might be a very good thing—he dare say it
was—to train young ladies in music, whether
they had an ear for it or not. (Laughter.) It
was a valuable discipline, no doubt, and per-
haps to a certain extent it might supply the
natural defect. He would not go into the sub-
ject, but what he wished to protest against was
regarding accomplishments as education. His
lordship then presented the prizes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
		WINTER QUARTERS.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)

	As our thoughts and interests were now
centered upon the Pioneers, it may prove in-
teresting to learn of their whereabouts, and
how they were faring about the time of Bro.
Clayton's arrival, with others, at Winter Quar-
ters. The following extracts are from my hus-
band's journal, commencing September the
30th, which day they passed Chimney Rock
and "encamped at five p.m. on the banks of the
river, opposite a French and Indian camp, 
consisting of ten lodges."
	"The man who has charge of this camp is a
Frenchman by the name of Rashaw, who is
hired to kill game for the inhabitants of Fort
John.	*	*	Two Indians visited our
camp this evening. Col. Markham went by
appointment over to the Indian camp to make
some trades with them for the brethren. I
sent by him a horn of powder to sell for the
money. He returned about eight this evening
with the intelligence that the Frenchmen had
proposed if we would stay here to-morrow and
assist them in hunting buffaloes they would
give us half the game that should be killed. 
Accordingly, it was decided to accept of the
offer, and orders were issued this evening that
no man should leave the camp in the morning
without permission of his captain." 
	The morning of the 1st of October he
wrote, "Some ten or twelve Indians passed our
camp and went out hunting.  Brigham, Heber
and several others also went out on horseback
—they returned about 4 p.m.;  had seen quite a 
large herd of buffalo cows, but when they
came to them found George R. Grant chasing

[Column 2]
them so that they could not get a fair shot;
owing to this and Mr. Rashaw with his men
not appearing to assist them in the hunt they
did not secure any game themselves."
	Mr. Rashaw afterwards informed them that
he had instructed the Indians to kill more
than they themselves wanted and give the sur-
plus quantity to our brethren. He speaks of
going to the Indian lodges with George Bil-
lings and John Buchanan, where they "ex-
changed a small quantity of salt, powder, and
a powder horn for considerable tallow and
meat. A number of others made exchanges
of a like nature with the squaws, who visited
the camp during the day." 
	That evening they learned that the Indians 
who went out in the morning had killed about
twenty cows, but whether they would be bene-
fitted by it or not, they had no knowledge.
The same day Commodore Stockton and com-
pany, who were from the Bay of San Francisco, 
came in sight and encamped three or four
miles from there. The morning of the 2nd a
messenger (Col. Little) was dispatched to the
camp of Commodore Stockton to ascertain his
intentions about accompanying them. The
messenger brought the news that he intended
to cross the river and take the way to St. 
Joseph, Mo., as he thought that to be a much
nearer road to the states than the one the
pioneers were pursuing. President Young, 
father and others of the brethren dined with
the Commodore, and the same day some of 
the pioneers "bought a number of horses, and
Dr. Richards one cow, of the Frenchmen."
	"We renewed our journey at 8 a.m., *	*
and encamped on the banks of the river op-
posite the ancient Bluff Ruins, near which N. 
Fairbanks was bitten by a rattlesnake on our
journey out." 
	They traveled very slowly, owing to the de-
lays occasioned by the killing of buffaloes, as
it was considered good policy to lay up a sup-
ply of meat while they had the opportunity, 
most of the camp depending solely upon that
for subsistence; being entirely destitute of 
flour and other provisions. The evening of
the 4th it was thought advisable to raise volun-
teers to go ahead on foot to arrest the progress
of the ox teams. Amasa Lyman with twelve
others volunteered to go on this expedition.  
"A letter was written and signed by the Presi-
dent and Dr. Richards to the captains of the
company ahead, containing instructions for
them to stop and kill buffaloes and dry the
meat till they should come up, that they might
relieve them of some of their wagons, or of
the loads in them. They were well armed and
started before daylight the next morning. The
camp overtook two of them the day following
—John Buchanan and John Crow—the former
had been taken sick, and was obliged to stay
behind. They stated that the rest left there
the night before at eleven o'clock, and were in-
tending to travel all night."
	On the 7th he notes down the following
amusing incident, which occurred soon after
they left their noon halting place. "Brother
Woodruff with his carriage, Dr. Richards, 
Bro. Benson and a number of others, includ-
ing myself, had preceded the wagons about
half a mile, when all at once we noticed, stand
ing by the side of the road, within a few yards
of us, a buffalo bull of rare size. Bro. Ben-
son rode up close to him, but he would not re-
treat an inch; on the contrary, shaking his
head fiercely and elevating his back, he mani
fested evident symptoms of hostility towards
us, and would, no doubt, have made an attack
upon us had we not been so numerous; as it
was he remained firm and immovable as if he
were lord of the soil, and possessed both the
power and inclination to dispute successfully
the passage of the road. We finally caused
him to flee, after the teams came up, by send
ing our dogs after him."

[Column 3]
	The same day he mentions meeting a party
of mountaineers on their way from Independ-
ence, Mo., to Fort John. They had seen the
pioneers from the other side of the river, and
came over for the purpose of holding an inter-
view. "Their leader gave his name and title
as Captain Walker. Their numbers were
eight men. "Captain Walker imparted some
news to us of a general nature, which we were
not before in possession of, concerning the war
between the United States and Mexico; we
learned that after some little cessation it was
now being prosecuted with renewed vigor.	*
He also stated that packet steamers were now
plying regularly between St. Louis and Coun-
cil Bluffs; that we would find plenty of buffalo
for a hundred or more miles, as we passed
along down the Platte River. He himself
intends to proceed as far as Fort Bridger, and
for aught he knows, to Weber's Fork, near the
Salt Lake. A number of letters were written
by different ones to send by him to the valley. 
*	*	After spending about an hour with
Captain Walker and his comrades we bade
them farewell and pursued our journey."
	They encamped at 5 p.m., having made
twelve miles that day. He says the grass here
was comparatively green and high—fuel, buffalo
chips, as usual. Soon after our arrival this
evening our Frenchmen came, bringing with
them a letter which they found in a stick by
the side of the road, near a creek about a mile
below here. This, on being opened, proved to
be from Wm. Clayton. It stated that they
had passed here the 1st of Oct, being six days
ahead of us, and were intending to continue
on till they should arrive at some place where
there is plenty of wood, and there make a
short delay while they should procure an ad-
ditional quantity of buffalo meat, several of
them being short of provisions.	*	*
We also learned that they travelled from fif-
teen to twenty miles a day, and if this be the
case they must be a hundred or more miles in
advance of us.  Appended to the letter were
a few lines from Amasa Lyman, stating his
determination to overtake them, if he had to
follow them to Winter Quarters."
	The morning of the 8th, after proceeding a
mile we saw the stake in which the letter writ-
ten by Wm. Clayton was found. "On one
side of this was inscribed the following:  '12, 
B. Y. and Council—A. L.' The last two letter
are the initials of Amasa Lyman, and were
probably written by him as he and his com-
rades passed along. Here the ox teams had
encamped, and there were evident signs that
they had remained a day or two."
	"A large band of elk made their appearance
upon the brow of the hill to our left. Two or
three brethren went out to get a shot at them, 
but soon returned without success: Two of
our Frenchmen, being mounted on mules, suc-
ceeded in killing one of them." The same
evening he mentions himself and his brother
Orson being quite unwell, owing to their using
so much meat, as they had not tasted of any
other kind of food for three weeks.  He also
wrote, "My pony, continuing to fail rapidly, 
to-night I turned him loose, considering that
it was as well for him to live and be stolen by
the Indians, as to die by starvation among
us."
	This was the day that our brethren started
from Winter Quarters to meet them, and there
was certainly good cause for the anxious fears
which filled our bosoms and stimulated us to
pray without ceasing, not only for the pioneers, 
but that the Lord would speed the brethren on
the way to their rescue.


Miss Alice Fisher, of Terre Haute, will
read the Declaration of Independence at the
Knights of Labor and Trades Unions' Fourth
of July celebration in that city.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Nellie Emmeline, beloved daughter of Manson J. and 
Fanny B. Woodward, departed this life in Atchison, Kan., 
Sunday, 2 a.m., Jan. 31st, 1886, aged twenty-six years and 
ten months.

	Ours is the loss and the sorrow,
		Ours is the grief and the pain,
	Thine the eternal to-morrow, 
		And thine the heavenly gain;
	Ransomed and freed from earth-travail,
		Ever at rest from its strife,
	Beyond temptation and trial,
		Restored through death unto life.

	Though thy form from sight has vanished,
		And the dark grave claimed its own,
	Purer thy spirit's adorning,
		Fairer its heavenly home.
	Angelic voices are calling,
		"Look over the darkness and gloom,
	Behold!  the merciful angel 
		Stands by the unsealed tomb."
							L. M. HEWLIINGS.


[For the EXPONENT.]

	TO BEREAVED FRIENDS.

		BY L. M. HEWLINGS.

Ah, fain in this hour of sorrow
	Would I give thee comfort and cheer, 
For I, too. have passed through deep waters,
	So deep they have brought forth soul-tears;
Still a sweet voice kept me from sinking,
	And banished all doubting and fears. 

But the dark, rough waves of affliction,
	Some bright pearls have cast on time's shore, 
And gems of rich faith that pre-vision
	A land where the storms come no more, 
And a city that hath its foundations, 
	Where sad tears are shed never more,

Trust, then, your beloved with Jesus, 
	Dwell not on the dark cypress shade, 
Nor of only the earthly raiment
	That 'neath it in sorrow was laid;
Look up to the Risen Redeemer, 
	Who triumphed o'er death and the grave. 

Though tenderest ties have been riven,
	Each link from life's golden chain
Bound firm in this earthly home round them, 
	Will there be perfected again, 
And pure as in Youth's early morning, 
	They wait in a land freed from pain. 

Sweet pledges of love have been given, 
	That will solace the lone hearts bereft,
And cheer, as glad sunshine, the dwellings
	Which loved ones in weakness have left—
In sweet infant smiles and caressings, 
	There's balm for the sorrowing breast. 

Dear Omnipotent Father of love!
	Give us strength to say, "It is well,"
And to place our affections above,
	Where the Lord's own ransomed shall dwell,
And in peace the green pastures rove,
	Where never is heard funeral knell.

There's no pain, nor sickness, nor dying,
	There the River of Life flows on,
And flowers never fade nor wither
	In that clime of the "Great Beyond,"
Where the Blessed in shining raiment
	Roam the Evergreen fields of morn.

Atchison, Kan.


[Column1]
		FOREIGN LETTER.

	We left Chicago the 28th of April, and
sailed from New York on the first of May on
the S. S. Servia for Liverpool. We had a 
rough voyage. Five of the sailors were
washed from the rigging on to the main deck
by the gale on the second day out; one was in-
stantly killed; another died some days after,
and all of them were seriously hurt. On ac-

[Column 2]
count of the storm we were two days late in
reaching Liverpool, and owing to that fact we
had the pleasure of seeing Queen Victoria, who
was there to open the International Exposi-
tion, and the first time she had been there for
thirty-five years; she drove past the hotel where
we were staying twice in an open carriage, so
that we had a good view of the "fine old lady;"
she is rather good looking, but dresses very
plainly.
	We went from Liverpool to Manchester, the
great manufacturing city of England, there we
visited the Board of Trade, where the price of
cotton is fixed for the whole world. We also
went to the Court of Assizes and there were the
grey wigs, the gowns and knee breeches worn
by the Judges, the Lawyers and Jury, which 
we only see on the stage at home,all using quill
pens.
	We visited the Town Hall and many
other places in Manchester, and then went on
to London, passing through many towns whose
names were familiar, such as Rugby, where
"Tom Brown" studied and "Arnold" taught.
The country in England is beautiful; all in the
highest state of cultivation. It reminds one
of our parks in America, with an occasional
small ploughed field. We stayed in London
ten days, every moment of whlch was passed
in viewing the wonderful old city. We rode
all over London on the top of "busses." All
the street cars and busses being made with
seats on top, which seem to be the favorite
places. Of course we went to Westminster
Abbey, admired its grandeur, and gazed with 
wonder at the magnificent statues of marble
and bronze, and at the tombs of dead and gone
kings and queens, earls, dukes, etc, also states-
men, poets and historians, many of whose 
names are familiar—such as Grey, Dryden,
Campbell and others of world-wide fame. We
went to the tower and were shown many curi-
ous things in the way of armor and implements
of warfare; also the crown jewels which we
were told were worth fifteen millions of dol-
lars. We were then shown the dungeons, and
the rooms where the unfortunates were im-
prisoned before their execution—in the stone
wall of which were carved many names, among
which was "Jane," carved by Lady Jane Grey,
and others equally familiar. We were shown
the very block and axe used at the execution
with horrible instruments of torture, and so
many other horrible things, I was glad to get
out of the old place.
	We went to St. Paul's Cathedral, the Na-
tional Art Gallery, the British Museum,South
Kensington, the Colonial Exposition, Crystal
Palace, Buckingham Palace, Hyde, St. James
and other parks—the theater, where, by the
way, we were requested to remove our hats, a
good plan, too, I think, for our country to 
adopt. We took a sail up the Thames and
went to many other places too numerous to
mention here. We left London with regret,
going via. Dover & Calais to Paris, and
reached there in the evening. I had never
imagined a city could be made so lovely; every-
thing seems so gay, bright and happy looking.
The streets are wide and clean, with rows of
trees on either side, and every short distance a
little park and a beautiful fountain or statue,
with lovely parks and drives.—We staid eight
days, which, to me, were like so many days in
fairy land. We went to Versailles, the
Louvre, the Tomb of Napoleon, Cluny Palace,
Notre Dame and many other noted places, be-
sides spending about half of each day in driv-
ing, during which time we were constantly
seeing something new and beautiful. At night
we went to theatres or walked about the streets,
where, it seemed to me, all Paris must be
from eight o'clock until one and two in the 
morning. The Grand Opera House is said to
be the finest in the world, and I can readily 
believe it. 
	We left Paris for Cologne, stayed there over

[Column 3]
night, and drove through the town in the early
morning, then took a boat on the Rhine for
Mayence. You know we read and are
told much of the beauties of the Rhine, but
"the half was never told." Its numerous old
castles built so many, many years ago, a few
of which are now occupied, but most of them
in ruins, built high up among the hills and
mountains, that border this historical river;
clean, quiet little towns in the valleys, while
every available foot of ground on the moun-
tains is covered with grape vines, all terraced
to keep it from sliding. These places are en-
deared to us all in song or romance, such as
the Lonely Rock, on which the very spot was
pointed out to us where the maiden sat and
sung and combed her hair with the golden
comb, and Bingen which we passed, and thought
of "the soldier who lay dying at Algiers,"
Apollonaris, where all the water of that name
drank in America comes from, etc,. etc. From
Magence we came to "Frankfort on the Main,"
which is an interesting old town, dating back
to the days of Charlemagne, or about 790. We 
are now at Hamburg, where we will remain
some little time, then go through Switzerland,
then take a boat on the Danube for Vienna,
etc.
							E. S. S.
	Hotel Bellerna, Hamburg, June 10, 1886.


ETHICS OF WOMAN'S BEST.

	Let every woman who finds her vital forces 
failing, who is growing nervous, as well as al-
ways weary, whose chief longing is for rest of
mind and body, who begins to feel that life is
not worth the living, stop now and here. Cut
off all expenditure of effort that is not an ab-
solute necessity, and curtail that necessity as
much as possible. I do not mean that you
should give up your worthy aims and purposes,
but be sure that you can devote yourself to
them safely.
	Remember this: It is as important that 
you should keep a reserve of physical power
on hand for future draughts, as that you
should provide in a financial way for sickness,
accident, and declining years.
	So long as youth lasts you do not greatly 
feel this exhaustion of the physical forces—
that is, your powers of recuperation are greater
—yet every time you draw upon your strength
to excess, you are obliged to go deeper and
deeper into your vital resources in order to
make repairs. And you never do get quite
back to the old place, even though you are not
conscious at the time of the fact. You find
after a while that a night's sleep does not
make you as good as new again, after "over-
doing," but it takes another day of rest and
night of slumber to enable you to get back
to your usual vigor.
	You cannot help it? I know it is true of 
some of you, that there are duties so absolute
in their demands that you are compelled to
do them as long as you are able to bear the
strain, but by care and thoughtful precaution,
the effort in performing these can be greatly
lessened.
	Social ambition in some cases—the fear of 
not doing as your neighbor does—a false idea
of duty in others, a desire to accomplish much
that would be pleasant to be able to do, the
inability to say no to demands made upon
time and energies, all of these things, singly
or together, cause women to apply the lash
when they find their physical powers lagging,
and on they go until they fall down in their 
tracks.—Emily Bouton.


The new Woman's Hospital Building at
Chicago was opened a few days ago.


20						WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one  year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten 
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m 
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH. 

SALT LAKE CITY,				JULY 1, 1886.


[Column 1]
		THE "OLD FOLKS."

MRS. E. B. WELLS.
	EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	I know you love the beautiful. Having myself
enjoyed the pleasure of being indentified with
and as one of the "Old Folks" in the excursion
on the 29th ultimo, I wish to offer a few sugges-
tions on that subject, thro' the EXPONENT, if you
have room to spare for cursory matter.
	I think it has long been a settled opinion that
youth is the season for beauty,in the face of which
it might seem preposterous to talk of beauty in
old age. Did you ever witness it?
	In the course of the day, before referred to, a
a very impressive scene of beauty was presented
before us. Did you intently view the assemblage of
"Old Folks" seated in the Bowery in American
Fork to which the generous Bishop of that locali-
ty had most kindly invited us?—I did, and with-
out the least fear of contradiction, I say it was
beautiful.
	I wish it well understood that I never seek an
elevation above, neither do I wish to be placed
below, but always like to be on a level with my
good brothers and sister. On this occasion, per-
haps some might think it intrusive in me, but it
was not my fault, for I actually was forced upon
the Platform which the good people of American
Fork had erected for the convenience of our
indefatigable, capacious-hearted Committee, where
I could overlook that large assembly.
	After having been pressed into the honorable,
elevated position, I felt determined to make the 
most of it; and, foregoing what evidently would
be considered etiquette for an aged lady, (i e. to
avoid the appearance of boldness by maintaining
a sitting posture,) I actually stood and gazed, and
the more I gazed, the more I was induced to do
so; and what did I see? A beautiful assembly
of "Old Folks," but not in any possible signifi-
cance, a representative of the “Sleeping Beauty”
—those beautiful "Old Folks" were wide awake
and seemed to have plenty of oil in their lamps.
As I looked upon them, I well knew that many
of them had several times passed through the
fire, but not to “Moloch”—it was the fire of perse-
cution, a portion of the legacy which our Savior
bequeathed to those who would follow Him.
	I know that many of those whose faces ex-
pressed integrity and firmness, had in times gone
by, drank freely of the cup of sorrow from the
merciless hand of persecution—had from time to 
time been homeless and destitute—had journeyed
over trackless wastes to this Mountain recess,
then the veriest personification of barrenness and
desolation which never would, and never could
have been redeemed from its sterility,and utilized,
by any other people than such as were before
me, whose indomitable courage, nerved by un-
swerving faith and trust in the living God, which 
inspired them with more than mortal strength to
contend with adverse circumstances and draw
forth subsistence from unpropitious elements.

[Column 2]
Now that same desert blossoms as the rose.
	I well knew that many of those aged veterans
who elicited my admiration, yes, those beautiful
"Old Folks," when reasoning from analogy in
recalling recollections of our past history, and by
the unerring spirit of prophecy, anticipate that
the furnace which is now kindled in Zion, will be
heated to its utmost capacity. They see the spoil-
ers of our peace, and opposers of the rights of
conscience and free exercise of religion, (which
is dearer to every true Latter-day Saint than
mortal life—and for which they have heretofore
suffered so much) now in our midst, plying their
sacrilegious vocation; and with all this vividly be-
fore these "Old Folks," how happy they appeared,
and how beautiful!
	I truly think I have seldom, if ever, seen beauty
in a more interesting form. Nearly every face
beamed with joy and gladness, being lighted up
by that Spirit which is the genuine promoter of
the highest and grandest type of beauty.
					E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City July 2nd.


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.

“And this we call a loss! O selfish sorrow
	Of selfish hearts! O we of little faith! 
Let us look round some argument to borrow
Why we in patience should await the morrow,
	That surely must succeed this night of death.,"

“Ay, look upon this dreary, desert path, 
	The thorns and thistles whereso'er we turn; 
What trials and what tears, what wrongs and wrath,
What struggles and what strife the journey hath!
	She has escaped from these, and lo! we mourn."

	On Friday evening, June 18, 1886, Sister Louisa
F. Wells breathed her last at ten minutes to nine
o'clock. She died peacefully and without a strug-
gle, in her own home, surrounded by her children
and members of her fond and loving family. She
was the beloved wife of President Daniel H. 
Wells, who is necessarily absent from home
on account of religious persecution. The sorrow-
ful intelligence of her death was sent across the
sea to him by cablegram, and an answer, express-
ing his sympathy with the family, and especially
the children of the deceased, was received the
following day. The illness with which Sister
Wells was afflicted was a painful one, and she
had borne for several months with great patience
and fortitude, the severe and trying ordeals of
pain and suffering which could only be temporarily
alleviated from time to time. 
	Early in the month of February, 1885, Sister Wells
went to England to join her husband, and while
there, her health gradually failing, she concluded 
to return, and in November last she came home, 
though no serious consequences were anticipated; 
in fact it was thought careful nursing and tender
care, together with the invigorating mountain air, 
would soon restore her to her usual health. 
	The funeral services were held on Sunday, June
20th, at four o'clock p.m., at her late residence,
and were conducted by Bishop Millen Atwood. 
An immense concourse of people assembled to
pay their last respects to the honored dead, and
many very beautiful floral offerings and tributes of
love and friendship were laid upon the elegant
casket, that contained the mortal remains of the
departed. 
	The services began with singing by a quartette
consisting of Mesdames Agnes Olsen Thomas
and Vilate C. Young, and Messrs H. G. Whitney
and J. D. Spencer, Mr. C. Burton playing the ac-
companiment. Opening hymn feelingly rendered—
		"Unveil thy bosom, faithful tomb." 
Apostle H. J. Grant offered a consoling prayer,
and the choir sang,
		"Farewell, all earthly honors,
		I bid you all adieu;" 
with the chorus, "There is sweet rest in heaven."

[Column 2]
	Bishop O. F. Whitney, who had known Sister
Wells from his childhood, delivered an eloquent
and impressive discourse, in which he spoke affec-
tionately of her many virtues and integrity of
character, and exhorted her children to emulate
her example and follow in her footsteps, and ap-
pealed to all to keep the commandments of God
and be faithful and true, as she had been. At the
close of his remarks the choir sang, 
		“Rest on the hillside, rest!" 
The benediction was pronounced by Bishop At-
wood.
	The final leave taking of the beloved one by 
her relatives, and especially her sons and daugh-
ters, was most affecting. It was almost impossible 
to induce them to take the last long farewell.
	All the pall-bearers were nephews of Sister
Wells, and as they bore her forth from the home
she had graced so long as wife and mother, every
one instinctively remembered the husband and
father so far away, who was not permitted to
soothe her dying moments, or administer conso-
lation to his grief-stricken children. In the numer-
ous events transpiring, there are many incidents
that will reflect great discredit upon the men who,
in their mistaken zeal to enforce laws made
specially to punish "Mormons," have broken up
families, separated husbands and wives and
ruined many homes, but we leave them in His
hands,Who doeth all things well. 
	A very long procession followed the deceased 
to the cemetary, where prayer was offered and 
the grave dedicated by Bishop John Q. Cannon. 
	"Aunt Louisa," the name by which Sister Wells
was best known throughout Utah, was a woman
of intense sympathy, and the most generous im-
pulses. Her hospitality was proverbial and un-
bounded and the many hundreds to whom she
has ministered comfort and help, and who have
from time to time been welcomed and entertained
by her, will miss her ever cordial greetings and
remember her with loving appreciation. As wife
and mother, Sister Wells shone brightest—gentle,
tender, noble and devoted, and as a friend to the
needy and friendless, and voluntary nurse to the
sick, her sympathy and generosity were ever en-
listed; she gave generously, and never spared her-
self trouble or inconvenience when she thought
duty or affection called her to act, or that large
charity that feels the woes and pains of others,
even though they be strangers. 
	Louisa Free Wells was the daughter of Abra-
ham and Betsy Wells, and was born in Fayette-
ville, Illinois, August 9th, 1824. As a child she
manifested undaunted courage and strength of
character, which forcibly displayed itself during
the times of the Missouri persecutions, in which
she participated while very young. She also
shared in the exodus from Nauvoo, enduring
much fatigue, hardship and exposure. Crossing
the plains from the Missouri river to the valley 
she drove an ox team, often yoking and unyoking 
the cattle herself, besides performing other labori-
ous duties and nursing the sick at night. During
this journey she became acquainted with Daniel 
H. Wells, to whom she was united in marriage in
February, 1849. She has been the mother of 
eight children, four sons and four daughters,
seven of whom are now living to mourn her irre-
parable loss. 
	For those who remain we feel the most sincere 
sympathy—hnsband, children, grandchildren, 
brother, sisters and friends, but we realize she has
gone to rest, and there are many to meet and wel-
come her in the spirit world, whom she will re-
joice to see, and those who prove faithful will
meet her again, where there will be no more pain
or sorrow forever more.
	"We will do likewise; death hath made no breach 
		In love and sympathy, in hope and trust! 
	No outward sign or sound our ears can reach;
	But there’s an inward spiritual speech
		That greets us still, though mortal tongues be dust."


"It bids us do the work that they laid down—
	Take up the song where they broke off the strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
	And our lost loved ones will be found again."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	"Hear the mellow wedding bells,
		Golden bells!
	What a world of happiness their harmony foretells!
	Through the balmy air of night
	How they ring out their delight!
	From the molten golden notes,
		And all in tune,
	What a liquid ditty floats
	To the turtle-dove that listens while she gloats
		On the moon!"

	The half century of married life seldom passes
and leaves both bride and bridegroom in posses-
sion of life, health and all the faculties. This,
however, is the case with Brother and Sis-
ter Nathan Tanner who celebrated the
fiftieth anniversary of their wedding day
at the residence of F. S. Richards
of this city, whose wife is their daughter.
The affair was a brilliant success and Mr. and
Mrs. Richards deserve great credit for the pleasure
conferred upon the guests as well as the honor to
the aged couple expressed in such a fitting manner
as this golden celebration. Mr. and Mrs. Tanner
are still, notwithstanding their age, a very hand-
some couple and one could scarcely believe they
had seen so many years of active service in this
workaday world. The party was an interesting
one in many respects, and especially so in the con-
geniality of feeling manifested among the "old
friends and true," of the happy pair. There were
represented among the guests one Apostle, three
or four Bishops, people who had been associated
in Kirtland, numbering twelve, of those in Misouri,
fourteen, in Nauvoo, twenty-three. There were
also three brethren who had been members of
Zion's Camp, and two of the Mormon Battalion. It
is seldom that in a gathering of this kind one
finds so many of the Saints of early days, whose
lives have been more or less interwoven with each
other in the history at that period.
	The bride and groom are not only large, erect
and fine looking, but were dressed in excellent
taste. The gray dress of the bride was of some
soft material that hung gracefully about her
slender figure, and the fine white tulle she wore
about her neck fell to the waist in a most becom-
ing style. The other ladies present were also
handsomely attired, and some of them wore ex-
quisite old lace, as well as possessing many genu-
ine attractions to charm the eye and ear. Apostle
F. S. Richards and wife, Judge Snow and wife,
Bates Nobles and wife, Sisters Eliza R. Snow
Smith, Zina D. H. Young, Presendia L. Kimball,
Bathsheba W. Smith, the widow of Amasa Ly-
man, and other distinguished people honored the
occasion by their presence. The large and elegant
ly furnished parlors were well filled with the com-
pany which had gathered from Montana, Idaho,
California, and Wyoming as well as Utah. Ele-
gant and costly presents were also sent from a
distance and many were the sincere congratula-
tions and hearty wishes for continued happiness
and prosperity.
	At six p.m. bride and groom led the way to the
way to the dining room where a sumptuous dinner
awaited the guests. Apostle F. D. Richards
pronounced the blessing and a general conversa-
tion was kept up, every one evidently heartily en-
joying the delicious and tempting viands set be-
fore them. The table was profusely and artistical-
ly ornamented with choice and fragrant flowers,
and in the center was an elaborate wedding cake,
at the side of which were the figures 1836, 1886,
and at the very top of the ornament that decorated

[Column 2]
it were two doves typical of the love and happi-
ness of the lifetime of the happy past, as well
as the auspicious future of the aged couple. There
was also a very handsome bride's cake with a
verse on it which ran thns.
	Full fifty years have passed away,
		Their hands and hearts yet true in love.
	For their Diamond time, we trust and pray,
		Happy as this their Golden Day.
	Some of the china used at the dinner was half
a century old and some even more; there were
also gold teaspoons sent as wedding presents
from a long distance. Many were the toasts of-
fered in which all present heartily joined and the
feeling was one of unity and love, and a desire
that these two who had begun life together and
succeeded in rearing a large family here, might
participate in all the great blessings and secure
to themselves and their posterity eternal lives and
inheritances in the celestial kingdom. While
dinner was being served sweet music lent
enchantment to the hour and nothing seemed
wanting to add to the enjoyment of the unique
occasion.
	During the evening there was singing and
music at intervals, and Mrs. Mattie Cannon read
a poem composed for the occasion, which elicited
considerable applause, as well as the songs and
instrumental music. Another feature of the oc-
casion was the guests writing their names and a
sentiment or expressive wish in an autograph
album to be preserved as a souvenir of the Gold-
en Wedding.


[Column 1]
		﻿TRUTHFUL REASONING.

	Integrity to principle and moral courage are the
greatest incentives to honor and greatness and
when these exist in the human breast they lead
to noble ends. When an individual is convinced
of any known truth and cannot be turned aside
from a duty, they will win a prize and a name
above their fellows. The Servants of God who
have been deprived of their liberty for the Gos-
pel’s sake, will receive their reward from Him
that called them to do His work, and will have
that peace of mind that the world can neither
give or take away. They will not pander to com-
mon things, to go with the multitude to destruc-
tion, but they cling to truth and the right, which
always has its opposers, for truth contradicts error
which prevails in the main, because sin is stalking
rampant through the land, and has its votaries,
who never blush at corruption and vice, but are
horrified at a system of reform, that aims to turn
the sinner from the error of his ways, and better
his condition in this life and the next. To serve
Him who rules above, instead of serving the
powers of darkness.
	God, our Heavenly Father is the great law
giver or ruler over this planet. He has declared
himself Lord of lords and King of kings. He
at various periods of time has dethroned kings
and mighty governments, and wrought marvelous
changes in the destinies of nations. God has
chosen agents to usher in His dispensations and
decrees; but He is just, and before He takes an
action to accomplish His purposes He holds out
offers of mercy and salvation, and pleads with
His children for many years. It is now over 50
years since He sent out this proclamation by His
Elders: “Repent of all your sins and be baptised
in water for the remission of sins,in the name of
Jesus Christ.” By those He has authorized
through the Holy Priesthood, to become members
of His Church, “No man can take this honor to
himself but must be called of God as was Aaron,”
Under this head no one can be deceived, for
there will be one Lord,one faith and one baptism.
These Elders have power to bestow the Holy
Ghost, and it leads the receiver info all truth,
shows them things past, present, and to come.

[Column 2]
	Every member of the Church can know for him-
self or herself,if he sought for it in humble prayer.
God has set up His Kingdom on the earth, in the
last dispensation of the fulness of time; and He
will gather His elect from all parts of the earth,
and the honest in heart will hear the good Shep-
herd’s voice and be gathered into His fold, await-
ing His coming for He said unto John, “Surely I
come quickly.” In St. Mark chapter 13, com-
mencing at the 24th verse. He speaks of His
coming, after all the trouble had come upon the
Jews, and says He is like a man taking a far
journey and He commanded them to watch. “And
what I say unto you, I say unto all, watch.” This
was two thousand years ago, nearly; is it not
high time to watch, lest He come in a time we
think not, and we are not prepared to go into the
marriage supper of the Lamb? “For as a snare
shall it come on all them that dwell on the face
of the whole earth.” And again it reads “The
kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms
of our Lord, and of His Christ; and He shall
reign forever and ever.” And it was said unto
John, thou must prophesy again before many
peoples, and nations and tongues and kings.”
In another place it reads “And I saw another
angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the Ever-
lasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on
the earth and to every nation and kindred and
tongue and people.” John was on the Isle of
Patmos at this time and he had to prophesy, be-
fore many people.
	If the true gospel has continued to be preached,
why this angel sent? And why have all sects 
and creeds differed from the Gospel of Christ as
He preached it? When the woman anointed
Him, He said: “Verily I say unto you, whereso-
ever this Gospel shall be preached in the whole
world, it shall be told as a memorial of her—
that is that same gospel unchanged and unmuti-
lated.
	Joseph Smith was told that the true gospel was
not on the earth, but he should be instructed so
that he should know the true gospel and he was
visited from time to time by heavenly
messengers, and the true gospel was im-
parted to this young man, and at the
minor age of 17 years he commenced
to receive a  knowledge of things, that had a
bearing on the present and future time, that no
mortal power can hinder or set aside. The
prophet of the last days, has and will accomplish
more through his knowledge of events that has
and will transpire, in the building up of God’s
Kingdom preparatory to the Savior’s coming and
the final destruction of the wicked,than any other
prophet that has lived on the earth. He taught
principles that had been hid for many generations,
and were brought to light through the Gospel.
The foundation being laid by prophets and pa-
triarchs of old through whose lineage came the
legitimate offspring and favored ones of God’s
Kingdom. Christ was of this lineage, and in the
language of Mary, “He hath holpen His servant
Israel in remembrance of His mercy; as He
speaks to our fathers, to Abraham and to his seed
forever. Who are Abraham’s seed? they who do
the works of Abraham. What, God make
promises to a man with more than one wife and
concerning the Savior of the world, that He
should come through what the world considers
illegitimate offspring, and criminal parentage? I
should think, they would read their Bibles with
holy horror. And the angel said to Mary, she
should have a son. “He shall be great, and shall
be called the son of the Highest; and the Lord
God shall give unto Him the throne of His father
David; “And he shall reign over the house of
Jacob forever; and of His Kingdom there shall
be no end.” What, our Savior associate with
polygamists like David and Jacob? Surely our
righteous judges would put such men into prison
and deprive them of their rights and liberty, if


they had lived in our day? For now they strain
at gnats and swallow camels. Such people follow 
vile practices,drinking,gambling and all the vices
that are popular. 
	The sin of the "Mormons" is summed up in a
man doing what just men did in olden times to
build up a New Jerusalem, and they expect to see
the names of the twelve sons of Jacob on the gates
of that holy city, and all those who oppose plural
marriage will not want to enter there and will not
be permitted to enter in. This covenant of marriage
is again established between God and His people
to fulfil His law. They who are married in this
sacred covenant will have a progression of end-
less lives, and will be married in the Lord, and
such unions let no man put asunder, “And I
heard the number of them which were sealed,and
there were sealed a hundred and forty and four
thousand of all the tribes of the children of
Israel.” To each tribe twelve thousand. These
were redeemed from among men being the first
fruits unto God and to the Lamb." Now, He
has given a command to the Latter-day Saints to
raise up a righteous seed unto Him which will be
the same, born under the same covenant and law
of marriage. And all who are faithful to their cove-
nants, will enter in through the gates of the holy
city.
	One who is proud of the name, plural wife. 
						M. A. M. PRATT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			SANPETE.
	Minutes of quarterly conference of Sanpete
Stake Relief Society, held at Wales, June
12th, 1886. Opening services offered. Minutes
of last conference read. Verbal reports given
by presidents of different branches.
	Counselor Sarah Petersen said the sisters of
Ephraim were in a thriving condition, and
were busily engaged in making cheese for the
Temple, and are raising a little money for
Bro. Kemp's family; who is now in prison in
Detroit, Michigan. Spoke on the storage of
grain; hoped we would take care of the wheat 
we have and keep it in good condition. Ad-
vised the sisters to subscribe for the EXPON-
ENT.
	Coun. E. Allred felt pleased to meet in a 
conference capacity; thought the sisters of San-
pete were trying to live their religion; said, "It
behooves us to live faithful, that we may be 
able to pass through the persecutions that are
being heaped upon us.
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde had been interested in
the remarks made by the sisters, and bore her
testimony to the truth of plural marriage. The 
Prophet Joseph Smith taught it to her but she 
opposed it at first, and it seemed impossible
for her to embrace it. She prayed to God to
reveal it to her if it was right, and He gave
her a testimony that it was. Felt that this
was a glorious work that we were engaged in.
She afterwards spoke in tongues, and the inter-
pretation was given by Sister Casto: "The
Lord has in store far higher blessings than the
persecutions, if we are only faithful. Prepare
yourselves, that you may be able to work in 
the Temple of God for your dead friends.
You presidents of Relief Society should watch
over your flocks and pray for the brethren who 
have been cast into prison and those who are 
in exile, that the Spirit of God may be with 
them."
	Bishop Reese testified that this was the work
of God, and that His Spirit had been in our 
midst. Bishop Farnsworth spoke of the in-
structions that had been given, and if we 
would carry them into effect they would be of 
benefit unto us. Spoke of the sisters making
carpet for the Temple.
	Conference adjourned to meet at Fairview,

[Column 2]
September 11th, 1886. Choir sang Doxology.
Benediction by Henry Reese.
	There are 1,677 members in Sanpete Stake
Relief Society, and on hand in cash, $1043 34;
property, valued at $3,882.40; real estate,
valued at $7,978.26.
		MARY A. HYDE WHITE, Sec.
		NORAH ROBINSON, Ass't Sec.

		RICHMOND PRIMARY.
	The seventh annual meeting of the Rich-
mond Primary Association, held June 1st,
1886, at two p.m. There were present, Sisters
Jane E. Molen, Mattie Hansen, Maud Burton,
of the P.A. of the Stake, and Margaret Young,
of Salt Lake City, and Martha Williams of
Smithfield, besides several other visitors, and
the ward authorities, Sister Myra Merrill, Prest.
of the Relief Society, and a great many pa-
rents of the children.
	After the opening exercises, minutes of the 
sixth annual meeting were read and approved,
also the financial and statistical reports of the
past year. The officers for the ensuing year
were presented by Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore
as follows: Mary Allsop, President; Mary
Monson and Maggie W. Thompson Counselors;
Satie J. Petty, Secretary; Jane Hyer, Assistant
Secretary; Byrdie Harrison, Treasurer; Libbie
A. Merrill, Organist. All were unanimously 
sustained. The programme, consisting of
songs, recitations, addresses, etc., was very well
rendered.
	Sister Margaret Young addressed the child-
ren, gave good instructions and spoke in 
tongues, interpreted by Sister Mattie Hansen;
it was an address to the children.
	Sister Mattie Hansen next addressed the
children; counseled them to be obedient, keep
good order and not to bang their hair.
	Sister Maud Burton was the next speaker;
was pleased to see so many children, especially
so many boys. Counseled them to improve
their time and attend their meetings.
	Sister Martha Williams was pleased to meet
with us, said we should be good to the poor,
and not be proud, we should keep the word of
wisdom. Sister Hannah Brower read a few
lines that she composed about the Primary
quilt.
	Prest. Jane E. Molen was pleased to meet
with us said our primaries are to strengthen
our minds in spiritual things; asked God's
blessings to be with us. We come 
to these meetings to learn the principles of the
Gospel.
	Bishop Wm. S. Skidmore gave many good
instructions: "Let us endeavor to be good, be
prayerful, and obedient to your parents, love
your brothers and sisters, be punctual to your
meetings. Emma Osmond and Nellie Nibley
presented Sister Allsop with a present, accom-
panied with an appropriate address.
	The statistical and financial report of the
Richmond Primary Association, beginning
June 1st, 1885, and ending June 1st, 1886, was 
read:
	Number of officers, 7; number of members,
210; Total, officers and members, 217; average
attendance, 95; meetings held, 49; cash remain-
ing in treasury from year previous, $8.25; re-
ceived from members during year, $6.52; total,
$14,77. Disbursments: Primary banner, $1.
35; writing material, $1; cards, $5.12; calico,
batting, thread and needles for quilt, $3.90;
total expense, $11.37; cash on hand, $3.40;
property, $11.50.
			SATIE J. PETTY, Secretary,
			JANE HYER, Ass't Sec.


[Column 1]
		INTERESTING MEETINGS.

	The regular semi-monthly meeting of the
woman’s organizations of this city was held in
the usual place (Fourteenth Ward) Saturday,

[Column 2]
May 28th, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
After singing, prayer, etc., and minutes of
previous meeting read and accepted, minutes
of P. A. of the 10th, 5th, 20th, 21st and 16th
wards were read.
	Prest. Horne made opening remarks, in
which she referred to her recent visit to the
Logan Temple, and the work she had done for
those who were dead, and some of her child-
ren, and how it had rejoiced her heart.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, who had recently returned
from the east made a brief report of her visit,
and spoke of her conversations with Miss
Cleveland, also of the Memorial which had
been presented to the President and to Con-
gress, both in the Senate and House. In her
remarks she urged the sisters to seek for wis-
dom and the Spirit of the Lord; thought the
women of Zion had better opportunities for
development than any others in the world.
The Gospel itself was more elevating to the
human mind than the education of the world.
She also felt much good might be done if we
would all take an interest in sending abroad
papers and books that explain our doctrines;
that although, perhaps, many here at home
thought very little of the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT, yet outside, when it was said "Mormon"
women had a paper of their own, in which
they gave free expression to their views and
opinions upon all subjects, including the doc-
trines of the Church, woman’s suffrage and
everything of interest to the home and family,
it was considered quite a power, and proof
that they were not enslaved and down-trodden,
for the very fact of their publishing a paper
was in itself testimony to the contrary.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, who had been
away for some time, made an eloquent appeal
to the sisters, touching many important matters,
especially in relation to the training of child-
ren and the management of young people to
preserve them in the Gospel; felt we should
live near to the Lord and cultivate faith and
devote our energies to the building up of the
kingdom of God. Urged the sisters to remem-
ber the work for the dead, and not neglect
that duty, or they would regret it perhaps
when there was not the same opportunity; felt
there was no greater work than for the dead.
Felt that our sisters who had a knowledge of
the human system, who had made a study of
these things should impart information to the
young.
	Prest. Horne spoke of the action taken by
Governor West in visiting the Penitentiary;
thought he did it for the best;said it is the
same now as it was in the days of old. They
were jealous of Daniel's wisdom, and jealousy
is the cause of a great many things in this age
of the world; thought we needed much of the
Spirit of God. Singing. Benediction by
Mrs. E. S. Taylor.

	Minutes of Saturday meeting, June 11th,
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. Besides the usual
exercises and minutes, there were minutes read
from Y. L. of the 20th, 7th, and 4th wards,
and the P. A. of the 5th, 20th and 4th wards.
	Prest. Horne addressed the meeting upon
the events transpiring at the present time;
thought we should draw nearer together and
make us feel as one, for we have much to meet
in the future. “If all are not tried now they
will be, for we have all got to go through the
furnace.” Mentioned an incident which she
had heard related in fast meeting, showing
that our faith should never waver. “We
ought to be on the watch tower, for Satan is
tempting us, and we must say, ‘Get thee be-
hind me, Satan.' Let us do the best we can
each day, and if we have done any wrong
thing, let us do it no more. We can live near
unto the Lord to-day, and nearer to-morrow, 
and so the adversary will have no hold on us.
We are coming to a great crisis, and the Gos-


pel is being more thoroughly taught to the
Gentiles; so that they may understand it more
clearly. Our time of rejoicing is in the near
future, let us be humble and faithful, that we 
may be among the chosen ones.
	Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson had been on a mis-
sion to Washington, and while there, in ob-
serving what was transpiring around her, had
realized keenly that the ancient prophecies 
were being fulfilled; said, "No power of man
can alter this work, for God's hand is in it, 
and the unseen hosts of eternity are working
for us. Had a long conversation with Gov.
West previous to his coming here. One of
the questions he asked me was, why could we
not have a new revelation, and settle all this
disturbance?" I told him they were not so 
plentiful that you can get them to buy;
another person said he was going to come and
bring us a new revelation, which would have 
the desired effect." In reply the Dr. said she
did not think he was near enough to God to 
have a revelation, but if it had the same
stamp as ours had we might give it a hearing.
Told us of what she had said concerning the 
celestial law, "and if we go back to history we
will find that we are not the only ones who 
have been persecuted for believing what they
thought right." Made mention of the Ed-
munds Bill; thought it worse in its present
form than what it was before it was amended.
"We will be allowed to live and work, but not
to hold any office. We are in the same posi-
tion as the Israelites were because they were 
not keeping God's commandments and walking
in his ways, they were put in bondage; but we 
know that the end is near, and there is not 
one but will be tried to the very uttermost. 
		Said Brother F. D. Richards bore
a faithful testimony in the Supreme Court in 
regard to plural marriage, and made many
other remarks upon the work she had been en-
gaged in.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball remembered the time
when she was in Washington, in taking with
Mrs. Babbitt, whom many of us knew was
there some time with her husband, she told
her "the nearer you come to those great men 
the smaller they appeared;" they think they are 
wise, but they do not have the Spirit of God.
"It has been remarked, we are in the position 
of the Israelites, if so, we have got to come to 
the very bottom of the ladder, and it behooves
us to nourish and strengthen the germ of
faith that is in us. We are aiming to rise to a 
higher sphere, and if we lose our light we are
in a deplorable situation. God will help us if 
we try to help ourselves. He has a battle axe 
prepared for His people.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said we have no need to 
feel discouraged unless we do wrong ourselves;
always have our lamps burning brightly, that
we may be prepared for the future.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor said she had met with
quite a number of associations in different 
places since she had met with us here; thought
the sisters were waking up, and especially the
Y. L. A. they are improving greatly; thought 
every one of our young girls should be mem-
bers of these associations, and if we teach 
them correct principles they will abide by
them, we ought to be very careful what
company they keep, they should be taught the
evil of mixing with those who are not of us.
Prayed that we might discharge every duty. 
Singing. Benediction by Mrs. E. B. Wells.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SISTERS' VISIT IN ST. GEORGE
			STAKE.

SISTER E. B. WELLS:

	DEAR SISTER:—Knowing the interest you
take in all that pertains to the Latter-day
work, I thought a few lines from St. George
would not be out of place.


On Friday morning, May 18th, the Stake 
President, Anna L. Ivins, with her Counselors,
Mary B. Eyring and A. C. Woodbury, left St.
George to visit the western settlements of this
Stake in the interest of the Relief Society and
Primary Associations.
	On the 19th we held meeting with the good
people of Pine Valley, and had a very good
time. We then went on to Pinto, and held
meeting in the evening. On the 20th, after
meeting with the Primary, we traveled to
Hebron and held meeting, but, as the people
scatter out in the summer to look after their
cows, it leaves very few to attend meeting. We
traveled to Bishop Terry's ranch, where we
were very kindly entertained. On the 21st
we went to Clover Valley, twenty-five miles,
and put up with Bro. Lyman Woods and his
pleasant family, and the hearty welcome we re-
ceived made us feel that they appreciated the
sisters' visit. It is near three years since we
visited them, as there are so few living there,
but we had a very good meeting, and on the
22nd we proceeded on to Panacca, where we
were royally entertained by Bishop M. L. Lee.
On the 23rd we met with the Sabbath School,
as the Primary had been discontinued on ac-
count of the sickness of the President and her
Counselors. We urged the necessity of keep-
ing up the meetings. Panacca is proverbial
for its many beautiful children. In the after-
noon we met with the Relief Society; we had
but a small meeting owing to the notice not
having been received in time. On the 24th
we returned to Bishop Terry's ranch and
stayed all night. The 25th we reached
Hamblin in time for meeting at 2 p.m.; we also
met with the Primary. Great credit is due
Sister Mary Westover for the interest she has
taken in the children. It is hard to keep
meetings up in these small settlements. We
were advised not to try to cross the Clara River,
as it was high, so, on the 26th, we returned
home, having traveled 220 miles, and hope we
have done some good in urging the Saints to
their duty.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I re-
main,
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
					A. C. WOODBURY.


A TRIFLE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have been reading the number of the EX-
PONENT for May 15th; it is replete with soul-
inspiring sentiments.  Upon perusing "Wash-
ington Jottings" and "Our Little Paper," I
felt to exclaim, "God bless the editor for her 
untiring and persevering energy while abroad;
I know she is doing much good in disseminat-
ing the principles of our most holy religion, be-
sides giving so much time and thought to our 
valuable little EXPONENT." It filled my
heart with thankfulness to read the spirited
items from her pen, so brightly, yet so ably
portrayed.  I am truly gratified with her
efforts and our other good sisters' in trying to 
be heard, that prejudice may be removed, and
the falsehoods circulated about us as a people
be refuted, and justice, in part, at least, be
granted. The women of Utah should be 
heard to be known, and our testimonies borne
to the world, that none may be left without an 
excuse, for we are not the down-trodden women
supposed; we are liberty loving, and willing to 
assert our rights. The free use of the ballot
will ever represent our honest convictions; we 
are brave and honest; and will vote which way 
our consciences speak—loyal, noble-minded
women, who, it may be seen, are not daunted,
when we know our cause is just and clear—
who have endured much hardship and stood 
persecutions under adverse and aggravated cir-
cumstances, and the same righteous spirit is in


them to-day. I feel to sense the times in 
which we live and the important events
transpiring, which all bespeak to me the latter
days. I am proud of my religion and its
principles; all are pure, ennobling and exalting
to those who live righteously before the Lord.
My chief desire is to live faithful and true, and 
may God grant me strength to stand unwaver-
ing and unflinching every trial and test He
may see fit I shall pass through, is the prayer of 
		Your sister in the covenant,
						M. A. TILL.


HAND-PAINTED STRAWS AND
			BONNETS.

	"Amongst the many novelties of this sea-
son," says a writer in The Queen, "are the
hand-painted straw hats and bonnets. These
are totally dissimilar from the colored straw
attained by dyeing the plait, and also from the
mixtures produced by introducing colored
straw into the plait. The supply of the oclors
by hand which is made after the bonnets are
blocked creates an effect unattainable by any
other process. The dyer can impart to straw
almost any strongly defined color, but he is in-
capable of endowing it with neutral tints. It
is to the successful blending of these indefin-
able shades that the hand-painted bonnets owe
their success and beauty. The producers do
not design to replace the ordinary garniture of
the headdress, but to make the foundation of
the latter harmonize in tints and general effect 
with the fancy materials worn for costumes,
and to let the painted design be subordinate
to the trimming. While dye removes brillancy 
from straw, the process of hand-painting im-
parts it. In many instances the shades of
color supplied are in a kind of marbling or
mosaic, without any special design. In others
bright flecks of color alternate with the shades
of the straw. All these tinted bonnets and
hats are made waterproof, so that the beauty
of the shading may incur no risk either from
damp or rain. The process is no a lengthy
one; the decoration is applied to hats and bon-
nets of all shapes, and they can be quickly
painted to order. A special hat of the Gains-
borough type bids fair to become popular, and
many other models will doubtless harmonize
successfully with the varied costumes of this
season.


RUSSIAN LADY DOCTORS.

	However slowly Civilization may travel in 
the land of the Czar, there is at any rate one
thing in which Russia is further advanced than
most European countries, and this is the open-
ing of the learned professions to women. Par-
ticularly anxious is the Government to make 
the study of medicine as easy as possible to 
women, and there, appears io to be a real demand
for female medicos all over the country. The
Government h[--] now resolved to admit the
schools of medicine for women among the 
number of high constitutional schools with a 
fixed organization and the right to give di-
plomas. A project for the organization is now 
before the Minister of Education. The muni-
cipal council of St. Petersburg, considering
that it is incumbent on the Government, and 
not on the town, to take this institution under
its protection, has proposed a joint arrange-
ment, by which the town  undertakes to pay
annually the sum of 15,000 roubles toward
the maintenance of the institution, the pro-
[---]g of a house for the installation of lec-
ture rooms, museums, etc., and by extending
the right to female students to pursue their
practical studies in all the St. Petersburg hos-
pitals on the condition that the professors are 
chosen from among the physicians of these


hospitals. Thus the material position of the
medical faculty for women is safe, headquar-
ters, money, and hospitals being provided.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	The poet Whittier recently wrote to his life-
long friend, Edwin Thompson: "The long, hard
winter has left me very poorly in health. I 
am glad to see that thy pen is still busy. As
for myself I dread to touch pen and paper."
	The new English dictionary, of which Pro-
fessor Whitney, of Yale, is editor-in-chief will
be the most comprehensive book in existence.
Two hundred and fifty thousand dollars will
have been spent on it before the types are in
order.
	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland, sister of the
President of the United States, has concluded
arrangements by which she will take up her
residence in Chicago, to become the editor of
Literary Life, a magazine devoted, as its name
indicates, to belle letters. 
	Mrs. Rosa Hartwick Thorpe, author of the
poem, "Curfew Must Not Ring To-night," is 
collecting a number of her later verses and
ballads for publication in book form. The
most important poem will be entitled "Remem-
ber the Alamo," as yet unpublished. 
	Judge David Davis died at his home in 
Bloomington, Ill., on Saturday morning, June
26th. He had been in failing health for several
months past, and it was known that the end
of his life was near. Judge Davis had for
many years occupied an important position in 
national politics. He was ex officio vice presi-
dent of the United States during General
Arthur's occupancy of the presidential chair, 
made vacant by the untimely death, at the
hands of an assassin, of President Garfield. He
was an able statesman, a profound jurist, and
a man of sterling uprightness of character. 
His death is the nation's loss.


OBSTETRICS.

	Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp has been practically
teaching obstetrics in Fillmore for the past 
year. She recently brought her class to Salt 
Lake for examination. Those who passed suc-
cessfully were Mrs. Mary Bishop of Deseret, 
Mrs. Jessie Huntsman of Fillmore, Miss Lil-
lian Black of Kanosh. The examining board
were Doctors Richards and Bower. Mrs.
Shipp expects to teach another class in Fil-
more this coming winter.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Salt increases the heat of water in boiling potatoes.
	Half a cupful of vinegar in the water will make an old
fowl cook quickly.
	Grease may be removed from marble by a paste made of
whiting and benzine, and whiting and chloride of lime,
spread upon marble and left to dry in the sun, will remove
stains if not too deep.
     Orange Jam.—Weigh the oranges before peeling, and use
a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit.  Take the peel from
half of the oranges, grate it, and add the sugar.  Open
the oranges, and be very particular to get out the seeds and
white strings.  Add the sugar and peel, with a little water,
and boil the whole about twenty minutes.
	Tin canned goods, when opened, should be immediate
ly transferred to glass or earthenware receptacles.  Recent
investigations show that cases of poisoning from eating
canned goods have arisen from the acid of the canned food
attacking the solder of the tins, and sometimes from de-
composition accelerated by an electrical action between
the solder and the iron of the tin.  Never leave canned
fruits, meats, or fish in opened tin cans.
	The Horseback Cure.—There is a saying among the
Russians that a man who is fond of his horse will not grow


old early. The Arab and the Cossack are examples of the
truth of the proverb. They generally live long; enjoy ro-
bnst health, and have no use for liver pads and blue pills.
That vigorous octogenarian, David Dudley Field, tells us
that he attributes his remarkable vitality to the habit of 
horseback riding, and, if the truth were known, it would
doubtless appear that our sturdiest old men are those who
have been fond of the saddle. The taste for equestrian
sports and exercise which has lately made such progress
in this country is therefore, a hopeful and healthful sign.
It is not a mere freak of fashion, but a development in the 
direction of rational enjoyment and an assurance that the
rising generation will be less of an indoor and more of an
outdoor people. It means less headache hereafter, better
appetites, stronger lungs, rosier cheeks, brighter eyes,
sounder sleep, happier spirits, and a total oblivion of that
organ which, according to Sidney Smith, keeps men a great
deal lower than the angels—the liver.


ORIGINAL RECIPES.

	Fruit, to jelly easily, must be barely ripe. Grapes will
not jelly if they are quite ripe.
	Green Corn Pudding.—One dozen ears sweet corn,
grated; add two tablespoons sugar, a little salt and one egg
well beaten; stir well together and bake an hour. To be
eaten with fresh butter or cream.
	Apple Jam.—Ten pounds brown sugar, boiled and
clarified; add ten pounds good sour apples, chopped fine,
the grated peel of two or three lemons, and a few pieces of
white ginger. Boil 'til the apples look clear and tender.
	Gooseberry Catsup.—Eight pounds gooseberries full
grown, but green, four pounds brown sugar, one pint
cider vinegar, three lemons, sliced, two dozen cloves,
ground. Boil four hours, and strain through colander and
bottle. A delicious relish with roast duck or chicken.
	An excellent and easy method of sealing jellies and pre-
serves and one I can vouch for, is to take thin brown
paper, such as fine dry goods are wrapped in at the stores,
cut somewhat larger than the size of the jar, dip in new
milk and paste over the top. It will dry as tight as a drum
head and is perfectly air tight. I have had no mould on
my jellies and preserves since I used this method, and it
is so simple a child can execute it.
	Swett Pickled Peaches.—Eight pounds peaches, four
pounds sugar, one pint cider vinegar, one dozen cloves,
whole, one dozen allspice, whole, one dozen cinnamon
sticks. Method. Make syrup with sugar, vinegar and
spices, except cloves; peel peaches (cling stones preferred)
and stick a clove in each end. When the syrup is clear
boil the peaches till you can run a straw easily through
them; take them out and let the syrup boil twenty minutes
longer, and pour over fruit; boil the syrup for a few mo-
ments for three mornings and pour over the fruit, then
seal up for winter use.	
					MY TIS.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 

	To the memory of our beloved Sister Ann Stewart,
who departed this life, May 26th, 1886, at her residence in 
Provo City, after long suffering with cancer, which she
bore with Christian fortitude and patience, expressing her
resignation to the will of the Lord. 
	Our beloved sister was born in Dalkeith, in the year
1825: was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ in 1845 
and emigrated to Utah, with her husband and two child-
ren, with the hand cart company in 1856, enduring many
hardships for the sake of her religion. 
	Now, therefore, We the members of the Relief Society 
wish to express the honor and respect entertained by us for 
her as a wise counselor and a true friend, who faithfully
held the office of Secretary of the Relief Society for many
years; as one of the first Teachers, and as Counselor to the
President of the Primary Association, in all of which posi-
tions she labored with love and intelligence, qualities that
she ever exercised for the good of her associates, and of 
her family who always dutifully regarded her wishes; 
and
	Whereas, We acknowledge her loss, and her readiness
at all times to give a helping hand and use her best abilities
for the furtherance of the Latter day Work and in expound
ing and manifesting her devotion to its principles. There-
fore, be it
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with her beloved
[--]ildren and friends; and, further, be it


Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the
record of the Society, and that copies be sent to The En-
quirer, to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and to the bereaved
family.
				CAROLINE M. JOHNSON, Prest.
				JANE P. JONES,
				M. A. TILL,			Committee.
				SOPHIA MEACHAM,


F. Auerbach & Bro. 
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[pointing finger icon] CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[pointing finger icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
[pointing finger icon] Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306.
SALT LAKE CITY. 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868. 
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
[pointing finger icon] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Mi[--]es' and In-
ant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stree[-].


Elizabeth Pugh

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

