VOL. 15.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1886.				NO. 12.


APOSTROPHE.

Oh, Sympathy! thou dear and holy thing,
	Be not abashed -fear not to reach thy hand
Unto the weary and the sorrowing,
	To soothe, to strengthen, and to help them stand.

Oh, Charity! remember what thou art;
	Shrink not from thy full mission here below;
Thou canst not hurt the wounded, bleeding heart,
	What e'er the cause, thou must the balm bestow.

Oh, Wisdom! bear thy stately form erect;
	Lips may be mute, yet open wide thine eyes;
The RIGHT is thine to cherish and protect,
	Thou art not moved by Error's smooth disguise.

And oh, Humility! thou good, safe friend,
	Hide not thy gentle face, though pained to see
Those whom thou fain wouldst succor and defend,
	For thine opposer's sake will trample thee.

Oh, Love! hast thy whole story yet been told?
	Canst lift no more thy mournful, drooping head?
Though crushed and smitten, though so pale and cold,
	Still shalt thou speak, sweet Love, thou art not dead!

Oh, Justice! thou hast waited long—so long;
	Thy look is fierce and searching, like the sun;
Thy voice is sharp, thine arm is firm and strong;
	Who shall abide when thy day's work is done?

Oh, Mercy! ever hovering softly nigh
	Yet nearer come—revive with thy pure breath,
And with thy tender, lovely, pitying eye,
	The thought that Life is Life and Death is Death.

And thou, oh, Truth! the greatest, grandest Pow'r!
	Linking all Light to Light—spare not the rod,
Save those who hold to thee in this dread hour,
	Cling to thine own, and lead them up to God!
										LULA.
Oct. 1886.


THE BOOKS WERE OPENED AND THE
		JUDGMENT WAS SET.

		The judgment is set
			In the house of the Lord,
		And Jehovah is sharping
			The edge of His sword.
		It will fall like a thief
			In the night upon those
		Who fight against Zion,
			Her sons and her laws.

		What wonderful knowledge
			And power we behold,
		Where Jehovah is sifting
			And testing His gold;
		The furnace of Zion
			Has started to burn,
		And all will be tested
			Alike in their turn.

		The refiner is set
			With his crucible now.
		And the token of justice
			Is stamped on his brow;
		And the balancing scales
			Are displayed by his side,
		While the sinner bewails,
			Stepping down from his pride.

		The goddess of equity.
			Robed in her power,
		With the sands in her glass,
			Is forecasting the hour;
		When the feet of the needy
			Shall step on the dust
		Of the selfish and greedy,
			Who pamper their lust.

[column 2]
		The scene we behold
			Is so noble and grand,
		Where the purest of gold
		In the furnace will stand,
			Unmoved by the power
		That a despot has used,
			To break and to bend,
		Where his mandate’s refused.

		The Gods are dictating
			The programme each day;
		While the wheat’s being garnered
			The chaffs blown away;
		And the humble and faithful
			Still closer will cling
		When the stripe is laid on them,
			For all it can bring. 

		They will bow in submission
			And glorify God,
		For counting them worthy
			To taste of His rod;
		His sons and His daughters
			He’ll surely correct,
		And caution and chide them
			With proper respect.

		And naught shall betide us
			But what’s for the best,
		To save and exalt us
			With Him in His rest.
		By suffering He perfects
			The sons of His love,
		Who’ll reign with their Father
			In glory above.

		And we shall rejoice	
			And shout glory to God,
		Although we are bent
			By the weight of His rod,
		For He gives us the good;
			By His blessing we stand,
		And evil we'll also
			Receive at His hand.

		Till the offering of Levi
			Is given again,
		And accepted and righteous
			His gift shall remain.
		And we'll live our religion
			And try to be one,
		Saying, "Father Almighty,
			Let Thy will be done."
							JENNETTE PATON.


AUTUMNAL TINTS.
	There is no season of the year when the
earth is more magnificent in its glory and
beauty than the Autumn and especially Octo-
ber. In September the leaves begin to fade
and turn yellow, and sometimes the pale blue
sky is dim or leaden, but the mellow October
days are rife with beauty. 
	One could easily imagine “the fairy folk"
dancing over the hills and touching with magic
wand the beautiful leaves until they dazzle
and shine like burnished gold or flame up
like a blaze of glowing fire in the distance.
The trailing vines and briers variegated
in color form such festoons of artistic loveli-
ness that one feels like gazing with wonder on
the scene, as though nature had outdone her-
self in the transformation. The fallen leaves—
what sentiment they call up in the human
heart, and how one loves to tread upon them,
what, poetical thoughts they inspire. The
thistledown floats in the air, and the
crickets pipe their shrillest notes in the flags
and stubble. Immense flocks of blackbirds sail

[column 2]
across the pathway and over the brown fields
lighting among the soft willows that fringe the
water’s edge. A few plain brown birds sing 
sweetly in the shrubbery, but the medlarks are
quiet now, or have gone away. The red-headed
woodpecker with gaudy wing is busy at his
boring, making for himself and mate a shelter
ere the winter storms come on.
	In this country the woods are not so gor-
geously attired as where the trees are old and 
heavy with moss and lichen, but the mountain
oak and sumach are splendid, almost regal in
grandeur off coloring, and in the canons and
upon the mountain side, make a display of
their vivid beauty, especially when the sun
is on them, that could scarce be equaled
in any land, and that no artist could ever
successfully imitate with paint and brush.
	The murmuring music of the leaves when
the autumn breeze begins to sway the trees,
and they bend and sigh and moan, has some-
thing so pensive in it,that it thrills the human
heart and softens it like the music of the harp
with a thousand chords gently played by a
skillful hand.
	I doubt if the murmur of the sobbing sea
surpasses in its soothing effect the music of the
trees in Autumn when “the melancholy days
have come.”
	October generally brings the soft radiant
Indian Summer with its delightful weather-
when one can be out of doors all day long,
aud just comfortably warm, gazing upon the
beauties of nature which are invigorating both
to the body and mind. There is nothing more
charming to me in the way of varying tints and
shades of color than the beautiful vail or haze
like the finest transparent gauze that lies like
a graceful mantle upon the eastern mountains
that half encircle this wonderful valley to-
wards evening of these autumnal days. I
have heard hundreds remark it, who have
traveled in foreign lands and have gazed with
admiration upon the Italian hills and skies and
watched the sunsets of the land so famed in
poetry and song. I firmly believe the sunsets
in Utah are quite equal, if they do not surpass
those of sunny Italia, but I regret to say the
name Utah is not euphonious or musical in
the least, there is no beauty in the name
itself. Deseret is much more to my taste and
suited to the country and its people. I would
much rather admire the glorious lights that
come and go upon the Eastern mountains veil-
ing them in silent beauty, and watch the glow-
ing sunsets with their effects upon the lake and
clouds in the distant horrizon and with a pas-
sive silence drink in the beauty of the scene
leaving all names and disputed questions for
the time being; until the pale evening is
ushered in and the stars one by one peep out
and the harvest moon, yellow and mellow,
sheds a silvery lustre over hill and vale; while
reviewing all these wonders of the creation, and 
rejoicing in their harmony and completeness,
one cannot but feel a nearness to divine power,
and a reverence for that hand that has fash-
ioned all things in heaven and on earth, and
holds the keys of destiny in His holy keeping.
How can we be grateful enough for the beauti-
ful creations we enjoy, and appreciate all the
good Father has given us. It is only through
His Spirit we can be truly appreciative and
grateful. The great lessons of life content-
ment, gratitude, earnestness of purpose, purity
and obedience to divine laws and precepts—
all these impress us more strongly when we


sit, as it were at the feet of nature, and con-
template the wonderful works of God our
Father. He has made all these beautiful
varieties of things for man's comfort, joy and
happiness, and the rich and poor alike are en-
dowed with them.
	There is a subdued quiet, too, about the
Autumn—dreamy, languid, lingering days,
that some call monotonous and wearisome; but
to one who lives much in his own thoughts and
fancies, such seasons are a positive luxury.
They may be monotonous to some, but to me
they are placid and restful. In New England
this is the season for nutting, and merry crowds
of young people and children enjoy this recrea-
tion day after day in the woods, not only in
gathering the nuts for winter use and amuse-
ment, but the exhilarating frosty air has a stimu-
lating effect upon the health and spirits of
those who engage in the sport, for sport it is.
I verily believe the people in rural New Fng-
land as thoroughly enjoy this yearly pastime as
the gentle folk in old England do the hunting
season, when they ride after the hounds. When
visiting in the old Bay State, last winter, these
gala days were often referred to by my former
school mates and friends, and even Mr. Whit-
tier, the venerable poet, questioned me on the
subject, and expressed in eloquent terms his
taste for nutting in the woods, and regretted
that we who live here had not that
pleasure, which had always given him
such real enjoyment; and although nearly
eighty years old he still goes nutting,
evidently with the same zest of the sport, as
was his wont in former times, though, perhaps,
the sentiment that characterized his youthful
rambles may have worn off. He is, however,
young in spirit as all true poets are. Out
door exercise, such as rambling over the hills
and listening to the voices of nature, at all sea-
sons of the year is as necessary for the poet as
his daily food. And at this time the hills, the
view from adjacent heights, the crimson pur-
ple and yellow foliage, the ever-changing skies
the murmuring, sighing, sobbing trees are all
that the fondest fancies could wish to inspire
the muse.
							AUNT EM.
	Oct. 13th, 1885.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

"THOU SHALT NOT BEAR FALSE
WITNESS."

	By request, I once more seat myself, with
pen and paper, to contribute something to the
EXPONENT. In my present mood there is no
subject bearing with greater weight upon my
mind than that of "scandal," and the uncharit-
able spirit which seems to be as prevalent
among Saints as among sinners; and, judging
from late occurrences, must be running ram-
pant in Zion. Having been personally affected,
it has doubtless impressed me more deeply
than those who have been so fortunate as to
escape its poisonous fangs. As it has lately
fallen to my lot to suffer the keenest anguish I
think that it is possible for a human being to
endure, it has enabled me to feel for others
who have passed through similar scenes.
	The greatest lessons, and the most lasting
ones, are those learned by experience; and
though a hard schoolmaster, there is no teacher
so profitable to mould and fashion and train
the human mind in that channel that will lead
one to think and feel for another's woes.
	It seems that my misery was not quite com-
plete in the visitation of death, without an-
other thrust, which came in the shape of a
vile falsehood, without even the shadow of
truth on which to found it, but was substituted
as a reason for my son's committing the frenzied
act which closed his earth-life so tragically,
casting not only an additional stain upon the
name of the dead, but upon the living. Even
if this story had been true, he would rather

[Column 2]

have faced it than to have committed a crime
which he had always looked upon with the
greatest horror, as a sin for which there was
no forgiveness, as all who knew him can testify,
and that his moral character stood above re-
proach. The last and most earnest wish that
he was heard to express, was his long talked of
desire to go into the world and preach the Gos-
pel, and his highest aspiration was to be among
those who would be counted worthy to stand as
saviors upon Mount Zion.
	Everything has gone to show that he never
premeditated the act of self-destruction, and
that he was bereft of his reason, through the
intense suffering to which he had been sub-
jected, more or less, for several years. He
went to Arizona three years ago, with the
brightest hopes of regaining his health by the
change, and also of growing up with the coun-
try, but met with disappointment and unlooked
for hardships, by the death of his uncle, D. P.
Kimball, on whose influence he was depending
to give him a start. The news of his father's
death, coming to him when camped in the
dreary Huachuca mountains, had such an ef-
fect upon him, as he expressed himself in a let-
ter, that he "was no longer a boy, but a man
of family;" and when we saw him the change
was so visible that it pained us to see him no
longer the gay, fun-loving boy, who had been
the joy and life of the house. He told me that
he never wanted to mix again with the world
and its follies, but desired to go into the vine-
yard and preach the Gospel. The change from
that climate, where his blood had become
thinned, to this region, at the coldest and most
unfavorable time of the year, affected him im-
mediately. But, anxious to obtain work he
took whatever he could get to do, and the hard
work and exposure told on him, as also the in-
tense heat of the summer, more especially this
last, all of which was calculated to help on the
disease (catarrh), which at last turned his brain.
The last day that he was employed at the
Tithing Office, in lifting a weight, that
would require a much stronger man, he hurt his
back, which laid him up a number of days.
Just at this time he was offered a situation in
the Dinwoody establishment, where he worked
till the week previous to his death. He was
confined to his bed three daysby cholera morbus,
but went to work before he was able, a thing
I should not have allowed had I been at home,
for he was never in possession of a strong con-
stitution, and his ambition generally took him
beyond what wisdom would have dictated.
Knowing so well the purity of his thoughts
and desires, and his aims in this life and for
that to come, I felt that I could not allow so
unjust a stigma to rest upon his name without
raising my voice in its condemnation; and I
think it high time that such cruel wrongs should
be righted; or in the name of all that is just and
God like, how long are they to be borne?
Should not the truth triumph, and the virtues
of the innocent plead their cause in Zion,
though they may be judged guilty by men and
looked upon as outcasts from the fold of God?
	The Latter-day Saints have been noted for
their charity toward the outside world, and
would do good even, unto "those that hate
them;" but, when it comes to individual chari-
ty, how many are there who practice this virtue,
and are seeking with one accord to reach that
standard which should govern our daily walk
and conversation? How many are thoughtless-
ly breaking one of the most important com-
mands, and thereby violating, not only a law
laid down by the Savior for our guidance, but
breaking covenants that have been made in
sacredness before Him, and His angels, who
have borne witness to the same. We know
enough of the "injustice of man to man" to
look for nothing better from the world; and
we may more easily tolerate Tribune informers
and anti-"Mormon" missionaries, as they are

[Column 3]

only performing their part in the drama; but
we have been led to expect better things from
those calling themselves Latter-day Saints,
especially those who have age and experience
on their side, and are looked up to as examples
for the rising generation, but some of whom are
placing themselves as stumbling blocks; and not
only this, but giving voice to imaginary evils,
that never existed only in the brain of those
who "love and make a lie." The Psalmist
said: "His mischief shall return upon his own
head, and his violent dealing shall come down
upon his own pate," a truth which has been
verified in our own, and in every age.
	If some of the time spent in idle gossip and
tale-bearing were used in studying the Scrip-
tures, though they may not be so fascinating,they
would certainly bring greater and more lasting
happiness, for the fruits of the Spirit are holy,
and bring us into closer communion with our
Father, and heavenly beings, giving us confi-
dence when we approach the throne of grace,
which we cannot feel when taking the opposite
course. In mingling with the more humble
and obscure, we may find some of the choicest
gems, upon whom the candle of God is shining
brighter and brighter, till their minds are as
wells, from which is springing that inspiration,
wisdom and intelligence which flows down
from the true fountain of life, bringing peace
and solace to the weary heart, encouraging
them to press onward and gain the reward
which is laid up for those who are hungering
and thirsting after the knowledge of God.
	It behooves us all to live our religion, for
the time is near when the wheat is to be gar-
nered up and the chaff swept away by the
Great Reaper, who alone can judge of the in-
most thoughts aud desires of one's heart, or
whose lives have been the most just and pure,
and worthy of His praise.
	Your sister in sorrow,
		H. M. WHITNEY.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	I have friends here whose society is very
agreeable to me; they are of all ages, and of
every country.—Petrarch.

	Grand and dignified thoughts must be ex-
pected from those alone whose minds are ever
employed on glorious and noble objects.—
Longinus.

	Show me a man who has no love for his
native land, and I will show you in the same
person one who loves nothing but himself.
Lady Ponsonby.

	How many of us have been attracted to rea-
son—first learned to think, to draw conclusions,
to extract a moral from the follies of life—by
some dazzling aphorism.—Bulwer.

	Nothing is more impertinent than for people
to be giving their opinion and advice in cases
in which, were these to be their own, they
would be as much at a loss what to do.—S.
Croxall.

	Were it left to me to decide whether we
should have a government without newspapers,
or newspapers without a government, I should
not hesitate to choose the latter.—Thomas
Jefferson.

	I will tell you what to hate. Hate hypoc-
risy, hate cant, hate intolerance, oppression,
injustice, hate pharisaism; hate them as Christ
hated them, with a deep, living, godlike hatred.
—F. W. Robertson.

	Censure and criticism never hurt anybody.
If false, they cannot harm you, unless you are
wanting in character; and if true, they show
a man his weak points, and forewarn him
against failure and trouble.—Gladstone.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LINES TO A SPIRIT DEPARTED.

IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE OF THE LATE SISTER
	SARAH H. PRATT, WHO DIED MAY 22ND, 1886,
	WIDOW OF APOSTLE P. P. PRATT.

Thou art gone far away to that sweet land of rest.
	Where the soul ne’er grows weary or faints;
May thy soul rest in peace till the call lor the blest,
	When thy body will rise with the Saints.

Oh, the sweet gentle rest thou art called to enjoy,
	With the loved ones who’ve passed on before—
The sad trials of earth never thee can annoy,
	For thou’rt gone to that "beautiful shore."

We mourn for thine absence, our fond mother dear.
	As we journey through this vale of woe;
Ne’er again on this earth wilt thou be with us to cheer
	The dark hours we’re called to pass through.

Oft in sickness and grief thou hast been in our home
	As an angel sent down from above;
To lighten our burdens, and cheer us in gloom,
	With thy tender, affectionate love. 

But now thou art gone, rest in peace, gentle soull
	Rest in peace till the Savior doth come;	
Though dark the fierce flood that between us doth roll,
	We will meet in our heavenly home.
								ANNIE GARDNER.


PERSEVERANCE.

Perscveranae—precious! grand!
	On it hinges many blessings,
Death with Life goes hand in hand;
	But it robs not the possessing
Of this priceless attribute,
	This desire to gain Perfection,
That forever contributes
	To our strength in every action.

Perseverance doth sustain;
	Trials only tend to strengthen, 
And each time some power we gain,
	Our chain of usefulness to lengthen;
Yes, this love seems born of God,
	To excel in every measure;
It pertains not to the sod,
	It abounds with lofty pleasure.

Perseverance helps us gain
	Victory from defeats unnumbered;
It inspires and it sustains,
	While with mortal life we're cumbered;
And, methinks, when life is done,
	When our span on earth is ended,
And it's said that we have gone,
	O'er the mystic river wended.

If our lives have been replete
	With kind words and wholesome actions,
Truly death we will defeat
	In a glorious resurrection.
This is the way our Savior led,
	Suffered anguish, death and sorrow;
It is said He blest the bed,
	And from this we comfort borrow.

Perseverance! precious gift!
	Thereon hinges endless blessing,
For some day it wiil uplift
	The possessor in the presence
Of our Savior Jesus Christ,
	And our allwise Heavenly Parent,
With a great and glorious host
	Of just beings, holy, perfect.

Let us labor while it's day;
	Persevere while life’s in session;
Onward, upward is the way
	To accomplish well our mission.
When we lay our bodies down,
	Broader views will spread before us,
We will gain the victor’s crown,
	With the just we’ll join in chorus.

		MAREN MITCHELL.
Oct. 6, 1887.


THE HAWIIAN AS A WOMAN.

	She stands on about the same plane, so far
as I am able to judge, as her husband or
brother.
	She gets up at the same early hour. and,
shouldering her hoe, with her calabash of poi
and bit of salt fish, she goes singing in the
fresh waking day down to the sugar cane field
to hoe out her row as her husbaud does. She
is not often employed at responsible or very
heavy labor, as she is, if possible, more lazy
and less to be relied on, and is not quite as
stout as her husbaud.
	Her muscles are rounded and firm, her dress
is exceeding simple, consisting of a holoku
(Mother Hubbard) and a chemise. (Gracious!
its a good thing this is a woman's exclusive
paper.) She swims with quite as much ease
and grace as her brother. Flinging her baby
on her back, she swims out to deep holes,
where they are fishing for devil fish, and pad-
dles round for half a day, turning over on her
back to suckle her offspring.
	In the festive hula she is quite as agile and
vulgar as her male companion. She sings with
as much melody, at times possessing an ex-
quisite voice, and reserves to herself the liber-
ty to sing in a deep, double base sephulchral
voice whenever she so chooses.
	He pounds their poi and catches the fish; she
weaves the mats and hats, and has a baby once
in a great while, after which latter event neither
give much further thought as to its future.
	She is inordinately lazy, and the counterpart
of her lord and master in this, as in his easy
morals, or rather, lack of anything like virtue.
	She beats her husband, at times, and he re-
turns the happy compliment. In fact, things
as to sex, are about as evenly divided as I ever
saw them in my life. But she has virtues.
She has, as a rule, in youth, a rounded, beauti-
ful form, with black liquid eyes and lovely
hands. She loves yellow and scarlet, and is
not particular as to how many shades of either
or both appear on her at the same time.
	She is a devoted friend, and, when faithful,
a most fond, affectionate wife.
	She will work very hard to help build the
home, and is often the treasurer of the family
concern.
	She is very capable of taking on the refine-
ments of civilized life, and is full of imitation
and ingenuity.
	She is an excellent ironer and fair seam-
stress.
	She has proven,as have her white sisters, the
most obedient to the Gospel call, and is ever
kind, hospitable and generous.
	There are a very few types here of fine,
stately women. They all, as to dignity, bear
themselves with the air and grace of a wild-
wood queen.
	She is suave and deceptive, kind and polite,
earnest and unstable, quick and unscrupulous,
intensely demonstrative and truckling.
	But with all, she is trying to raise her head
from out of the gross darkness about her, and
she calls upon you to aid and pray for her, for
she is our sister.
Susa Young Gates HOMESPUN.


[Column 1]

HANNAH T. KING.

	It is early morning, in October, the moun-
tains are capped with the first snow, while
their base and sides are gorgeous with autumn
coloring on the lingering green. The sky is
beautiful and serene, the air delightful, tempt-
ing one to a ramble. Year after year, this
season, in particular, more than spring or sum-
mer's beauty, ever reminds me of one herself,
in the ripe and glorious autumn of life. From
an ivory painting of herself, that she had
shown me I know that the springtime of her

[Column 2]

﻿years were full of beauty, delicacy, health and
enjoyment.
	It was soon after the famous "Indignation
Meeting," held by the Latter-day Saint women
in the Old Tabernable against the infamous
"Cullom Bill," that I made the personal ac-
quaintance of Hannah T. King. Often her
fine person and eloquent eyes had drawn
my admiring gaze, and one Sunday she came
aud sat beside me, and, during the service,
asked me some question, which led to others,
as we both happened to spend our noon in the
Tabernacle, instead of going home to dinner,
thereby retaining comfortable seats for the
afternoon meeting. I don’t think that either
of us stayed so much for this convenience, as
from a sense of spiritual enjoyment in spend-
ing a quiet hour in the place, permeated as it
was with an almost mystical atmosphere of
reverie, worship and intuition of diviner reali-
ties. When we parted that afternoon it was
with the understanding that we should each
bring something in our pockets for a taste, and
sit together, and become further acquainted,
next Sunday. Almost without interruption
we thus spent our Sundays for several months.
	I was alone, as it were, away from my own
family, visiting for an indefinite period in the
citv, boarding in somewhat uncongenial quar-
ters, and the kind attention of this lady was
very lovingly appreciated by me. Not that I
had no other friends; I had many, and they
were kind, but there was something peculiarly
satisfying and fascinating to me in her literary
conversation, and in drawing me to her and by
her confiding manner, finding out my own
tastes aud inclinations, combining in one per-
son guide and friend. I looked with longing
heart toward others whose talents and natures
I adored, yet shrank from approaching nearer
than they invited; but she discerned and en-
couraged me. Sometimes, by her invitation, I
walked home with her, and every room I en-
tered in her home became an indelible picture
in my memory, in their literalness, their spirit,
and all those beautiful phantoms that rise and
cluster around the individuality that invokes
them, making the hours beautiful.
	Often we took long walks together, and I
used to smile to myself when she seemed so
to love to tread upon the carpet of autumn
leaves, just as a child might have smiled to
walk adown some dimpled slope thick with
flowers. Then, how she gave loose rein to
fancy and happiness, and how we enjoyed the
time, lingering once so long that we walked
home by the full moon.
	After my marriage I saw less of my friend,
and once, when I spoke of it regretfully, she
answered: "Never mind, we understand each
other too well for time or absence to make any
difference in our feelings."
	Hannah T. King was known to thousands,
who never had the pleasure of meeting, her, by
her pen. They knew her ability, integrity and
powers; but only the near friends could know
the greatness and the gentleness, the dignity
and the sweetness, yea, and the almost girlish
happiness of her spirit. Upon the street, one
meeting her would never have dreamed, that
the fresh, beautiful complexion, the undimmed
eye and the elegant figure, had known so
many years of earthly life. Still young and
beautiful in spirit, she has departed from us
before we were prepared to meet the thought
of her loss. How happy must have been the
meeting with those dear friends so lately gone
before her, and the reward—for which she left
country, home and friends. As though we
stood again Sunday afternoon in the outgoing
throng at the "gate of the Temple Blook," let
me repeat, as she used to with a smile, "We
meet again."
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	South Bountiful, Oct. 26, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE D. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	NOVEMBER 15, 1886.


[Column 1]

APPROACHING THE NARROWS.

	There never was a time in the history of the
Church when greater faith and humility were 
needed than at the present. The Saints are
actually coming to what may, with all pro-
priety, be termed "the narrows." It is a time of 
testing and proving, and the Lord is dealing with 
His people through some very powerful agencies,
and the influences brought to bear to purify and
cleanse them, are not and cannot be understood,
except through the Holy Spirit. The burden of
the cry of the prophets of the Lord to this people
has been for years, "Get the Holy Spirit and keep
it." The question arises with some, and it is a 
serious one, too, "How shall we be sure of being 
in possession of that spirit?" By keeping all the 
commandments God has given to His people, and
being obedient in all things to the counsel through
His servants placed to preside over them, and
through humility and meekness. It might, per-
haps, be said that all fall short in some particular, 
either through weakness or a lack of knowledge,
but if the people are striving to obey and to fulfill
the law, the Lord is merciful and full of loving
kindness, and will help the weak, and lift up the
feeble hands of those who supplicate Him for grace
and strength.
	There are many things transpiring now, calcu-
lated to awaken the thoughtless and indifferent,
and it is easy to perceive that "the mills of the
gods" are grinding. The processes may be tedi-
ous and slow, and there are many tests, but all the
smut has to be removed first, and afterwards comes
the bolting, and even when the fine flour has been
made, there is still another test, that of sifting.
How much of the wheat that has been gathered
will be susceptible of the process of making fine
flour, and even that to be sifted, it would be diffi-
cult for any one to determine.
	President Heber C. Kimball was very fond of
illustrating by the process of the potter, and our
Savior makes similar illustrations of the kind in
His divine writings. The potter throws his clay
into the mill and grinds it, and then moulds and
fashions it to his will, if it be pliable and passive
in his hands, but if not sufficiently so, he throws
it back again to be ground over. The Latter-day
Saints, who have embraced the truth for the love
of it, and in all sincerity of soul, desire to be
fashioned into vessels of honor, that they may be
acceptable in the great day of the Lord, and not 
be thrown back into the pit to be ground over
again. But are they passive while complying with 
the necessary preliminary processes? Is it not
often the case that even the first trial seems too
severe a test? And yet they sing, perhaps uncon-
scious of its true significance,

	"I'm willing to be cleansed
	From every kind of dross,
	I see a fiery furnace,
		I feel its piercing flame;
	The fruits of it are holy,
		The gold will still remain."

	The Saints have been warned and forewarned

[Column 2]

that great trials were in store, and that they should
be on their guard, and watch every loophole
through which an advantage might be taken by
the enemy, who is ever on the alert, and as the
scriptures say, "Is more wise in his generation
than the children of light;" and yet, notwithstand-
ing the warnings and exhortations to diligence
and faithfulness, it would seem that the enemy
had come upon the Saints unawares, but even
though many are taken at a disadvantage, there is
still time to reform, and that so effectually as to 
be able to pass through the narrows, by divine
help, in submission and obedience to the law of
God.
	Passing through the narrows reminds the writer 
of a dream she heard a sister relate in Winter
Quarters. She dreamed that she was traveling
along a very difficult road, or pathway, where
every now and then it seemed next to impossible
to proceed any further, yet  this was the direct
way to the place she had set out for. There were
others in company with her, and just ahead of
her was Sister Vilate Kimball: Finally they came
to a passage way or aperture in a solid wall,
through which it would be necessary to make a
very tight squeeze, if even it were possible to get
through at all, and the sister said to Sister Vilate,
"I can't through there, I would rather go round,"
but she stood and saw Sister Vilate go through,
but remarked, "that it made her bones crack." No
doubt it will be a struggle to pass through the
narrows, and there are many prophetic minds who
seem to think this people have not scarcely
reached any part of the narrows, or the severest
trial as yet. If that be so, how humble and meek
and lowly must one be to endure to the end; and
yet they who do are the ones who obtain the re-
ward which is in store for the faithful.
	The spirit of the world has crept in among the
Saints, of that there can be no doubt, and the pos-
session of that spirit and its influence is at variance
with the spirit of the Gospel, and therefore it be-
comes a positive necessity to "get the Spirit of the
Lord and keep it," and to crush out every feeling
which is not in accordance with that spirit, and
cultivate every Christian grace and qualification,
and follow the example of the Savior, and obey
the injunction He laid upon those who would fol-
low Him—"If ye love me, keep my command-
ments."


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MANUSCRIPT received, that will be published in
our next number: An excellent article on plural
marriage, by M. A. M. Pratt; also one upon
marriage, by M. J. Morrison; poems by Hannah
Conraby and May J. Marler, M. J. Tanner and
other suitable matter.
	THE Editor and Proprietor of the "Graphic
News Illustrated," two gentlemen seeking infor-
mation on Mormon subjects, paid quite a visit to
our  sanctum  to-day. They  have  been  in
town a week, looking up material for their columns,
and expect to visit, Logan, Ogden and Provo, re-
turning here again and spending a a few days
more in visiting places of interest, etc.
	THE EXPONENT offers hearty congratulations to
Hon. John T. Caine, Delegate from Utah to the
Fiftieth Congress, on his recent election.  Hav-
ing so ably represented this Territory in the past,
the People's Party, who elected him by an over-
whelming majority, have the utmost confidence in
his future success, feeling assured of his doing all
that is possible to promote the best interests and
prosperity of the Territory, and make a fair repre-
sentation for all its inhabitants.
	WE have had some very interesting conversa-
tions of late with strangers visiting the city,
among whom mention may be made of Mrs.
Threlkeld of Los Angelos, a women of very

[Column 2]

bright mind, and a wide-awake newspaper corres-
pondent. Mrs. Threlkeld, in company with Dr.
R. B. Pratt, visited the Utah Penitentiary and
had an exceedingly pleasant interview with Apos-
tle Lorenzo Snow, with whom, as well as his Sis-
ter, E. R. S. Smith, she appeared to have been
greatly impressed. Mrs. T. also met and con-
versed upon Mormonism with Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Bishop O. F. Whitney and others.
	MONDAY morning, Nov. 15th, the Salt Lake
Academy opened in the basement rooms of the
Social Hall in this city. The school is under the
supervision of Elder Karl G. Maeser, who has,
from its first inauguration, had charge of the Brig-
ham Young Academy at Provo, and has succeeded
admirably in keeping up the original intention of
its founder, that it should be a Latter-day Saint
school. The Salt Lake Stake Academy is estab-
lished with the same purpose, that the children in-
structed there shall be taught the principles of the
Gospel in connection with other studies, and that
the spirit of the institution shall be in accordance
therewith. There is no doubt but the school will
receive a large patronage, and that very soon there
will be a much larger hall needed than the one at
present occupied. The Gentile world have had
much to say about the Latter-day Saint children
being taught nothing but their peculiar religion,
when the facts are they have had much too little
of this sort of instruction. Greater diligence on
the part of parents and teachers in this respect
will no doubt have a very salutary effect upon the
rising generation. At any rate let us not only
hope, but strive earnestly to awaken a wide-spread
interest in this better and higher system of educa-
tion
	THE organization of Zion's Choral Society will
be highly appreciated by every lover of the fine
arts among the Latter-day Saints. The human
voice is capable of a great degree of cultivation in
speaking, and still more in singing. In both these
departments of study and culture, the youth of
Zion should seek to excel. Vocal music has
something delightful in it, even in its simplest
form of expression. Knowing the power of music
over the human soul, and its influence in refining
and elevating, it is certainly desirable that the
children of the Saints should receive all the ad-
vantages of musical training possible, and that
the development and cultivation should be here at
home, under the supervision of parents and teach-
ers, that the influence may be in harmony with the
spirit of their religion. To accomplish this,
nothing could afford better facilities than the forma-
tion of just such an association as Zion's Choral
Society. The large Tabernacles and Temples of
the Saints, which have been and will be built, will
require a great number of singers, the most per-
fect harmony of many voices, and to fill these
buildings with melody from many thousand voices,
necessarily there, must be preparation beforehand.
Sacred music is the highest order of the divine art
and it is for the cultivation of this specially, as we
understand it, that the organization has been
effected, and with the favorable circumstances at-
tending it at the outset, and the efficient officers
chosen to preside, the people may naturally look
for the best results to follow.
	IN the last issue of the paper, brief mention was
made of a picture of Sister Lucy Smith, the
mother of the Prophet Joseph, which it is the in-
tention to give to each one of the subscribers of
the EXPONENT during the holidays. It is earnest-
ly desired that all those who are behind in pay-
ments will make an effort to pay up back subscrip-
tions to date, and as an inducement to new sub-
scribers, one of the pictures will be given to each
one subscribing for the next half volume, which
begins with the 1st of December, if payment is
made in advance, for the half year, viz., $1. The
likeness of the engraving to the original, is said
by those who knew her intimately, to be excellent


and the picture, when suitably framed, will be an
ornament in any home, of which it may be just-
ly proud.  In the days of Kirtland and Nauvoo
this venerable woman, Lucy Smith, was very
greatly loved and revered by the Saints, not only
because she was the mother of the Prophet, who
opened up this dispensation, but because of her
many estimable qualities of heart and mind, her
unflinching integrity to the Gospel, and her great 
strength of character. The memory of this noble
mother should be cherished by the Saints of to-
day, and the children and children's children
should be reminded of her many virtues, and her
bright example as a mother among mothers in
Israel. Pictures always make an impression, and
especially upon children; they seldom ever forget
those that hung upon the walls in their childhood's 
homes, and having one of these likenesses of
Mother Smith in the home, will help to keep her
in honored remembrance, and the story of the
early life of the Prophet, when a boy at his
mother's knee, and her salutary teachings will
thus be rendered more impressive, when told to
the little people.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

HISTORY OF JOSEPH SMITH.

	Monday, March 25th, 1839. About this time,
Elders Kimball and Turley started on their mis-
sion to see the Governor. They called on the
Sheriff of Ray County and jailor for a copy of the
mittimus, by which the prisoners were held in cus-
tody, but he confessed he had none. They went
to Judge King, and he made out a kind of mitti-
mus. At this time we had been in prison several
months without even a mittimus; and that, too,
for crimes said to have been committed in another
county.
	Kimball and Turley took all the papers by
which we were held, or which were then made out
for them, with our petitions to the Supreme Judges,
and went to Jefferson City.
	The Governor was absent. The Secretary of
State treated them very kindly; and when he saw
the papers, could hardly believe those were all the
documents by which the prisoners were held in
custody, for they were illegal.
	Lawyer Doniphan had also deceived them
in his papers, and sent them off with such docu-
ments, that a change of venue could not be effected
in time. The Secretary was astonished at Judge
King acting as he did, but said he could do noth-
ing in the premises, and if the Governor were
present, he could do nothing. But the Secretary
wrote a letter to Judge King.
	The brethren then started to find the Supreme
Judges, and get writs of habeas corpus; and after
riding hundreds of miles to effect this object, re-
turned to Liberty on the 30th of March, having
seen Matthias McGirk, George Thompkins, and
John C. Edwards, the Supreme Judges, but did
not obtain the writ of habeas corpus in conse-
quence of a lack of the order of commitment, al-
though the Judges seemed to be friendly.
	We were informed that Judge King said, that
there was nothing against my brother Hyrum, only
that he was a friend to the Prophet. He also
said there was nothing against Caleb Baldwin, and
McRae. Brother Horace Cowan was put into
Liberty Jail to-day for debt, in consequence of
persecution of the mob.
	During their absence, I continued my Epistle to
the Church of Latter-day Saints as follows:
	"We continue to offer further reflections to
Bishop Partridge, and to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, whom we love with a
fervent love, and do always bear them in mind in
all our prayers to the throne of God.
	It still seems to bear heavily on our minds that
the Church would do well to secure to themselves
the contract of the land which is proposed to them
by Mr. Isaac Galland, and to cultivate the friend-

[Column 2]

ly feelings of that gentleman, inasmuch as he shall
prove himself to be a man of honor and a friend
to humanity.  We really think that his letter
breathes that kind of a spirit, if we can judge cor-
rectly.  And Isaac Van Allen, Esq., the Attorney
General of Iowa Territory,—that peradventure
such men may be wrought upon by the providence
of God, to do good unto His people. Governor
Lucas also.—We suggest the idea of praying fer-
vently for all men who manifest any degree of
sympathy for the suffering children of God.
	We think that peradventure the United States
Surveyor of the Iowa Territory may be of great
benefit to the Church if it be the will of God, to
this end, if righteousness should be manifested as
the girdle of our loins.
	It seems to be deeply impressed upon our minds,
that the Saints ought to lay hold of every door
that shall seem to be opened unto them, to obtain
foothold on the earth, and be making all the pre-
paration that is within the power of possibles for
the terrible storms that are now gathering in the
heavens, with darkness and gloominess, and thick
darkness, as spoken of by the Prophets, which
cannot be now a long time lingering, for there
seems to be a whispering that the angels of
heaven who have been entrusted with the council
of these matters for the last days, have taken
counsel together: and among the rest of the general
affairs that have to be transacted in their honor-
able council, they have taken cognizance of the
testimony of those who were murdered at Haun's
mills, and also those who were martyred with D.
W. Patten, and elsewhere, and have passed some
decisions peradventure in favor of the Saints, and
those who were called to suffer without cause.
	These decisions will be made known in their
time; and they will take into consideration all
those things that offend.
	We have a fervent desire that in your general
conferences, everything should be discussed with
a great deal of care and propriety lest you grieve
the Holy Spirit, which should be poured out at all
times upon your heads when you are exercised
with those principles of righteousness that are
agreeable to the mind of God, and are properly
affected one toward another, and are careful by all
means to remember those who are in bondage, and
in heaviness, and in deep affliction for your sakes.
And if there are any among you who aspire after
their own aggrandizement, and seek their own
opulence, while their brethren are groaning in
poverty, and are under sore trials, and temptations,
they cannot be benefitted by the intercession of
the Holy Spirit, which maketh intercession for us
day and night with groanings that cannot be ut-
teted.
	We ought at all times to be very careful, that
such high-mindedness never have place in our
hearts; but condescend to men of low estate, and
with all long suffering bear the infirmities of the
weak.
	Behold there are many called, but few are
chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because
their hearts are set so much upon the things of
this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that
they do not learn this one lesson—that the rights
of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with
the powers of heaven, and that the powers of hea-
ven cannot be controled, nor handled only upon
the principles of righteousness. That they may
be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we un-
dertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride,
or vain ambition, or to exercise control or domin-
ion, or compulsion, upon the souls of the children
of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold
the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of
the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn,
amen to the Priesthood, or the authority of that
man.  Behold! ere he is aware, he is left unto
himself, to kick against the pricks; to persecute
the Saints, and fight against God.
	We have learned by sad experience, that it is

[Column 3]

the nature and disposition of almost all men, as
soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose,
they will immediately begin to exercise un-
righteous dominion. Hence many are called, but 
few are chosen.
	No power or influence can or ought to be main-
tained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by per-
suasion, by long suffering, by gentleness, and
meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness,
and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge
the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile, re-
proving betimes with sharpness when moved upon
by the Holy Ghost and then showing forth after-
wards an increase of love toward him whom thou
hast reproved, lest he esteem thee  to be  his
enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is
stronger than the cords of death; thy bowels
also being full of charity toward all men, and to
the household of faith, and virtue garnish thy
thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence
wax strong in the presence of God and the doc-
trine of the Priesthood shall distill upon thy soul
as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall
be thy constant companion, and thy sceptre an
unchanging sceptre of righteousness and truth,
and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion
and without compulsory means it shall flow unto
thee forever and ever.
	The ends of the earth shall enquire after thy
name, and fools shall have thee in derision, and
hell shall rage against thee,—while the pure in
heart, and the wise and the noble, and the virtu-
ous, shall seek counsel, and authority, and bless-
ings constantly from under thy hand, and thy
people shall never be turned against thee by the
testimony of traitors; and although their influence
shall cast thee into trouble, and into bars and walls,
thou shalt be had in honor, and but a small mo-
ment and thy voice shall be more terrible in the
midst of thine enemies, than the fierce lion, be-
cause of thy righteousness; and thy God shall
stand by thee forever and ever.
	If thou art called to pass through tribulation; if
thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art
in perils among robbers; if thou art in perils
by land or by sea; if thou art accused with all
manner of false accusations; if thine enemies fall
upon thee; if they tear thee from the society of
thy father and mother and brethren and sisters;—
and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee
from the bosom of thy wife, and of thine offspring,
and thine Elder Son, although but six years of
age, shall cling to thy garments, and shall say,
"My father, my father, why can't you stay with
us?—O my father! what are the men going to do
with you?" And if then he shall be thrust from
thee by the sword, and thou be dragged to prison,
and thine enemies prowl around thee like wolves
for blood of the lamb; and if thou should be cast
into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and
sentence of death passed upon thee; if thou be
cast into the deep; if the billowing surge conspire
against thee; if fierce winds become thine enemy;
if the heavens gather blackness, and all the ele-
ments combine to hedge up the way; and above
all, if the very jaws of hell shall gape open her
mouth wide after thee, know thou, my son, that
all these things shall give thee experience, and
shall be for thy good.  The Son of Man hath de-
scended below them all—art thou greater than He?
	Therefore hold on thy way, and the Priesthood
shall remain with thee, for their bounds are set,
they cannot pass. Thy days are known, and thy
years shall not be numbered less; therefore, fear
not what man can do, for God will be with you
forever and ever.
	Now, brethren, I would suggest for the con-
sideration of the Conference, of its being careful-
ly and wisely understood, by the council or con-
ferences, that our brethren scattered abroad, who
understand the spirit of the gathering, that they
fall into the places of refuge and safety that God
shall open unto them, between Kirtland and Far


West.  Those from the east and from the west,
and from far countries, let them fall in somewhere
between those two boundaries, in the most safe
and quiet places they can find; and let this be the
present understanding, until God shall open a
more effectual door for us for further considera-
tions.
	And again, we further suggest for the considera-
tion of the council, that there be no organization
of large bodies upon common stock principles, in
property, or of large companies of firms until the
Lord shall signify it in a proper manner, as it
opens such a dreadful field for the avaricious, and
the indolent and corrupt-hearted to prey upon the
innocent, and virtuous, and honest.
To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE UNJUST JUDGE.

	In the City of Prescott, Arizona, there dwelt an
unjust judge, that feared not God, nor regarded
man, for he sentenced three innocent men to the
Detroit Prison, to labor in the house of correction
for three years. After serving two years and six 
months, the chief executive of the nation, Presi-
dent Grover Cleveland, having a heart that God
could touch, in answer to the pleading prayers
of His faithful Saints, exercised the pardoning
power vested in him. The prison doors were
opened and the captives are free! There is great
rejoicing and thanksgiving over their uncondition-
al pardon, for which we render thanks to God and
the President. I should think they could recover
damages if our laws were constitutional; but, alas!
when a government so enlightened and far ad-
vanced as the United States suffer such uncon-
stitutional bills as the Edmunds to become a law,
what can we expect! Mercy? No! Justice? Nay!
far from it; those two attributes are bowed in shame
and bathed in tears, when angels bear record of the
pleading prayers and weeping wives of such men
as these, sentenced by an unjust judge.
	We find, in a letter from Bro. Tenny, published
in the Deseret News, October 15th, the most ex-
alting and inspirational sentiments couched in his
own words: "I stand by my convictions; and
while liberty is sweeter than life, my hope is
sweeter than liberty, and up to date, prison walls
and cells have only tended to intensify the testi-
mony that mingles with my life's blood."
	Do such sentiments as these emanate from a 
priest ridden people? Nay, verily not! they were
not surpassed by the great patriot, Patrick Henry,
on signing the Declaration of Independence. He
closed his memorable speech by exclaiming:
"Give me liberty, or give me death!" Mark the
expression of Bro. Tenny: "The testimony that
mingles with my life's blood." What testimony
does he have reference to?  John the Revelator
will inform us.  He saw in vision an innumerable
company of Elders clothed in white robes, with
palms of victory in their hands, near the throne
of God, and he asked, "Who are these arrayed in
white?" the angel answered, "These are they that
were valiant for the testimony of Jesus, and they
loved not their lives unto death." The Revelator
also saw the souls of them that were slain for the
testimony of Jesus under the altar of God, and
they cried with a loud voice, "How long, O Lord!
holy and true and righteous, dost thou not judge 
and avenge our blood upon them that dwell on 
the earth?" and the voice of God was heard say-
ing, "Wait a little longer, until some more of thy
fellow servants, the prophets, are slain as thou
hast been, and I will avenge thee."
	The unjust imprisonment of such men as Apos-
tle Snow and others, will shake the nation and
speak louder than a thousand thunders, until the
inhabitants thereof will cry aloud, "Oh, that we
had not slain the prophets and stoned them that
were sent unto us."

W. EAST.


[Column 1]

﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A  REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE

	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
branches of the Relief Society of Utah Stake,
held Sept. 3d, 1886, in the meeting house,
Provo City, Prest. Mary John presiding. Con-
ference opened with singing and prayer.
Minutes of former conference read as usual;
also reports.
	Sister Emily G. Cluff craved an interest in
our prayers, and said, "If we have accom-
plished so much in our financial reports, how
much have we acomplished in a spiritual view?"
The speaker exhorted the sisters to be humble
and prayerful. "There is great power in
prayer. Satan is trying to overthrow the
Saints, and the Lord is suffering us to be perse-
cuted for a purpose," etc.
	Sister Tanner spoke quite lengthy on differ-
ent subjects of interest to the Saints. The rest
of the forenoon was occupied by the presidents
of the various wards throughout the county,
representing the branches of the Relief So-
ciety over which they were called to preside.
	Afternoon session opened by the usual exer-
cises. Sister Marilla Daniels, the first speaker,
said, "It is with feelings of gratitude that I
stand before you to-day, and I ask an interest
in your prayers, that what I may say may
benefit you as well as myself.  We are living
in a momentous time.  The Lord is chastening
the nations, but they do not realize it.  He
has said that He will speak to them in thun-
ders and earthquakes, etc.  It behooves us to
live nearer to our God, for he will have a tried
people. We have the same God now that
Daniel and the Hebrew children had, and with
the same power, too; and if we have the same
firmness that they had, we shall triumph over
our enemies, and all will be well with us, and
we need not fear," etc.
	Prest. David John spoke a short time.
Thought there was no need of being cast down;
this was not a dark day for Israel, etc.
	After singing, "The Spirit of God like a
fire is burning," and benediction by Father
Graves, conference adjourned for three
months
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.

	The ladies quarterly conference convened at
Pima, Sept. 17th, 1886. After the usual
opening exercises, minutes of the previous con-
ference were read and accepted. Miss Emma
Allred was unanimously sustained as Assistant
Secretary of the St. Joseph Stake. Reports
were not so favorable as formerly; the cause is
attributable to sickness and the heat of sum-
mer.
	Stake Prest., Willmirth East, said, "My
sisters, I am most thankful for the privileges
wo enjoy to-day. Can we realize that this
work we are engaged in is the great latter day
dispensation spoken of by all the holy proph-
ets since the world began? History fails to
give any account of the organization of women
and children, according to the pattern of the
holy Priesthood until revealed by a prophet of
the latter days. The pre-existence of spirits
has been the joyful theme of my soul; that the
children of the Latter-day Saints were held in
reserve, to come forth when the everlasting
covenant of marriage was restored, to be
schooled in these associations. Are we not ac-
countable? Who has a right to neglect or
or discourage the youth of Israel? Saviors are
to come up on Mount Zion. Do we act the
part of saviors. Jesus said if one sheep went
astray, to bring it back to the fold. Then let
us act upon this principle; teach the youth by
precept; give them a kind and encouraging
word, which will do more to reclaim them
than a kick.

[Column 2]

	S. D. Curtis then made encouraging remarks;
exhorted the sisters to faithfulness.
	In the afternoon the P. A. was presided
over by Coun. Johnson. Reports eucourag
ing.
	Prest Layton gave some good instruction.
Spoke upon the duties of officers; exhorted the
parents to send their children to the Associa-
tion, and go themselves occasionally. Said,
"We have a good country here, and if the
Saints will live their religion they will have
health and peace, and plenty will prevail
throughout the land." Said he knew one man
that raised six hundred dollars worth of pota-
toes off one acre of ground, and another raised
four hundred dollars worth of sweet potatoes
off his city lot.
	Conference adjourned till December 17th.
		WILLMIRTH, Prest.,
		SARAH BURNS, Sec. pro tem.

BOX ELDER STAKE.

	The Thirty-ninth Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake was
held in the Tabernacle at Brigham City on
the 14th of September, 1886, Prest. Harriet A.
Snow presiding. After singing and prayer,
Coun. Olivia Widerberg addressed the sisters.
Said: "I feel thankful to be able to stand here
to day; I cannot express how grateful I feel
that you and I can meet here together in the
same spirit." Reported the Scandinavian So-
ciety in a good condition. Spoke of the signs
of the times.
	Roll called by the Secretary. Minutes read
and approved. Twenty-two reports were read
by the Secretary from the different branches.
	Prest. Harriet Snow spoke to the secretaries,
particularly about understanding how to make
the reports correct, as sometimes they would
not balance at all.
	Sister Dewey reported verbally; Miss Fannie
Graehl read the accounts of the Stake fund.
	Sister Harper, Sister Albertson and Sister
Keller each bore a faithful testimony, and re-
ported verbally the respective society over
which each presides.
	Sister Perry spoke eloquently on many sub-
jects. Said, "What are we without the Spirit
of Lord? We are nothing. This persecution,
has come upon us to purge us." Spoke of the
necessity of partaking of the sacrament.
	Singing. Benediction by Sister Anderson.
Adjourned till 2 o'clock.
	Afternoon session: After the opening exer-
cises, the condensed report was read by the
Secretary.
	Sister Hubbard said, "If we strive with all
the energies of our souls to overcome our
weaknesses we have nothing to fear.  I often
think how blest we are in Zion, but we must
learn to love each other, and our neighbors as
ourselves."
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker spoke of the great
work we are engaged in; if we shall inherit
celestial glory we must earn it.
	Sister Richards, from Ogden: "I hope the
Lord will bless me; I feel small, because we
naturally look to the Priesthood for instruction.
	We are called upon every hour, every mo-
ment, to live so we can enjoy the Spirit of the
Lord. I think it a great responsibility to
raise one child." Related an incident about
polygamy; one sister said, "If I have lived
polygamy about right I have preached a louder
sermon than if I had spoken a mile long." "It
is a terrible thing to make covenants and
break them; we need to be prayerful; it is our
duty to assist one another; we should make our
duty a pleasure; when we accomplish a little
we are building up Zion. We have not so
many brethren around as we used to have. If
any of you have a husband not quite as good
as he ought to be, you must forgive him; may-
be he does some good that you don't know of."
Showed the folly of loving riches. "When we


first came here we felt very humble and prayed
a great deal; I don't believe the Lord will send
us harder trials than He is willing to give us
strength to bear. You and I belong to the
Lord's people, and we know He wants a tried
people. As long as we are here let us strive to
live right. We have been told ever since we
were children that this time would come; we
ought to build up Zion. If we lavish kind-
ness on any one we expect them to be kind to 
us again; the Lord expects the same of us. We
cannot be charitable enough; we must forgive.
Kindness comes from God, hatred from the
adversary.  I cannot say what the tempter
will tempt me with to-morrow, but to-day I
feel that I love the Gospel more than I did
forty years ago; and I loved it then and felt
happy in it."
	Bro. E. A. Box addressed the assembly on
many interesting subjects, and particularly so
on the great responsibility of parents. "We
should strive to govern our children; bring
them up in a pleasing way before the Lord; we
claim we are regenerating the world. We do
expect to be more virtuous, more sober, teach-
ing our children morality and honesty. We
do not talk enough about the first principles, or
converse enough with our children upon them.
We should be very careful with what we say or
do at home."
	Emilia D. Madsen was the next speaker.
Prest. Harriet Snow made a few closing re-
marks, endorsing all that had been said; the
Spirit of the Lord had abundantly been poured
out upon all present, and every heart had re-
ceived new warmth and strength.
	After singing and benediction by Brother
Graham, conference adjourned for three
months.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SEMI-MONTHLY MEETINGS.

SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	The regular Semi-monthly Meeting held in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, July
10th, was one of unusual interest, Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith being present, after a
very long absence from these gatherings. There
was another special feature of this meeting;
also that the place of Coun. Phebe Woodruff,
recently deceased, was to be filled. Prest. M. I.
Horne presided. There was a full meeting,
and a good spirit pervaded the assembly. After
singing, prayer was offered by Sister Minerva
W. Snow. Continued by singing. Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
Minutes of Y. L. M. I. A. of the 20th Ward
were read, and P. A. of the 5th, 21st and 4th
wards.
	Prest. M. I. Horne made a few remarks,
and referred to the business which was to be
transacted, viz., to nominate some one to fill
the vacancy caused by the death of Sister
Woodruff.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith expressed her pleasure
in meeting with the sisters after so long a time,
and added that the sisters who had come out
on so sultry a day loved the Lord and their re-
ligion. She then nominated Sister Minerva
W. Snow as Counselor to President M. I.
Horne, in place of Coun. Phebe W. Woodruff,
deceased. The nomination was unanimously
approved.
	Coun. M. W. Snow made a few remarks, ex-
pressing the hope that she might be granted
health and strength to perform any duty she
might be called upon to do, and prayed she
might prove faithful, and fill the position with
honor.
	Coun. Zina D. H. Young, after preliminary
remarks in reference to her recent illness, and
her gratitude for the preservation of her life,
said she had, for some time past, been laboring
in the Temple at Logan, and urged the sisters

[Column 2]

to greater faith and earnestness in the Gospel;
warned them of evil spirits that are hovering
around trying to destroy and draw our little
ones away; prayed we might have grace and
faith to accomplish all we desired to do, etc.
	Prest. E. R. S: Smith said, "We are living
in a very important time, since God has
brought to light the Everlasting Gospel, and
since we have had to leave our homes and our
country for the pearl of great price, let us
cling to it, come life or come death; do not
waver." Was thankful she had lived to see
this day. "In this persecution that is going
on, is God's hand in it? I think it is." Spoke
quite eloquently of the Savior, and His death
for us; said we should try and stand firm, re-
membering what He passed through for us.
"O my sisters, what glorious propsects are be-
fore us, but we will need the Holy Ghost, and
to draw nearer unto God, if we desire to ob-
tain them. These enemies who are working
against us have taken their parts in the pro-
gramme, and we have taken ours, and let us
abide firm and true in the path we have
chosen." Spoke of a division that would take
place, when hypocrites would be taken from
our midst, and our Temples would not be pol-
luted.	*	*	"If we do right we have
nothing to fear." Felt to bless all, and ask
God to preserve this people from all the evil
machinations of those who are combined
against them. "They are Satan's emissaries.
It has been said that if we are not pure enough
the Melchisedec Priesthood will be taken away,
and we will only have the Aaronic." Made
other interesting remarks.
	Sister Sinah Bishop bore testimony to the
truth of the principle of plural marriage. Dr.
E.S. Barney gave a few words of good coun-
sel. Sister Dyer bore her testimony, and spoke
in the gift of tongues. Interpretation given
by Sister Zina D. H. Young. A sister in the
congregation bore testimony to the words of
Sister Zina. Sister Elizabeth Paul, Sister
Mortensen, Sister Kimball, Sister McLean and
another sister in the audience bore faithful
testimonies, and expressed their gratitude for
the feast of good things enjoyed at this meet-
ing.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Singing,
"Weep, weep not for me Zion." Benediction
by Sister E. S. Taylor.

	Semi-monthly Meeting, August 7th, Prest,
M. I. Horne presiding. After singing, prayer
was offered by Coun. B. W. Smith. After
singing again, and the reading of minutes of
previous meeting, minutes were read from the
Y. L. M. I. A. of the 8th Ward, and from the
P. A. of the 5th and 6th Wards.
	Prest. Horne made a few remarks, and ex-
pressed a desire to hear from the sisters in the
congregation.
	Sisters M. Brown, Sinah Bishop, S. Bird, M.
E. A. Watmough, Sister Dyer, Dr. E. S.
Barney and other sisters in the congregation
bore faithful testimonies and made interesting
remarks; also Sisters Mortenson, Tentier and
Mary Davis gave a few words of good counsel.
	Sister Roundy said if we lived nearer to
God we would not feel to shrink from the
trials that are upon us. "We are to be tried
as gold seven times, and we may expect some
very bitter experiences."
	Two sisters in the congregation then bore
testimony. Sister Brown quoted from a recent
discourse of Elder Moses Thatcher's. Sister
H. C. Young desired the meeting to unite with
her in prayer, which was responded to by all
present.
	Sister B. W. Smith then addressed the meet-
ing; counseled the sisters to be true and firm,
and not to fear, "for we will yet overcome our
enemies, and triumph in the end." Was thank-
ful that Congress had adjourned without pass-
ing the new Edmunds bill.

[Column 3]

	Prest. Horne made some very stirring re-
marks; believed, in regard to the sermon by
Bro. Thatcher, that it would be fulfilled, unless
the people turned round very quickly and re-
formed. Said, "Has this raid humbled the
people? No; I do not think so. We have got
to forsake our sins and repent before our
Father and God." Made mention of election
day, and many other items of the greatest im-
portance, earnestly exhorting the sisters to
heed the many warnings given to us, or if not,
we must abide the consequences, which she de-
scribed as very dreadful.
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing. Dis-
missed with prayer by Dr. E. S. Barney.


﻿RESULTS OF THE CRUSADE.

	"God moves in a mysterious way
		His wonders to perform."

	Since the present crusade has begun, and
especially since the excursion of the G. A. R.,
which passed through this city recently, when
our enemies did so much to "show us up" in
an improper light, a great many people have
visited our city, and are more than ever inter-
ested in the present condition of affairs among
the Latter-day Saints, and appear to manifest
a more earnest desire than ever before to in-
quire after the principles of the Gospel, the be-
lief and practice of the Saints, etc. They say
that people in the east are thoroughly aroused
to the fact that we, as a people, are unjustly
persecuted. They say that until this persecu-
tion commenced they had heard nothing of
Mormonism, except the false reports, that are
generally circulated about us, but since the
commencement of the inhuman persecutions,
that have been heaped upon the people, their
sympathies have been aroused, and their curi-
osity excited; and it has caused them to inquire
into the reasons for such a state of things, and
they hear many things that they would not
otherwise take notice of, and what they hear
and see, makes stronger impressions than it
would under ordinary circumstances. Thus
we see that "the wrath of man may be made
to praise God, and the remainder will he re-
strain."
	I think this affords an excellent opportunity
for missionary labor for all who have friends
or relatives in the world. If we would take
time from our own affairs to write to friends,
to send them papers and Church publications,
that they may hear both sides of the question,
and get a proper understanding of the situation,
they would at least better understand us, and
we can be missionaries at home. When we
have read our papers we should not destroy
them, but mail them to a distant friend; if we
have none of our own, give them to some one
who has friends, and urge them to send them
to them. When you give reading matter to
your friends enjoin it upon them to loan it to
others, that the truth may be learned about us,
that the truth may be scattered as far as false-
hood has been. I fear that some of the re-
responsibility will rest upon us, if we do not
do our duty in this matter.
		RUTH.


﻿NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Mrs. Edith Longfellow Dana and Mrs. Annie
Longfellow Thorpe are to build a double house
near the old Craigie mansion for their resi-
dences.
	Mary Anderson has been spending the
autumn with Mr. and Mrs. William Black,
amid the picturesque scenery of Oban, which
her host has so graphically and charmingly
described.
	A university for women, founded on private


capital, is contemplated in Moscow, if th
government will sanction the scheme, whic
proposes to have three faculties—mathematics
natural history (with medical studies), and
philosophy.
	Miss Calhoun, granddaughter of John C.
Calhoun, went to London two or three years
ago, and appeared on the stage, where she
achieved some success. A play has been writ
ten for her which is founded upon the life of
Charlotte Corday. She proposes to bring it
out in America this winter.
	Mme. Janauschek says she invariably dis-
courages girls who ask her advice about going
on the stage. 'They know nothing of the life
of the stage, its temptations and its hard work.
They see us only at night, nicely dressed, and
with everything perfect. They know no more.
I have been thirty-three years on the stage,
and I say there is no life like it. It has no
happiness, it leaves you no time for domestic
or social pleasures, no time for anything but
work, work, work.  I was once a good pianist,
but for years I have hardly touched a piano.
I love to draw, but there is no time, ever. All
is work and travel, travel and work. To girls
who think of going on the stage, again I say,
no, no."
	Miss Constance Fenimore Woolson has
rented for the autumn and early winter a part
of an old stone villa on the hill called Bellos-
guardo, outside the Roman gate of Florence,
Italy. In the same villa resides Miss Green-
ough, sister of the sculptor. Miss Woolson's
quarters have a garden in front of them, and
are very romantically situated. Next door is
Villa Montanto where Hawthorne wrote the
"Marble Faun," and which he describes as the
home of Donatello. The shadow of its old
stone tower moves across Miss Woolson's
garden every day like that of a sun-dial.  Not
far distant is the small villa where her great-
uncle, James Fenimore Cooper, spent two sum-
mers with his family sixty years ago.  He 
was very fond of Italy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Lord Randolph Churchill does not want his
wife to vote, but is glad to have her make po-
litical speeches in his behalf.
	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, since the death
of Professor Stowe, has received daily letters
of condolence in such numbers that it has been
impossible for her to answer them.  She there-
fore desires it to be known that she is grateful
for the sympathy expressed, and she hopes
that her correspondents will accept this public
acknowledgment of her deep appreciation of
their kind words in place of letters of reply.


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Oct. 19, 1886:
	Mary H. Barnes, Binghamton, N. Y., Sad-
iron Cleaner.
	Elizabeth Gefort, Erooklyn, N. Y., Tracing-
wheel.
Eliza E. Scott, Hamilton, Ontario, Drugist's
Sieve.


In every human being there are many grains 
of gold. When one is down, even by indiscre-
tion of his own, do not stoop to throw additional
mud upon him. Strive rather to reach him a
helping hand, to extricate him from the mire
in which he is wallowing. This is true man-
hood.


[Column 1]

A TRIBUTE FROM THE CLIFTON
RELIEF SOCIETY.

SARAH HOWELL.

	DIED, at her residence in Clifton, Sunday morning, at
twenty minutes to one o'clock, Oct. 10th, 1886, Mrs. Sarah
Howell, wife of S. C. D. Howell.
	Deceased, whose maiden name was Stewart, was born a
Gallantin, Summer Co., Tenn., January 15, 1815, and was
married to S. C. D. Howell on the 5th of July, 1835.
	She passed away peacefully, after much suffering.  She
was lovingly cared for by her children, grandchildren and
friends. She was very patient and sensitive to the last, in-
structing her family concerning her wishes to be carried
out by them, even to the last moments of her life. She
was very thankful she had the privilege of doing a grea
portion of her work in the Temple for the dead, and left
full instructions for her children to finish the work after she
was gone.
	Mrs. Howell was of a kind and cheerful disposition, be-
nevolent to the poor, and faithful in all her duties. She
was President of the Teachers in our Relief Society. She
received the Gospel in December, 1843. She was left with
three small children to provide for herself while her hus-
band went with the Mormon Batalion to Mexico, and
passed through many trials and persecutions with the
Saints in Nauvoo also, as well as the early days of Utah.
Her illness was lingering, still she was resigned to go or
stay as God willed, realizing He knew best.
	Her funeral was held in the ward meeting house on
Monday 11th, and was attended by many relatives and
friends. The very elements seemed to mingle their tears
with the mourners' as the wind throbbed and the rain fell in
showers.
	Life flitted quietly away as the Sabbath morning dawned,
and she lay free from pain on the Sabbath day of rest.
The struggle was over; her busy life was ended, and she
lay sweetly sleeping the last, long, dreamless sleep, from
which there is no awakening until the resurrection morning.
She had five sons, two of whom are living, forty-two grand
children and eight great grand children.

		JANE M. HOWELL, President,
		E. W. HOWELL,
		S. J. MARLER, Counselors.
		DELILAH E. DUDLEY, Cor. Sec.

TO THE MEMORY OF SARAH HOWELL.

Dear Sister Sarah, we meet here to-day,
Our hearts full of love a small tribute to pay
To your worth and nobility, knowing full well
That the whole of your worth only angels can tell.
You have honored God's laws, 'mid oppression and strife
When harship and famine were threatening your life,
When husband and loved ones were sent from your side,
You bore all in meekness for God was your guide.

And when you were driven from the home you possesed,
You willingly shared with the sorely oppressed,
Rejoicing that you was deemed worthy to go,
You said they're my people and my faith I will show.
You followed them even 'mid deserts to roam
Wher'er their abiding place, there was your home,
And bravely you traveled o'er mountain and plain, 
Determined through all things the right to maintain.

There you struggled and toiled to create a new home,
Where the wild beast and savage in freedom did roam;
Rejoicing the while that the Saints were made free,
And would worship the Lord in sweet liberty;
A blessing you've been to the daughters of light,
For your influence ever has been for the right;
With words of encouragement cheered many hearts,
The remembrance of which will never depart.
Your children you trained in the ways of the Lord,
By example and precept you taught them His word,
Now they're workers in Zion, and honored, we see,
Beloved by the good for their integrity;
And multiplied thousands will yet speak your praise,
For your trust and obedience to God and His laws;
Like Jesus, your motto has been, and is still,
"Not my will be done, but O Father! thy will."

And now we all pray that the blessings of heaven
May rest on your aged companion from morning till even;
May his life be prolonged till his work is all through,
Then be crowned with his queen 'mong the righteous and.
	true.

[Column 2]

Like the last floral tint of autumnal leaves,
      After the frost king's blighting breath,
Fresh radiance crowned this aged friend of ours,
	Ere she was folded in the arms of death.

		ELIZABETH N. HENDERSON.
Clifton, Nov. 3d, 1886.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Alpine Ward, Oct. 13, 1886, of heart disease
and dropsy, Sister Mariah Nelson, daughter of Yense
Christon Anderson, born September 21st, 1821 in Den-
mark; joined the Church Feb. 22 1862; emigrated to Utah
1872; joined the Relief Society 1873. She was the mother 
of six children; two have died and four are living. Sister
Nelson was a faithful Latter-day Saint, always on hand to
attend to her duties as long as her health permitted, and
we feel to mourn with her husband and friends, and to fol-
low her worthy example.

	Rest, dear sister, from thy labor,
	Enjoy the blessings thou hast earned;
	In the mansions of thy Father
	Thou hast won a noble crown.

		R. Y. NASH.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[-]E
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions,
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.		
	112,	114,	116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

