VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1886.	NO. 11.


﻿AN ANGEL VISIT.

AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED TO NELLIE'S
MOTHER.

I saw her with a smile as sweet
	As angel ever wore;
And in her arms, with tenderest love,
	A beauteous child she bore.

She spoke, her voice was music soft,
	No sign of pain was given;
She told me what a blessed thing
	It is to live in heaven.

Upon one arm she held her babe,
	The other hand she raised;
And said, "For all that I have known,
	God's name and power be praised!"

I thought to take her hand in mine,
	Her lips with mine to touch;
But something told me to withhold,
	And not presume too much.

Then I remembered some great things,
	Our Father hath revealed;
And though I longed to clasp her form
	The wish I kept concealed.

Ah! was it hidden then so well?
	She smiled a brighter smile;
And moved her head as if to say,
	Not yet, but wait awhile!"

I drop'd my gaze to hide the thought,
	Or have it quite withdrawn;
And when I raised my eyes again
	My angel guest was gone.

But the sweet influence which she brought,
	Still gently lingered near;
And still resounded through my soul,
	Her voice so low and clear.

Thank God! that o'er this dark, cold world
	Some beams of light are thrown,
Fairer than those which form the day,
	And to all eyes are shown.

Thank God! that we, through faithfulness,
	A portion may receive;
Like our dear Nellie, never more
	To suffer or to grieve.

		LULA.


[Column 1]

POETS AND POETRY.

BY BISHOP ORSON F. WHITNEY.

A lecture delivered before the Teacher's Insti-
	tute of Salt Lake County, in the Fourteenth
	Ward Assembly Rooms, Wednesday evening,
	June 23, 1886.

MR. PRESIDENT, PROFESSORS, AND LADIES
	AND GENTLEMEN:

	In an age and world given up to the rush
and roar of railways, steam-ships, the miracles
of labor-saving machinery and other mighty
practicalities, when things regarded as theo-
retical or purely ideal are looked upon with
comparative indifference and are at a discount
in the popular mind, the mission of the poet is
apt to have its utility gravely questioned.
What is the poet good for? and what is the
good of poetry? are queries that have doubtless
flitted through many a mind, imbued with the
idea that nothing is useful which does not in
some way increase man's material wealth or
minister to his temporal needs.
	To answer, in part, these queries, and refute

[Column 2]

this sordid and all too practical argument, will
be the purpose of my present effort. And with
an audience like this, willing to be and per-
haps already convinced that the poet has a
mission in the world, and that the world would
do well to give him, at least, a respectful hear-
ing, I anticipate no very difficult task.
	I am satisfied that much of the prejudice
against poets, and the distaste for poetry which
exists in this prosaic age, are due entirely to
misapprehension. Only those who are ignorant
of what poetry means, will ask the question;
what is it good for? This is true of two classes,
those who have no poetry, or very little of it,
in their natures; and those who are brimful of
poetry and do not know it; who are really capa-
ble of appreciating it, and only need enlighten-
ing in order to enjoy to the fullest extent the
fragrance and beauty of this flower, plucked
from the gardens of Paradise and thrown to
earth to delight the senses and refresh the
souls of all lovers of the beautiful and refined.
	It is my belief that many persons who think
they dislike poetry are really poetical in their
natures, and are indebted to it more than they
imagine, for the success they may have
achieved, even in practical pursuits, and for
the enjoyment which their lives have afforded
them. Notably is this the case with many
public speakers, who owe to the poetic vein of
their natures—which they perchance lightly
esteem or entirely ignore—the purity of dic-
tion, magnetism, emotion, and power of utter-
ance with which they sway the minds and
hearts of the multitude. Where there is
no poetry there can be little or no eloquence.
	The commonest error made by many in re-
lation to poetry, is that it consists simply in
verse-making. They mistake the casket of
meter and rhyme for the jewel of thought
which it encloses, and perhaps in many in-
stances, after close investigation, they have
found the casket empty, and turned away
with feelings of disappointment and disgust.
Thenceforth, all rhymes were to them poetry,
and all poetry trash and sentimental nonsense.
Perhaps upon the worst specimens of doggerel
that could be selected, they have based their
estimation of the whole library of song. News-
paper warblings on "Spring," "Snow," "Fallen
Leaves," "Did you Ever Call Me Darling,"
and other hackneyed or effeminate themes,
they have classed with the divine epics of
Milton and Homer. The croak of a frog in
the marsh has sounded as sweet to them as the
song of the nightingale in the forest; and the
bray of the long-eared half brother to the
horse has been to them no less lofty and soul-
inspiring than the roar of a lion.
	Furthermore, poetry, as expressed in verse,
like all other arts and sciences, has its techni-
calities. The prose reader is often puzzled by
its transpositions, its contradictions, ellipses, and
other poetic licenses and rhetorical figures, ne-
cessary to rhythm and style, and comparative-
ly unknown in ordinary composition. And as
these require some study to overcome, the
mind naturally tires—unless the inducement
to proceed is greater than the temptation to
desist—and turns in impatient preference to
the easier forms of prose. This may be one
reason why poetry, even of a superior order, is
not pleasing to some.
	But all poetry, it must be remembered, is
not written in verse or rhyme. I heard a very
beautiful poem read a few weeks since, at the

[Column 3]

commencement exercises of the University.
It was an essay on the "Influence of Passion,"
by one of the young graduates. Not two lines
of it rhymed together, nor was it written with
any apparent regard to the rules of metrical
composition, but it was a poem nevertheless,
and the pen that wrote it was wielded by a
poet, or one gifted with poetic ability.
	We must not mistake the fruit of a tree,
either, for the tree itself. What is commonly
called poetry—that which we read or hear
spoken—is the blossom and fruit of poetry, or
more properly speaking, of poesy. Poesy is
the gift, poetry the expression of the gift;
poesy is the fount, poetry the stream that issues
from it.
	Says the poet Coleridge: "Poetry is the
blossom and fragrance of all human knowledge,
human thoughts, human passions, emotions,
language."
	Another writer defines it at greater length
in these eloquent words: "The gentle stillness
of a spring-time evening, when, with heart at-
tuned to the glories of the twilight scene, we
listen enraptured to the closing song of busy
nature, hushing to repose—this is poetry!
	"The coming storm, preceded by the rushing
wind; the dark, angry, approaching clouds,
capped with the flashing, darting lightning,
with the low muttering, and anon the deep
toned thunder coming nearer and nearer in its
awful grandeur! To the lover of the grand
and sublime—this is poetry!
	"The silvery quiet of the moonlight night,
when we wander amid the jessamines and roses,
with our darling, whispering words of love,
and dreaming of the future—this is poetry!
	"The midnight hour in the attic, when,
through the crevices of the roof and windows,
we catch glimpses of the flashing lightning,
and listen, slumber and dream to the music of
the pattering rain drops on the roof—this is
poetry!
	"The roaring cataract, the silvery rivulet,
the towering mountain, the dark ravine, the
opening rose-bud, the cherub child, the waving
grain, the modest violet—all breathe the music
of poetry!
	"The beautiful face, the gentle, thrilling
pressure of the hand, the kettle singing for tea,
the joyous meeting of the husband and wife on
the return from labor at the twilight hour, the
smile, the kiss—all this is poetry!
	"It flashes in the sky, it blossoms on the
earth, it breathes music in the air, delighting
the eye, charming the ear, and filling the soul
with ineffable happiness—all this is poetry!
	"To appreciate, to comprehend, and to in-
terpret, this golden sunny halo of beauty, is the
gift of the poet."
	If these are correct definitions—and who
will doubt it?—what must be the state of that
mind which really hates poetry, and has no
poetry within it?
	Says Dr. Holland: "All that is grand and
good, all that is heroic and unselfish, all that is
pure and true, all that is firm and strong,
all that is beautiful and harmonious, is essen-
tially poetical."
	"Poetry," says Coleridge, "has been to me
its own exceeding great reward; it has given
me the habit of wishing to discover the good
and beautiful in all that meets and surrounds
me."
	Again I ask—what must be the condition
of that mind which hates poetry, and has no
admiration for, or sympathy with, the good, the


[Column 1]

pure, the true, the beautiful and sublime? Of
such a one, might we not say with Shakes-
peare."

"The man that hath no music in himself,
Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils.
The motions of his spirit are dull as night
And his affections dark as Erebus—
Let no such man be trusted."

	Sir William Temple wisely observes, of those
who despise poetry and music, which are twin
sisters: "Whoever find themselves wholly in-
sensible to these charms, would, I think, do
well to keep their own counsel, for fear of re-
proaching their own temper, and bringing the
goodness of their natures, if not of their under-
standings, into question. It may be thought
at least an ill sign, if not an ill constitution;
since some of the fathers went so far as to es-
teem the love of music a sign of predestination;
as a thing divine, and reserved for the felicities
of heaven itself."
	Thus it appears that poetry, so far from be-
ing the trivial toy that some people suppose—
a soothing pastime for children, or for love-sick
boys and girls—is something of superior im-
port, and as worthy the attention of the wise
and serious, as of the gay and thoughtless among
mankind. Indeed, it is one of those things
which only the wise can properly understand,
and, as I have already stated, the reason why
many people dislike poetry, is simply because
they do not understand it.
	Poetry is that sentiment of the soul, or
faculty of the mind, which enables its possessor
to appreciate and realize the heights and depths
of human experience. It is the power to feel
pleasure or suffer pain, in all its exquisiteness
and intensity. All do not possess it in the
same degree, nor can any one who is not total-
ly depraved be utterly devoid of it. Nearly
all men and women are poetical, to some extent,
but very few of them can be called poets. There
are great poets and small poets, and there are
men and women who make verses. But all
are not poets, nor even good versifiers. Poetas-
ters are plentiful, but real poets are very rare.
Education cannot make a poet; although it
may polish and develop one. The poet is a
child of Nature, and, as the old proverb says,
"is born, not made." The greater the poet, the
greater is his capacity to suffer and enjoy. This
is why poets and other men and women of
genius are often such violent extremists, with 
their lives and characters full of contrasts and
apparent contradictions. All heights and
depths of feeling are theirs; vast is their scope
and marvelous their versatility. They are
either soaring like eagles in triumph among
the clouds, or groveling in despair in the depths
of the abyss.
	The poetic sentiment or faculty, I have said,
is the power to feel intensely, either pleasure
or pain. It does not always find expression in
words. There are joys that are mute; there
are sorrows that never sigh or weep; but are
eloquent in their stillness, and all the more
powerful for their imprisonment. Many poets
have never written. They may have felt
the divine fire burning within them, every
nerve and fibre of their sensitive natures
thrilled with joy or shaken with agony, and yet
were powerless to pour out upon the palpitat-
ing air the burden of the song that resounded
through all the secret caverns of the soul. The
most eloquent poets, "whose words were sparks
of immortality," have felt the painful inade-
quacy of language to illustrate their thoughts.
Even Byron cries out amid the overpowering
grandeur of the Alps, whose towering tops,
glistening in their caps of snow—silvered by
the moonbeams or frowning darkly amid the
lurid gleams and mutterings of the storm—
swept with Titanic fingers the harp-strings of 
his soul:

[Column 2]

"Could I embody and unbosom now
	That which is most within me,—could I wreak
My thoughts upon expression, and thus throw
	Soul, heart, mind, passions, feelings, strong or weak,
All that I would have sought, and all I seek,
Bear, know, feel, and yet breathe—into one word,
	And that one word were lightning, I would speak;
But as it is, I live and die unheard,
With a most voiceless thought, sheathing it as a sword."
	
	This, from one who could create, by the
magic wand of eloquence and imagination, new
worlds of light, and "people them with beings
bright as their own beams," who could "with
terror freeze the cowering blood," or "now dis-
solve the heart in tenderness;" who "from
above descending stooped to touch the loftiest
thought, and proudly stooped, as though it
scarce deserved his verse." In the same breath
which bewails his poverty of expression, he
thus addresses himself to the stars:

"Ye stars! which are the poetry of heaven!
If in your bright leaves we would read the fate
Of men and empires—'tis to be forgiven,
That in our aspirations to be great, 
Our destinies o'erleap their mortal state,
And claim a kindred with you; for ye are
A beauty and a mystery, and create
In us such love and reverence from afar,
That fortune, fame, power, life, have named themselves a
	star."

	Every school-boy is familiar with Byron's
apostrophe to the ocean:

"There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
There is society, where none intrudes,
	By the deep sea, and music in its roar:
I love not man the less, but nature more,
	From these our interviews, in which I steal
From all I may be, or have been before,
	To mingle with the universe and feel
	What I can ne'er express, yet cannot all conceal.

"Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean--roll!
	Ten thousand fleets sweep over thee in vain:
Man marks the earth with ruin—his control
	Stops with the shore; upon the watery plain
	The wrecks are all thy deed, nor doth remain
A shadow of man's ravage, save his own,
	When, for a moment, like a drop of rain,
He sinks into thy depths with bubbling groan,
Without a grave, unknelled, uncoffined and unknown.

"Thy shores are empires, changed in all save thee—
	Assyria, Greece, Rome, Carthage, what are they?
Thy waters wasted them while they were free,
	And many a tyrant since; their shores obey
The stranger, slave or savage; their decay
	Has dried up realms to deserts;—not so thou,
Unchangeable save to thy wild waves' play—
	Time writes no wrinkle on thine azure brow;
	Such as creation's dawn beheld, thou rollest now.
	
"Thou glorious mirror, where the Almighty's form
	Glasses itself in tempests; in all time
Calm or convulsed—in breeze, or gale or storm,
	Icing the pole, or in the torrid clime
Dark heaving;—boundless, endless and sublime,
	The image of Eternity—the throne
Of the invisible; even from out thy slime
	The monsters of the deep are made; each zone
	Obeys thee; thou goest forth, dread, fathomless, alone.

"And I have loved thee, ocean! and my joy
	Of youthful sports was on thy breast to be
Borne, like thy bubbles, onward: from a boy
	I wantoned with thy breakers—they to me
Were a delight; and if the freshening sea
	Made them a terror—'twas a pleasing fear,
For I was as it were a child of thee,
	And trusted to thy billows far and near,
	And laid my hand upon thy mane—as I do here."

	Somehow I have always suspected that poems
of this kind were not written while on the
bosom of the heaving wave. There are doubt-
less some people of soaring soul and cast-iron
diaphragm who can "sail the ocean blue" with

[Column 3]

all the aesthetic rapture which inspires them
while standing upon the shore, letting imagina-
tion take a lone voyage; but these, I opine, are
not yet as numerous as Abraham's posterity.
I am prepared to wager a large orange that
the bard who sang, "I'm on the sea," was at
the time snugly ensconced in an attic, and that
even the sublime oceanic rhapsodies of the im-
mortal Byron were more the result of occular
than of tangible sensation. A man may "lay
his hand upon the ocean's mane" with compara-
tive comfort, but when the ocean takes it into
his hoary head to return the compliment, the
conditions are more than liable to be reversed.
	I have quoted liberally from Byron, not
only because I greatly admire his genius, but
because he is typical, in some respects, of all
poets. Not to surfeit you with his poetry, per-
mit me to give one more brief selection, on the
vanity of human ambition:

"He who ascends to mountain tops shall find
 	The loftiest peaks most wrapt in clouds and snow;
He who surpasses or subdues mankind,
	Must look down on the hate of those below,
	Though high above the sun of glory glow,
And far beneath the earth and ocean spread,
	Round him are icy rocks and loudly blow
Contending tempests on his naked head,
And thus reward the toils which to those summits led."

	Few men have realized more fully the melan-
cholly truth of these majestic words than the
one who penned them. Gifted by heaven with
all a poet's genius, and with all a poet's sensi-
bility, he knew what it was to incur the jealous
hatred of those whom nature and nature's God
had made his inferiors. His sins were many,
and they merited punishment, but his great
"crimes," for which he was hated most, were in
being gifted above his fellows, and having the
temerity to tell more truth concerning them
than they desired to hear. He was harshly,
unreasonably criticised on the very threshold
of his career; and later in life was covered
with calumny and opprobrium. His soul, like
a finely strung harp, swept by savage hands,
cried out in resentment against the outrage
and poured forth a mingled torrent of discord
and melody. His satire was as keen as the
arrows of Apollo; his invective as terrible as
the thunders of Jove: and upon the heads of
his traducers he poured out the vials of his
wrath unsparingly. I am not an apologist for
the sins of Byron; I am simply calling attention
to facts that may plead in extenuation of his
faults, and which furnish a reason for the ex-
tremes of good and evil to be found in his
poetry. Byron might have been very different
with other circumstances, other treatment and
surroundings. It was the stormy experience
of his  life, which moulded the character of
much of his poetry. His soul responded to
every touch, gentle or harsh, that came upon
it; it was a mirror throwing back the smiles
and frowns of all beholders; a clear, calm lake,
sleeping peacefully in the sunlight, but rippled
by the faintest breeze, and capable of reflect-
ing all the terrors of the storm. Byron, like
all true poets, simply poured out what he felt.
The cup of sweetness mingled with wormwood,
which he quaffed and held to the lips of others,
was made up of his own joys and sorrows, com-
pounded by his own genius in the crucible of
his own brain.
	Thus is this poet a type, in many respects, of
all children of genius. They who express
most must likewise feel most, both of pleasure
and pain; and this it is which creates for genius
its dual destiny—its laurel wreath of bliss with
misery interwoven—its couch of roses with its
pillow of thorns. It is one thing to sip the
sweets of poesy, and another thing to provide
them for the world's delectation. That which
gives us so much pleasure to hear may have
cost its author untold toil and pain.
	I will now present a few selections from


[Column 1]
standard poets, only regretting that time will
not permit my quoting from them all. Here is
a pretty little conceit of Shelley's, called
"Love's Philosophy:"
		"The fountains mingle with the river,
			And the rivers with the ocean;
		The winds of heaven mix forever
			With a sweet emotion;
		Nothing in the world is single;
			All things by a law divine
		In one another's being mingle—
			   Why not I with thine!

		"See! the mountains kiss high heaven,
			   And the waves clasp one another;
		No sister flower would be forgiven
			If it disdained its brother;
		And the sunlight clasps the earth,
			And the moonbeams kiss the sea;—
		What are all these kissings worth,
			If thou kiss not me?"

	Love, you know, is called "the poetry of life,
and the life of poetry." Tennyson says of it
sadly:
		"I hold it true, whate'er befall;
			I feel it when I sorrow most;
		'Tis better to have loved and lost,
			Than never to have loved at all."

	Longfellow:—
		"As unto the bow the cord is,
		So unto the man is woman;
		Though she bends him, she obeys him
		Though she draws him, yet she follows—
		Useless each without the other."

	Burns illustrates gratitude and friendship in
these touching lines, addressed to a dead
friend:
		The bridegroom may forget the bride
			Was made his wedded wife yestreen;
		The monarch may forget the crown
			That on his head an hour has been;
		The mother may forget the child
			That smiles sae sweetly on her knee,
		But I'll remember thee, Glencairn,
			And a' that thou hast done for me."

Moore's picture of "Sunset."

		"How dear to me the hour when daylight dies,
		   And sunbeams melt upon the silent sea,
		For then sweet dreams of other days arise,
		   And memory breathes her vesper sigh to thee,
		And as I watch the line of light that plays
		   Along the smooth wave toward the burning west
		I long to tread its golden path of rays,
		   And think 'twill lead to some bright isle of rest."

	"Night," by Shelley:

How beautiful this night! The balmiest sigh
Which vernal zephyrs breathe in evening's ear,
Were discord to the speaking quietude
That wraps this moveless scene. Heaven's ebon vault,
Studded with stars unutterably bright,
Through which the moon's unclouded grandeur rolls,
Seems like a canopy which Love has spread
To curtain her sleeping world. Yon gentle hills
Robed in a garment of untrodden snow;
Yon darksome rocks whence icicles depend;
So stainless that their white and glittering spires
Tinge not the moon's pure beam; yon castled steep
Whose banner hangeth o'er the time-worn tower
So idly that rapt fancy deemeth it
A metaphor of peace: all form a scene
Where musing solitude might love to lift
Her soul above this sphere of earthliness,
Where silence, undisturbed, might watch alone—
So cold, so bright, so still."

		"Morning," by Edwin Arnold:
					Lo! the Dawn
Sprang with Buddh's victory! lo! in the east
 Flamed the first fires of beauteous day, poured forth
Through fleeting folds of Night's black drapery;
High in the widening blue the herald star
Faded to paler silver as there shot
Brighter and brightest bars of rosy gleam

[Column 2]
Across the gray. Far off the shadowy hills
Saw the great sun, before the world was 'ware
And donned their crowns of crimson; flower by flower
Felt the warm breath of Morn and 'gan to unfold
Their tender lids. Over the spangled grass
Swept the swift footsteps of the lovely Light,
Turning the tears of Night to joyous gems,
Decking the earth with radiance, 'broidering
The sinking storm-clouds with a golden fringe,
Gilding the feathers of the palms, which waved
Glad salutation; darting beams of gold
Into the glades; touching with magic wand
The stream to rippled ruby; in the brake
Finding the mild eyes of the antelopes
And saying, 'it is day;' in nested sleep
Touching the small heads under many a wing,
And whispering, 'Children, praise the light of day.'"

	Campbell:

		"At summer eve, when heaven's ethereal bow
		Spans with bright arch the glittering hills below,
		Why to yon mountain turns the musing eye
		Whose sunbright summit mingles with the sky?
		Why do those cliffs of shadowy tint appear
		More sweet than all the landscape smiling near?
		'Tis distance lends enchantment to the view
		And robes the mountain in its azure hue.
		Thus, with delight, we linger to survey
		The promised joys of life's unmeasured way.
		Thus, from afar, each dim discovered scene
		More pleasing seems than all the past hath been."

Burns:

			"But pleasures are like poppies spread,
			You sieze the flower—its bloom is shed;
			Or, like the snow fall in the river,
			A moment white then melts forever;
			Or, like the borealis race,
			That flit ere you can point their place;
			Or, like the rainbow's lovely form,
			Evanishing amid the storm."

Moore:

	"Let fate do her worst; there are relics of joy,
	Bright dreams of the past, which she cannot destroy;
	Which come in the night time of sorrow and care,
	And bring back the features that joy used to wear.
	Long, long be my heart with such memories filled!
	Like the vase in which roses have once been distilled—
	You may break, you may shatter the vase if you will,
	But the scent of the roses will hang round it still.

Gray:

		"Full many a gem of purest ray serene
		   The dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear;
		Full many a flower is born to blush unseen
		   And waste its sweetness on the desert air."

Longfellow:
			"Never stoops the soaring vulture
			On his quarry in the desert,
			On the sick or wounded bison,
			But another vulture, watching
			From his high, aerial look-out,
			Sees the downward plunge, and follows;
			And a third pursues the second
			Coming from the invisible ether,
			First a speck, and then a vulture,
			Till the air is dark with pinions.
			So disasters come not singly;
			But as if they watched and waited,
			Scanning one another's motions,
			When the first descends, the others
			Follow, follow, gathering flock-wise
			Round their victim, sick and wounded,
			First a shadow, then a sorrow,
			Till the air is dark with anguish."

	May Ryley Smith:

Sometime, when all Life's lessons have been learned,
	And suns and stars forevermore have set,
The things which our weak judgements here have spurned,
	The things o'er which we grieved with lashes wet,
Will flash before us, out of Life's dark night,
	As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue;
And we shall see how all God's plans were right,
	And how, what seemed reproof, was love most true.

[Column 3]
But not to-day. Then be content, poor heart,
	God's plans, like lilies, pure and white unfold;
We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart;
	Time will reveal the calyxes of gold."

	Thoughts and words like these are the pro-
ducts of genius, and genius, in order to produce,
must feel them.
	"Genius," says Castelar, "is a divine infirmi-
ty—genius is a martyrdom. The poet seizes
upon the light, the stars, the mountains, the
seas, to convert them into ideas, into canticles.
The poet dissolves the universe to mingle the
colors for his pictures. But he cannot under-
take this Titanic work without insuring his
own destruction. He cannot go into the fire
without being burned; he cannot mount to the
extreme heights of the atmosphere without
being frozen; he cannot enter the thunder-cloud
without receiving in that conductor, his body,
the shock of electricity. Those privileged
souls which, flinging off the clay of this world,
force their way upward till they become like
bright stars in the firmament, almost approach-
ing the angels; those beings—who from the
rock of their own shipwreck hold forth the
light to future generations—have fed the di-
vine splendor burning in the lamp of their
own brain with tears from their eyes and with
blood from their hearts."
	"Thus there is always an abyss in the depths
of all genius. A crown of stars cannot be
placed upon the brow unless there is at the
same time a crown of thorns around the heart.
One cannot enter the temple to inscribe an im-
mortal name, but at the cost of writing it in
the blood of one's veins."
	These, my hearers, are the words of a poet—
a poet who is famed as an orator, and who
utters his thoughts, his poetry, in prose. Take
one more draught from the same pellucid foun-
tain:
	"Life is full of complications, and for the
same reason of insuperable difficulties. And
as there are great contrasts in nature, there are
also in society opposed forces. By the side of
the prophet, who announces the future, arises
the magistrate, who believes his mission to be
the conservation of the present system, and
who as a result of this conviction, persecutes
the prophet; in the vicinity of every new
thinker there exists an association which be-
lieves itself infallible; beside each reformer is
placed the eternal cup of hemlock. It appears
that seeds cannot fall upon the earth unless
the vase which contains them is broken.
Every old prejudice feels itself wounded by a
new idea, and hates it accordingly.		*	*
Society is movement—but those who move it
fall under the weight of its crushing wheel.
Society is renovation, but those who renew it
are slain by its old errors. We cannot aspire
to be blessed by posterity without being cursed
by our contemporaries. Savage beasts do not
disappear from a country without having been
long and patiently chased. How many bright in-
telligences fall, how many fail, how many die
and depart like shadows in the struggle which
is necessary to rid the earth of monsters. The
greater number of people believe you are tear-
ing their souls from God if you endeavor to
uproot one of the prejudices or errors under
whose shadows their fathers lived for ages.
	"And you, poetic souls, you who come from
purer regions crowned with flowers, beating
your white wings, clothed with ether; with an
immortal song upon your lips and a lyre in
your hands, like the first angels who gazed
upon chaos at the birth of the universe; you
who bear imagination like a star upon your
brows, and who live awe-struck and ecstatic in
the contemplation of a world of ideas, which
to us weak mortals whose vision cannot pene-
trate it appears a world of shadows—you can-
not enter this sphere of realities without fall-
ing into an abyss, without tearing your wings
			Continued on page 86


[Column 1]

Continued from page 83.
and wounding your feet with thorns; you can-
not descend from the fire in which  you have
been moulded to the coldness of our shades
unless the dew of your tears is frozen in their
fall, and the transparent vase of your hearts is
broken by the hailstones."
	This brings us face to face with the mission
of the poet among men. Says Holland: "Verily
the poets of the world are the prophets of hu-
manity. They forever reach after and foresee
the ultimate good. They are evermore build-
ing the Paradise that is to be, painting the
Millennium that is to come, restoring the lost
image of God in the human soul. When the
world shall reach the poet's ideal, it will arrive
at perfection, and much good will it do the
world to measure itself by this ideal and strug-
gle to lift the real to its lofty level."
	I am not prepared to admit—nor do I sup-
pose Dr. Holland meant to say—that the poets
of the world are its only prophets, or that they
are prophets in the same sense and degree as
the inspired oracles of sacred writ. But I do
believe that the gift of poesy and the gift of
prophecy are akin to each other; that both are
of divine origin, and that they generally go
hand in hand. Prophets are almost invariably
poets; and poets, in many instances, have been
remarkably prophetic. Of the former class at-
test the writings of David, Isaiah, Jeremiah
and others—veritable prophets and veritable
poets—who, in some of the greatest poetry
ever sung, have indeed "built the Paradise that
is to be, and "foretold the Millennium that is
to come." Read the parables and sayings of
the Savior, you who love poetry and desire to
pluck from its luxuriant parterres some of its
sweetest and most fragrant flowers:
	"Consider the lilies of the field, how they
grow; they toil not neither do they spin, and
yet I say unto you that even Solomon, in all
his glory, was not arrayed like one of these.
	"Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of
the field, which to-day is and to-morrow is cast
into the oven, shall he not much more clothe
you, O ye of little faith?"
	Can our language boast anything purer, ten-
derer, truer, and more beautiful? Jesus of
Nazareth was a poet, no less than a prophet, of
preeminent genius.
	Time and your patience would fail me in
even glancing over the many conspicuous beau-
ties of Bible poetry. One more selection—
from Isaiah—and we will pass on:
	"How beautiful upon the mountains are the
feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that
publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of
good, that publisheth salvation, that saith unto
Zion, thy God reigneth.
	Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with
the voice together shall they sing: for they shall
see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again
Zion.
	"Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste
places of Jerusalem; for the Lord hath com-
forted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem.
	"Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the
glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.
	"For, behold the darkness shall cover the
earth, and gross darkness the people; but the
Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall
be seen upon thee.
	"And the Gentiles shall come to thy light,
and kings to the brightness of thy rising."
	There are some people who think there is no
poetry in religion. Such people, I fear, do not
know what poetry means, or what religion
means. Religion is full of poetry, and poetry
is full of religion. The loftiest and sublimest
poetry, as well as the sweetest and tenderest, is
religious poetry, and it cannot be otherwise. I
could cite many of the sayings of the Prophets,
Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, Heber C.
Kimball, Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor, and
scores of others with whom we are familiar,

[column 2]

and you would feel the poetry breathing in
every syllable, blazing from every sentence.
The fabled fire that Prometheus filched from
heaven is not more strikingly a symbol for
poetic inspiration, than is the Spirit of the
eternal God the very muse that has inspired all
true poetry that was ever written.
	I do not include in this—I need scarcely
say—the poetry of sensuality, of brutality false-
hood, hypocrisy and lust; which disgraces, and
not adorns, wherever found, the world's litera-
ture. Neither do I palliate—however much I
admire genius, its prostitution to ignoble ends.
No true poetry was ever based on anything low
and groveling. It is impossible to soil a sun-
beam. The poet may pervert his gift, as the
judge may disgrace his ermine, but the spirit
of poetry, the genius of justice, can never be
dragged in the mire. Day and night, dross
and gold, are not more essentially separate, al-
though their edges may join, than is the essence
of poetry distinct from everything base, sensu-
al and depraved. It is that high sense of right
which scorns all wrong; the sword and balance
of eternal justice; the voice of mercy pleading
for the fallen; the tongue of truth heralding
salvation and reform; the oracle of liberty pro-
claiming freedom to the captive, and deliver-
ance to the oppressed; the thunder-bolt of retri-
bution which lays the tyrant low. It is akin
to that Spirit which leadeth into all truth;
which reveals things past and things to come;
which takes of the things of God and shows
them unto mortals. The pillar of faith which
cannot be broken; the light of hope which is
never extinguished; the fountain of charity
and love which never fails.
	A few words in relation to prophetic poetry.
An anonymous writer says: "So entirely do
great poets soar beyond the reach, and almost
beyond the ken of their own age, that we
have only lately begun to have a right under-
standing of Shakespeare, or of the masters of
the Greek drama—to discern the principles
which actuated them, the purposes they had in
view, the laws they acknowledged, and the
ideas they wished to impersonate."
	Here is a prescient glimpse of Shakespeare's
worthy of one of the old Hebrew prophets:

	The cloud-capt towers, the gorgeous palaces,
	The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
	Yea, all that it inherit–shall dissolve,
	And like the baseless fabric of a vision
	Leave not a rack behind."

	Tennyson, in Locksley Hall, foretells the
triumphs—yet to be—of aerial navigation, and
the advent of the Millenium:

For I dipt into the future, ar as human eye could see,
Saw the vision of the world and all the wonder yet to be;

Saw the heavens fill with commerce, argosies of magic
	sails,
Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly
	bales;

Heard the heavens fill with shouting, and there rained a
	ghastly dew
From the nation's airy navies grappling in the central blue;

Far along the world-wide whisper of the south wind rush-
	ing warm,
With the standards of the people plunging through the
	thunder-storm.

Till the war drum throbbed no longer, and the battle flags
	were furled
In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the world.

There the common sense of most shall hold a fretful world
	in awe,
And the kindly earth shall slumber, lapt in universal law."

Byrant, our American bard, gives this:
	"Truth crushed to earth shall rise again;
		The eternal years of God are hers;
	But Error, wounded, writhes with pain,
		And dies amid his worshippers.

[column 3]

	Charles Mackay, in a poem entitled "Eter-
nal Justice," supplies this generation with some
choice food for reflection:

	The man is thought a knave or fool
		Or bigot plotting crime,
	Who, for the advancement of his race,
		Is wiser than his time.
	For him the hemlock shall distill,
		For him the axe be bared;
	For him the gibbet shall be built;
		For him the stake prepared;
	Him shall the scorn and wrath of men,
		Pursue with deadly aim,
	And malice, envy, blight and lies
		Shall desecrate his name.
	But truth shall conquer at the last,
		For round and round we run,
	And ever the right comes uppermost
		And ever is justice done.

	Pace through thy cell, old Socrates,
		Cheerily to and fro;
	Trust to the impulse of thy soul
		And let the poison flow;
	They may shatter to earth the lamp of clay
		That holds a light divine,
	But they cannot quench the fire of thought
		By any such deadly wine;
	They cannot blot thy spoken words
		From the memory of man
	By all the poison ever was brewed
		Since time its course began.
	To-day abhorred to-morrow adored,
		So round and round we run,
	And ever the truth comes uppermost
		And ever is justice done.

	Plod in thy cave, gray Anchorite;
		Be wiser than thy peers;
	Augment the range of human power
		And trust to coming years.
	They may call thee wizard, and monk accursed,
		And load thee with dispraise,
	Thou wert born five hundred years too soon
		For the comfort of thy days.
	But not too soon for human kind,
		Time hath reward in store;
	And the demons of our sires become
		The saints whom we adore.
	The blind can see, the slave is lord;
		So round and round we run,
	And ever the wrong is proved to be wrong
		And ever is justice done.

	Keep, Galileo, to thy thought,
		And nerve thy soul to bear;
	They may gloat o'er the senseless words they wring
		From the pangs of thy despair.
	They may veil their eyes, but they cannot hide
		The sun's meridian glow;
	The heel of a priest may tread thee down
		And a tyrant work thee woe;
	But never a truth has been destroyed:
		They may curse it and call it a crime;
	Pervert and betray, or slander and slay
		Its teachers for a time;
	But the sunshine aye shall light the sky.
		As round and round we run;
	And the truth shall ever come uppermost
		And justice shall be done.

	And live there now such men as these—
		With thoughts like the great of old?
	Many have died in their misery,
		And left their thought untold,
	And many live and are ranked as mad
		And placed in the cold world's ban,
	For sending their bright, far-seeing souls
		Three centuries in the van;
	They toil in penury and grief,
		Unknown if not maligned;
	Forlorn, forlorn, bearing the scorn
		Of the meanest of mankind;
	But yet the world goes round and round
		And the genial seasons run,
	And ever the truth comes uppermost
		And ever is justice done."

	Poets do not always know what great truths
they are telling. Like the prophets, whom


they so much resemble, they have in all ages
"builded better than they knew."  Shall we
say, then, that the prophetic poet is an acci-
dent, and the poetical prophet a design? No—
rather let us ascribe them both to their great
Author, Designer and Inspirer, that God may
be all in all.
	As to the question of poetry versus practi-
cality, with which this lecture began, a few
words in conclusion. It is only a seeming
chasm which divides them— the difference be-
tween cause and effect. The world is indebted
to poetry for its practical triumphs more than
it is generally aware. Poetry has unveiled
science, applauded enterprise, stimulated re-
search and led to discovery in all ages. Tullidge,
a local poet and historian says:
	"It was the poets, they who die in garrets,
who first gave birth to civilization. When the
race was emerging from the barbaric splendor
of empire-founding and war, our poets were
the only historians, and they made peoples fa-
miliar with each other through the plastic me-
dium of their gorgeous verse. Homer wrote
the history of Greece and Troy ages before
Plutarch wrote his lives of great men. [And
four hundred years before Herodotus, the so-
called father of history was born.—O. F. W.]
We know more of what men were four thou
sand years ago, and gather more of the manners
and customs of the early nations from Homer's
Iliad than from any other work extant; nor
should we forget the glorious Hebrew Bible—
the very book of poets—which has been the
basis of civilization these thousands of years.
And if we come down to our poets of more
modern times to learn the value of their gifts
to the race, we have but to take the English
language to discover that they have more than
half created it. What have not Shakespeare,
Milton, Pope, Byron, Southey, Wordsworth,
Shelly, Moore, Scott and others done for us in
this respect! The age of poets is the age of
culture. The world is blessed when poets are
born. Let sentiment and ideas flow into so-
ciety, and poets must sing as do the birds
when summer comes round. When there is
no poetry in the air, human nature is rude and
barbaric."
	Thus, my hearers, is poetry shown to be the
elder sister of history, the mother of language,
and the ancestress of civilization.
	The poet was a boon-giver and benefactor
from the beginning. His seat is among the
highest up that mount whose summit peers into
the sources of thought, and like the moun-
tain peaks at sunrise; his mind ever caught
the first glimmerings of light as it dawned
upon the world. His brain has been as the
torch of the Almighty to kindle and illumine
the nations. His mind has been the fountain
whence have sprung thoughts that have
induced millions to think. The ideas he first
advanced have awakened ideas in others, until
the spring has become a running brook, the
running brook a river, and the river an ocean
of ideas, inventions and achievements that
have flooded and filled the earth with glory
and civilization.
	But the end is not yet. There are heights
to climb which have never been surmounted;
depths to fathom which still remain unsounded.
The wheels of progress are not idle; the work
of Omnipotence is speeding onward; and the
world, the human race, though far from
the goal of perfection, will yet be lifted to the
poetic standard and raised to the poet's ideal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


84									WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		- 		Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY, 		-		NOVEMBER, 1, 1886.


TRIALS TEND TO STRENGTHEN AND
			PURIFY.
	The condition of affairs in Zion at the present
time is calculated to stir the hearts of the Lat-
ter-day Saints to their innermost depths. One
can readily say there is no parallel to the present
state of things in the history of the Church. It
is as though the people stood upon the banks of a
precipice, so near are they to an impending crisis.
And yet many are at ease in Zion, notwithstanding
the warning voice of of the heralds of salvation,
and the constant teachings and instructions that
are offered by those who are placed as guards and
protectors to the people. The rapid fulfilment of
ancient and modern prophecies is startling, and
one cannot fail to discern the signs of the usher-
ing in of the great judgments that precede the
coming of the Son of Man. Yet with all these
facts and terrors, as it were, staring them in the
face, many refuse to hearken, and are as indiffer-
ent to that which is transpiring around them as
the heathen, who know not God.
	It is indeed a time for watchfulness, diligence
and prayer; a time to labor earnestly and with
zeal in every good cause for the building up of
the kingdom of God upon the earth. There is
much real work to do in the building of Temples;
and the labor to be performed in them for the liv-
and the dead, no one can estimate. With such
responsibilities resting upon them, how can the
people give way to folly and extravagance, forget-
ting the weightier matters.
	What crowds of children and young people are
growing up in Zion; and what magnificent pros-
pects are before them, if they will only seek to
attain to the fulfilment of their destiny, and carry
out in their lives the precepts and teachings so
freely given to them. Blessings lie about them, if
they will only live so as to claim them. But the
Lord has said He will have a tried people, and
those who have set out for "the prize of the high
calling," will have to accept the bitter and the
sweet, and humble themselves sufficiently to pass
under the chastening rod of the Almighty, and
murmur not at His dispensations, but accept all in
the spirit of meekness and forbearance, knowing
that it will "work out a far more exceeding and
eternal weight of glory," than to slide along with-
out the rich experience and development that self-
sacrifice and discipline give to the character of a
Saint.
	There have been more than seven years of
prosperity and plenty for the people in these
valleys of the mountains; Zion has indeed become
strong in many respects, and the nations of the
earth have looked upon her with envy and jealousy
according to that which has been written. The
Lord has made the earth fruitful for His people,
and water has sprung up in many waste places,
and the husbandman has been amply rewarded
for his honest toil in subduing the earth, and re-
deeming it. Good and wholesome laws and regu-
lations have been laid down here in this land,
where freedom seemed indigenous to the country

[Column 2]
for with its mighty bulwarks of strong mountains
and towering hills, it seems a place of safety and
refuge for the oppressed, and to possess the very
elements of freedom and religious liberty. There
is something specially sacred associated in the
human mind with mountains. Men of God in
olden times went up into the mountains to pray
and offer sacrifices; the divine records show that
Jesus often went up into the mountains; and per-
secuted peoples, in various countries, who have
fled in times of crusades against them, have gone
into the mountains for safety, and to escape the
terrible fate of religious tyranny. The Latter-day
Saints came here that they might have religious
freedom, and they established a government in ac-
cordance with the Constitution of the United
 States, and the local political arrangements were
the best that could be, for a people settling in a
new country. But the time came when the pros-
perity and peace that had crowned the efforts of
the Saints was interrupted, and a series of trials
and difficulties have arisen, and dark clouds have
gathered thicker and heavier as time moved on-
ward, until it seems a time of peril; yet there
should be no fear; however strong the enemies of
the Saints may be, God is able to overpower them
with only a handful of the faithful. Zion must
and will be redeemed, but ere that day comes,
there may be and must be great and mighty faith
exercised by the pure in heart. The Saints have
been instructed through the Scriptures, and ser-
mons and writings of the prophets of this age,
that the severest ordeals will be required to test
the Latterday Saints, that they may be as gold
tried in the furnace. This superior strength of
character, that comes through the discipline of
suffering, is what will purify and cleanse those
who are earnestly seeking to live near to God and
to do His will, trusting in Him for support and
courage, though the way be ever so dark. The
promises of God cannot fail, and the courage born
of pain will triumph at last.

	“Heavier	the cross, the stronger faith;
		The loaded palm strikes deeper root;
	The vine-juice sweetly issueth
		When men have pressed the clustered fruit.
	And courage grows when dangers come,
	Like pearls beneath the salt sea foam.

	“Heavier the cross, the heartier prayer;
		The bruised reeds most fragrant are;
	If sky and wind were always fair
		The sailor would not watch the star;
	And David's psalms had ne'er been sung
	If grief his heart had never wrung."


BARTHOLDI'S STATUE OF LIBERTY.

	The grand ceremony of unveiling the Bartholdi
Statue was celebrated with great pomp and parade
on Thursday, October 28th, at Bedloe's Island.
It is spoken of as "The Great Event," by the
papers generally, and must have indeed been a
red letter day in the history of the country. The
great city of New York was in holiday attire, and
crowds of people, fine bands of music, distin-
guished guests from the nation's capital and other
cities, the French and American flags flying from
the different points of the city, the naval parade,
the labor parade, the firing of guns, in which three
Batteries took part, all these, and many other
things, too numerous to mention in detail here,
must have made this national inauguration of this
Statue of Liberty one of the greatest events of
modern times. The telegraphic dispatches give
very full particulars, and are exceedingly interest-
ing. In Broadway there were magnificent arches
of evergreens, flags and mottoes erected in front
of the World building. The Tribune, Times, Sun,
Mail, Express and other newspaper buildings
were tastefully decorated, as also many other ele-
gant structures, in honor of the event.
	"The music that was played while the officials

[Column 2]
and guests were assembled on Bedloe's Island was
followed by a signal gun, that announced the be-
ginning of the ceremonies." Rev. Dr. Richard
S. Starrs offered prayer, and Count Ferdinand de
Lesseps delivered an address in behalf of the
Franco-American union. Senator Evarts made
the address of presentation, "and the ceremony
of unveiling the statue of Liberty then took place
and was followed by a salvo from all the guns in
the harber. After music, President Cleveland
formally accepted the statue." An address was
then made by the Representative of France, Le
ministre Plenipotentiaire et delegate extraordinaire
A. Lafaivre. More music by Gilmores' Twenty-
second Regiment Band, and Chancry M. Depew
delivered a commemorative address. Old Hun-
dred was played by the band, and the vast assem-
bly joined in singing doxology. The ceremonies
were closed with benediction, pronounced by the
Right Reverend Henry C. Potter, D. D., assistant
bishop of diocese of New York. A national sa-
lute was then fired simultaneously by all batteries
in the Harbor, afloat and ashore. There was an
evening illumination of the statue, with fireworks
on Bedloe's and Governor's Islands and the Bat-
tery. A dinner in honor of the French guests
was given at Delmonico's in the evening by the
Chamber of Commerce.
	The banquet at the Chamber of Commerce was
an elaborate affair. Mr. James M. Brown pre-
sided. On his right were Messrs Albert Lafaivre,
Eugene Spuller, August Bartholdi, Governor
David B. Hill and others. President Cleveland
went direct from the festivities on Bedloe's Island
on board the Dispatch in company with Secretaries
Lamar, Bayard and Whitney to the Adams Ex-
press pier and walked to the depot, where the
special train was in waiting to convey them to
Washington.
	It must be an imposing sight to witness such
national ceremonies and listen to such eloquent
addresses; but are the hearts of the people deeply
impressed with the spirit of liberty? In the mem-
orial speech of Hon. C. M. Depew, he says:
"The spirit of liberty embraces all races in a com-
mon brotherhood, and it voices in all languages
the same needs and aspirations." If the liberty of
the American people is as much greater and
broader than that of any other nation as the
colossal statue just planted on American soil is
than other structures commemorative of victories,
science and industrial progress, then, indeed, will
the people of the United States enjoy all the rights
of free men and women, which may heaven grant
to those persecuted and oppressed for conscience’
sake and belief in an unpopular religious faith.
	That this event may be significant of a truer
bond of brotherhood among mankind, and a
broader charity, that shall extend its mantle to en-
circle all who are striving after the light of truth,
that it may herald in such a foretaste of the mil-
lenium, "is a consummation devoutly to be
wished."


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WOMEN voters will not fail, we trust, to cast
their vote on Tuesday, November 2nd, election
day for the candidate of the People’s Party to the
Fiftieth Congress, the Hon. John T. Caine, who
has served the people faithfully in the past, and
deserves an overwhelming vote.
	To encourage the patrons of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, we have decided to give to each sub-
scriber of the paper, at Christmas time, a picture,
which will be a suitable size for framing, of one
of the most notable women of the Church—Lucy
Smith, the mother of the Prophet Joseph. It is
said by those who were personally scquainted
with the lady, to be an excellent likeness.
	R. S. REPORTS of Utah and Box Elder Confer-
ences, poems and other articles have been crowded


out to make room for the lecture on “Poets and
Poetry,” but we trust the readers of the EXPON-
ENT will be gratified in its perusal, and that it will
be suggestive to the young people, awaken
intellectual search, and stimulate progress in this
department of fine arts.
	THE effort being made by the anti-Mormons to
establish an Industrial Home for women and
children who are, as they think, likely to be left
destitute and unprotected on account of the en-
forcement of the Edmunds law, will not receive the
patronage of plural wives; they are too firmly es-
tablished in their principles to accept a home which
would place them under such conditions as they
must endorse in order to secure the proffered aid.
	“THE CHURCH CHRONOLOGY,” or “A Record
of Important Events,” recently issued, was com-
piled and prepared for publication by Elder An-
drew Jensen, Editor af the “Historical Record,”
a monthly periodical, and is in itself a supplement
to that magazine. It is a book of 112 pages. The
price, bound in cloth, is $1, pamphlet form, 75 cts.
It will be very useful as a book of reference, and
the people will find it well worth the money. The
compiler has evidently taken great pains to collect
items and facts, and has so arranged them that it
is easy to turn to any particular item wanted very
quickly. Bro. Jensen calls it “a labor of love” in
his preface, and we can readily comprehend him,
knowing how interesting and absorbing are the
incidents connected with the history of the Church
to any true Latter-day Saint. It is a mental labor,
and involving physical as well, to do literary work
of this kind, whatever may be the idea of those
who peruse such books. The index is arranged
alphabetically, and the matter is ingeniously made
up in years, beginning with the birth of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, in 1805. From that date
to the close of the year 1884,the author has sought
to specify the most important events that have
transpired in the history of the Church. One may
not at a glance through the book, comprehend the
amount of thought and study it has required to
bring all this into shape and make it presentable
and readable. To those who wish to obtain a
large number of facts without searching papers
through, or reading the whole compiled histories
and biographies, it will certainly be valuable. It
will be a good book for strangers and inquirers, as
well as for our own people. We hope Bro. Jen-
sen will receive the patronage this little work de-
serves in its sale and circulation. We have not
had time to go through it carefully, but have
looked it over, and feel pleased that such a work
has been undertaken by one who seems to possess
ability and talent in this direction, as well as
energy and perseverance to make a success of
the undertaking.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE TERRITORIAL CONVENTION.

	The Territorial Convention was held in the City
Hall in this City, on the 12th of October, Hon.
James Sharp Chairman.
	The following Platform and Declaration of
Facts and Principles were presented and unani-
mously adopted:

PLATFORM.
	The People's Party of Utah Territory, by its
chosen representatives in regular convention as-
sembled, solemnly proclaims for the careful con-
sideration of all just men the following

DECLARATION OF FACTS AND PRINCIPLES:
	First—We believe that the protection of life
and liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, should
be the object of free government; that the Con-
stitution of the United States represents the high-
est form of political government yet devised, and
that under its provisions the greatest possible
liberty consistent with safety is guaranteed to
every citizen.

[Column 2]

	Second—We believe that free government can
only exist where the people governed exercise the
unrestrained right to choose their own officers;
and that the doctrine that citizens resident in the
Territories have no political rights inherent in
themselves is at variance with the spirit and
genius of our great charter, the Constitution, and
is repugnant to democratic principles and the
liberal spirit of the age.
	Third—We believe that any party or faction of
a political community that seeks to obtain politi-
cal control by any other means than the ability to
cast a majority of votes into the ballot box, is
guilty of the grossest of political crimes, and
should be branded as an enemy to human free-
dom.
	Fourth—We believe that interpretation of the
political and legal rights of the citizens under the
Constitution should be made in courts free from
local or general prejudice, and that justice should
be evenly administered to every person, regard-
less of the class to which he belongs.
	Fifth—We believe that the right of trial by a
fair and impartial jury is one of the strong bul-
warks of liberty, and the trial of any one by a jury
who have strong prejudices against the accused is
a violation of well established principles and is a
dangerous precedent which we solemnly de-
nounce.
	Sixth—Any effort of the government to manage
church property is a violation of the spirit of the
first article of the amendments to the Constitution.
and is practically a union of church and state.
And we denounce any attempt of the church to
dominate the state, or the state to dominate the
church as being dangerous to the liberty of
the citizen. We also assert that any proposition
looking to the disfranchisement of a class of citi-
zens because of their belief in or adherence to any
religious faith in direct contravention of the rights
guaranteed by the Constitution in regard to religi-
ous liberty, and seeks to punish citizens for their
religious belief. Such a doctrine, when we con-
sider the difference of enlightenment of the ages,
is more infamous than the decrees of the Spanish
inquisition.
	Seventh—We declare irrevocably in favor of
woman suffrage; that the benign and purifying in-
fluence of wives and mothers may be manifest
through the laws for the protection of our home
and country.
	Eighth—We approve the administration of local
affairs so for as the people are permitted to exer-
cise the rights of self-government. We assert
that we have proven our ability to control the
business of the state economically, progressively,
and justly to every citizen. We point with pride
to the fact that the taxes in Utah are lighter than
in any other Territory. The Territory is out of
debt, and the counties are practically in the same
satisfactory condition.
	Ninth—We emphatically deny the charge of
disloyalty to the national government made
against the people of Utah. We affirm that it is
the duty of every American citizen to render obe-
dience to the Constitution of the United States,
and laws enacted in pursuance thereof. We
pledge ourselves as a party to the maintenance
and defense of constitutional principles and the
natural and inalienable rights of mankind.
	Tenth—We believe that Utah is entitled to
sovereign statehood. Her citizens have an equal
right to free government with the most favored
children of this Republic. The National Congress
is bound by every consideration of equity and
lawful precedent to remove the chains of Territori-
al bondage from this community. Our population
is nearly two hundred thousand souls, with greater
proportion of native born citizens than is pos-
sessed by many proud and worthy States of the
Union. If we can properly be kept in this en-
thrallment, a population of two millions of free-
born and law-abiding citizens can be held in simi

[Column 3]

lar subserviency. Utah has for years possessed
every requisite for statehood. The failure of
Congress to recognize this right has propagated a
hideous train of evils, from which the land can
never be freed while this political wrong continues.
	Respectfully,
		E. G. WOOLLEY,
			Chairman.

	Hon. W. W. Riter placed in nomination one of
Utah's tried and patriotic citizens, the

HON. JOHN T. CAINE,
for Delegate from Utah to the Fiftieth Congress.
	The nomination was greeted with applause, and
was seconded by E. G. Woolley.
	No other name was presented, and Hon. John
T. Caine was nominated by a unanimous vote.
	The question of electing a Territorial Central
Committee was then taken up, and the following
were elected as a

TERRITORIAL CENTRAL COMMITTEE.
	Beaver County—P. T. Farnsworth.
	Box Elder County—O. G. Snow.
	Cache County—Geo. W. Thatcher.
	Davis County—Thomas F. Roueche.
	Emery County—Orange Seeley.
	Garfield County—David Cameron.
	Iron County—Edward Dalton.
	Juab County—F. W. Chappell.
	Kane County—John Rider.
	Millard County—J. V. Robison.
	Morgan County—James R. Stewart.
	Piute County—John R. Young.
	Rich County—Wm. H. Lee.
	Salt Lake County—John Sharp, E. A. Smith,
Angus M. Cannon, Faramorz Little, John T. Caine,
J. R. Winder, Junius F. Wells.
	Sanpete County—Wm. T. Reid.
	San Juan County—F. A. Hammond,
	Sevier County—Geo. W. Bean.
	Summit County—Alma Eldredge.
	Tooele County—H. S. Gowans.
	Utah County—S. R. Thurman, Warren N. Du-
senberry, A. O. Smoot, Jr.
	Uintah County—C. C. Bartlett.
	Wasatch County—Abram Hatch.
	Washington County—John M. MacFarlane.
	Weber County—L. W. Shurtliff, Thomas D.
Dee.
	At large—Emmeline B. Wells, M. Isabella
Horne.
	On motion of J. T. Hammond, the Central Com-
mittee were authorized to fill any vacancies that
might occur in their number.
	A vote of thanks was returned to the officers of
the convention and the committee on platform for
their services, and to Salt Lake City for the use
of the hall in which the convention had met.
	The President and Secretary were instructed to
notify the Hon. John T. Caine of the action of the
convention.
	The President and Secretary were also directed
to furnish to each member of the Territorial Cen-
tral Committee a certificate of election.
	After the reading of the minutes, the conven-
tion, at 2:45 p.m., adjourned sine die.


﻿Mrs. Helen M. Gougar, who traveled in
Ireland last summer, has a new lecture entitled
“Ireland Yesterday, To-day, and To-morrow,”
which she is now prepared to give. In view
of the magnitude of the Irish question, this
lecture will have special interest. Her ad-
dress is Lafayette, Indiana
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar opened this season's
lecture course of the Western Reserve Club of
Cleveland, Ohio, with her new lecture on “Ire-
land Yesterday, To-day and To-morrow,” on the
6th of Oct. The following evening she gave it
for the benefit of the Painseville Equal Rights
Association. The papers speak in the highest
terms of the lecture.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A REPORTS.

Y. L. M. I. A., SALT LAKE STAKE.

	Minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Salt Lake
Stake, held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Friday, Sept. 17th, 1886, Coun. M. Y.

[Column 2]

Dougall presiding.  Singing, "Gladly Meeting."
Prayer by Mrs. M. I. Horne.  Singing, "Joseph
Smith's First Prayer," Roll called, seventeen
presidents responding.  Minutes of the pre-
vious conference were read and approved.
The Secretary then read the semi-annual re-
ports of the associations, after which Coun-
Dougall expressed regret for the incomplete-
ness of the reports; hoped that the presidents
would, in the future, see that these reports are 
sent in on time, that the general report might
be complete.  She reported the work of the 
Stake Presidency for the last quarter, saying
they had held the regular meetings for the 
officers, and that they had been fairly attended,
and had visited two associations since the last
conference.
	After this report, Sister Horne addressed
those present.  She expressed herself pleased
in being able to attend a young ladies' confer-
ence, and in listening to such favorable re-
ports.  Said that the Lord loves the diligent 
worker, and not those who are only lukewarm.
She thought the young should strive to be dili-
gent and gain favor of the Lord.  She read 
some of the prophecies of Isaiah, foretelling
what will befall the daughters of Zion, and
urged the young to consider these things and
qualify themselves to be useful women—mothers
in Israel, instead of devoting so much time in 
ornamenting their bodies.  She claimed that
the daughters are as precious in the sight of 
the Lord as are the sons, and that we are re-
warded for our good deeds, and hoped all
would do good and avoid even the appearance
of evil.
	Miss Clara Snedaker, President of the Mill
Creek Association, testified of the value of 
these associations: desired to do her utmost to 
become acquainted with our religion; said
everything she read led her to believe that this
is the true Church of God.  Prayed for the 
blessings of God to be with us continually to 
guide us in all our efforts.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards said: "I realize a 
lack of performing a duty makes us lose the
spirit we desire," and for this reason she had 
responded to the call to address the meeting.
She referred to her recent visit to Washington,
and felt that she and the other sisters were
blessed in their labors.  She met some who 
were anxious to learn of our people, but the 
majority cared nothing about us, and accept 
only the false reports of us, etc.
	Miss Sarah Eddington felt to respond to the
call made upon her from a desire to do her
duty.  She felt a desire to keep every com-
mandmant of God and advance in His king-
dom for she knew that there was no standing
still in His kingdom, etc.
	Mrs. M. A. Coulam said: "I realize it is time
to be up and doing.  The pleasure of the 
world waneth, but the pleasures of heaven are 
something to live for, and do every duty for."
	Mrs. Fannie Thatcher said that there was no
place she loved to be better than in an assem-
bly of the Saints, and she hoped she would
stand ever true to her religion.
	Mrs. Ellen Clawson expressed herself pleased
to be at this meeting, and only wished it were 
crowded.  She urged the young ladies to con-
tinue to do right, and remember the Lord con-
tinually.
	Mrs. Aurelia Rogers urged the young not to 
indulge in slander and gossip, for we do not
gain by it, and some one's reputation is often 
affected by it.
	After a few remarks by Coun. Dougall, who
bore a strong testimony to the benefit of fast-
ing, the meeting was adjourned till 2 p.m.
Singing.  Prayer by Coun. Nellie Colebrook.
	Afternoon session: Opened with singing,
"Love at Home." Prayer by Prest. E. S. 
Taylor.  Singing, "Our Mountain Home." Re-
marks by Coun. Nellie Colebrook upon mat-

[Column 3]

ters of vital importance to the young girls—
light reading, prayerfulness, acquiring knowl-
edge and intelligence, gaining a testimony for 
themselves; urged them all to appreciate
the blessings they enjoyed, and at the close of 
her remarks she cautioned the girls against
backbiting and speaking evil words.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball made some interesting
remarks, in which she said we might ask our-
selves the question, "Who are we, and what
is our destination?" Spoke of our former state
of existence, and that we had kept our first 
estate, otherwise we should not have had our
bodies; but we were not in a progressive state.
Spoke of the fall, and added that what Eve
had done had generally been looked upon as a
misfortune, a weakness of hers, but she con-
sidered it the greatest thing she could have
done for her descendants; thought one of the 
first grand lessons for young women to learn was
self-preservation.  Spoke of the mission given
her to the Y. L. in connection with Sister Tay-
lor; spoke of the necessity of purity, and that
it was expected the daughters of Zion would 
be polished after the similitude of a palace.
	Coun. Mattie H. Tingey, who had been in
delicate health, and not able to attend meet-
ings or conferences for some time, was the next 
speaker.  She testified to the power of God
in healing her, and returned thanks to Him
and to the sisters for their faith and prayers in
her behalf.  Exhorted the young girls not to 
give way to evil influences and  gave some 
illustrations of the same, and urged them to 
heed the good instructions they were receiving
from time to time.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp related a circumstance
showing the efficacy of a mother's prayer and
also spoke of purity for only the pure in
heart would be able to stand.
	Mrs. Harper bore testimony to the truth of 
what had been said and hoped we would be
able to carry it out in our daily lives.
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp have some excellent in-
structions and said the power of the adversary
is greater than the young girls can imagine
and prayed that they might be strengthened
to withstand temptation.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor thought there had been 
excellent teachings, said "some had been apt
scholars and they were the ones to whom we 
could look as patterns; some had fallen by the 
way; was it because they did not receive the 
Holy Ghost when hands were laid upon them?
no; it was because that spirit was not cherished,
and let this be a lesson to us. "Spoke of
prayer as a safeguard and if they were in the 
company of thousands your angel will waft
your prayer to your Heavenly Father.
Beware of those who ridicule sacred things
and watch the whisperings of the spirit, some-
times it leaves us that we may be tempted.
Let us be brave and not give way to wrong
impressions. We must learn to be self reliant.
It has been said the time will come when we
shall have none of the Melchisedec Priest-
hood with us only the Aaronic, but may God
help us to keep faithful.
	Counselor Maria Y. Dougall said I feel to 
urge upon the young to put on the whole 
armor of righteousness, and I want my ex-
ample and conduct to be such before my sisters
that they may know that I am in earnest.  Sin
and iniquity are rampant and there seems to 
be an undercurrent that we know but little of.
Obedience is a keyword; if we had obeyed the 
revelation to President Taylor our enemies
would have no dominion with us.  Mothers
talk to your children that the principles of the 
Gospel may not be strange to them; made other
good and instructive remarks.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Give us room that we may dwell."
Renediciton by Mrs. Hadley.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT AFFAIR.

	On Wednesday evening Oct. 20th, a surprise
was given to Sister Mary Whittle, President
of the Relief Society of the Evanston Ward,
it being her 59th birthday. About 40 of the
brethren and sisters went to the house very
quietly and surprised the inmates completely.
The evening was spent in singing and dancing
for a time; lunch was then served, after which
all returnud home. Sister Whittle was made 
the recipient of some very nice presents.
					JAS. WHITTLE.
	Evanston, Oct. 26 1886.


CHESTER PRIMARY FAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT
	I know that you will be delighted to learn
that the young of Chester met under the aus-
pices of dear Aunt Emma and her Counselor
Sister Amelia Allred in the capacity of a 
Primary Fair. On the 23rd again came troop-
ing this regiment of the little folks of Zion
obedient to the call, and with songs, recitations, 
speeches and good words, the day passed in the 
midst of joy to young and old present.
	To particularize would be tedious and es-
pecially where all was excellent. Specimens
of the Jack knife, the culinary department,
the garden, and the needle truly graced the
tables and the occasion.
	These are red lettered days for the young
and fraught with good.
							CHESTER.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	There are said to be numerous Masonic
lodges in France composed exclusively of
women.

Miss J. Rose Colby is teaching in the High
School of Peoria, Ill., not in Michigan Uni-
versity, as erroneously reported.

Dr. Grace Peckham will deliver her lecture
entitled “Nervousness of Americans,” at.Vas-
sar College, some time during the present
semester.

Dr. Eliza M Mosher, physician to Vassar
College, is Vice-president of the N. Y. Associa-
tion of Michigan University Alumni.


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Oct. 9, 1886:
	Sarah J. Byers, Lafayette, Ind., Ash-pan.
	Estella Case, New York, N. Y., Rubber
Sound-deadener and Packing Band.
	Clara Frank, Cuff-holder.
	Ella Maratta, Pittsburg, Pa. Coal-vault 
Grating. 
	Rebecca McKee, New York, N. Y., Insecti-
cide.
	Mary Sutherland, Diamond, Mo., Composi-
tion for Tanning.


An article prepared expressly for this num-
ber, entitled, "Autumnal Tints," and already
in type, is crowded out for want of space. We
make this apology, as the middle of November
may seem rather late to describe the beauties
of mid-autumn.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.
	At Clarkston, Cache County, October 12, 1886, of
paralysis, Huldah Bassett; born February 11th, 1808, at
Quebec, Canada; baptized at Kirtland, Ohio, in 1832;

[Column 2]

moved to Nauvoo in 1841 with her husband, Alpheus
Harmon. He went on a mission, and on his way home
was frozen to death, leaving her with nine small children.
She was an eye witness to the martyrdom of Joseph and
Hyrum, her home being then in Carthage. She afterwards
married Lorin Bassett, by whom she had four children.
She arrived in Utah in 1863. She was the mother of
13 children; grandmother of 67, and great-grandmother 
of 32. She was full of zeal for the Latter-day work.

	DIED, in West Porterville, Morgan Co., Oct. 3rd, 1886
of inflammation of the bowels, Sarach C. Dearden, daughter
of William and Ann Dearden. Deceased was born Feb.
7th, 1868. A pure spirit has left us, one well prepared to
dwell in a holier sphere, where she now shines among the
jewels of that glorious court on high.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	We, the sisters of the Y. L. M. I. A. of West Porter-
ville Ward, unanimously adopt the following Resolutions:
	Whereas, It has pleased an allwise Providence to call
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sister and
friend, now, 
	Therefore, we, the members of the Y. L. M. I. A., wish
to express the honor and respect entertained by us for her
as a wise counselor and a true friend, who faithfully held
the office of Second Counselor of the Y. L. M. I. A ; in
which position she labored with love and intelligence,
qualities that she ever exercised for the good of her asso-
ciates.
	Whereas, We acknowledge her loss, and her readiness
at all times to give a helping hand and use her best abilities
for the furtherance of the latter day work, and manifesting
her devotion to its principles, Therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, deeply sympathize with her bereavrd
family and friends; and further, be it
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon the
record of the Association, and that a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and to the bereaved family.

	"Ay, look upon this dreary, desert path,
The thorns and thistles whereso'er we turn;
What trials and what tears,
	What wrongs and wrath,
What struggles and what strife
	The journey hath!
She has escaped from these,
	And lo! we mourn."
		EMILY E. BROUGH, Sec.

	The many friends of Sister Martha Sampson will be
pained to learn of her demise, which occurred on the
morning of the 16th of September last, at her residence in
Glenwood, surrounded by her family and friends. She
had arrived at the advanced age of eighty years and three
months. Sister Sampson first heard the Gospel, as re-
vealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Kirtland,
which she embraced with a joyful heart, and was
 baptized in June, 1830, a few months after the organization
of the Church; she also preached the Gospel to Orson
Hyde, who soon after was convinced of the truth. She
has to the day of her death borne a strong testimony to
the truth of the latter day work. With her family she
followed the Church to Jackson Co., Mo. Received her
inheritance with her husband. They were expelled with
the Saints from there; went to Clay Co. and were expelled
again, suffering untold misery. Followed the Church to
Nauvoo. Immigrated to the valley in 1851 and located
in Provo. Was an active member in the Relief Society
there; moved to Glenwood in 1865, where she resided un-
til the time of her death. Here, also, she was Counselor
to the President of the Relief Society. Sister Sampson
was the mother of nine children, four of whom survive
her. She had forty-nine grand children, fifty-seven great-
grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild. She 
reared a number of her grandchildren, who were left
orphans, to be men and women. Sister Sampson was very
retiring in her habits, but she had a genial and kind heart.
When she was attacked with the illness, that ended her
earthly career, she told her granddaughter that she would
like to go to the beyond, if her Heavenly Father was will-
ing. She died with a smile on her face, telling of the
heavenly joy that filled her soul. Her remains were taken 
to the bowery. The speakers were Bishop Bell, Counselor
Heppler and Brother Ransford Colbey; they spoke words
of comfort and instruction to the sorrowing friends; also
bearing a strong testimony to the faithfulness and integrity
of the deceased. She was followed to the grave by a 
large cortege of relatives and neighbors; the dedication of

[Column 3]

he grave was made by Bro. A. Buchanan, Sen. We
mourn the departure of our dear sister, but we are com-
forted, knowing that she fought the good fight; she has
kept the faith; henceforth there is a crown laid up for her,
which the Lord will give her,and not her only but all who 
have His approval.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That we, the sisters of the Glenwood Relief
Society, do tender our love and esteem to the memory of
our departed sister; we will miss her in her accustomed
place; and also her many good counsels; we feel she has
indeed shown us, both old and young, an excellent ex-
ample of faithfulness, worthy of emulating, and we feel to
say, "Peace to her soul." God help us all to hold out so
faithfully to the end.
	Whereas, We condole with her friends in their bereave-
ment, yet we would not wish her back. Oh, how sweet is
her rest after so long and tiresome a journey of life.
	Resolved, That we spread these Resolutions on the
minutes of the Relief Society, and also send them to the
family and WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
	SARAH JACOBS,
	PATIENCE PALMER, Committee.
	LOUISANNA HEPPLER.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
		MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
			in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and IN-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
