VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1887.	NO. 10.


[Column 1]

﻿RETROSPECTIVE AND PROSPECTIVE.

	For many centuries gone by, 'twixt heav'n
And earth, silence had reigned. The voice of God,
The great Eternal, who called Abram forth
To leave his kindred and his native land,
Had not, for ages, reached a mortal ear.
Fools in their hearts declared, "there is no God."

	Though Jesus said, "Except you're one, you are
Not mine," the christian sects, who claim to have
The Gospel as He taught were multiplied,
And each contending for the preference,
And all maintained, the body of the Lord
Is represented by the church on earth.
But if these sects can be acknowledg'd His,
What a vast multitude of bodies? Else,
His one, must be in many fragments torn.

	The wheel of time roll'd on, and met the verge
Of a new Dispensation—this the last—
The closing one—the set, th' appointed time
For God to do a strange—a wonder work,
Preparatory to Messiah's reign.

	Prefacing this august, sublime event,
The long, long silence must be broken, and
The voice of God, on earth be heard once more.
As was His wont whene'er He converse held
With mortal man, He'd prophets at command
To bear His messages and teach His will.
For this grand purpose He had raised up one—
An unsophisticated, honest youth,
Whom He had chosen and had foreordain'd
To see His face, His voice to hear—to take
The lead in the last Dispensation of
A fallen world- to stop the downward ebb
Of life's corrupted stream, and bid it through
A purifying channel, upward flow—
To organize the Church of Jesus Christ
Precisely by the former pattern given,
With Prophets and Apostles, governments;
With gifts and pow'rs to heal—authority
To cast out devils, and to speak in tongues.
A Church which Jesus Christ will own as His.

	The Prophet did God's bidding, tho' opposed
By hellish wrath and human ignorance.
	Unfetter'd and undwarf'd by man-made creeds,
His mind soared upward to the living Fount
 Of truth and wisdom, knowledge, faith and power.
He master'd languages and sciences,
And principles of vast eternal weight—
A worker and a student till his death.
Having performed a mission great and grand,
He sealed his testimony with his blood.
		
	But yet the Church of Christ of latter days,
Which by the Prophet God established, lives, 
And will, altho, opposed by earth and hell.
	Though persecution, which our Savior said
Would be the lot of those who follow Him,
Has oft, full oft, with arms outstretch'd the path
Bestrode the Church has never made a halt.
Oft times from place to place by mobbers driven;
And last of all they drove us from Nauvoo,
To go as Abram did we knew not where. 
Perchance they wished—they hoped—they thought
We'd starve and die, and buzzards fatten on
Our flesh—our bones be left to bleach upon
The lone wild waste, untrod by human foot;
But God was with us and they knew it not.
He, by His noble Chieftain, Brigham, Young,
With wisdom from the courts on high endowed,
Led to these isolated mountain vales—
A desert wilderness, a fertile waste—
A crowning climax of all dreamness.
But peace was here, sweet peace, our legal claim,
Usurp'd by those who forced our exile flight.
For centuries the soil unstir'd had slept
The sleep of death, while none but savage feet

[Column 2]

Had kissed the sod. No tree nor-shrub adorned
This Salt Lake City Plat. The mountains then
With their attraction's uncontested charm,
Drew to their summits all of showers, and left
The valleys dry.
	
	And here we were The Church
Of God, the Saints of Latter-day, must draw
Forth from this death-wrap'd soil, a sustenance,
Or perish. What a predicament! Who
Of mortal mould unarm'd with mighty faith
In the eternal God, but would have quailed
Before the ghastly prospect's sullen scowl?
Not so the Saints; in the Almighty arm
We put our trust; with willing hearts and hands,
Nerv'd by a living faith, we worked and prayed,
And with thanksgiving ate our scanty bread.

	We dug the channels for the water's course,
And tapp'd the creeks (the creeks were very few
And far between) and strewed their waters on
The thirsty land, which drank, and craved, and drank
Till it revived and brought forth nourishment.
We tore the saplings from the mountain's brow,
Which grew the lovely shade trees that adorn
Our cities' side-walks, and in summer heat,
Produce a grateful, cool, refreshing shade.
	
	Yes, such it was, and what is Utah now?
The boast of friends, and envy of our foes.

	Who wrought the change? God and His faithful Saints,
And made "the desert blossom as the rose."

	A crusade now inaugurated in
Our midst, retards progression's onward move.
But what disturbers of our peace shall do
Against the Church, will be o'erruled for good.

	The Almighty's drama will enacted be—
Each acts a part—to all, the choice is free.
Our persecutors make a sad mistake,
They earn our pity by the choice they make:
All in the harvest reap the crop we sow,
And they in theirs, will garner only woe.
Who shed the blood of innocence will feel
The wrath of God, from which there's no appeal.
Our foes, in blindness, now exult and think
The Church, beneath their lash, is bound to sink:
Crushed, it may seem, in their distorted view,
And still be gaining strength and prestige too:
From vile oppression's bondage 'twill come forth
In glorious light, with power to gladden earth,
	
	But ere the drama's close, and curtains fall,
Will good result from scenes which now appall—
This Crusade furnace-heat will purify
The Church from hypocrites, and all that lie—
From those whose hearts are set on worldly gain,
And all who sacred cov'nants break in twain.
Then Truth and Justice will resume their throne,
And man's oppressiveness shall be unknown.
The Son of God, the Prince will come again,
With all His Saints, in majesty to reign.

	E. R. S. S.
Salt Lake City, Jan., 1887.	Eliza R Snow Smith


[Column 1]

 ﻿A SKETCH OF MADAME RECAMIER.

	One of the most charming and lovable of
characters in the social drama of France, dur-
ing the period of the rise and fall of Bonepart,
and the restoration of the Bourbons, was that
of Julie Adelaide Bernard, Madame Recamier,
known to her dear friends as Juliette. She
was born in the city of Lyons, December 1777,
educated like most French girls at a convent,
which she left at the age of fifteen, and came
with her parents to reside in Paris. Shortly
after, she was married to a wealthy banker, 
M. Jacques Recamier,and according to French

[Column 2]

customs, began to see life, from its social stand-
point.
	The marriage was arranged by her parents.
and. as her husband was thrice her
age, it is pretty safe to say, was
altogether a marriage of convenience,
though she always entertained for M.
Recamier a sincere regard, and that he adored
her is plain to be seen in the following extract
from one of his letters to her: "I have always
made it the rule and happiness of my life to
respect your wishes, tastes, affections, and sup-
posed religious obligations to friendship."
	As this is by no means an historical sketch
the above will serve as an introduction to this
beautiful woman,and those lovable traits in her
character; which is the object I have in view.
	When the horrors of the reign of terror were
ended, and even the people of France were
sated with cruelties and blood; they turned to
the delights of social intercourse, with intense
eagerness. It was at this time that Madame
Recamier appeared upon the scene, dazzling
all with her matchless loveliness; beautiful as
a Houri, she became at once a social loadstone,
luring great and small to her side, by her
beauty and fascinating grace of manner.
	It is said that to a Frenchman, talking is one
of the necessities of life. The salon of the
Frenchwoman grew out of this necessity; and
a grand advance in civilization it was. It
opened the way for the introduction into social
andliterary life of such as Madame Rambouillet,
Madame de Stael,Madame Recamier and scores
of others which gave these women of genius
and talent the opportunity of comparing, re-
freshing and adding fresh stores of knowledge
to their minds, by social intercourse with the
great and gifted of their day. Aye, and aid-
ing and acting as guiding stars, by their grace
of presence, open hospitalities and charming
friendships to many a hero, who, but for their
kind words and generous help, would have been
both "to fortune and to fame unknown."
	The woman who possessed the intellect the
power of entertainment, which could draw to
her salon the great minds of the day, where
were discussed the literature, the drama, the
politics, the everything that constituted French
society, well earned the sobriquet of, potentate
in petticoats.
	It is to be regretted that England and
America have no counterpart of the French
salon; that delightful resort where the only ob-
ligation is to contribute to the general enjoy-
ment by being agreeable and entertaining, ac-
cording to your best ability, where all are
expected to throw aside petty personalities and
meeting upon neutral ground, each enjoy the
treasures of the other's mind, gain new ideas,
discuss the old, and all with frank good na-
ture.
	Such was the salon of Madame Recamier
who added also that element of undefiable deli-
cacy and refinement and guided the conversa-
tion over shallows and rapids, with a grace and
tact almost amounting to genius.
	Without possessing the depth and brilliancy 
of intellect which characterized her friend
Madame de Stael, of whom Goethe said, "one
must become all ears to follow her," Madame
Recamier had good literary taste and ability,
and though she published nothing under her
name, we find her collecting historical facts for
M. de Chateaubriand, as well as assisting in the
preparation of a volume of extracts from the


[Column 1]
﻿works of Ballanche and Camille Jordan pays
her the great compliment of asking her to give
him her impressions of the new regime early in
the reign of Louis XVIII., and adds "you
know how I delight to hear you, with your
pure and discriminating mind, talk on all sub-
jects, even the most serious." This was a rare
compliment, as Jordan was not a man to in-
dulge in fulsome flattery.  She was gifted with
that most delightful of all good gi[-]ts, rare tact,
and it was one of her chief charms that she
could draw out the real worth of people, show-
ing them off to their best advantage, without
them suspecting  her of being the cause of 
the exhibition of their talents.
	Authors and new luminaries of the dramatic,
literary and musical world came first to the
salon of Mme. Recamier,to test their powers and
the criticisms of those congregated there.  Even
the great Rachael did not disdain to declaim a 
new piece there. before trusting to the public
to decide its merits.  It was here, also, the pro-
ductions of Chateaubriands’ great mind were
first given to the select circle of friends, who
basked  in  the  sunshine   of this  beautiful
woman’s friendship.
	Madame Recamier fulfilled a great social
mission, not so much by rare intellectual gifts
or personal charms as by her real womanhood.
This great beauty, this queen of society, had
every excuse to be vain, frivolous and selfish,
yet she always rose above the temptation, and
was directly the opposite; a most lovely gracious
woman; sincere, earnest, disinterested; neither
hardened by worldliness, or soured by baffled
affections; but preserving even in old age and
blindness and amid reverses of fortune, that
sweetness and serenity which marked her char-
acter in its happiest days.  Holding her un-
disputed sway in a marvelous manner over
men and women alike, not only by her person-
al loveliness, but by her sympathy and ex-
quisite tact.
	It would be nonsense to ascribe the happy
influence she exerted on all about her, the com-
fort she afforded, the culture and progress she
advanced to idle coquetry.  It is ridiculous to
suppose that a  merely  worldly minded, but
beautiful woman, no matter how bewitching 
her manner, could inspire the life long friend-
ships with the gifted and brave, which Madame
Recamier inspired, and which it was her privi-
lege to enjoy during her life.  No, such are
not won by mere blandishments; neither are
enduring memories of grace and congeniality
thus bequeathed.
	The friendships of this charming woman
were unexampled for warmth and lasting at-
tachment; and she was fond of saying, "That
there was a certain taste in perfect friendship
to which common place characters could never
attain."
	Rare, indeed, are the friendships that have
been so perfect in character and endurance, as
those between Madame Recamier and Madame
de Stael, Ballanche, Chateaubriand and
Amphere; friendships that bore rich fruits
of culture and refinement, that died not with
youth or health, that absence did not diminish
nor loss of fortune quench.
	Think of a woman like Mme. de Stael, who
was so jealous of her power, she disliked to
hear of her male admirers getting married,
welcoming with a lavish cordiality to her heart
and home, so formidable a rival as the fair
Juliette, and who seems never to have felt a 
jealous pang, even when she sees her former
admirers at the feet of the Enchantress.  Mme.
de Stael seemed content with her intellectual 
fame and accorded Juliette the full sway of
the empire of beauty, as she says, "because you
are eminently good, and it seems only natural 
that so sweet a soul should be expressed by so
charming a face.	*	   *	     *		*	*
Amid all your successes you are, and ever will
reamin an angel of purity and goodness."	 *

[Column 2]
*	  *	   Extract from letter to Mme. R. from
Mme. de Stael.
	Ma[-]ame Recaimer had a way of being in-
terested in everyone’s fate as though it was a 
matter of personal comfort, and people turned
to her for sympathy, as naturally as flowers to
the sun.
	At the age of forty, she took upon herself
the task of educating the little niece of M.
Recamier, a motherless girl of six summers,
and fulfilled the task with all the devotion and
earnestness of a fond mother having her al-
ways with her, and not only superintending the
child’s lessons, but directly instructing her.
Being passionately fond of music, she delighted
in teaching her niece this accomplishment,
wherever she traveled the child went also and
was indeed cared for,as though she had been her
own.  Little Amelia proved most grateful and
affectionate and loved Madame Recamier with
all the devotion of a daughter; it was in her
arms she breathed her last, and by her has she
been most sincerely lamented.
	To a woman whose whole life was given to
social obligations, the care of this child must
have been to Madame Ricamier a great sacri-
fice, but if it was so, no one was ever conscious
of it; nor in fact was any one ever allowed to
feel an obligation to her.  The sunshine of her
soul prevaded, the household over which she
presided, chasing away all gloom.
	She was not a specially brilliant woman, yet
her wit was sparkling and vivacious; and Mme.
Mohl said of her, "I never knew so entertaing
a person; no one could tell a story as she did,
she had a great sense of humor, and her own
was exceedingly delicate; but she never said an
unkind thing of anyone." Therein, I am sure,
lies the true secret of her charm, and Madame
Mohl adds, as do all her friends, "I loved Mme.
Recamier." Who could wish for a more beauti-
ful epitaph than these words of this famous
woman.  Madame Recamier’s friendship for
Chateaubriand, proved both her amiability and
powers of entertaining, for the great poet had
grown weary even of flattery, and it is said he
died not so much from disease as ennui; yet
this delicate, beautiful old blind woman never
failed to interest and amuse him, and was to
the day of his death a devoted friend.  As a 
queen of French society she swayed her social
sceptre, for full fifty years, with such bewilder-
ing grace, such rare sweetness and amiability,
a charm so potent, that her empire ended only
with her life. 
	The death of her beloved friends, Ballanche
and Chateaubriand; following each other so
closely, was a sad shock to the sensitive soul of
Madame Recamier.  Just before the death of the
former,she had submitted to a successful opera-
tion for cataract; but she wept away the newly 
recovered sight at his death bed.  The delicate
state of her health, her depression, and a great
fear she had always had of cholera, probably 
made her more susceptible to its dread influ-
ence, and when it made its appearance in Paris
in the spring of 1849, she became an easy vic-
tim expiring May the 11th after a few hours of
great agony.
	Thus ended the life of one of the most
beautiful of women possessed of a charming and
lovable character, and because her life was so
true; her friendship so inspiring, her influence
so benign, is her memory so beloved.
		Friendship! mysterious cement of the soul!
		Sweetner of life! and solder of society."
										MYSOTIS.
	Feb. 22nd 1887.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOWE—ELLIOTT.

	The marriage of Miss Maud Howe, youngest
daughter of Julia Ward Howe, to Mr. John
Elliot took place at her mother’s house on
Monday evening, Feb. 7. The hall, stairway,


and parlors were decorated with festoons of
laurel, which culminated in a canopy of green
matching a background of ferns and palms,
beneath which the officiating clergyman, Rev.
James Freeman Clarke, waited for the arrival
of the bridal pair.  The company present in-
cluded only relatives and intimate friends.  A
little before 9 p.m., a quartette of male voices
began to sing some charming stanzas composed
by Mr. John S. Dwight for the occasion.  To
the sound of this sweet music, a veil of Japan-
ese work was suddenly drawn aside, and the
bride appeared, the bridegroom immediately 
joining her.  Both now walked through a tem-
poary aisle formed by a long stretch of satin
ribbon on either side, and stood fronting the
clergyman, who stood facing the company.
The bride’s dress was of cream-white satin,
draped with some very beautiful Roman gui-
pure lace, the gift of her mother.  Her hair
was dressed in classic fashion, very simply, and
over the Grecian knot at the back of the
head was fastened a veil of costly lace, histori-
cal in the family.  The service, which was
brief and simple, was followed by congratula-
tions, music and supper, and in due time the
newly-married pair departed, the orthodox
token of good will following them, to wit, a 
shower of rice and a slipper.—Boston Woman’s
Journal.

		    BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover.  The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I’d Nothing Else  to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy’s Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won’t You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, My Pretty Louise; I really
don't think I shall Marry; Dreaming of Home;
The old Cottage Clock: Across the Sea; A year
Ago; Bachelor’s Hall; Ruth and I; Good Night;
One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in the Orchard; 
The Old Barn Gate; Jack’s Farewell; Polly;
Whisper in the Twilight.  This is a very 
fine collection of real vocal jems, and gotten up
in very handsome style. Published in the
usual way and bought at a music store, these
32 pieces would cost you $11. 20.  We bought
a job lot of this music at a great sacrifice and as
the holidays are past, we desire to close out our
stock at once.  Will send you the entire collec-
tion well wrapped and postpaid for only 40
cts.  Send immediatelg.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


A recently published book is called “One
Hundred Distinguished Americans.”  Of the
members, but four are women, and these are 
Charlotte Cushman, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, and Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Presumably they represent Art, Politics, Phi-
lanthropy and Literature.
	Mme. Patti-Nicolini’s will, made just before
she came to America last fall, gives half of
her fortune to her husband, one-fourth to her
brother-in-law, Mr. Strakosch, and one-fourth
to found “Patti scholarships” for the benefit of
promising girl singers in the large cities where
the testator has won her laurels.  Her grave,
she directs, is to be adorned with fresh flowers
all the year round, in token of her “having
lived surrounded by blossoms.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SONNET.
	
	  BY HARRIAT E. PITCHARD.

If death should touch this weary heart to-night,
	Thus leaving some great work but half fulfilled;
	If all life’s busy wheels to-night were stilled,
Ended each task, each aspiration quite,
These tired eyes shut forever from the light,
	What then?  On some eternal, wave-kissed shore
	Would heart and soul take up their task once more,
Assume their toil with all their old-time might?
	God knows!  This earth-bound vision cannot soar
Beyond the limitations of His will.
	What matter, when life’s thrilling dream is o’er,
Though other hands our half-scored measure fill?
	What matter who the topmost notch shall score,
If at the "finis" good outrivals ill?—Selected


﻿   MY HERO.

		BY HELEN KEITH.

What signifies the outward show?
	What signifies his wealth or place?
When we the heart have learned to know,
	What do we care for form or face?
And what care we for name or creed
	That buried ages may unroll,
If under all we clearly read
	The record of a dauntless soul?

If loyal to his sense of right,
	If prompt and sure at duty’s call,
He walks, as walking in God’s sight,
	His aim the manliest aim of all;
If helpful as the sunbright day,
	If pitiful of other’s woes, 
He follows in the Master's way
   And bears a blessing where he goes;
	
If, gaining much, he loses all,
	While summer friends go coldly by,
He proves his courage by his fall,
	Resolved to win the day or die;
With hope alive, in God his trust,
	He keeps a spirit kind and true,
And rises bravely from the dust
	To fight his weary battle through;
	
If, working on through pain and loss,
	His earnest soul be not cast down,
He beareth patiently his cross
	While winning steadily his crown;
The man’s a hero! and we give
	The meed of love, which is his due,
No idle praise! but while we live
	The wreath of bay! the knot of blue!
							 —Selected.


[Column 1]
	  SPIRITUAL ARGUMENT.

	All Christians profess to believe in the words
of our Savior and the apostles, and also the
Old Testament prophets.  I would like to call
attention to their teachings as delivered by the
Holy Ghost, the spirit of truth, for our guid-
ance and edification.  The words of the Lord
to His disciples, St. Luke, vi, 20:
	"And he lifted up His eyes on His disciples
and said, Blessed are ye poor, for yours is the
kingdom of God.
	21. "Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye
shall be filled.  Blessed are ye that weep now,
for ye shall laugh.
	22. "Blessed are ye when men shall hate
you, and when they shall separate you from
their company, and shall reproach you, and
shall cast out your name as evil for the Son of
man’s sake.
	23. "Rejoice ye, in that day, and leap for
joy, for, behold, your reward is great in heaven,
for in like manner did their fathers unto the
prophets.
	26. "Woe! unto you, when all men shall
speak well of you, for so did their fathers unto
the false prophets."
	Now, do not all sects and parties raise a hue
and cry of evil against the Latter-day Saints,
that we are poor, ignorant, and despised in the

[Column 2]
eyes of the world?  If we are, we can approach
our Elder Brother, and He will save us if we
follow Him into His fold.  The Porter openeth
the door, and He commandeth us to enter not
in any other way, which we must obey, or we
shall be accounted thieves and robbers.  We
are called sinners above all others, and are
pursued night and day to punish us for criminal
acts.  They say that the prophets of old
practiced and had God’s sanction, for He said,
"I came not to call the righteous, but sinners
to repentance." The last call is now made for
all to repent, everywhere, and be baptized for
the remission of sins and be buried in baptism
with Christ, that we may arise to newness of
life and lay a foundation of good works.  I
will quote from the 47th verse of the above
named chaper: "Whosoever cometh to me
and heareth my sayings, and doeth them, I
will shew you to whom he is like.
	“He is like a man which built a house, and
digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock;
and when the flood arose, the stream beat
vehemently upon that house and could not
shake it, for it was founded upon a rock.
	"But he that heareth and doeth not, is like
a man that, without a foundation, built a house
upon the earth, against which the stream did
beat vehemently, and immediately it fell, and
the ruin of that house was great."
	The Church of Christ was built upon revela-
tion, and this was the rock that the Savior
told Peter He would build His Church upon,
"and the gates of hell shall not prevail against
it." Paul also testifies that he was convinced of
the Gospel by revelation and not by man, and
says; "But though we or, an angel from heaven,
preach any other gospel unto you, let him be
accursed," and repeats it in the following
verse.  John, in his second epistle, testifies to
the same: "If there come any unto you and
bring not this doctrine, receive him not into
your house, neither bid him God speed, for he
that biddeth him God speed is a partaker of
his evil deeds." Here is an injunction we
must give heed to, or we cannot be saved in
the kingdom of heaven.  Among all the
masses that believe different ways, how shall
we find the true Church of Christ?  Can we
find it among the sects?  No; they deny revela-
tion.  John the Revelator was told, John i, 19:
	"Write the things which thou hast seen, and
the things which are and the things which
shall be hereafter."
	xiii, 6: "And I saw another angel fly in
the midst of heaven, having the everlasting
Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the
earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and
tongue, and people."
	This was the same Gospel that Christ told
John and the rest of His disciples to go and
preach after His resurrection.  This was to
take place just before the fall of Babylon,
which we read in the 8th verse following.
	Dear reader, if you wish to make further
research of the true Gospel, read the last
chapters of St. Matthew and St. Mark.  The
Savior said, "He that breaketh one of the
least of these commandments, and teach men
so, shall be called the least in the kingdom of 
heaven." Paul is very plain in 1st Cor. con-
cerning the gifts in the Church, which all may
read and be informed on and edified, as the
Scriptures have no private interpretation.  Now
is the accepted time, now is the day of salva-
tion.  The Lord is not willing that any should
perish, but that all should come to repentance,
for he says, "Come unto me, all ye ends of the
earth, and be ye saved."
	But the day of the Lord will come as a
thief in the night, in the which the heavens
shall pass away with a great noise, and the
elements shall melt with fervent heat; the
earth, also, and the works that are therein
shall be burned up.”

[Column 3]
	2nd Peter: "When the Son of man shall
come in His glory, and all the holy angles
with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of
His glory; and before Him shall be gathered
all nations, and He shall separate them one
from another, as a shepherd divideth His sheep
from the goats; and He shall set the sheep on
His right hand, but the goats on the left." St.
Matthew, chapter 25.  Then the Savior tells
the righteous what they have done to Him, and
those on the left hand, what they had not done
to Him.  That inasmuch as they had done it,
or had not done it to the least of His brethren,
they had not done it to Him.  Will not the
Elders of the Church of this last dispensation,
be among this number, that went hungry,
thirsty, naked, sick, in prison and a stranger
among strangers, to preach the Gospel of the
Son of God, without purse or scrip, at His
bidding?  Who will reward them and set
them at His right hand?  I say, my brethren,
yes; be comforted by these the Savior’s words:
"Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the
kingdom prepared for you from the foundation
of the world." And you, also, my sisters, who
are called to suffer with your husbands for the
Gospel’s sake, will share this blessing with
them at the right hand of the King of kings,
for they that are sealed on earth are sealed in
heaven; and they whom God hath joined to-
gether let no man put asunder." The holy
Melchisedec Priesthood has power to bind and
to loose.  How much did our good Congress-
men understand the passage of scripture they
quoted upon the Edmunds Bill, "And they 
twain shall become one flesh." Paul to the
Ephesians,5th chapter, and members of Christ’s
Church, he was giving instructions to, and not
outsiders, says: "For we are members of
His body, of His flesh aud’ of His bones."
Could not wives become members of the man’s
body under the same head?  Read what the
next verse says: "For this cause shall a man
leave his father and mother, and shall be joined
unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh.
This is a great mystery, but I speak concern-
ing Christ and the Church."
	In the former chapter it reads, 4th verse:
"There is one body and one spirit, even as ye
are called in one hope of your calling;
	5. "One Lord, one faith, one baptism.
	6. "One God and Father of all, who is above
all, and through all and in you all.
	8. "Wherefore He saith, When He ascended
up on high, He led captivity captive, and gave
gifts unto men.
	11. "And He gave some, apostles; and some,
prophets; aud some, evangelists; and some, pas-
tors and teachers;
	12. "For the perfecting of the saints, for the
work of the ministry, for the edifying of the
body of Christ:
	13.  "Till we all come in the unity of the
faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of
God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of
the stature of the fulness of Christ:
	14. "That we henceforth be no more children,
tossed to and fro, and carried about with every
wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and
cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to
deceive."
	The Savior has not at any time returned and
changed this order of things; therefore, the
Latter-day Saints are true believers in the
word of God and in the revelations of our
Lord and Savior.  One of the ten command-
ments reads thus; "Thou shalt not bear false
witness against they neighbor." There is not a
day passes but that false witness is borne
against this people.  Thou shalt not covet thy
neighbor’s house, nor his wife, nor anything
that is thy neighbors, etc.  How is it with our
liberal neighbors, do they not covet what it is                
our right to possess?  Offences must come, but
woe! unto them by whom they come.
						M. A. M. PRATT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	Editor

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
   Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50;  per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
   Address all business communications to
		     PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	MARCH 1, 1887.


[Column 1]

COMMENTS.

	These are memorable times in the history of
Utah, and of the Latter-day Saints. Important
questions are about being decided by this nation
that will have their effect upon the country and
the people at large, as well as the direct bearing
they have upon the interests of a few whose pe-
culiar belief and practices have given rise to such
momentous issues. A few years hence the na-
tion will have cause to regret that such bitter
prejudices so far influenced the rulers of this
great government as to cause them to break down
some of the most essential barriers in the bulwark
of freedom and religious liberty and establish so
dangerous a precedent, thereby undermining the
whole foundation on which rests the strength and
durability of a free and grand government that has
been the pride and boast of the patriots of Ameri-
ca, for "lo these many years."
	One whe loves his country cannot help mourn-
ing over the narrowness of soul exhibited by men
who sit in high places and look down with scorn
and treat as minions those who were born free and
equal with them to every right and privilege of
this glorious heritage bequeathed by the fore-
fathers of their country, Making a test oath to be
administered to every man and treating him as
though he were a criminal is indeed an outrage.
Heretofore one was supposed to be innocent un-
til he was proven guilty, but now the case is re-
versed and men in Utah must take certain oaths
made and defined for them or they  must be ex-
cluded from the right of citizenship. Women
who have voted for seventeen years are deprived
altogether without any consideration or right of
appeal, but as sure as this law goes into effect, so
sure have the lawmakers struck another blow,
that will sap the foundations of the tree of liberty
and human rights, for although the nation has not
as yet recognized the rights of women to partici-
pate in its governmental affairs (save through their
husbands, fathers, brothers and sons) yet the day
is not far distant when they will be glad to call
them to their aid to save the Constitution that they
are now wounding in its vital parts.
	It does not matter, some think, what indignities
are heaped upon the "Mormons" they deserve it
all, and harsh measures must be used to bring
them into line and make them respect the laws
made specially for thir condemnation. Is it not
self evident that they had not broken one of the
fundamental laws of the land when a law had to
be made expressly to punish them? And when
the enforcement of that law is made retro-active
what then? And how does that harmonize with the
principles of justice and equity? Has punishing
people for their religion ever accomplished the ob-
ject sought to be attained? History records no
such fact. Neither will the history now being
made in this country. The purposes of the Al-
mighty will not be thwarted, though all the gov-
ernments combine against Him. He holds the
destinies of both men and nations in His hand and

[Column 2]

He will not forsake his chosen people, though He
may suffer them to be afflicted and oppressed and
pass under the rod of chastisement that He may
prove their integrity and their valor, but in His own
due time He will make bare His arm in their de-
fense.

	There is so much transpiring every day of pub-
lic interest that it is next to impossible to record
even an item of each occurrence unless one makes
daily mention as events pass in hurried succes-
sion. Within the last two weeks there have been
almost daily dreadful  railroad casualities with
great loss of human life and the destruction
of much valuable property, murders and most
frightful accidents have been happening here and
there causing great sorrow and much fear, and the
recent tremendous earthquake in Southern Europe
with its fearful and tragical consequences com-
pletes one of the most unparalleled chapters of
horrors it is possible to conceive of. The loss of
human life and property and the hopelessness of
many who have had to suffer, homeless, destitute
and, as it were, without succor, has called out
many noble endeavors on the part of the humane
and philanthropic to aid, assist, provide for and
save from utter wretchedness the victims of this
appalling and heartrending convulsion of nature.
We realize to some extent the fulfillment of pre-
dictions by our modern prophets and leaders in
these sickening details of horrors. Some of our
leaders who have now past off this stage of action
have told the Lutter-day Saints, they would yet
grow sick to read the horrors daily recorded in the
publications of the times and turn from them be-
cause they were too soul-sickening. Those who
look over the columns of the daily dispatches now
know this is fast coming to pass. And things
seem to grow worse instead of better. There are
serious indications, of trouble among great nations,
and labor and social organized bodies are fast in-
creasing in power and strength.
	From these strongly organized forces there is
much to be feared, because of their hatred of su-
periority of influence, rank wealth and
social distinction and their utter abhorence of con-
trol. These levelers of rank and would be dis-
tributors of the wealth of nations and of peoples,
would stop at nothing in their mad 
course, were there not strong and
brave as well as cautious resistance
made to the innovations of such radicals who
have no idea of consistency or justice, and large
fortunes and hard earned means would be thus
scattered to the four winds, regardless of human
suffering, and who would be benefitted? Not the
poor, save in rare instances, temporarily. Such a
state of things means confusion, generally, and
she breaking down of the barriers that encompass
about those who are the makers and founders of
cities and manufacturies that give place and em-
ployment and protection to those who would des-
troy all the vital forces that make a nation's
strength and power.
	But God is in the tempest, the whirlwind and
the earthquake, and He suffers the elements to ac-
complish their work of swift destruction, for He
has said, "And after the testimony of my servants,"
etc., "and by the voice of thunderings, and by the
voice of lightnings, and by the voice of earth-
quakes, and great hail storms, and by the voice of
famines and pestilences," all these things have
been foretold. These judgments are not acknowl-
edged to be a part of the great programme of the
Almighty, save by the Latter-day Saints, neither
do the people understand that the nations are, as
it were, tottering on the brink of a social precipice,
that may at almost any moment give way from
some spasmodic cause and overwhelm those who
fancy themselves in perfect security, and under
the protection of the greatest and grandest of
human governments. That such an issue is at

[Column 3]

hand there are many indications, that wise men
should discern.

	The Edmunds-Tucker Bill, at this writing, still
lies harmless upon the President's table, awaiting
his signature. There is mnch querying and argu-
ing over the matter of his signature, but the
"Mormons" are making no great demonstrations
for or against this cruel bill; they trust in the same
God that delivered Daniel from the lions, and
know He is as able now to work a miracle in be-
half of His people as He was then. Should the
Edmunds-Tucker Bill become a law, and be en-
forced in this Territory, bringing the people who
settled this desert into greater bondage than they
are already suffering, it will ignominiously fail of
accomplishing what the fifty millions of people
have been asking for, because God is at the helm,
and it is His work they are fighting, and casting
men into prison and depriving them of votes or of
office, does not, and cannot destroy an eternal
principle, such as the Latter-day Saints know
celestial marriage to be.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The officers of the Primary Associations of this
Stake will hold a meeting next Saturday March
5th, at the residence of Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson,
First Street, at one p.m. A full attendance is
desirable. The semi annual reports from all the
Primaries in the Stake are wanted by that time.
Send them to the Stake Secretary, Miss Bessie
Dean, No. 77, Peach Street, 19th Ward, that a re-
port may be prepared for the coming conference.
	The conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Thursday March 17, 1887, commencing
at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. A punctual attendance of
representative officers is earnestly desired and all
those interested in this benevolent work are cor-
dially invited to be present.
	On Friday, March 18, the Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake will hold its conference and the meetings
will commence at the same hours, viz., 10 a.m. and
2 p.m. It is time for written semi annual reports,
yet it is quite as important that presidents and
others should attend as though they were expected
to make verbal reports. It is encouraging to see
a full attendance and always adds interest to the
meetings. All interested in the improvement and
advancement of the young people should make a
point of attending these conferences and encour-
age those who labor so efficiently in these organi-
zations.
	The Conference of the Primary Associations of
this Stake will be held in the Assembly Hall on
Saturday March 19, and the several Presidents of
the respective associations in this Stake it is hoped
will make an effort to attend and have some re-
presentation from each of the associations. These
conferences ought to be a matter of interest to all
as well as to the presiding officers. It is a beauti-
ful sight to see so many children brought together
and hear their exercises, and all Latter-day Saints
desire the spiritual interest of the youth of Zion.
It is hoped there will be a large attendance from
all parts of the country.


﻿SISTER S. W. TAYLOR.

	Sister Sophia Whitaker Taylor, Wife of Presi-
dent John Taylor, expired at her residence in the
Fourteenth Ward, on Sunday, Feb. 27, 1887. The
deceased was born at Blakedown, near Kidder-
minster, Worcestershire, England, April 21st, 1825,
and was consequently nearing the close of her
62nd year. At the time the late President Young,
Presidnt Taylor and other members of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles were in the mis-


sionary field in England, in 1840, she was living
with her sister in Liverpool, and those brethren
were by them hospitably entertained. In that
year she embraced the Gospel, and from that pe-
riod to the hour of her death was a consistent and
conscientious Latter-day Saint. She emigrated
to this country at an early day, and was married to
President John Taylor in 1847, at Winter Quar-
ters, after the expulsion of the Saints from Nau-
voo. She came to this valley in Pioneer year,
landing upon the site upon which Salt Lake now
stands, October 2nd, 1847. She has four sons and
two daughters.
	Sister Taylor was a most estimable woman,
modest and unassuming in her nature, her chief
interest being centered in the proper rearing of
her family. Having been with the Church in its
earlier phases, and having come to this valley be-
fore it was settled, she necessarilly had to endure
many privations of a trying nature. She bore
them all with that Christian fortitude which was a
leading feature of her character. No matter what
were the circumstances of her experience in bat-
tling in unison with her respected husband, with
the difficulties incident to the development of a
new country, no murmur of complaint ever es-
caped her lips. Her dying hours were not sol-
aced by the presence of her husband, the latter be-
ing under the ban of a mistaken and cruel policy
which deprives him of the exercise of his liberty
and drives him into exile, but her friends have the
comforting assurance that she has gone to a sphere
where she will enjoy the undisturbed peace which
is the heritage of the righteous when freed from the
toils of mortality.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FBEE LIBRARY AND READING ROOM.

	On Friday evening the first of a series of socia-
bles was held in the Fourteenth Ward, the object
of which is to obtain means for the establishment
of a free library and reading room. The party
was successful in every way, a refined and artistic
entertainment being given and the sum of forty
dollars obtained as its financial result.
	We believe the project will find favor in most
quarters. Places where our young people can
spend an evening in pleasurable society for the im-
provement of their minds, must have a beneficial
tendancy if properly conducted. There should,in
our opinion, be several of these institutions in this
city, and one at least in every populous town in
Utah. Young people by these means may be kept
from roaming the streets at night, or visiting re-
sorts where moral and intellectual culture are
farthest from thought and practice.
	We understand that the intention in this case is
to provide facilities for the youth and others of
our own people to gain useful knowledge and lit-
erary entertainment. Care will have to be taken
that the reading room is kept free from improper
attendance. Rules will have to be adopted, in the
onset, with this object in view. That which is in-
tended for good may be turned into a vehicle of
evil. But this may be said of everything designed
for the nature,use and benefit of mankind. Precau-
tions may be devised to keep the institution free
from evil and preserve it to the purposes de-
signed.
	We learn that President Taylor as Trustee in
Trust has signified his approval of the movement
in a characteristic and forcible manner, by for-
warding a hundred dollars by way of donation to
the purpose in view. He has also expressed his
opinion that "A free library and reading room
properly managed, would be a most excellent in-
stitution for the young people." The words we
have placed in italics should be particularly noticed
Gifts of books are being received from various
quarters and leading men are endorsing the move-
ment, which we believe will be carried forward to
deserved success.


﻿We hope that the Latter-day Saints of this city
and its vicinity will do all they can consistently to
aid in establishing a good and extensive library,
which will not only be for the use of the Four-
teenth Ward, where it is to be located, but for
members of the Church generally in this neighbor-
hood.—Deseret News.


[Column 1]

THEORY VS. PRACTICE.

	"Attend unto my cry;for I am brought very low: deliver me
from my persecutors; for they are stronger than I.—Psalms.

	I think the situation of the Psalmist, David, was
much like our own at the present time, and if we
have profited by what we have read of God's deal-
ings with his people in all ages of the world, that
we have any history of, recorded in the Bible or
Book of Mormon, we can but see, I think, "that
we have done something that we ought not to have
done, or left undone, something that we should
have done." In other words that for our trans-
gressions God is putting it into the power of our
enemies to persecute us. I think we would do
well to leave our enemies in his hands, and turn
our attention to ourselves, and see if we are keep-
ing his commandments and those of our own
house,over whom we have control. Do we live the
lives of Saints, or are we stumbling blocks in the
way of those who are weak in the faith, who,know-
ing our profession, and seeing our works, see
that they do not correspond. It looks altogether
to me like a lack of faith in the promises of God
for us to hesitate one moment, when persecution
comes, about what course to pursue, for he has 
said, that when we serve him our enemies shall
not prevail against us. I know some will say, "Oh 
we shall always be persecuted by the wicked."
Granted, but we have the sure word of God,which
never fails, that if we serve Him they shall not
prevail against us, although they may, perhaps,
scoff at and scorn us. Instance the days of Noah
whom God commanded to build an ark, in the
which all those who would obey his voice should
escape the destruction which was preparing for
the wicked. Out of all that were then living on
the earth,only eight souls of them hearkened to his
counsel, although they derided him and laughed
him to scorn. We have no account, so far as I
know, of his enemies having the power to im-
prison, or deter him from accomplishing the work
that God intrusted him with. Are there not many,
very many of our brethren and sisters who are
suffering imprisonment and exile for the Gospel's
sake? No; for our sins, as I fully believe. Now
I think we should not waste a moment in useless
repining or denunciation of our enemies; they are
wicked and corrupt, we know very well, but none
but that kind would do as they do. Did a righte-
ous people ever persecute their fellow men? No!
but the Lord has in all ages employed the wicked
to scourge his people, when they did not serve
him and keep the commandments which he had
given them.
	Prayer is very esential for a Latter-day Saint, 
but in my estimation it is a weak Saint who does 
nothing toward living his religion, but say his
prayers. I would not give a rush for him, and I
don't believe the Lord would.
	I think that when we reduce our professions to
practice, and live the lives of whole-souled Latter-
day Saints, "love our neighbors as we do our-
selves" and do what God has required of us,
through his servants, that the love of God and
of our brethren and sisters, may abound in our
hearts, the Lord will hear and answer us when we 
pray, and Zion will be delivered from her enemies,
for I testify that He is not slow to hear the cries
of His children, when they are in the path of
duty. And I believe that if we were liv-
ing the lives of Saints honestly and
truly before our Heavenly Father,
that Congress might pass all the bills that a cor-

[Columun 2]

rupt nation could concoct, and it would not bind
one Latter-day Saint, or hinder him in the per-
formance of the duties that God has assigned him
to do.
	May he speed the day when the hypocrite
shall be separated from those who desire to
serve him and keep his commandments.
		RUTH.


NOTICE.

	Reports from the Relief Society branches of
this Stake are requested to be sent in by the 5th
of March. Address, Elizabeth Howard, 60 East,
Fourth South St., Salt Sake City.

	Relief Society Secretaries desiring blanks, will
please send directly to my address, 107, Main St.,
Salt Lake City, and save time. Stake reports are
respectfully requested to be sent in by March 20th
at the latest.
		ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D., Ass't Sec.


THE THOUGHTS OF A DAY.

	Oh, dear! oh, dear! What shall I do? When
will be the end of all this noise and confusion?
How can I think, how can I work, when I can-
not have time to think or consider my work
rationally? Let me see; this is Monday. Wash-
ing day, baking day, cooking day; everything
to be done in general. It is, "Mamma, where
is my slate?" "Where is my pencil? "School
teacher says I must have a new copy book this
morning." "What shall we take for dinner?"
"Mamma, here is a hole in my mitten." "Wife,
where is the letter I received from Jenkins
yesterday?" The letter is produced. "Hand
me pen, paper and ink, for I must answer it
immediately." "Mamma, what does c-a-n spell?"
"Can." Now my fire has gone out, and I must
kindle it again. Husband has gone to the
post office. I set down the baby, put away pen
and ink, shut the door, and then prepare for
my day's work.  I sit myself down to think a
few moments in quiet.
	As my mind reverts to the difference between
man's and woman's sphere of life, an impulse
seizes me to step outside the door to cool my
brow and fill my lungs with fresh air. As I
feel the breeze fan my face, as it speeds swiftly
by, my spirits rise, and I feel as though I
could, if released from all these family cares,
go forth into the world free and independent,
battling with the cares of this life. I could
measure arms with my brother man, enter the
halls of justice as a lawyer, represent the in-
terests of my sex in the halls of Congress, sit
upon the Presidential chair at Washington, and
decide the national affairs with as much right
and justice as President Cleveland, or I could
legislate with clearer sight and greater cunning
than polygamy Edmunds. I believe I could
be quite good natured at all times and under
all circumstances, if I were given the advan-
tages given the sterner sex.
	Well, well; I have traveled far, and find
myself upon a hill covered with rock, sage and
prickly pear. As my feet are far above the
surroundings below, my thoughts arise above
the cares of to-day. I drop down upon my
knees before a natural altar (a huge stone)
and say, "O God! my Eternal Father, the
founder of heaven and earth, Thou whom the
thunder and lightning doth obey, the Ruler of
all nations and people, wouldst Thou draw
near and listen to the petition of an erring soul.
Help me to remember that Thou didst, through
toil and care, pain and death, lay the plan of
salvation, whereby, in obedience to the same,
all the human family may again return to
Thee and dwell in everlasting felicity. Help
me to bear the cares of this life with patience
and humility; forgive my complaining this
day." Methinks I hear a still small voice say,


"Peace, O thou troubled soul; be firm and stead-
fast to the righteous cause thou hast espoused
yet a little longer, and all will be well with
thee. Honor God, thy Eternal Father; honor
those who hold His priesthood upon the earth;
honor thyself as a daughter in Zion and
mother in Israel, and live for the blessings
promised to the faithful." I arise to my feet
comforted, hurry home, embrace my children,
do my work with renewed courage, and all
goes as merry as a marriage bell.
		D. E. DUDLEY.
	Clifton, Jan. 28, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	TAYLORVILLE, WEST WEBER, WEBER CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking no report of our organization as a
Relief Society in this place has ever been pub-
lished in our woman's paper, we send you the
following notice:
	The Taylorville Relief Society in the West
Weber Ward was organized June 25th, 1886,
our Stake President, Jane S. Richards, and
her Counselors, Hattie C. Brown and Emily
Shurtliff, being present, and assisted by the
ward president, Mary Douglass, and sanctioned
by the local authorities. Officers as follows:
Sarah Hunter, President; Ann Hadley and
Mary Hanson, Counselors; Madeline Farley,
Secretary; Ann Robb, Assistant Secretary;
Sarah Walker, Treasurer. Since that time
we have humbly endeavored to build up that
portion assigned to us.
	The 9th of November last was our Presi-
dent's birthday, which was devoted to sewing
until meeting hours were over, then after
meeting was dismissed, at 5 p.m., the sisters,
with some of the brethren, assembled at Coun.
Ann Hadley's (our rendezvous) and at precisely
7 p.m. we proceeded in a body, nearly fifty in
number, to the residence of acting Bishop,
James F. Hunter, and completely and agree-
ably surprised the inmates in honor of our
President's 48th birthday, who received the
assembly with an appropriate welcome, and
after partaking of an elegant repast, the even-
ing was spent by a series of very entertaining
exercises, consisting of anecdotes, recitations,
songs in several languages, speeches, including
a short address by the Secretary in behalf of
the Society to the President, which called forth
a heartfelt, grateful response from her, followed
by Brother Hunter, who, in his appreciative
speech, motioned that minutes be taken by the
Secretary, and sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
with the address for publication, and a copy
kept on record, which was unanimously ap-
proved, closing the entertainment with a fer-
vent benediction by acting Bishop, J. F. Hun-
ter, the assemblage dispersed at precisely 12
p.m.  All attending it said it bad been the
best entertainment they had ever participated
in.

Address to our beloved President, Sarah Hun-
ter:

	We have met here this evening all actuated
by the same motive, that of extending our con-
gratulations to and appreciation of one whom
to know is to love and respect, and in whom
our confidence is centered, and we consider
this a fit time and place to express the same
by our united presence.
	Although we have but recently been organ-
ized, and labored under your guidance, we
have learned to appreciate your worth, and ex-
perience has taught us that, with congenial
associations, love, like intelligence, by proper
cultivation, expands and increases, and such
we unitedly extend you, and concede you are
the right one in the right place, and trust our
love may continue and increase, and we may

[Column 2]

still be identified intact as a Society, with you
as President, when Zion is established and the
numerical figures indicating your age are re-
versed to 84, and we meet again for the same
purpose, is the wish of your sisters of the Re-
lief Society of Taylorsville.
		MADELINE FARLEY, Sec.

DAVIS STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference of
the Davis Stake of Zion, held at Centerville,
January 21st, 1887, Prest. Susan Grant presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing. Prayer by
Prest. Smith. Continued by singing.
	Prest. Grant said, "I am sorry it is so dis-
agreeable a day; I presume it has prevented
many from coming out. We have Sisters E.
S. Taylor and M. W. Snow from the city here
with us; also President Smith, and we will
have a good meeting if there are but a few of
us. We will hear from the psesidents of the
branches that are here."
	Sister Muir represented West Bountiful;
Prest. Lucinda Sessions, East Bountiful; Prest.
Randall, Centerville.
	After singing, Prest. Grant made some good
remarks, and said she had not visited the
different branches of the Society before this
conference, but would have been glad to.
"When we do visit we find a good, peaceful
spirit. Joseph Smith said the Church was
not fully organized till the Relief Society was
organized. I used to think when we attended
to our household affairs we had done about
enough, but we can arrange our work so as to
attend our meetings if we have a desire to, but
I would not advise mothers to neglect their
children on any account. Our enemies are
working against us, but they will not be able
to do more than what will be for the further-
ance of God's work upon the earth; all we
have to do is to live up to our duties. I pray
the Lord to qualify us to perform them in an
acceptable way.
	Coun. Mary S. Clark said, "I am pleased to
meet with you to-day. We should be prepared
all the time for any event that may befall us.
The enemy are upon us, but they are in the
hands of the Lord, and so are we; the eye of
the Lord is upon us; we have got to pass through
with a great deal yet; let us strive to do all the
good we can. I feel that we have nothing to
discourage us; all is right in Zion. We should
qualify ourselves to teach our children. It is
a great care to raise a family and bring them
up right. Mothers, watch over your children
and keep them home at night. Girls should
be careful in choosing a husband; they have
the privilege of fasting and praying, that they,
may get a companion that they can look up to
and be a good father to their children, a man of
God. May we live faithful, that we may see
Zion redeemed."
	Sister Brown said, "When I meet with the
sisters I feel a union; and why should we not
be as one? for every one else is against us. My
blessing says that I will live to see the day
that all evil will be put down. President
Cleveland said he was sorry that we were not
like them, but I am sorry that we are so much
like them as we are; we are so mixed up that
we partake of their ways." Spoke upon dress,
and said she would like to live, and desired to
be one with her sisters to help bring about
righteousness. "It is our duty to act in every
capacity that we are called upon to. I ask
your prayers, that I may be able to do my
duty."
	Bishop Cheny: "I have been well paid in
being a member of this meeting, and pleased
to hear the reports. I think the sisters attend
to their meetings better than the brethren do.
Our mothers are more excusable for not attend-
ing their meetings than the fathers, for their
cares are many. We have had very good
counsel from our sisters, especially when they

[Column 3]

spoke about the children; parents will be ac-
countable for the children; parents should
practice what they preach, or it will lead to
infidelity with their children." Said how
necessary it was to thoroughly understand the
principles of the Gospel. "This persecution
should cause us to live near the Lord. Our
prayers should be short and right to the point.
We can do as much good right here at home
as to go on missions. We cannot commence
the education of a child too young; and it
would not be amiss for you sisters to give
lectures on housekeeping." Spoke of dress,
and exhorted the people to keep fast day.
	Meeting adjourned till two o'clock, with
singing and a benediction by Bishop Cheny.
	Afternoon session: Commenced with singing.
Prayer by Bro. Randal. Singing.
	Sister E. S. Taylor: "The Relief Society
was organized by Joseph Smith; he said the
Church was not fully organized without it.
Emma was called an elect lady, and you hold
the same position, and do you realize the re-
sponsibility resting upon you, and what is
required at your hands, and how you perform
your duties? If you as officers are recreant in
your duties it will not be so well with you; it
don’t matter, however, whether you are officers
or members, you have duties to perform, you
have pledged yourselves to help carry on the
Society; go with prayerful hearts; the work
you do there is for the poor; there are many
poor among us, and it is our duty to help take
care of them, and see that they have proper
care. Some are very ungrateful for the help
they receive but it is their duty to be grateful.
I don't consider it our duty to administer to
those that are not willing to help themselves.
We should not neglect our home duties; home
should be the sweetest place on earth. I thank
God that I have been associated with the
Saints. If you are faithful in your organiza-
tions you will be benefitted. Sisters, go to
your meetings, and talk about housekeeping;
have a place for everything, and everything in
its place. We have a right to go before the
Lord with our daughters; and make it a matter
of prayer when they want to select a husband;
our future happiness depends upon it. Mothers,
keep the confidence of your sons as well as
your daughters; it is a safe guard, to any son
or daughter that will make a confident of the
mother. We have been promised if we do our
duty that the Lord would gather our children
in the fold, teach them to be pure and virtuous.
I would like to speak about the minutes; it is
not necessary to have them lengthy; if there is
any particular instruction given it should be
noticed in the minutes. Spoke about sending
our children to Gentile schools. Said, "I
would rather my children did not have a par-
ticle of education more than what I could
teach them, than to have them go to them.
Give your children a spiritual education, and
they will be all right. My prayer is that we
may gain an exaltation in the kingdom of
God."
	Sister Minerva W. Snow: "I am pleased to
meet with you, though most of you are
strangers to me, but still do not seem like
strangers as long as we belong to the same
faith. I desire your faith and prayers. You
are blest in having your President here; there
are so many men that have to be away. I was
a member in the Society in Nauvoo; I heard
Brother Joseph say that every sister belonging
to the Church should have her name enrolled
in the Society. I would encourage my sisters
to come to these meetings; there are many
things that can be talked about here that can-
not be spoken of in other meetings. Teach
your daughters to be good housekeepers; be
careful and prudent; I believe we will have to
give an account for that which the Lord has
put in our hands." Spoke about being charit-
able, and the responsibility resting on mothers.


"Teach your children to pray, and if they do
go astray it will sometimes bring them back;
the impression made upon a child's mind is
lasting; there is a great deal in being obedient
to those that are placed over us. We are all
trying to build up our Father's kingdom on
the earth. I feel that I can see the hand of
Lord over us and over the world, and if we
are faithful the Lord will take us safe through;
we have got to sacrifice everything for the
Gospel, and it is worth everything. I know
that the principle of plural marriage is true;
I heard Joseph teach it; he sealed me to my
husband. Let it be the feeling of your heart
that God is at the helm. When we are old
and look back on a well spent life, what a joy
it will be. Be careful about breaking your
covenants; teach your children to have faith in
the ordinances of the Church, and not have
doctors. We want to live near the Lord every
day; we want union, power and strength, and
a firm and decided mind, that we will serve
God let what will come. May we labor faith-
ful and diligent, that we may all meet beyond
the veil."
	Prest. Smith: "I never was in a meeting
where so many points were touched upon for
benefit.  I take great satisfaction in attending
these meetings; I know this is an organization
of the kingdom of God. In regard to prayer,
there are many prayers offered at the same
time; some may think that the Lord cannot
hear them all, but through the system He has
organized, He can hear and answer prayers.
Some of the sisters spoke about making good
bread; it is very essential, also, to make good
butter. I would like to speak about the fash-
ions; I think if the presidents of the different
branches, and the leading women, would meet
together and make their own fashions and
follow them, it would be better than to follow
the Gentile fashions. I have suggested this
for the benefit of my sisters, and exercise your
influence in bringing about this desired effect.
May the Lord bless you. Amen."
	Prest. Grant: "I feel that our time has been
well spent, and hope we will treasure up what
we have heard. This matter of dress we must
meditate upon, and I hope we will be willing
to lay aside all Gentile fashions. We will now
adjourn for three months, to meet at Farming-
ton."
	Singing, "Lord, dismiss us with thy bless-
ing." Benediction by Bro. Randal.
		Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	151


OLD FOLKS’ PARTY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Old Folks’ Party was held in the ward
meeting house, in Bloomington, Idaho, on Feb.
10th, this being the sixth meeting of the kind.
They are gotten up every year at the request
of our honored Bishop, Wm. Hulme, under
the direct management of President Green-
halgh and her Counselors.  Tables were spread
to accomodate about one hundred persons, who
seemed to enjoy and do ample justice to the
viands which were spread before them.  This
year we were honored by the Presidency of the
Stake; the Presidency of the Relief Society
was also represented by the Counselors and
Treasurer of the Stake.
     After the tables were cleared and removed,
the Bishop called the brethren and sisters to
order, and meeting opened by singing and
prayer, after which songs, recitations, and
speeches were made by some of the brethren
and sisters present, who spoke in an encourag-
ing and instructive manner.
     At lamplight there was an intermission of
twenty minutes, when all that desired were
conveyed to their homes.  Then dancing com-
menced, and was continued until about ten
o’clock, when all retired to their homes, with


love and good wishes for each other in their
hearts.
     May God help the old folks, and permit
them to meet together often, is my worst wish.
Respectfully,
E. C. PIGGOTT, Sec.


ITEMS FROM VERMILLION.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Seeing a request in the EXPONENT for the
sisters of the different wards and organizations
to write to our paper, I thought I would write
a few items about our small ward here in Ver-
million.
     Although few in number, the majority of
the people are trying to live their religion as
well as they know how.  Our Sabbath School
and meetings are pretty well attended.  Our
Relief Society is prospering, and the sisters all
feel well in the Gospel, and willing and ready 
to do whatever called upon by our worthy
President, Rebecca Nebeker.  Our Y. M. and 
Y. L. Mutual Improvement and Primary Asso-
ciations are progressing nicely under the man-
agement of their respective presidents.  We
have a few that seem to be a little slow as to
the signs of the times, but the majority are a
God-fearing community.   We have every rea-
son to rejoice and be good Latter-day Saints.
We have not been called to pass through many
of the trials that some of our brethren and
sisters have, but now the enemy is in our
path; how many homes will be made desolate
is hard to say.
     Before closing I will say, myself and a few
others, on the first day of this month, met at
the residence of our President to surprise not
only her, but her worthy husband, Henry
Nebeker, it being the sixty-ninth anniversary
of his birth.  After partaking of a bounteous
repast, we spent the afternoon in social chat.
    Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, and
that we may all be prepared to say to our
Father in heaven, “Thy will be done in all
things,” I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	VIOLET IVIE, Sec. R. S.
   Vermillion, Sevier Co., Feb. 15, 1887.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest  art  work  among  ladies is
known as the “French Craze” for decorating
china, glassware, etc.  It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating.  It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities.  To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
land scapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00.  The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	
	Mrs. Richard Jesse is dead at Margate,
England.  Her maiden name was Emily Tenny-
son, and she was engaged to be married to
Arthur Henry Hallam, whose death prompted
Alfred Tennyson to write “In Memoriam.”
	The Municipal Woman Suffrage Bill, which
passed the Kansas Senate a few days ago by a


vote of 25 to 13, passed the House, Feb. 10,
by a vote of 90 to 22.  Three cheers for Kansas!
She leads the way.  Sooner or later every other
State will follow.—Ex.

     Georgianna Bruce Kirby, wife of R. C.
Kirby, leather manufacturer, died at her home
in Santa Cruz, California, Jan 27th, 1887.  She
was in early times a member of the celebrated
Brookfarm community in Massachusetts and
prominently connected with the anti-slavery
movement.  She was the author of "Brookfarm
Papers," "Years of Experience," and also a
contributor to magazines and newspapers.  She
has resided there for over thirty years.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Miss Anna Hallowell has received the honor
of an appointment to the Philadelphia Board
of Education.
	Mrs. Richard H. Dana and Mrs. Annie
Thorpe, daughters of the poet Longfellow, in-
tend soon to build a double house in Cambridge
for their own residence.
	Miss Mary Johnston (Marie Decca) was re-
cently presented by a group of her admirers
in Paris with a robe in cloth of silver, former-
ly the property of Queen Louisa of Prussia.
	Mrs. Mary Nash Agnew, the wife of Dr. C.
R. Agnew, the oculist, and Miss Grace H.
Dodge, have been appointed commissioners of
common schools in New York City, to hold
 office for three years from January 1st, 1887.
	Mrs. Henry Wood, author of “East Lynn,”
and about twenty other novels, and editor of
the Argosy, is dead.  Her maiden name was
Ellen Price.  Her first novel, published in
England in 1860, gained the $500 prize offered
the Scottish Temperance League.
	Mrs. Horace Mann, who has just died, was
a sister of Nathaniel Hawthorne’s wife and of
Miss Elizabeth Peabody.  She wrote a life of
her husband, and a little book on “Christianity
in the Kitchen,” as well as articles for various
periodicals.  She was warmly interested in
education.
	The Empress Augusta presents every woman
servant in Prussia who completes her fortieth
year of unbroken service in one family, with a
gold cross and diploma, bearing the imperial
autograph signature.  During the past eight
years she has thus honored one thousand, one
hundred and fifty-six servants.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, in the Indianapolis
Saturday Herald, ably and caustically reviews
Mrs. E. Lynn Linton’s argument against the
higher education and says: “If one is seeking
the causes of the numerical decrease and the
physical degeneration of American families,
let him not look to the fractional one per cent
of college-bred women, but to the eighty-eight
per cent of tobacco-chewing, cigarette-smoking
men.  The dwarling, devitalizing effects of to-
bacco being removed, it will be time enough to
consider to what degree the higher education
is reducing the numbers and enfeebling the ca-
pacity of the Anglo-Saxon stock.”


Sometimes the “heaviest wheat of all” may
spring up from seeds dropped in an accidental
way.  What a motive to the maintenance of
personal holiness!  The accidental is a shadow
of the intentional.  Influence is the exhalation
of character.—W. M. Taylor.
	In the service of God the alteration of an
ordinance of Christ may seem to be a pure
matter of indifference, and yet in that altera-
tion there may be the taking away of the very
vitals of the ordinance, and the total destruc-
tion of its meaning.—Spurgeon.


152
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


What we all fall in love with as a race, is in
most cases efficiency and ability. What we
fall in love with individually is, I believe, our
moral, mental and physical complement. Not
our like, not our counterpart; quite the con-
trary; within healthy limits, our unlike and
our opposite,—Grant Allen.


Patents have been granted to women for the
week ending Jan. 4, 1887, as follows:
	Julia D. Bonfield, Boston, Mass., Garment-
supporter.
	Emily Brooke, Brooklyn, N. Y. Fitting Gar-
ment.
	Annie E. Irwin, Memphis, Tenn., Kitchen-
cabinet.
	Caroline Schulte, Port Huron, Mich., Fire-
escape.
	Mary J. Spencer, Brooklyn, N. Y., Scholar’s
Companion.

	Patents have been granted to women for the
week ending Jan. 18, 1887, as follows:
	Martha C. Buck, Ogden, Mich., Wire dust-
whip.
	Caroline Drake, Aron, Ill., Hospital bed-
stead attachment.
	Sarah A. Perry, Ripley, Ohio, Pencil drawer
for school desks.
	Fanny B. Shannon, Denver, Col., Device
for teaching fractions.
	Eliza A. Leny, Memononee, Wisconsin, Cor-
set.
	Kate V. Waterhouse, Detroit, Mich., Glove-
protector.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of great sorrow that we record the
death of our dear sister, Josephine, beloved daughter of
Neils M, and Mattie C. Peterson.  She was born Feb 15,
1869, and died Dec. 19, 1886.  She was counselor in the 
First Ward Primary Association of Richfield, Sevier Co.
Her great ambition was to gain knowledge, and during
her sickness, which lasted nine days, she bore a faithful
testimony several times to this being the true Church of
Jesus Christ.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Father in heaven has seen fit to call our
dear sister, Josephine, from this probation, be it
	Resolved, That we, her co-laborers in the cause of truth,
cherish her memory and emulate her good example.
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with her be-
reaved family in the loss of a loving sister and daughter.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be presented
to her parents, that one be sent to the EXPONENT for pub-
lication, and that one be placed on the records of this Asso-
ciation,	R.H.


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Hyde Park, Cache Co, U. T., Jan. 10th, 1887,
Rosella Ann Nelson, wife of John A. Nelson, and daughter
of George and Fanny Roys Seamons, born at Farmington,
Davis Co., May 19, 1863; moved to Hyde Park with her
parents in 1866; baptized June 11th, 1871, by Elder Robert
Daines.  Has lived in Hyde Park during her short life,
with but a few months' exception.  She was a good wife
and mother, and beloved by all who knew her.  She has
left a husband, three children and a large number of
friends to mourn her loss.  She died as she lived a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and is looking forward to a glorious resur-
rection with those who have gone before.

Yes, dear sister, thou hast left us,
But why count we thy absence loss?
Most precious deeds thou hast engrafted—
The Master pays well for the cost.

Oh! thy deeds were truly noble,
Yet thy presence we shall miss;
But we know if we are faithful
We shall meet in realms of bliss.
	COM.

[Column 2]
	DIED, at Egin Bingham Co., Idaho, Jan. 11th, 1887,
Mary Sophia Smith, daughter of Samuel and Cecelia Pros-
sen Smith, aged sixteen years, one month and five days.

	The following Resolutions of Respect were adopted by
the Y. L. M. I. A. of Parker Ward:
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to take
from our midst our beloved sister and co-worker, M Sophia
Smith,
	Resolved, That we, as officers and members of the Y. L. 
M. I. A., do fondly cherish and respect her memory.  We
feel that it is the will of the great Omnipotent that she has
been called hence to a brighter sphere of action.
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with the be-
reaved family, and especially with the stricken and widowed
mother.  While we deplore her loss, we feel to bow in
humble submission to Him who doeth all things well.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be entered
on the record; also a copy be presented to the bereaved
family, and one to the EXPONENT for publication.
	MARY J. MILLER, Prest.,
	EMELINE WINEGAR, Coun.
Parker Ward, Egin, Bingham Co., Idaho, Jan 29, 1887.

	DIED, at Clifton, Oneida Co., Idaho, Feb. 9, 1887, of
child birth, Elizabeth Lydia Truscott Sant, daughter of 
John and Sarah Ann Truscott, born Dec. 8, 1864, at Mt.
Pleassnt, Sanpete Co, Utah. She was married to Thomas
Sant on the 10th of Oct., 1881. She leaves a husband and
three small children, one an infant two hours old, to mourn
her loss.  She died as she lived, a faithful Saint, beloved
by all who knew her.  We have lost a true friend and sister,
her husband has lost a kind and faithful wife, and her child-
ren a loving mother.  We sympathize with the bereaved
family in their loss, and hope we with them may meet her
in the morning of the first resurrection, where there is no
parting.

Cease, ye fond husband, cease to weep,
Let grief no more your bosom swell;
For what is death? ’Tis nature’s sleep,
The trump of God will break its spell;
For He, whose arm is strong to save,
Arose in triumph o'er the grave.

Why should you sorrow? death is sweet
To those that die in Jesus' love;
Though called to part we soon shall meet
In holier, happier climes above;
For all the faithful Christ will save,
And crown with victory o'er the grave.
	JANE M. HOWELL, Prest.,
	D. E. DUDLEY, Sec.

	DIED, at Springville, Apache Co, Arizona, Dec. 15,
1886, of lung fever, Emily Jane Smith Burk.  She was a 
faithful Latter-day Saint, beloved and respected by all who
had the pleasure of her acquaintance.  She was a widow,
and leaves a large family of children, all of whom are
married, except a deaf mute, who is inconsolable at her
loss. 

She never swerved from duty's path,
Nor faltered by the way,
But always strove with might and mind
God's precepts to obey.

Her tired body's lain to rest,
Her spirit bright has gone
To join her husband, and await
The resurrection morn.

     The following resolutions were unanimously adopted by
the Relief Society of Union Ward, of which she was a
member and former president:

     It having pleased our Heavenly Father to take from our
midst Sister Emily J. Burk, who was a faithful member of
our Society, therefore, be it
     Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sympathy to the
bereaved family, and we pray God to comfort them in their
affliction, and enable them to live faithful, that they may
meet her, and their father, also, in their happy home, where
parting will be known no more.
     Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the
minutes of the meeting, a copy of the same be presented
to her family, and one sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
	M. E. MARBLE, President;
	MARTHA BIGELOW,
	LYDIA TAYLOR, Counselors.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS; WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 	
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.  
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

