VOL. 15	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1887.	NO. 17.


[Column 1]		
	WHAT CAN I DO?

"What can I do," says the aged sire,
	As he stands near the bounds of life,
"What can I do other hearts to inspire,
	To help amid earth-care and strife?

"My time is far spent, for good or for ill,
	One moment I cannot recall;
My limbs have grown weary, though strong is the will
	And slowly the night shadows fall."

You can show to the youth where the pitfalls lie,
	And snares for unwary feet,
For we clearer see over days gone by,
	When the web of life is complete.

Those lessons in life are of priceless worth,
	If you've garnered the golden store;
Now bring them forth in the home and hearth,
	While you're nearing eternity's shore.

The mother dear, with silvered hair,
	Whose journey is well nigh done,
Dreams, while she sits in the old arm chair,
	With face toward the setting sun,

Of that other time, when life's sun arose,
	Pure and fresh and bright;
Thinks how the joys were oft mingled with woes,
	How tears oft quenched the light.

"What can I do, what can I do?"
	Is the prayer of her loving heart,
For those whose dreams of life are new,
	Those of her life a part.

She can strengthen the tender, untried feet,
	When the morning shadows fall;
She can teach the young hearts how to meet,
	The cares that must come to all.

She can tell of charity, faith and love,
	And the strength that prayer can give;
She can tell of that peace from heaven above
	Which helps the weary live.

The boy goes forth in the morning's beam,
	With hopes and ambition high;
The future to him is a glorious dream,
	He heeds not the dangers nigh.

Two paths lie before him, the false and the true;
	One is death, the other is life,
Which will he take, what will he do
	In this wonderful conflict of life?

What can he do, what will he do 
	To bless or to darken the way?
'Tis a question for you, boys, a question for you,
	Think well 'ere from honor you stray.

You can bring joy and strength to the home,
	Which God unto you has given,
Aye, strength and joy, wherever you roam—
	You can help to make earth a heaven,

Or you can bend its grey heads down
	So low that they cannot rise;
You can trample in dust life's brightest crown,
	That you might have raised to the skies.

You can break the hearts, most loving and true,
	Plant wormwood where roses might bloom;
A blight or a blessing will aye follow you
	In your pathway through life to the tomb.

And girlhood's dream, too, is bright and rare, 
	With no shadow of cloud or storm;
No thorn on the rose in her sunny hair,
	No cause for a fierce alarm.

But soon she will learn there's a part to bear 
	By each of God's children here,

[Column 2]
That she must have courage and strength to dare,
	To shrink not from danger near.

She can do much, in joy or pain,
	To cheer, to comfort and bless;
Can make sunshine brighter, bring hope again
	To the heart in its sore distress.

And the little ones in the household band,
	So helpless, so loving and dear,
They seem a gift from some fairy land,
	Sent unto mortals here.

Dark is the home with no baby face,
	No pattering feet, no clinging hand;
In every true heart their power we trace,
	As they lead to the Better Land.

Then, let no one think there is naught to do;
	Seek and ye shall find.
Cast in your lot with the good and true,
	And work to save mankind.
					Hope.
		[signature on document] Sarah E. Russell


[Column 1]
		MARGARET FULLER OSSOLI.
	In the present day educational advancement
among women is so common, and their oppor-
tunities for learning are so general and excel-
lent, that when some bright star like H. B.
Stowe, Julia Ward Howe, Miss Woolson,
Adelaide Proctor, or Helen Hunt Jackson,
beams forth and illumines the pages of our
literary life with her sparkling effulgence,
little wonder is shown; we read, we criticise,
and we admire; we behold another name added
to the immortal list in much the same manner
as the calm astronomer beholds the appearance
of a new planet. It is there in the firmament,
shining with the others; it pleases, but causes
neither wonder nor surprise.
	Things are now changed; only a few years
since they were very different. The highest
privilege accorded womankind was but a
meager education, with a few accomplishments,
such as dancing, music, and a little French
added, for the benefit of the social circle, and
the prejudice against further advancement for
women ran so high that few dared venture be-
yond the allotted line and cultivate with higher
learning, the rich and fertile intellect, and feed
with knowledge, the hungry, starving soul.
Now, when annexed to the finest colleges in
the world, are schools for women, when women
own and conduct such colleges as Vassar, for
the sole purpose of the higher education of
their sex, when they own and publish promin-
ent newspapers, and are gladly admitted as
contributors to the finest magazines of the age,
when every little town can boast its "Ladies'
Literary Club," do we stop to consider how
much is due those few brave souls, that pierced
the veil of prejudice and paved the way which
led to this glorious result? Foremost among
these daring women stands the subject of this
sketch, a rare and wonderful woman—Margaret
Fuller Ossoli. Often, as we observe some vain
woman seeking fame, we think what a mistake
her life is; how beautiful it might have been in
the sphere of home; there she would have
been a queen, while in seeking for public notice
in the world, she is lost. This idea must be re-
versed with Margaret Fuller, for had the
world to which she rightfully belonged seized
her from the narrow, binding home, which
sacrificed her very life to its little exacting self,
it would possess, among its literary gems, the 
purest and loveliest of Pearls.
	It is, indeed, sad to behold her struggles,

[Column 2]
ever reaching, ever aspiring for refreshing
draughts from the cup of knowledge, and as
constantly being drawn back and bound to the
rack of sacrifice; yet, with all her longings
for knowledge, and aspirations to make a bene-
ficial use of her talents, in no way did she ne-
glect those homelier duties her home required,
but with a truly noble grace bore all her bur-
dens. Those who knew her best describe her
as "equal to doing everything at once," and it
was known, that she could rock a cradle, read a
book, eat an apple and knit a stocking all at
the same time.
	Margaret Fuller was born May 23rd, 1810,
in Cambridge, Mass. Her father was a gradu-
ate of Harvard, highly cultivated, but stern,
proud and exacting; full of candor, independ-
ance and self-conceit. Her mother, beautiful
as a flower, but also as delicate and frail. The
daughter, resembling more the father, still
possessed the mother's sweet disposition.
	And perhaps it was due as much to her
training as her nature, that she possessed so
many of her father's traits, for from her early
childhood he conducted her education and took
full charge of her outward life. It was he
who decided what dresses she should wear, and
what society she should cultivate. Her educa-
tion was carried on by a "forcing process;" at
six she studied Latin, and from that time on
was forced through all the harder and most
difficult tasks of learning. Added to such ex-
treme mental training, an unconscious neglect
of her health, her constitution was undermined
and ruined, a fact which she in later years felt
deeply, for she wrote, "I cannot help mourning,
sometimes, that my bodily life should have
been so destroyed by the ignorance of both
my parents." Still, this hard student life
could not have been disagreeable to her, for
later, when she had the management of her
own time in her hands, we read of her as active
and busy as when under her father's tutelage.
At the age of fifteen, after two years diligent
study at a private school in Groton, she de-
voted herself more assiduously than ever. Her
time was systematically employed; she rose
at five in summer, walked an hour, practiced
an hour on the piano, breakfasted at seven,
read "Sismondi's European Literature" in
French till eight, then "Brown's Philosophy"
till half past nine, went to school for Greek at
twelve, and then practiced again till dinner.
After the early dinner, she read two hours in
Italian, and the remaining part of the day
devoted to the family until eleven, when she
retired to write in her diary. Such a busy life
is indeed wonderful in any one, much more
so in a girl at the age of fifteen and sixteen, a
time when most girls prefer amusement to
study.
	It would be the highest pleasure to trace her
life from this time on, and repeat the many
bright, touching and interesting anecdotes con-
nected with her history, as we read them in her
biography, but here we have only space to note
the main issues of her life, and must pass
carelessly by her interesting girlhood at Cam-
bridge, where she studied in the same classes
with Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes and Richard
Henry Dana, assisted her father in the enter-
tainment of President John Quincy Adams,
and reigned a queen in the society of the class
of 1829, said to be the most eminent class that
ever left Harvard, including, as well as the
two before mentioned, William Henry Chan-
ning, James Freeman Clarke, and others of


[Column 1]
equal note; also only glance at her life at
Groten, where the family moved in 1833. It
was there her father died, and there, also, be-
gan that never ending series of gentle sacrifices,
which so enrich, yet sadden her life’s history.
Cold and stern as this father had been, she felt
the fullest appreciation for his devotion to her
education; and though she missed, as a child,
that innate tenderness a father usually be-
stows on his children. in later years she realized
his true worth, and attributed his austere and
restrained manner more to the nature inherited
from a race of proud and opinionated men,
than to a want of an affection for herself. She
maintained herself and educated her brothers
and sisters principally by school teaching in
Providence and Boston. Whatever her task,
she worked laboriously and well, and left 
nothing unfinished. 	
	When men and women grown, these brothers
and sisters needed her aid no longer, and she
was free to select her own course, to begin to
live her true and perfect life, we behold her no
longer young, vivacious and able, in all respects,
to launch forth in her true sphere, the critical,
exacting, but loved literary world, but in
health, completely broken down, and impover-
ished in wealth, still rich in the posses-
sions of a well stored mind, and of
firm friends and admirers, such as
Ralph Waldo, Emerson, Elizabeth Hoar
Horace Greeley, Dr. Holmes, Nathaniel Haw-
thorne, Theodore Parker, and many, many
others of the leading minds of the age. It
must have been a woman of great ability who
could found the first literary club in America,
and conduct with ease and grace conversations
on such subjects as only interest philosophers
and the deepest thinkers. Yet Margaret
Fuller did this, and more. She was a reformer;
she wasted no time in "small talk," but inter-
ested in the leading subjects of the world the
leading minds. To think well, and to speak
understandingly leads to a desire to advance
thoughts to the universe, and out of the literary
club grew The Dial, the first really literary
magazine on this side of the Atlantic, and
Miss Fuller was given the position of Editor.
The magazine was a quarterly, and though it
claimed as contributors names which now hold
the highest rank in American literature, it
lived only four short years. Its early death
was certainly due more to an uneducated, un-
appreciative public than to a want of genuine
worth.
	After the beginning of The Dial Margaret
Fuller’s literary career was fully assured, and
from that time many rich and perfect gems of
thought have delighted the literary world.
She was a great lover of German literature,
and we are indebted to her for some of the
finest translations of Goethe and Eckermann.
She assisted Horace Greeley in 1844 in editing
the New York Tribune, and won great praise
for her literary criticisms and philanthropic
discussions. After nearly two year’s labor on
this newspaper, Miss Fuller realized the fulfil-
ment of one of her early dreams—a journey
to Europe. She was charmed with her visit to
England, where she was most hospitably re-
ceived, and had the pleasure of meeting so
many prominent people, among these, Words-
worth, Dr. Chalmers, De Quincy, Johanna
Baillie and Carlyle.
	After a pleasant and most interesting sojourn
in Paris, she hastened to Italy, the country
which had always held for her, beyond all
others, the greatest charm, and, though she
knew it not, her destiny as well. Here all the
fullness of her feminine soul found a sweet,
abiding place, and we behold Margaret Fuller
in the sweet aspect of a wife and mother. A
strange love story ’hers, but simple and beauti-
ful in the extreme. Her life in Italy was full
of adventure and saddening phases, but it was
crowned with such a perfect love, that her days
there were certainly the happiest of her life.

[Column Two]
She met the Marquis Ossoli at St. Peters, while
searching for some missing friends; he,observing
her discomfort, assisted her, and, failing to find
her friends, accompanied he home. After this
first chance meeting, the Marquis was fre-
quently seen to pass up and down before the
house, and slowly a more familiar acquaintance
began, which finally ended in avowal of
his love, and an offer of his hand in marriage,
which she at first declined; not because she
lacked in affection for him, but she scarcely
dared think him in earnest; and many have
wondered at so strange a union. He a young,
handsome, Italian soldier, of high rank, and
she an American lady of thirty-seven years,
plain, literary and poor; but one would never
doubt his sincerity after a perusal of the letters
exchanged between them, the only records
saved of her Italian life save a few reminisences
of personal friends, who describe him as his
wife’s adorer, and her married life as complete.
The exact date of her marriage is not known,
but her babe was born September 5th, 1848.
She was in Italy during the exciting time of
the Revolution, and her husband bore arms
on the side of the Republic, against family
and friends. She performed a most noble part
in influencing her friends on the people’s side,
and devoted herself, during these trying times,
to nursing in the hospitals. Always a leader,
—in mind and the literary field a George Eliot;
in the hospitals and battlefield, a Florence
Nightingale; in her home and heart, a wife
and mother—such as her own sweet mother had
been before her. Just at the sublime moment
when her future looked so bright, how sad that
the end of all should come.
	She had strange forebodings concerning her
homeward voyage, and greatly dreaded the un-
dertaking, but they finally sailed May 17th,
1850, from Leghorn, and after a long, periious
and unpleasant journey (the captain having
died of small pox, and her own [----] child
only saved from the same fate by the most ten-
der watchfulness) they came in sight of the
shores of her "own America," only to lose
sight of them forever more. On July 19th,
at four o’clock, the vessel was wrecked off the
coast of New Jersey, and the Ossolis found in
each others arms an ocean grave. With true
love for her little one’s life, she wrung herself
from its tiny clasp and consigned him to the
steward, with the hope that his life, at least,
might be saved from the wreck, and borne to
her friends at home, but, alas! when the shore
was reached, his little life also had gone to
that other, higher home, and all the friends re-
ceived of their dear Margaret was the lifeless
body of her boy, and the touching letters
written by herself and husband.
	It was a most tragic end, but her life, though
short, was well spent, and we can truly say,
"She did not live in vain."
					A. W. C.
				[signature on document] Annie W. Cannon


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM OHIO.

DEAR MRS. WELLS:
	I have been mad, and sulking all this time,
because you did not come to see me when you
went to Washington; but, as the children say,
" 'Taint no fun to be mad at a person. if the
person don’t know you're made," so I now
write to tell you; and to tell you, too, how
glad my heart was to-day when the EXPONENT
came. I had been thinking of you all, and
wondering if the Edmunds-Tucker bill would
really affect your daily lives or not, feeling
sorry at the turn affairs had taken, and wishing
to know just how you felt, when here comes
the little messenger from you, containing:
"My Christmas Gift," "A New Year's Visit,"
"Candies and Creams," Views on Celestial 
Marriage," "Singing Lessons," "A New Hall
Opened," "Fragrant Leaves," "A Tribute of


Love,” “Various Qualifications,” “The Sequel,”
etc. How well acquainted I feel with dear
Helen Mar Whitney, Augusta Joyce Crocheron,
Sister Roxie and many others. Hannah T.
King—I never in life saw her face, never
heard the sound of her voice, yet when her
life came to an end, I felt the deep loss of a
friend.
	It seems to me that this agitation will adver-
tise your people widely to the nations,
		“Who'll learn the truth and real worth
		Of Saints who’ve borne oppression."
One of the G. A. R. ladies, who went with
the excursionists to California, said to me the
other day, “Come and spend the day with me,
and I’ll tell you all about my visit to Salt Lake
City.” “I will; and then I shall write to the
Mormons and tell them what you say about
them,” I answered. “Well, I cannot say any-
thing bad about them,” she said. She passed
by the Exponent office, and now regrets that
she did not pay you a visit.
	I, and many others, watch every phase of
the great Mormon issue with the greatest inter-
est. Whether Mormonism is to be, or is not
to be, is a question of vital importance.
	Wishing you well, and God speed in all
that is right, and asking God to preserve and
protect the good and innocent among you, I
remain,
	Your friend,
		Emily Scott.
Jan. 18, 1887.


PROTESTS AGAINST THE DISFRAN-
	CHISEMENT OF WOMEN.
	
	Hon John D. Long deserves the special
thanks of Massachusetts women for his effort
to have a separate veto taken upon that clause
of the anti-Mormon bill which disfranchises
the non-polygamous and Gentile women of
Utah.

	Woman Suffragists everywhere, both indi-
vidually and as organizations, should write at
once to the President, asking him to veto the 
Utah bill which disfranchises the non-polyga-
mous women of Utah. To punish the inno-
cent for the guilty, and to deprive thousands
of American citizens not convicted of crime
of the right of self-government, is the acme of
political injustice.

	One clause of the anti-Mormon bill which
passed the U. S. House of Representatives this
week, and is still pending, will, if passed, dis-
franchise the women of Utah. As has often
been pointed out in the Woman's Journal, this
measure is objectionable, for two reasons.
First, it is unjust; second it is useless. It is
useless, because the male population of the
Territory is overwhelmingly Mormon, and after
 the women are disfranchised the Mormons will
still have a political majority of nearly three
to one. If taking away the votes of the women
would give the Gentiles a majority,there would
be some inducement to do it; but no one claims
that it can make any practical difference in
the result of elections Hence it is a purely
gratuitous wrong. The measure is unjust, be-
cause it decrees an unequal penalty for an
equal crime; or, rather, it inflicts a gratuitous
penalty for no crime at all.	*	*	*
*	*	*	Some years ago, an ignorant
English peasant was convicted of selling his
wife to another ignorant man for a few shill-
ings and a pot of beer. The judge before
whom the parties were brought sent the
woman to prison, in order, as he said, to show
the men that the majesty of the law must be
respected. This is not the first time that
women have been punished to teach a lesson to
men; but it ought to be the last.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RETRIBUTION.

	The olden homes, of peace and pride,
		Are left without protection now,
	And grief is felt on every side,
		While sorrow clouds the mother's brow;
	The precious one she loved so well
		Is banished from her fond embrace,
	And weeping children often tell
		How much they miss a father's face.

	One meek Apostle of the Lamb,
		In bondage with the murderer cast,
	Will soon surmount the tyrant's sham,
		And gaze with pleasure on the past.
	Upon his head there shall be set
		A crown of glory, bright and fair,
	For Christ will mark His jewels yet,
		And with His hand shall place them there

	How God-like is the free born will,
		Which purest liberty doth show
	And shackles forged by human skill
		Can never bind or bring it low.
	The noble souls, so tried and true,
		Eternal liberty shall own,
	And with the firm and faithful few,
		Shall kneel before the Father's throne.
	
	Our lovely, peaceful mountain home,
		Is blighted by the despot's sway,
	While fiends incarnate, fearless roam,
		To make her noble sons their prey.
	The sickly babe's or mother's tear
		Falls heedless on their hardened Hearts;
	They know no pity, love nor fear-
		Theirs yet shall be a bitter part.
	
	A day of retribution yet
		Upon their hardened hearts will fall;
	For them a judgment will be set,
		And soon upon the rocks they'll call
	To hide  them from the face of Him
		Who comes in glory, power and might,
	To smite the wicked in their sin,
		And put His enemies to flight.
						Jeanette Paton.


DON'T WAIT.

		L.M. HEWLINGS.

Don't wait until I'm gone, dearest
	Before you tribute pay,
Till the spirit has departed, 
	And left but lifeless clay;
Do not wait till all is over,
	And then, with mournful lay,
In a voice of trembling sorrow,
	Regret the long delay.

Do not tarry, but remember
	That time is on the wing;
That long since it brought me over
	The budding days of Spring,
Through blossoming of Summer,
	With Autumn's fruit and sheaves
Where the naked branches quiver,
	And sigh o'er withered leaves.

Where the heavy frosts of Winter
	Turn the green and gold to gray,
And crown the heads once radiant
	With wreathes of silver spray,
Scattering snowflakes thickly
	Round temples that were fair,
And broad furrows deeply planting,
	On freshly tablets rare.

O'er stateliest form recrossing,
	Till it must bend and bow,
Weaving lines of finest tracing
	O'er once fair cheek and brow.
Ah! vainly we pause to question,
	Ask swifter speed, or stay;
Time will ne'er heed love's entreating
	To hasten or delay.

Silently bearing us onward,
	Nearing the bound'ry line-
A world is too poor to purchase
	E'en one moment of time.


Don't wait, the end is approaching,
	The years will soon be told; 
The silver cord will be loosened,
	Broken the golden bowl.

Don't wait till the lightning message
	Speeds through the startled air,
To wing forth the cry of anguish,
	Strike with a dumb despair,
While you strain your eyes with weeping
	Over the lifeless clay,
In vain for one word of greeting
	From lips now closed for aye.


A HUMBLE TESTIMONY.

	It seems that the time has fully come when
the daughters of Zion are called upon to raise
their voices and declare unto the nation and
the world the testimonies which God has given
them of His work in these last days. I believe
that a sense of duty, prompted by the Holy
Spirit, is resting upon many of our faithful
sisters, to not only speak in their meetings, and
bear testimony to the truth of the Gospel, but
to write and send it abroad in the world, that
all mankind may fully understand that they
are united with their husbands in bringing
about the glorious plan of salvation.
	When I read in the EXPONENT the humble
testimonies of my dear sisters, I know what
they say is true, for the same spirit has revealed
the same to me. I claim no praise or honor
for having submitted to the law of celestial or
plural marriage. I could not do otherwise, for
the simple reason that, through faith in God,
and prayer, I received a testimony that it was
true; and this was the testimony: “That it will
exalt the human family to a joy and glory that
they cannot attain to in any other way.”
	Soon after receiving this testimony I was
shown in plainness that I was called upon to
enter into that order. I informed my husband
of this fact; he said he had no idea who it
would be that he would ask to come into our
family; he was afraid of hurting my feelings,
and was also fearful that he could not do right.
He was afraid of his own weakness.
	One month had not passed since this time
until we found ourselves living in this order of
marriage with a young woman that neither of
us had seen since she was about seven years of
age. Surprised as I was, I can truly testify
that it was the happiest announcement that
ever came to my ears. Yet it was not I—
poor, weak, frail human being—that could as-
sure happiness upon such an occasion; but that
same spirit which had given me the testimony
also gave me joy and happiness, which the
world knows not of. Did I think less of my
husband? I can say, no! but, on the contrary,
I loved him more, for I felt that he had a true
heart, that he was willing to obey God’s laws,
and I said, “By the help of my Heavenly
Father I will help you to live according to the
law of God.” The woman he married, no one
can say aught against her; she is a true Latter-
day Saint, and many times have I felt to thank
my Heavenly Father for such a worthy, good
woman, and I have tried to make her happy,
and hope that I may always be found worthy
of the constant companionship of the Spirit of
God, for I know that He lives, and that His
hand has been over me from my earliest recol-
lections, and that He will help all those who
put their trust in Him, and I feel to say to all
those who are living in this holy order of mar-
riage, “Lift up your heads and rejoice, for you
are serving a good Master, who will repay in
His own due time, and you will rejoice and
your happiness will be sufficient for you, and
exceed all you ever anticipated.”
	Let women, who belong to the same family,
pray for one another; sustain your husbands; 
teach your children to respect each senior 

[Column Two]
member of the family; do not allow your
daughters to speak reproachfully of the sister-
wives, and God will bless you, and His Spirit
will be with you always, which will cause your
burden to seem light unto you, for God has
said that He would have a tried people; for
how will he know that they love Him above
all other things? We should acknowledge
His hand in our trials as well as in our joys.
We must learn to overcome all things that try
us here; if we do not, we will have them to
overcome when we find ourselves in another
sphere.
	I was once sorely tried, and I said to myself,
“I feel as though I could not go one step further
in this world, and I don’t care if I die!” Some-
thing instantly whispered, “If you cannot
overcome in this world, how do you expect to
in the next?” which caused me to stop and
think that I had better learn more patience
and try again. But how merciful is our Hea-
venly Father; if we could only be so merciful
to each other, and always be willing to forgive
—we must learn to forgive even our worst
enemies, to say nothing about those with whom
we expect to spend all the endless days of eter-
nity. The Lord has said, “Vengeance is mine,
and I will repay.” We should leave all
things in His hands; even all our troubles, if
we go to Him in the hour of need, He is able
to make us strong, and if we desire it, He will
give us wisdom, that we will be enabled by our
own actions to escape much trouble.
	Sisters, above all things, trust in God; have
faith, and cultivate and exercise patience, and
we will overcome, which is the desire of, 
			Your sister in the truth,
								PHENA.
	Jan. 18,1887.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Anthony has become the sole proprie-
tor of "The History of Woman Suffrage."

	Henry B.Stanton, the husband of Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, died this week at an advanced 
age.

	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland has written a
narrative poem of 400 lines, which is called 
"The Dilemma of the Nineteenth Century,"
and treats on the woman question.  

	Dress reform is taken up with much earnest 
ness by the Scandinavian progressive women.
In Christiana, it is already taken up in prac- 
tice by some independent individuals. Eye
witnesses have declared that the Norwegian
reformed dress has the great advantage of es-
caping the spirit of mockery, because its char-
acter is of the greatest simplicity. In Stock-
holm is a Dress-Reform Association, and it has
offered a premium for hygienic boots and shoes
for women. Lectures about women's dress, 
the need of reform, and how to reform, are
frequently given by intelligent women and by 
humanitarian men physicians in the Scandi- 
navian countries.—Ex.	
	A new Portia, who defended, however, not
her lover’s friend, but her own father, has ap- 
peared at Montpelier, France. A farmer
living near that town had been tried and con- 
demned for breach of trust. He took an ap-
peal, which was granted, and on the day ap-
pointed for his hearing he walked into court
accompanied by his daughter, a tall, good-
looking, and intelligent young woman, about
twenty-six years old. To the surprise of the
judges, the young woman opened her father’s
case in a masterly manner, argued the defence 
with the sill of a practical lawyer, and finally
gained for her client a verdict of acquittal. 
She then walked triumphantly out of the
court, hanging on her father’s arm.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		Editor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00. one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY, 				FECRUUARY I, 1887.


IMPORTANT TELEGRAM.
	Washington, D. C., January; 21.—The support-
ers of the anti-Mormon bill are much concerned
at the interest which they say Mr. W. L. Scott is
manifesting in the bill, and in the efforts which he
is making, as they understand it, to induce the
President to veto it. Mr. Scott was active while
the bill was under discussion in the House, to
have certain amendments adopted, which should
preserve what he called the rights of the Mormons
and which should provide for the submitting a
constitution to them forbidding polygamy. Chair-
man Tucker, who has charge of the bill, and who
made a speech so strong in support of it that the
anti-Mormons have telegraphed here for 3,000
copies of it has said to some of the friends of the
bill that he does not fear the influence of any man
with the President in opposition to the bill, except
that of Mr. Scott.


SUFFRAGE WOMEN PROTEST.

				"WASHINGTON, D. C., Jan. 28.
	"The committee appointed for the purpose by
the National Woman Suffrage Association called
on the President to-day and presented him a
memorial asking him to veto the Edmunds bill or
the Tucker substitute therefor, whichever shall
pass Congress, proposing the disfranchisement
of the non-polygamous women of Utah. The
President said he would give the mememorial his
careful consideration. He recognized that it was
a serious matter to disfranchise any class."
	The following dispatch was immediately tele-
graphed:
MISS SUSAN B. ANTAONY RIGGS HOUSE, WASH-
		INGTON, D.C.
	In behalf of the women of Utah, we, the un-
dersigned, respectfully tender our grateful ac-
knowledgements to the officers and members of
the National Woman's Suffrage Convention for the
able and timely effort made in exercising their in-
fluence with the President and the people of the
United States in opposing the disfranchisement
of the legal woman voters of Utah and the ob-
noxious Edmunds-Tucker Bill.
	[Signed]
			ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH,
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
			M. ISABLLA HORNE.
			SARAH M. KIMBALL,
			JANE S. RICHARDS,
			EMILY S. RICHARDS,
			JOSEPHINE R. WFST,
			ELLEN B. FERGUSON M. D.,
			ZINA Y. WILLIAMS,
			ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
			EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Miss Susan B. Anthony, the President of the
Association, to-day received a telegram from
Kansas, stating that the Municipal woman suffrage
bill had passed the Senate of that State by a veto
of 25 to 13.


[Column 1]			
		COMMENTS.

	We have republished, from the Woman's Jour-
nal, several notices of the Edmunds Tucker Bill,
or, at least, that part of it which relates to dis-
franchising the women-voters. It will be observed
from the tenor of these extracts that the woman
suffrage people are not afraid to speak their minds
on this subject, though prejudice is rife in the
land, and even men in high places are swayed by
it, against the principles of equal rights for all be-
fore the law, who have not been even accused of
crime. How men dare do the things that have
been done, and that they have actually sworn not
to do, is astonishing, They will uphold the Con-
stitution of the United States, so they solemnly
affirm, and yet, invested with the power that the
people give to them, to sit in the Congress of the
United States, they boldly acquiesce in a scheme
to take away from one portion of the citizens of
the United States the liberty of conscience and
the right to an establishment of the religion in
which they most profoundly believe. 
	The noble band of suffrage women, who assem-
bled in National Convention at Washington, on
25th, 26th and 27th of January, have shown their
independence and fearlessness of spirit in memor-
ializing the President of the Great Republic, and
asking him to veto a bill which deprives women,
not in any sense under the ban of an unconstitu-
tional law even, of a right and privilege bestowed
upon them in strict accordance with the law of the
Territory, and which has become to them a right
of possession of seventeen year’s standing. These
grand, heroic women stand forth as champions of
justice, and deserve the praise of all men and all
women throughout the land for the step they have
taken to defend the rights of those, who are, as it
were, powerless to act in their own defense, be-
cause of the bigotry and prejudice which exists in
this boasted age of enlightenment, and in the
country which has proclaimed religious liberty to
all mankind. No convention, or conference of
men, no, not even ministers of the Gospel of
Christ, have done as much; and yet their motto is,
and they emblazon it forth, “Do unto others as ye
would that they should do unto you,” and, “What-
soever ye would that men should do unto you do
ye even so to them, for this is the law and the
prophets.” This is the law of the Savior, the
pattern for all to follow, but O how far men fall
short of this divine law!
	The bondage that the Congress of the United
States seems willing and even anxious to force the
"Mormon" people into, is little better, if any, than
the slavery of the South, for even the slaves
could believe as they pleased without any limita-
tion by law. To be sure they were bought and
sold for a price at the will of their masters, while
this people are given, with all their possessions,
into the hands of a minority, who, it is well known,
would rob and despoil them of all that is sacred
and dear in this life.
	It is argued that those who have not practically
accepted plural marriage uphold and sustain those
who have, and for that reason they should be dis-
franchised and not allowed the privilege of free
men. This is an assertion, but, granting it were
true, look at the facts. Those who are known or
suspected to have obeyed this law of marriage as
a sacred duty and obligation devolving upon them,
through revelation from God, are, through the law
of 1882, subject to bonds, to fines and imprison-
ments and indignities of this nature, brought be-
fore commissioners, courts and juries, their names
cast out as evil, and their wives and children sub-
jected to insults which makes one’s blood boil to
think of. Are they to be cast off by those of the
same faith? Is there to be no succor, no hope for
them from this persecution that is being so relent-
lessly and cruelly waged against them? 
	Many of these women and children, aye, and
the husbands and fathers of them, are of the very

[Column 2]
best blood of this proud Republic! Yet it avails
them nothing. In the fear of God they have
made eternal covenants, that cannot be broken,
and yet, because they will not belie their own con-
victions, they must be made the victims of oppres-
sion, which makes every drop of free blood in
their veins tingle with indignation to think of.
Only the Spirit of God could support them under
these trying circumstances; the humility born of
faith with which every true Latter-day Saint is im-
bued, is what sustains them in the ordeals through
which, as individuals, and as a people, they are
now passing, for they know their cause is just and
will eventually triumph.
	It is gratifying, however, to know, in the midst
of such a state of things as exists at the present
time, that President Cleveland is not to be hood-
winked by even the ablest and most popular mem-
bers of Congress. He has already shown his
pluck on more than one occasion, and if he will
carefully consider the serious matter of affixing
his signature to the Edmunds-Tucker Bill, he will,
in all probability, refuse to commit so flagrant an 
outrage upon a class of citizens simply for their
religious belief. But if he does, or not, do this
gross wrong, Miss Anthony and her coajutors
have performed a duty in this regard, that entitles
them to the honor and respect of all the world.
	The convention may be proud of the success of
the committee who presented that memorial, for it
has elicited from the Chief Executive of the nation
more of his views upon the matter than has before
been given publicly, at least. Some of those ex-
ultant champions of the Edmunds-Tucker Bill
may, perhaps, think they were a little too sure of
the co-operation of every one who denounced
polygamy. Miss Anthony denounces polygamy,
too, but she believes in human rights, nevertheless,
and does not sanction the taking away, without, at
least due process of law, privileges from those
who have been denied the right to vote and hold
office, etc., under the law of 1882 and have had no
opportunity to defend their position. It is an as-
sumption on the part of those who have interpreted
the law, there has been no criterion to judge by, 
except as the Utah Commission have appointed
certain registrars, who have refused to register
people whom they suspected, or have erased their
names from the list of voters.
	Not only does Congress impose great hardships
upon the people of Utah, but seems determined
to make a strong point against the admission of
any other Territory into the union unless it will
make certain Constitutional provisions against the
practice of polygamy. And yet, the very men
who ask for this believe the Bible and know that
men of God in ancient times practiced polygamy.
Men who have been held up as examples and rev-
erenced all down through the ages of the world.
Jesus himself said, "Except ye do the works of
Abraham." and what would that convey? The
Lord said unto Abraham, "Thy posterity shall be
as numerous as the sands upon the sea shore.'
This was the blessing of Abraham from the Lord,
and yet the Congress of the United States would
prohibit a man having any posterity at all, if his one
wife should fail to give him offspring. And in-
deed the popular thing now and in many in-
stances the practice is, not to multiply and re-
plenish the earth, in place of fulfilling the first
commandment given to our first parents.
	But to come back to the original subject of
suffrage or the ballot in the hands of the women
of Utah. Where is the first person who can say
they have abused that privilege? There is not
one. They have held the ballot sacred and have
always been on hand to exercise the right and
cast their votes for the men of their choice, those
whom they knew to be worthy the positions to
which they were nominated, and like wise and
prudent citizens they have voted for their friends
and not for their enemies.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE had the pleasure of attending a little meet-
ing of about twenty-five sisters gathered at the
residence of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp on Thursday
afternoon, January 27th. It was a brief season of
enjoyment in the outpouring of the Holy Spirtt.
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith was present and her
very presence was inspiring to others. Sister M.
Isabella Horne was chosen to preside and at her
invitation Sister Eliza spoke to the sisters, en-
couraging them to labors of love and to renewed
diligence in the duties devolving upon them, and
among other things she congratulated the younger
sisters present upon the rich experience they were
sure to gain in the present trials of the Latter-day
Saints. Many of the sisters present spoke ex-
pressing their desires to be useful in this Church
and Kingdom and to hold out faithful unto the
end whatever trials might come. During the
afternoon Sister Eliza exercised the gift of
tongues, and a part of the interpretation was given
by Dr. E. S. Barney. The spirit of blessing
seemed to rest upon Sister Eliza and the sweet
influence was diffused like a soothing balm, bring-
ing consolation to those in sorrow, or who were
passing through deep trials, as many are at present,
whose husbands, sons, sisters or daughters are in
exile for conscience sake. Such times of re-
freshing are indeed spiritual feasts.
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. in the 14th Ward cele-
brated their anniversary with a very pleasant re-
union on Tuesday evening, January 25th, at the
ward hall, which was handsomely fitted up with
carpet, sofas and easy chairs and beautifully decor-
ated for the occasion. The Prest., Miss Nellie
Colebrook presided with grace and dignity and
the exercises were of an intellectual and spiritual
character. After singing, prayer was offered by
Prest. A. M. Cannon, and the members  each re-
sponded to the roll call with a motto or verse.
Minutes of the last annual meeting were read by the
Secretary and the manuscript paper entitled Our
Thoughts" was read by Mrs. Rida Taylor.
It contained many excellent articles and
expressions of thought. A recitation was given
by Mamie Morris—"I'm  Going to be Married;"
also one by Mrs. Hollings—"The King's Choice."
Interesting and instructive remarks were made by
Mesdames M. A. Freeze, M. Y. Dougall, Zina D.
H. Young, E. B. Wells, Z. Y. Williams, followed
by a speech from Prest. Cannon, in which he por-
trayed in a touching manner the conditions of
this people, and the necessity of moral purity and
spiritual advancement. Closing remarks were
made by Bishop Geo. H. Taylor, who praised the
young ladies for their efficiency, and spoke of
these associations as helps to the kingdom of God.
The President, Miss Colebrook, spoke of her
earnest desires to fulfill the responsibilities of the
position in an acceptable manner, etc., and the
meeting was adjourned for one year. Delicious
refreshments were then served to all by the young
girls of the association, friendly greetings were
exchanged, and social conversation indulged in.
During the meeting two Counselors were appointed
to assist Miss Colebrook in the duties of the Asso-
ciation; they were Mrs. C. H. Clayton and Mrs.
E. R. Shipp, M. D., two very able and intelligent
young women. The reunion was one ever to be
remembered by those who participated.


HONOR TO WHOM HONOR IS DUE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Following closely on the receipt of the lovely
expression of respectful remembrance from my
dearly beloved sisters of Provo, a notice of which
appeared in your last issue, on the morning of my
eighty-third aniversary, I received a heart-cheer-
ing and soul-enlivening telegram, which, like the
Provo cake, speaks for itself what its words are
altogether inadequate to express.


My highest ambition in life, has been, and is,
to be worthy of the favor of God, and the love and
confidence of the Latter-day Saints. To me it
is wealth.						E. R. S. S.
			COPY OF THE TELEGRAM.
						Ogden City, Jan 21, 1887.

MRS. ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH:
	The sisters of Weber Stake unite in wishing
you continued life, and increasing happiness.
				MRS. JANE S. RICHARDS,
				MRS. HARRIET BROWN,
				MRS. FMILY M. SHIRTLIFF.


[Column 1]
	SALT LAKE STAKE ACADEMY.

	The first examination of this excellent institu-
tion took place on Friday, Jan. 28th, at the Social
Hall.  Prof.  K.  G.  Maeser was present from 
Provo.  Many visitors were present to hear the
exercises which were ably conducted and reflect
great credit upon both teachers and students.
After the close of the exercises remarks were
made by Miss Margaret D. Smith appreciative of
the efforts of the faculty and good feeling which
existed.
	Elder Wm. Done then expressed his feelings in
regard to his labors.
	Prof. Maeser then made some statements in
reference to taking charge of the institution in
addition to the Brigham Young Academy.
	The report of the principal was then presented
which made an excellent showing, but it is too
lengthy for our little paper.  At the conclusion
of the full report, and singing, the remainder of
the time was at the disposal of President A. M.
Cannon, President of the Academy Board of Di-
rectors. 
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards was first called
on to address the assemblage.  He said that it
was with pleasure that he had listened to the ex-
ercises on the present occasion.  When the
Academy was first opened, with Professor Mae-
ser as Principal, the feeling and spirit which ac-
companied its organization was one which augured
success and gave every encouragement.  The
speaker congratulated the Faculty on the progress
the pupils had made and the effective work done.
The great work in which the Latter-day Saints
were engaged was extending on every side.  It
was the desire of the speaker that Brother Maeser
should likewise extend his labors as an educator
among the people.  Not only should this class of
schools for the moral education of the young be
general among the Saints of Salt Lake Stake, but
throughout Zion,  They should be conducted ac-
cording to the plan followed by brother Maeser—
a plan which had been his life study and which, 
in his later years, was proving a most gratifying 
success.  When the Faculty of this Academy
were ready to form a more advanced class, they
would not want for room in which to prosecute
their studies.  The speaker was ready and willing
to aid all he could in the work of educating the
youth of Zion.
	Sister Zina Y. Williams said that as she looked
on the pleasant faces of the students she thought
of the saying of Jesus to His people, "Ye are
the salt of the earth."  She felt that the Lord
thought it was time that the principles of truth
were taught to the children of the Saints. They
should work while the day lasts, and if they im-
proved their opportunities they would look to
their time in school as the most pleasant part of
their lives.  This school was only one of the 
many that would be organized in Zion.  The
young should look to inward adornment, by culti-
vating their minds.  They should not follow fool-
ish fashions and violate the laws of nature, but
should learn true principles and rise above the
follies of the world.
	Elder Francis Cope, Elder A. E. Hyde, Elder

[Column 2]
Wm.  B.  Dougall each made interesting re-
marks.
	Sisters Zina D. Young thought the necessity of
educating the youth was not fully realized among
the people, and said the value of proper instruc-
tion could not be too highly estimated.  Her
earnest desire was for the success of this class of
schools which had been inaugurated under Divine
inspiration.
	Sister Lucy B. Young referred to the time of
her youth, when the children of the Saints were
compelled to hide from mobs instead of having
the privilege of attending school.  Those of the
present day could not appreciate the advantages
they possessed in their opportunities of acquiring
knowledge.  She exhorted the students to pre-
pare for the future, when the cloud would pass
from over the Latter-day Saints, and they would
be called forth to exercise powers of government
and labor for the good of all mankind.  They
should be prayerful and watchful, and learn to
obey all proper discipline.  They were followed
by  Elder  Daniel  Harrington  and  Elder  Wm.
Stewart.
	President Angus M. Cannon spoke in praise of
the manner in which the school had been con-
ducted, and trusted that the interest in it would
continue to increase.  Encouraged those present 
to look at the future and be prepared to acquit
themselves as become the sons and daughters of
God. 
	The "Doxology"  was sung, and Elder Daniel 
Harrington pronounced the Benediction.
	On Monday the second term of the Intermediate
department commences.


THE WORD LADY.
			
	There is no one  word  in  the language so
abused as the appellation "lady." It is mis-
placed almost continually, and hence intelli-
gent women exclude it from their vocabulary.
Its misuse makes it objectionable; it is almost
always a misnomer, and has, therefore, lost its
original significance. The definition of the
word “lady” is a woman especially circumspect
in her conduct, specially forbearing towards
others, specially gentle and controlled in tem-
per, specially kind in manner.”  Not all women
according to this standard are ladies; and the
best women, realizing how few comparatively,
are entitled to the term, decline to use it in-
discriminately.  It requires something more
than sex to make a lady; it  demands  much
that is not  always  thought essential in the
family and school training.  It  calls for the
exercise of self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-
control, which three qualities old Polonias de-
fined in his admonition to the players in Ham-
let as follows:
			  To thine own self be true,
		And it shall follow, as the night the day,
		Thou shalt not then be false to any man.
	A woman who is the possessor of absolute
self-control has gained the true liberty that fol-
lows self-subordination,and she is entitled to the
term “lady.”  A better word, where we mean
to express even as much as we do with the
word “lady” is  the  English  term “gentle-
woman.”  It is a noble substitute for the much-
abused “lady,” and until there is a better com-
prehension of the general misapplication of
the latter let us call the high bred and cul-
tured representatives  of  the  sex  “gentle-
women.”  Let all others who will, be women;
and those who prefer to be called “lady,” let
them at least realize that it depends upon
themselves whether or not they are wearing
a title that is alien to their natures and opor-
tunities in life.  It is better to dignify the
word “woman” and let “lady” go, and perhaps
by this courageous course we may correct the
use of the word "female."  To call women
"females" is to be guilty of a vulgarity which
common usage does not excuse.  A woman


belongs to the female species, but she should
be distinguished from the female species of 
lower orders of animals by the proper desig-
nation.  A female may be a cow, a cat, a dog
or a lioness; a woman is neither: hence the
gross ignorance implied in the popular misap-
plication of the word.  Let us have done with 
such debasing use of our beautiful language, 
and call people and things by their proper
names.  It is quite the most important busi-
ness that mothers and teachers can engage in.
The next generation will be ashamed of some
of our solecisms, even if we are oblivious of
our linguistic shortcomings.—The Woman's
World.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A REPORTS.

LUNA, SOCORO CO., N. M.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Thinking, perhaps, a few lines from this 
isolated place might be received with welcome
I thought I would drop you a letter.
	We are few in number but are trying to
live our religion. Our Relief Society was or-
ganized, Jan. 7th 1884, with Sister Elizabeth
H. Swapp as President, and Sisters Martha
Williams and Martha C. Swapp as Counselors.
Sister Williams being called to Old Mexico
Sister Gertrude Reynolds was called to fill her 
place.  We are trying to do all the good we
can and as ltttle harm; though our means are
limited and we are in  a scattered condition.
Our meetings are generally pretty well at-
tended and a good spirit prevails.
	We have been called upon to part with one 
of our members, Sister Eveline Lee, who de-
parted this life the 2nd of this month. She
was a faithful member and Latter-day Saint
and bore a strong testimony to the truth of 
this work.  She leaves a husband and three 
small children and a host of friends to mourn 
her loss. The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor 
and we look anxiously for its coming.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I 
will close. 
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
			ELIZABETH H. SWAPP, Prest.
			EMELINE R. BALDWIN, Sec.

	Y. L. M. I. A., RIVERDALE.

	The Young Ladies’ conference convened at 
Riversdale, Dec. 2nd 1886.  President Russell
presiding.  The meeting opened with usual 
exercises of singing and prayer.  The pro-
gramme was as follows:  A  Song by Annie
Stratton and Lizzie Stimpson; the Young
Ladies’ Instructor, our manuscript paper, by
the editor, Julia Child, Essay, entitled “Watch
and Pray,” by Nellie Child; Song by Jessie 
Bingham.
	President Russell stated that one important
object of the meeting was to select a second
counselor in the place of our former one, who 
had lately been united in matrimony and had
changed her abode.  Felt to ask an interest in 
the faith and prayers of all present that she
might be dictated by the Spirit of the Lord to
choose the right one, and one that would be 
acceptable to  all.  Had fasted and prayed 
considerable that the Lord would make known
to her one,  whom she should choose, and
thought that her prayers had been answered
and that the Lord had blessed her with this
knowledge.  Did not wish to do anything of 
herself but felt to put her trust in the Lord;
for this reason she felt that it was the will of
the Lord to select the one on whom she had cen-
tered her mind; said we will all receive great
blessings through fasting and prayer.
	Counselor Bybee felt thankful for the privi-
lege of meeting with the sisters, and said we
had the Spirit of the Lord in our midst. If
we will continue to fast and pray the Lord will

[Column 2]
continue to bless us with His Spirit and to 
strengthen us.  Gave God the praise for all 
blessings and for His Holy Spirit; and felt as 
though we were all anxious to hear the word 
of the Lord spoken unto us.  Desired that we
might be firm and faithful to the end.
	Sister Edna Stimpson said she was weak
of herself and without the Spirit of the Lord 
she was unable to accomplish anything.  Had
received many blessings from the Lord for 
which she felt thankful.  Had prayed that 
our President might be inspired of the Lord 
to chose a counselor. 
	Sister Martha Bingham said that she de-
sired to live so as to merit the blessings of God.
If we neglect praying to God for His Holy 
Spirit to guide us we will be apt to fall. The
Lord desires us to be faithful and to do away 
with all little evil thoughts and practices; and 
we must try to be pure and honest and strive 
to overcome all our weaknesses, and be united 
in  all things.  Desired  that  the Spirit of the 
Lord would enable us to see eye to eye and be 
as one.
	We have many blessings bestowed upon us
through fasting and prayer; felt to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things and prayed
for wisdom and faith  to do right.
	By request of the President Sister Bingham 
then presented  Julia A. Child as a second 
counselor to Sister Russell.  She was unani-
mously sustained.
	Sister Marian Mitchell thought the selection
of a counselor was a wise one; she had prayed 
earnestly that the President might be dictated
by the Lord to choose the proper one to fill that
place.
	A quotation from a poet was forced upon
her mind to the effect that “We will not only
be held accountable for every idle word but
also for every idle silence.” We are idle
sometimes when we should speak and this is the 
case especially in our meetings.  We should 
rise and speak of God's goodness to us. May 
the Lord bless us both in meetings and at 
home.
	Sister E. V. Thompson thought the previ-
ous speaker had opened a good subject for all.
We should watch our children and families
and when we see them doing something that
is not right we should rebuke them, and not 
remain silent when we see that we should
speak.  We can do so in a mild and gentle
way, thought there were times when even the 
best of us needed rebuke.  We should all try to 
sustain our Presidents and thought the coun-
selor a good one, and felt to sustain her in her
labors.
	Sister McDonald bore her testimony to the 
truth of this work; was well pleased with the 
choice of a counselor and thought the Presi-
dent had been dictated by the Lord to choose
her. Prayed that we might all be united as
one.
	Sister H. A. Child felt as though the Lord had
dictated the choice of a counselor; was thankful
that she had a daughter that was worthy to
hold the position, and was willing to do all
in her power to help the young people along;
wished to give them all the chance while
young, to prepare themselves to hold responsi-
ble positions. Said that God had blessed her 
in her family, and felt a desire to see all her
brothers and sisters do right, and prayed that
the Spirit of the Lord would bless all with
obedience, felt to counsel all in righteousness.
	Bro. Olmstead, Bro. Dye, Bro George
Thompson each made interesting remarks.
	Sister Sarepta Child bore her testimony to 
the work we are engaged in; thought the 
counselor that had been chosen was the right
one as she had always set a good example for 
others. 
	Sister Bingham made a few remarks con-
cerning our religion.  We must obey all the 
laws of God and especially the smaller ones

[Column 3]
and climb the ladder by degrees and not ex-
pect to leap over all the smaller requirements
and then hope to live in the highest ordinances
and enjoy the highest blessings.  Gave many 
good instructions and exhorted all to obey the
commands of God.  She was then blessed
with the gift of tongues, Sister H. A. Child
giving the interpretation in part, Coun. Bybee
giving the remainder.
	Coun. Bybee was then released and Jennette 
Parker was unanimously sustained as First
Counselor to Prest. Russell. Polly Child was
sustained  as  Secretary  for  the association. 
After a few closing remarks from the President
and singing the conference was adjourned for 
six months.  The benediction was pronounced 
by Mary Dye. 
			ELIZA W. CHILD,  Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S VOICE

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I have many times wished I could write to
our valuable periodical—the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT, and have been advised to do so, but
when I think of the good and able correspond-
ents we have, who have been in the Church so
long, and myself only three years and a half
I do not feel that I ought to place myself
amongst them, and perhaps take up the room of
those who could write so much better than I
can. I am not in a position to subscribe for
the EXPONENT but as it comes to the house
where I live I generally see it, and an article
in the last, “What to do with your EXPO-
NENT,” induced me to write a few lines to
endorse what was there written with regard to
sending them to friends at a distance.
	It is true the sisters do not know what good
they might do by sending copies of the paper
to their friends. I was living in England
when I received the Gospel, and I have not
forgotten the feeling of pleasure which thrilled
in my bosom when by a rare chance I met with
the “WOMAM'S EXPONENT. No matter how
busy I was the work was immediately laid
down and not taken up again until
every word of the paper was read. If it came
near meal time, no food was eaten until it was
disposed of, and I can testify the same of my
sisters with whom I was acquainted. They
are glad of anything referring to the Gospel,
but this little paper is a special favorite. I
trust the hint will be taken and that no one
will ever destroy the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
					MARY Y. CORBY.

	It is true that we live in a great and a mo-
mentous age, an age that is pregnant with 
great events. We often think, as Latter-day
Saints ought to, are we preparing ourselves for
these events as they transpire? Seme are and 
some are not. ’Tis true there are a great many
things to try and test the Saints at the present
time—what kind of mettle we are made of—we
realize this each one for herself to a great ex- 
tent. We know if we prove refractory we
shall have to be thrown back into the mill 
again and be ground over to make us more 
pliable to the master workman’s hands as we
have heard Brother Heber C. Kimball speak
about many times. We talk a great deal 
about persecution; well we think we all have
as much of it as we well can bear with forti-
tude and resignation to the will of our Hea-
venly Father. It’s a legacy the Master left us.
He said all those who live Godly in Christ
Jesus must suffer persecution for so they did
to him. Some think and say, too, are we
always to be persecuted and afflicted because
we do and dare believe in and practice plural
marriage, and are trying to govern ourselves 
under all circumstances according to the laws 
given by the Lord of heaven and earth. All 
those that do not live according to the princi-


ples of the Gospel cannot expect peace and
the smiles of an allwise providence. The
principle of plural marriage may well be
called the higher law, it is so high that very
few try to reach it; but those that do live by its
precepts they can obtain a spirit that will give
them more nobility of character and moral
courage.  Talk about courage in Mormon
women, where will you find it if they do not
possess it?  We think that the present re-
ligious persecution has pretty well tried what
kind of mettle they are made of.  We think
they have stood it as well as the men; they
have so far, and we have yet to learn of the
first one proving recreant to their covenants
and their religious obligations when even the
penitentiary stared them in the face.  Yes the
sisters have need to rejoice and be glad at
the stand they have taken for the cause of
God.
	We know that religious convictions are as
strong in women as in men or at least we think
the present religious crusade has developed
those traits in them.  Speaking after the man-
ner of Gentile love of the sexes we claim no
kin to it; our love is of a pure and high kind.
As for plural marriage it is to raise men and
women to a higher plane of knowledge and in-
telligence, when it is carried out with a pure
nature as the Author of it designed it should
be.  Our enemies want to make us believe
that it is plural marriage they are making so
much ado about.  We know better; it is a
covert attack upon the liberty of conscience
and to wrest from us the few constitutional
rights we have left us;  we can see through their
nefarious doings and that without any telesco-
pic aid.  We would not not care so much
about them or be so much annoyed if they
would hold sacred the privacy of our bed-
rooms at midnight.  How can they expect to
get their impudent inquisitiveness gratified by
prowling, spying and sneaking around by
night when all decent people ought to be in
bed.
	"We told them it would have been better
for them if their mothers or wives had given
them carpet rags to sew than for them to be in
our house at midnight." We think they will
begin to learn soon that it don't pay to be
"reckoning without their host" all the time.
We know in whom we can trust, we have
trusted Him in the past and we can for the
present and future too.  He can control all
things well for those that put their trust in
Him.  It may be thought because we have
been persecuted and driven time and again,
that we shall tamely submit to every indignity
they may please to place upon us; but with the
help of Israel's God we will show them, we in-
tend to maintain our integrity against all odds.
Let us pray to the Lord that he will preserve
to us our God-given rights and the inestimable
blessings to worship Him as we see fit.  I will
close this article with a verse from a poem of
M. J. Tanner's.

		"The rise up your voices fair daughters of Zion,
		Stand forth in the pride of your honor and worth,
	There's a power above us whose hand we rely on,
		More potent than princes and kings of the earth."

		Your sister in the cause of truth,
			A PLURAL WIFE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ITEMS FROM PIMA, A. T.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	The festivities of the holidays being over,
we have had a variety of entertainments, com-
mencing with the ladies' fair, which opened at 
10 o'clock, Dec. 22nd, with quite a variety of
useful and ornamental articles for sale.  The
Young Ladies' department was a credit to
them; the P. A. was also well represented.  A
widow, and member of the Relief Society,


Sister Halestrum, reported having made $200
off her city lot; had sweet potatoes that weighed
nine pounds.  Henry Morton had some in the
fair that weighed from seven to eight.
	On the afternoon of the 23rd the fair was
closed, the house called to order to join in the
celebration of the Prophet Joseph Smith's
birthday.  There were several present that
knew him personally, among whom were Moses
Cluff, Henry Morton, Susan Martinau and
others, who testified of the divine mission of
Joseph Smith, the great Latter-day Prophet. 
Patriarch McBride had a copy of the last ad-
dress ever delivered by him, when he addressed 
the Nauvoo Legion from the house top.	*	*
This speech was read in a distinct and audible 
voice by M. J. Ransom; an eloquent address
by Wm. Packer; remarks by W. East.  Bene-
diction by Patriarch McBride.
	On the evening of the 24th the Home
Dramatic of Pima presented the historical
 drama, entitled, "Foundling of the Forest," 
which did great credit to the association.
	New Year's day the holidays closed with a 
sumptuous dinner, given by our genial friend,
President Layton and wife, served in elegant 
style, which could not be excelled in older set-
tlements.
	Peace prevails throughout the settlements on
the Gila.  There have been no depredations
committed by the Indians since the hostile 
Chief and his band were captured and sent to 
Florida.
	There is great inducement to settlers who
like mild winters to come to the Gila; come
along, come along; don't be alarmed, Uucle
Sam is rich enough to give us all a farm.
	The people are improving.  There are quite
a number of new brick houses in course of
erection, besides a commodious meeting house
up to the square.
	God has reserved some of the fat valleys of 
Ephraim for His people, and it is only a matter 
of time to make this one of the most desirable
places on the continent.
							W. EAST.


NOTES FROM COLORADO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We had a very enjoyable time here on
Christmas.  The sisters of the Relief Society
contributed freely for the purpose of trimming
a Christmas tree, and furnishing other amuse-
ments for the children.  There was a fine dis-
play of presents on the tree for both old and
young.  They were distributed on Christmas
Eve, when Santa Claus made his appearance.
We had a very pleasant party on Christmas 
night, in which a number of our outside 
friends participated.  They say they would
rather attend our dances, where good order is
maintained, than to attend those gotten up by
themselves, which generally end in a drunken 
brawl.  None of the so-called Christian re-
ligions are represented here. There are a few 
Methodists, but they have no organization.
Most of our Gentile friends incline to infidelity,
and are not inclined to persecute us, though 
we are, as yet, a small minority, and our influ-
ence, politically, is not felt.
	There are some few that are investigating 
our principles, and we hope they will see the
truth.  The Saints here are few in number,
but are trying to live their religion to the best
of their knowledge.
	The various organizations are in good work-
ing order.  The Relief Society is doing well,
considering its numbers.  The Young Men's
and Young Ladies' Associations meet conjointly
once a week, and the meetings are both instruc-
tive and profitable to all who attend.  Our
Sunday School is in a very good condition.  As
the Saints live so far apart, there are some 
mothers who take their whole family, consist-


ing, in some instances, of eight children, and
their picnic, and remain at the meeting house
the whole day, attending Sunday School and
meeting. The ward meetings are well attended.
On the whole we are trying to keep pace with
the times.
	The weather has been unusually fine this
winter, scarcely enough snow to cover the
ground. This is a remarkably healthful place;
there has been but one severe case of sickness
among our people this winter; the dreaded
diphtheria has never made its appearance here.
We, the sisters of the Relief Society feel to
sympathize with those who are being persecuted
for the Gospel's sake.  It is written, "It must
needs be that offenses come, but woe unto them
by whom they come."  Now is the time of
sifting, when all that can be shaken will be
shaken.  The Church must be cleansed and
purified, and the Saints prepared for the com-
ing of the Son of Man. We should ever be
on our guard, prepared and ready to defend
our holy religion.  The day is not far distant
when every one will have to stand for himself
and know of a surety of the truth of the 
Gospel.
	The young can no longer depend upon their
parents’ testimony, but must obtain one for
themselves.  The evil one is ever on the alert
to lead us astray into forbidden paths.
	Hoping and praying for the continued suc-
cess of our valuable paper, and for the wel-
fare of Zion generally, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					MOSELLE HALL.
Mancos, La Plata Co., Col., Jan. 7, 1887.


A CRIME AGAINST LIBERTY.

	The U.S. House of Representatives, on the
12th inst., passed an anti Mormon bill which
proposes to abolish woman suffrage in Utah.
	It annuls all Territorial laws providing for
the identification of the votes of electors at
any election, and all laws conferring on the
Territorial courts the power to determine di-
vorce cases.  Polygamy is defined as a mar-
riage between one person of one sex, and
more than one person of another sex, and
is declared a felony.  The financial corpora-
tion known as the Church of Latter-day Saints
and the Perpetual Emigration Fund Company
are dissolved, and the attorney-general is di-
rected to wind them up by process of court.
All laws for the organization of the militia of
the Territory and the creation of the Nouvoo
Legion are annulled.  Polygamists are, as be-
fore, made ineligible to vote, and a test oath is
prescribed to all persons desiring to vote, that
they will obey the laws of the United States
and especially the laws in respect to the crimes
defined in this and the original Edmunds act.
The bill provides for the immediate appoint-
ment, by the President, of all judges and se-
lectmen of the county and probate courts, and
by the Governor of all justices of the peace,
sheriffs, constables, and other county and dis-
trict officers.
	The bill, as amended by the adoption of
the substitute, has now been transmitted to the
Senate for the action of that body.
	For nineteen years women have voted in
Utah as generally as men:  they have com-
manded the sympathy and the respect of the
community, and no considerable number of
residents of the Territory, except the Federal
office-holders, are in favor of their disfran-
chisement.  In a Democratic House of Re-
presentatives, by the united action of both
parties, the political rights of many thousand
American citizens are to be stricken down,
solely because they are women, and because
they actually use their right of suffrage.  All
the women disfranchised by the bill are inno-
cent of the crime of polygamy, for all poly-


gamists, male and female, have for years been
disfranchised.
	At the opening of the debate it was ruled
that no amendments to the Senate bill, except
those proposed by the Judiciary committee,
should be received, whereupon Governor Long
pleaded for unanimous consent to offer a mo-
tion that the clause against woman suffrage
might be stricken out.  But even this privi-
lege was refused.  Mr. Long would like to
leave the Territorial Legislature free to deal
with the question of suffrage for women.
	The adoption of this infamous bill by the 
Republican Senate is a foregone conclusion.
The President will be urged to veto it.  If he
does not, its next stage will be before the Su-
preme Court on the ground of unconstitution-
ality.—Editorial, Woman's Journal.
							H. B. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Mme. Patti has a roomful of parrots in her
castle in Wales, and a maid is hired expressly
to attend to them.
	The death is announced of Miss Havelock,
daughter of the famous general, Sir Henry
Havelock, the hero of the Sepoy mutiny.
	Mme. Zieger, better known as Alboni, is liv-
ing yet, and singing, at sixty-two, as grandly
as ever.  So writes Adolph Houssaye from
Paris to the Chicago Tribune.
	The Princess of Wales has become Patron-
ess of the Scandinavian Sailors' Temperance
Home, and has given $250 toward the erec-
tion of a new building for that institution.
	Miss Chandramukni Bose, a native Christian
lady, has been appointed superintendent of the
Bethune School of California.  The Indian
Messenyer, the organ of the Brahmo-Somaj,
cordially approves the appointment.
	Miss Mary Horton has been elected and
sworn in as recording clerk of the Ohio State
Senate.  This is the first time a woman has
been chosen to fill that position. Miss Horton
is a graduate of the Boston High School.
	The Empress Haru-ko, of Japan, has in-
vited the German Consul at St. Petersburg,
Herr O. von Mohl, to undertake the charge of
minister and head master of ceremonies at her
court, for the purpose of introducing European
etiquette. Herr von Mohl has accepted the
offer, and goes to Japan this month with his
family.
	Mrs.  Alexander, who wrote "The Wooing
O't," is described as a short, stout, elderly 
lady, with a kindly, simple expression, and
snow-white hair, brought down over her tem-
ples in the old-fashioned way.  She looks 
much more likely to make a good flannel shirt
than to write a good novel.
	There has been a good deal of half jesting, 
half-serious talk in the papers about electing 
Mrs. Logan to the U.S. Senate as her hus-
band's successor.  The Austin (Tex.) Statesman
chivalrously says: "This we can say, that if a 
woman is to become senator, no woman is
better qualified, barring her politics, than Mrs.
Logan."
	Italy is to have a new review, given exclu-
sively to the discussion of feminine interests.
Fanny Zampini Salazaro is to be the editor of
this periodical, which is the first to show posi-
tive intellectual progress among Italian women.
The prospectus frankly says that, when she
does not marry and become the centre of a
home circle, "the Italian women is, with rare
exceptions, most unhappy, because she has not 
in herself the resources which are possessed
by educated women in other countries."


OBITUARIES.

	To the memory of Margaret Selmen, born July 23rd,
1814, at King's Wood, Gloucestershire, England. Was
baptized in 1850. Emigrated to Utah in the year 1860.
Was the mother of nine children, eight of whom are living,
five boys and three girls; two of them are in England.
Had forty living grandchildren. Deceased died in Payson
on the 5th of April, 1886, in full faith of the Gospel and
with a sure hope of a glorious resurrection with the just.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT,

	Whereas, it has pleased God in His infinite wisdom to
remove from our midst, by the hand of death, our worthy
and beloved sister, Margaret Selmen,
	Whereas, the intimate relations held during many years
by her with the members of the Relief Society make it
fitting that we record our appreciation of her.
	Resolved, That the sad removal of our sister from our
midst, creates a sorrow that is felt by all members of the
Society in the departure of a good and noble sister.
	Resolved, That with the deepest sympathy, with the
family we express an earnest hope that God will impart to
them consolation and comfort in the hour of their bereave-
ment and deep sorrow.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread on the record
of the Society.

	JANE WOSSENCROFT,
	SARAH SWEAT, Committee.
	CYNTHA JONES.

	DIED, at Payson, Nov. 27, 1886, Sarah, the beloved
wife of John Done. She suffered a paralytic stroke Nov.
17th, 1886. This, coupled with other diseases, caused her
death, after much suffering. She was born at Thornhill,
Lees, Yorkshire, England, in the latter part of 1827, or
the beginning of 1828, being nearly fifty-nine years of age.
Deceased was baptized Dec. 6th, 1852. Emigrated to
Utah with her husband in 1855, being the only one of a
large family to obey the Gospel. Was the mother of eight
children, six of whom are living and grown to maturity,
and grandmother to twenty-two, fifteen of whom are living.
She was very modest and unassuming in manners, patient
in poverty, uncomplaining and resigned in trouble. She
died in full faith of the Gospel and in the hope of a glorious
resurrection. May she rest in peace.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolved, That we, the sisters of the Relief Society of
the 1st District, Payson Ward, tender our love and esteem
to the memory of our sister, Sarah Done. We shall miss
her voice in singing, and also miss her in her accustomed
place; we feel that she has shown us an example worthy of
emulation. We condole with her husband and children in
their bereavement, yet we feel to submit to the will of an
alwise God, who doeth all things well.
	Resolved, That we spread these Resolutions on the So-
ciety record, send a copy to the family, and also to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
	ANN PICKERING,
	ARTEMISA WHITE, Committee.
	ANN NEBEKER.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	
	Resolutions of Respect adopted by the Payson Relief
Society, to the memory of our esteemed sister, Elizabeth Knight:
	Whereas, the Great Ruler of the universe has called
from our midst, to take her station in another sphere, our
beloved sister, Elizabeth Knight, and,
	Whereas, her fellow laborers in the cause of truth feel
that we have lost a friend and a sister, be it, therefore,
	Resolved, That we tender to Bro. James Knight and
family our heartfelt sympathy, and pray God, our Eternal
Father, that He will mete out to them His comforting
spirit, and we hope that the motherless children may never
forget the example and precepts of their loving mother, 
and carry the same out in their lives, and thereby be 
honored and blest in their day and generation. And we
likewise hope that Bro. Knight may be comforted, that
God may bless and help him to do his duty in bringing up
his family in the fear and admonition of the Lord, realizing 
that Sister Knight has gone before, and in due time will
welcome him to a state where sorrow and death are un-
known. And, be it further


Resolved, That these Resolutions be given to the family
of the deceased, and that they likewise be entered on the 
records of the Payson Relief Society.
						SARAH BREWERTON,
						ALTA DAVIS, Committee.
						EMILY TANNER.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sarah Ab-
bott.
	Whereas, the Lord has seen fit in His infinite wisdom to
take from our midst our beloved sister, be it
	Resolved, That we, her sisters in the Relief Society, feel
the loss of a true and faithful friend and sister. She was a 
true Latter-day Saint. Having embraced the Gospel in
the fall of 1830, six months after its organization, she
shared in all the persecutions and drivings of the Saints.
She died Nov. 7th, 1886, being in her eighty-second year.
She was not terrified at the change. Faithful to the latest
breath was our sister who now sleeps in death; and, further,
have we
     Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be given to
the family of the deceased, and that they be entered on the
records of the Payson Relief Society.

	SUSAN CRANDAL,
	SPEEDY JOHNSON, Committee.
	MARTHA MONTAGUE.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868

Z.C.M.I
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
			
Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the lastest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
