Vol. 15.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1887.			No. 21.


BEAUTIFUL TEMPLE OF GOD.

Put the cares of the world aside for a time,
	And lay down each earth-binding load,
To discharge for your kindred the duties sublime
	In the beautiful temple of God.

			CHORUS:
		Beautiful temple, Beautiful temple,
		Beautiful temple of God.

Where the life and the power, that Elijah inspires,
	Will bring forth the dust from the sod,
When the hearts of the children are turned to the sires,
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the feet of the proud and the steps of the meek
	Are directed in one narrow road,
That will bring forth the union and love we should seek
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the prayer of faith can arise from the soul,
	And ascend to Jehovah's abode,
And the humble and faithful are reaching the goal
	They aspire to in temples of God.
										Cho.

On the Ladder of which the Patriarch dreamed,
	The feet of the angels had trod,
The living are crowned and the dead are redeemed
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the echoes of heaven respond to the heart,
	To dispel all the cares that corrode,
And the curse from the earth has begun to depart,
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the bright Lamp of Life and the Tree in its bloom,
	With the oil of salvation's bestowed,
And the wise are preparing to meet the Bridegroom
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where dressed in the bright robes of glory we seemed,
	With the sandals of righteousness shod;
And fanned by the zephyrs of spirits redeemed,
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Like the odor of Aaron's anointing so sweet,
	Was the comfort and blessing that flowed
From the crown of the head, to the soles of the feet,
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the pure balm of Gilead is soothing the breast,
	And wafting its fragrance abroad.
Bespeaking the glorious coming of Christ
	To the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the weak and infirm are restored to their health,
	When with pain and affliction they're bowed,
And they offer their thanks for such priceless wealth
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the jewels of worth can be laid up in heaven,
	When we walk by the bright iron rod;
Where the keys and the powers of the priesthood are given,
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the triumphs of Jesus will bring forth the dead,
	From the precious seed that is sewed,
And with glory and song the redeemed will be led
	Through the beautiful temples of God.
										Cho.
							JANETTE PATON.


[Column 1]
		BIBLE PROPHECY.
	Isaiah, chapter x: “Woe! unto them that
decree unrighteous decrees, and that write
grieviousness which they have prescribed to
turn away the needy from judgment, and to
take away the rights from the poor of my
people, that widows may be their prey and
that they may rob the fatherless!”
	“And what will ye do in the day of visita-
tion and in the desolation which will come
from afar?  To whom will ye flee for help,
and where will ye leave your glory?”
	The above to the Latter-day Saints needs no
comments, for they fully know that through
the unrighteous decrees known as the Edmunds
and Edmunds-Tucker bills, that the needy
have been turned away from judgment, for how
many times have our brethren and sisters
gone to the rulers of this nation and plead
their cause, for they were in need of justice,
and does not this unrighteous decree take away
the rights from the poor of this people, and are
not children left without their fathers, and
robbed of the necessary support that their
fathers have earned for them?  Surely they do
rob the fatherless, when kind fathers are
snatched from their wives and children and
thrust into prison, and their property sold to
pay an unlawful fine.  And were not the
women the wives of those men, true to their
religion and their God they would surely fall
a prey to those robbers, who are trying to rob
them of the loving care and protection of their
husbands, thinking that they might thereby
drag them into the mire that thousands of
women are degraded into who live much nearer
to Senator Edmunds and other great men of
the world, than do the Mormon women, but
their object will fail here, for the Mormon
women are virtuous and God-fearing; they
have entered into their marriage relations in
obedience to the commandment of God, and
they are willing to leave the outcome in His
hands, for they know that the hand of the
Lord is in this present persecution, that He is
only using His enemies as a tool wherewith to
purify His people, for He says in the same
chapter, verse 12, “Wherefore, it shall come
to pass, that when the Lord hath performed
His whole work upon Mount Zion and on
Jerusalem, I will punish the fruit of the stout
heart of the king of Assyria, and the glory of
his high looks.”
	“For he saith, By the strength of my hand
have I done it, and by my wisdom, for I am
prudent, and I have removed the bounds of the
people, and I have robbed their treasures, and
I have put down the inhabitants like a valiant
man, and my hand hath found as a nest the
riches of the people; and as one gathered eggs
that are left, have gathered all the earth (all
they have) and there was none that moved
the wing, or opened the mouth or peeped.”
	The present Edmunds-Tucker bill having
become a law, we will see the above prophecy
fulfilled, for who is so blind that they cannot
see that it is a plan to rob the treasures of the
people; but still in this we will acknowledge
the hand of God, as in another prophecy of
Isaiah He plainly warns the church of what
shall befall them because of pride; and the
Lord requires His people to be humble, and a
proud heart is not pleasing to Him, and yet
He says in the same chapter, 15th verse: “Shall

[Column Two]
the axe boast itself against him that heweth
therewith? or shall the saw magnify itself
against him that shaketh it?” etc.  He is doing
this work, although we sometimes think that
some very rough tools are being made use of;
the Lord holds them with a rein, and they will
go just as far as He will let them and no
farther.  In the same chapter, 24th verse:
“Therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, my
people that dwell in Zion be not afraid of the
Assyrian; he shall smite thee with a rod; and
shall lift up his staff against thee after the
manner of Egypt, for yet a very little while,
and the indignation shall cease, and mine anger
in their destruction, and the Lord of Hosts
shall stir up a scourge for him according to
the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb,
and as his rod was upon the sea, so shall he
lift it up after the manner of Egypt, and it
shall come to pass in that day that his burden
shall be taken from off thy shoulder, and his
yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke shall be
destroyed because of the anointing.”
	There are many things to which the Saints
can look forward to for comfort in this trying
time, and let us pray that God will hasten the
day when the yoke will be destroyed, and let
us all strive to stand faithful until that time
comes, when the Lord’s anointed will come out
of their hiding places, and from within prison
walls, and will rejoice with their wives and
children, and again teach this glorious plan of
life and salvation to the children of men, and
we will see the Canaanites, that they will no
longer ask for help from their enemies, but, “It
shall come to pass in that day that the remnant
of Israel and such as are escaped of the house
of Jacob will no more stay upon him that 
smote them but will stay upon the Holy One
of Israel in truth.” And the kingdom shall
grow, and the little stone which Daniel saw
will roll until it fills the whole earth, for God
will make room for it, and it will break  in
pieces all other kingdoms.
	The Constitution of the United States has
already been broken upon it, and the senate
and representative men of this nation are di-
vided in their opinions and judgment, and
their sense of justice is broken and divided be-
cause of it, and they will be confused and their
minds darkened and troubled, and men’s hearts
shall fail them, and the inhabitants of the
earth will be shaken and destroyed.  The Lord
will open up a passage for His people, and they
will be delivered from bondage, even as he
opened up a passage through the Red Sea for
His people in ancient days.  A deliverer will
the Lord prepare for His people, “And the
Spirit of the Lord will rest upon him, and the
spirit of wisdom and of understanding, the
spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of
knowledge and the fear of the Lord; and shall
make him quick of understanding in the fear
of the Lord, and he shall not judge after the
sight of his eyes, neither reprove after the
hearing of his ears; but with righteousness
shall he judge the poor, and reprove with equity
for the meek of the earth, and he shall smite
the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with
the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.”
	With joy the Saints look forth to that day,
which is nigh at hand, for the Lord has said,
“Though the heavens and the earth pass away,
my words will not pass away.”
				SOMANTHIA T. BOISE.
Manassa, Colorado,


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

M. J. TANNER.

Continued.

	When we got back to our room, we found
our trunks there. We dressed and went for a
walk up Broadway. It being Sunday morning
the streets were quiet and business houses
closed; still it was very pleasant, and many
people were stirring. We had been traveling
so long we had lost our reckoning, and could
hardly realize that it was Sunday.
	New York is much as we expected to see it.
but it gives one very much the idea of the old
song:
	"We cannot see the city for the houses."
All houses; houses everywhere; not a spot of
ground to put your foot on. Such high houses;
from five to seven stories high; no chance to
see out but to look up to the sky, and even that
is being appropriated, seemingly, for when peo-
ple can no longer build out they build up.
	On our return we concluded to visit Sister
Harrison. We went to the office and inquired
for her room. The clerk turned to the direc-
tory, and informed us that Mrs. Harrison and
Mrs. Sharp had No. 828. We stepped on the
elevator and asked for room 828. We were
taken up seven stairs, and directed which way
to go. We followed the numbers on the doors
until we found 828. Here we found our
friends in a very pleasant room, overlooking
the street, as also many other houses. They
take their meals at the restaurant, and we
might have lived in the same house for weeks
and never met. It is like a small city laid off
and divided by halls and corridors, with stairs
leading in every direction. We could go up
and down by stairs or elevator. Our friends
had been to church, and we were sorry we did
not go with them. We all met in Bro. Hart's
room and spent the evening. Quite a number
of our old friends were there, and it seemed
pleasant to meet so many among strangers.
	N. Y.,  Monday, April 20. Rested well,
but got up this morning with a headache.
Went down to breakfast; found ourselves late.
Were a little surprised, but were shown to a 
smaller dining room, where we were nicely
waited on. On comparing time, I found my
watch an hour slow. I had forgotten that New
York time was three hours ahead of us. After
breakfast we went for a walk on Broadway.
We went a long way, and got back very tired,
to find a lady wating for me in the Parlor. On
going in I found it was my cousin, Mrs. Kim-
ball. I packed my trunk and she took me
home with her.
	The method of traveling was quite new to
me. We went in a buss, I think they are
called, to the ferry. We crossed the river on
a steam ferry-boat, which I enjoyed very much;
then we took a street car to her home. It is
about eight miles from the hotel. It is on
Long Island, and is called Williamsburg,
though it seems to me a continuation of the
same city. It is now incorporated in Brooklyn
and is called "Eastern District."
	The streets are paved with rock, and packed
with vehicles of all kinds, and the noise is so
great that we can scarcely hear each other
speak. Everything is so strange, I should be
frightened without a guide. I am warmly
welcomed by my cousin’s family, four hand-
some, black-eyed boys, from thirteen to twenty-
four years of age. Her husband is away, but
will be home in a few days. We are nice and
quiet, but I am so tired, so tired; the house
seems turning about, and the grinding noise
seems running through me from my fingers to
my toes. I wonder if I shall ever feel calm
again.
	Williamsburg, Tuesday, April 21. Rested
some last night, but cannot get over being tired;

[Column 2]
every nerve seems frizzling and grinding. Mrs.
Kimball is a great talker, as well as myself,
and we have so much to say. In the evening
we walk out to look at the stores by gaslight;
the streets are so light that everything looks
lovely. We take a street car and ride home,
and spend the evening in conversation until
late.
	Wednesday, April 22nd. Feel somewhat
rested, and go for a visit to the Brooklyn
Bridge. We ride over on a steam car, fare
three cents; walk back, fare one cent. It is a 
long walk, a mile and a quarter, but it is very
pleasant, and we have such a fine view of the
country, and river, which is dotted with boats
of all kinds, from the tiny row boat, tossing
about, to the ship. The bridge not only crosses
the river, but spans over the city for a long
distance, passing over houses, six and seven
stories high.
	Williamsburg, Sunday, April.25th. Raining
this morning. We had proposed to hear the
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher to-day, but it has
rained all day and we could not go, but spent
our time talking and reading Scripture. My
friends have great curiosity about our faith,
and are a little surprised to hear it defended
on a scriptural basis. We have some very in-
teresting arguments.
	I have visited several points of interest in
the last few days, among which is the water-
works, or reservoir, which supplies water for
the city. It is a large pond or basin, nicely
walled in with an iron fence around it; at a
little distance is another fence, making an en-
closure, inside of which the keeper lives, and
no living thing is allowed inside the enclosure.
No person can go inside the enclosure without
permission. There seems little danger of dead
animals or anything of the kind getting into
the water, which is conducted through pipes to
all parts of the city, and each house is fur-
nished with water in every story; also pipes to
carry off sewerage, which are laid below the
water mains.  Everything is so complete. The
streets are swept, and all the dirt carried off
every few days. The dust and ashes of the
houses are collected in barrels, which are
emptied and carried away by men whose busi-
ness it is, and no garbage is allowed in the ash
barrels, as it is used in filling up low places,
and vegetable decay would breed miasma. It
looked strange to see cold victuals and scraps
from the table thrown into the fire and burned,
but when it was explained to me that such
things would make a litter if thrown in the
back yard, and perhaps a disagreeable odor, as
well as attract cats and dogs, to the discomfort
of the people, I could readily see that circum-
stances altered cases.
	A large proportion of the people live in
rented houses. Some of the houses are built
with two or three stories and a basement, with
a small back yard for clothes line etc., and a
small yard in front. The sidewalks are paved
with flagstones, and each one is required to
keep his own sidewalk clean.
	Some houses are built in "flats," on the
French plan, five or six stories high, a complete
suit of rooms in each story, rent ranging ac-
cording to the height. Three families live one
above another. As a consequence, people find
it unpleasant to have many children in a house.
The first question from the landlord is, "Have
you children?" "Are they boys or girls?" If
girls, "have they beaux?" "Do you keep ser-
vants?" If these questions are answered satis-
factorily, and you can pay the price demanded,
you may rent the house if it suits you. If the
family is too large, or the children too small, if
you have a baby, or play the piano, or run a sew-
ing machine, it is difficult to procure a house.
	A young couple commence housekeeping
and when a baby comes they are liable to be
requested to change their quarters. Children,
then,are a constant source of anxiety, and every

[Column 3]
advent is looked upon with a species of con-
sternation. Such a condition naturally makes
children unwelcome, and it must take great
efforts of patience and goodwill to live so
closely packed together. Every effort is made
to secure cleanliness and good order. Houses
are not so high in Brooklyn and Williamsburg
as in New York.


THREE SCORE AND TEN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 19th of March, 1887, being the 70th
birthday of the President of the Relief Society
of Santaquin, Sister Elizabeth J. Stickney,
the members of the Society assembled at the
school house at 2 o'clock p.m., in honor of the
occasion, together with the Bishop and Coun-
selors and some of the most prominent brethren
of the place.
	Our President, with the older ladies, seated
in a large circle round the stove, chatting gaily,
looked very beautiful, while the younger por-
tion participated in the dance for a short time,
when the following address was read by Bro.
Eli Openshaw:
	To Mrs. Elizabeth Stickney, President of the
		Relief Society of Santaquin:

	DEAR SISTER:—By the counsel of our
Bishop and Counselors, we, the Relief Society
of Santaquin, have met with you to-day for
the purpose of celebrating this your seventieth
birthday.  It is a good old age, but yet we
hope you may live to see many happy returns
of the day
	You have now been President of the Relief
Society of Santaquin eighteen years and six
months.  Your labors in that capacity have
been arduous and unceasing.  Your charitable
disposition has always made you a friend to
the poor, the sick and the aged; many there
are who can testify of your care for them, and
will always pray for your welfare in this life
and that which is to come.
	As a financier, you connot be surpassed.
That you have handled the funds entrusted to
your care with interest for the benefit of the
Society, has been fully realized and duly ap-
preciated by us all.
	We therefore wish to return unto you our
heartfelt thanks for the honorable discharge of
your duties, and ever pray that long life may
be given you, and that you may retain your
powers of mind, so that you may continue to
be our elect lady for many years to come.
	Signed in behalf of the Relief Society of
Santaquin,			ELIZABETH WALL,	
					SARAH J. HALLADAY.
					BETTIE BOSS,
					ANN J. STICKNEY,
					ELIZABETH OPENSHAW.
					RENDENA OLSON,
			Committee of arrangements.

	Prest. Stickney responded to it, and ad-
dressed the assembly for a short time, thanking
the sisters for their kindness and appreciation
of her labors, and bearing a strong testimony
to the work of God.	
	Then there was dancing again until half
past four o'clock, when a bountiful repast was
partaken of, and an intermission taken for one
hour, when the company again returned to en-
joy a very pleasant and agreeable evening to-
gether, consisting of dancing, interspersed with
several pieces of poetry, which had been com-
posed for the occasion.  Our Prest. entertained
the company by dancing two hornpipes, which
she executed very gracefully.  She was pre-
sented with a sum of money, and the names of
the donors were read.  Refreshments were
served again during the evening, and the party
was dismissed at eleven o'clock.  All seemed
highly pleased, as it had been a day long to
be remembered in Santiquin.
				ANN J. STICKNEY, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIGHT AND SHADE.

After the long, weary months of the winter,
	When the blue of the sky is o'ercast
With the clouds of a dreary December,
	And we've long heard the wind's chilling blast,
How grateiul is springtime so gorgeous,
	With sweet flowers, with sunshine and song;
The music of birds, so enchanting,
	We enjoy all the summer day long.
And we know that this world with its changes
	Is a gift from our Father above,
And to Him, through all of its seasons,
	We will give adoration and love.

After painful and lingering illness--
	Days of agony, mis'ry and pain,
When all through the night's dismal stillness
	We so longed for the morning again,
How we welcome the day's cheerful dawning,
	And we hail the bright sun's genial rays,
We feel that our strength is returning
	With the brightness of spring's sunny days.
How blessed indeed is the absence
	Of pain and misery's keen darts,
And our gratitude rises to heaven
	From our truly appreciative hearts.

And when by affliction o'ertaken,
	Our heartstrings are bleeding and torn,
By adversities hand we are shaken,
	And we feel so forsaken and 'lorn!
But we know where to look for a solace,
	A recompense pure, holy and sweet--
We go to our Father in meekness,
	And find satisfaction complete;
"For whom He loveth, He chastiseth,"
	That we may the greater joys know,
And patiently bear all our sorrows,
	That mortal hearts find here below.
							E. R. SHIPP.
Salt Lake City, March 25, 1887.


THE LILY.

TO LILY FREEZE.

	Lovely lily, in the springtime,
		Daintily its leaves unfold;
	How prophetic is its coming
		After winter's frost and cold;
	Gently, tenderly appealing
		To the stubborn human will;
	Giving promise of the summer
		The Creator will fulfill.

	Clothed in beauty by its Maker,
		Graceful lily blooming fair,
	Swaying in a jaunty fashion
		In the soft and balmy air;
	Wild upon the heath or mountain,
		Lilies blossom here and there
	Simply by the power of nature,
		Without aught of toil or care.

	Yet the rarest, purest lilies, 
		Those which please us most, I know,
	Are the ones we nurture kindly,
		And consider how they grow.
	We all know one charming Lily,
		That has need of constant care;
	Fragile, delicate and tender,
		Though her mind is rich and rare.

	Choicest lilies bloom at Easter,
		So I've heard wise-acres say;
	Emblems of the resurrection,
		And significant, alway,
	Of the pure, the chaste and holy,
		Yea, in every land and clime,
	And the sayings of the Savior
		Make the lily seem sublime.

	Just when Easter lilies blossom'd,
		And the fields were fair to view,
	Our sweet Lily came from heav'n
		With a welcome warm and true;
	And in truth she had a mission
		Corresponding to her name,
	And with purity of motive
		She will magnify the same.


Fold not up the talents given
		To improve while here on earth,
	Consecrate them to a purpose
		That shall be of priceless worth.
	Though you toil not, nor yet spin,
		There is other work to do,
	And a wise and loving Father
		Will reveal it unto you
							EMILE.
March 26, 1883.


A BRIEF SKETCH.

		ELIZA COLLINS HUNSAKER.

	Thinking that a short sketch of the life of
Eliza Collins Hunsaker would be of interest
to the readers of your noble paper, I
thought I would write you a little of what she
has had to pass through.
	(She was born March 5th, 1817, in Spencer
County, Kentucky, and was the daughter of
Allen Collins and Mary Braady.  She was
married at the early age of 16, January 4th,
1833, to Abraham Hunsaker.  She passed
through all of the persecutions of the Saints,
after she was baptized, which was not until
the 15th of Nov., 1840.  They were driven
with the Saints from that time until they
reached Winter Quarters, where they situated
on a small stream that was called Honey Creek,
about a day’s drive from the main batch of
the Saints.
	She had passed through trials up to the
present date, but now comes the trial of her
faith.  When the call was made for five hun-
dred men to go and fight with Mexico, her hus-
band was among the number.  He said that
when he left her with six small children, the
three oldest  girls, with no one to protect her
and the children but God, that he could not
have felt worse had he been called to lay her
in the cold earth.  While in this condition, to
make matters worse, her relatives, who were
opposed to her joining the Church, wrote to
her and told her that if she would forsake her
religion and return to them they would come
after her.  But like others, true to her faith
and to her God, she would not accept of the
offer.  By the help of God she was able to take
care of her six little children until the return
of her husband.
	One little incident, that happened while he
was on his journey, I will here relate:  He was
feeling bad about the condition he had left his
family in,when a dove alighted upon his head,
then flew by those that were placed by the
priesthood to lead. It was shown to him that
if he would obey counsel he would return
again to his family, and for him to trouble
himself no more about them.  This gave him
relief, and, strange to say, the same dove was
seen around the wagon where his wife was
camped, and one of the little girls said,
"Mother, there is a dove with A. H. on it;
it is from father.” They felt better after this;
it acted as a comforter to both parties.
	One year from that date the dove was seen
in a tree, and Bro. Hancock said, “Here is
Bro. Hunsaker.” At this remark the dove
flew over his head and fluttered, and then went
away.
	The following summer, after her husband’s
return, they came to the valley and settled
at Cottonwood.  He was afterwards called to
go to Carson Valley, where he stopped for a
while, and was then called back.  He finally
settled at Brigham City, where he lived until
about ten or twelve years ago, when he built a
mill on Salt Creek.  His wife afterward moved
there, where she now resides.
	This last summer she made a trip out to her
daughters at Alpine Co., Nevada, where she
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of Mor-
monism and the principle known as the patri-
archal order of marriage.  She came home in
good health, on March 5th, 1887.

[column 2]
	Her children and grandchildren surprised
her on her seventieth birthday.  We had a
very interesting time from 2 p.m. until about
8 in the evening.  She bore her testimony to
her children and grandchildren, who have be-
come very numerous.  She has been the mother
of twelve children, and has sixty-five grand-
children and twenty-six great-grandchildren,
making a total of 103 all told, most of whom
are living.  She said that she had never been
sorry that her lot had been cast with the de-
spised Mormons; she knew that this was the
kingdom of God, and that she had passed
through trials, for which she was thankful, and
that she was glad that her husband had gone
into the principle known as the patriarchal
order of marriage; she knew that it was from
God, and that the Lord would bless all those
who obeyed this order of marriage, and that
she would not be out of it for all the world, for
she knew that God had spoken from heaven,
and although earth and hell may combine, they
will never be able to destroy the people nor
the kingdom of God, and she exhorted her
children to remain faithful, that they might
get the blelsings in store for the faithful.
								REX.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The large numbers in which women are
registering to vote under the new municipal
suffrage law in Kansas ought to set at rest the
fear that women would not use the suffrage if
they had it. The women voted at the primary
elections on March 6, and there was not the
slightest disturbance. One thousand of the
leading women of Leavenworth registered
within two days.
	The U. S. District Attorney for Washington
Territory recommends the women to go on vot-
ing as usual, and if refused, to take out a man-
damus to compel acceptance to their votes.
The validity of the woman suffrage law having
been repeatedly affirmed by several Supreme
Court decisions before the adverse decision by
only two of the judges. There is great doubt
whether the adverse decision will be sustained
by the full bench.
	Twenty-seven years ago, Henry Ward
Beecher, in a powerful lecture on woman
suffrage, predicted that one of the first good
results of the reform would be the removal of
the polling places to more respectable quarters,
and the increased order and civility of elec-
tions. The Republican Convention, which met
at Topeka, Kansas, on March  7, expressed a 
cordial welcome to the newly enfranchised
ladies, and adopted a series of resolutions, en-
titled, "For the new voters," favoring safety
and convenience of voters at the polls, and
recommending their removal to more respect-
able locations. They also declare that no
woman whose political duties call her on the
street on election day shall be subjected to any
inconvenience, or have any ticket thrust into
her hand unless she asks for it. The Boston
Traveler says: "This view of what is really
the practical effect of woman suffrage is inter-
esting, and the advocates of political enfran-
chisement for women will be more than mortal
if they can refrain from airs of triumph in
this fulfilment of their long prophesies as to
the better state of affairs when women go to
the polls."—Ex.


They talk about a woman’s sphere
	As though it had a limit:
There’s not a place in earth or heaven,
There’s not a task to mankind given,
There’s not a blessing or a woe,
There’s not a whispered yes or no,
There's not a life, or death or birth,
That has a feather’s weight of worth,
	Without a woman in it.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.	
	Address all business communications to
				PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City. UTAH.

Salt Lake City,	-	APRIL 1,1887.


[Column 1]
﻿RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Thursday, March 17th, Mrs. M. I.
Horne presiding. Present on the stand were Mrs.
B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Mrs. M. W.
Snow, and Mrs. Mary Pitchforth of Nephi, Prest.
of the Relief Society in Juab Stake. After sing-
ing, prayer was offered by Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
Continued with singing. Roll of presidents called;
23 presidents, 3 counselors and 2 secretaries re-
sponded.  Minutes and Stake report read and
accepted.
	Opening remarks by Sister Pitchforth; subjects,
care of the needy, the edification to be gained by
attending our meetings, guarding our speech,
special protection and guidance of our children,
the need of keeping all commandments given, and
other interesting topics.
	Prest. Horne urged the necessity of perfect re-
ports and promptness in forwarding them to the
Stake Secretary. Urged the-importance of home
industries, and advised the sisters to see to the
setting out and cultivating mulberry trees, that we
might make our own silk. “We will likely have
to depend on home made clothing. We are largely
advertised to the world through this persecution.”
Spoke of the storing of grain, for many would
come to Zion for bread. Thought from the re-
ports that the branches were improving tem-
porally.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball thought the Relief Society
should foster education.  “Pick up some little girl
that has a taste for teaching, and let her gather
some of the little children from the street around
her, it will do good.” Spoke of the Kindergarten
and the Woman’s Home, and said, “We are able
to take care of our own people;” made many other
excellent remarks.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith spoke of the peace we enjoy;
thought we should pray for wisdom, and spoke of
her visit to the Tooele Conference with Sister
Lucy W. Kimball, where they had held seven
meetings and administered to the sick. She felt
the revelation given four years ago to President
Taylor was just as much binding upon us as any
other, “and we should help our husbands to set
our houses in order.”
	Mrs. Rachel R. Grant had been spending the
winter in St. George, and had visited around that
Stake considerably, and found the organizations
in good order. Thought we had nothing to fear
from our enemies. “Let us be firm and faithful,
and cultivate a spirit of love and charity one to
another.”
	Adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing. Benediction
pronounced by Mrs. Mary Alice Lambert.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m.:  Opened with sing-
ing. Prayer by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox. Continued
with singing. Remarks by Mrs. M. W. Snow:
She loved to hear the work and kingdom of God
defended by the sisters.  Spoke upon prayer,
wisdom, kindness and faith, obedience and hu-
mility; thought that we should exercise our faith,

[Column 2]
that wisdom might rest down upon the Presidency
and Apostles of the Church in this important
time in our history. 		
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor gave an interesting account
of her visit to Box Elder Stake. Thought we
were too prone to watch each other. “We should
watch ourselves and try to be charitable, for we all
have faults; none are perfect. We should be
very careful not to try and stretch others to fit our
iron bedstead, and remember we are all differently
made; some are weak and some are strong; we
all vary in disposition; God does not want His
people to be cast down; let us be cheerful and
trusting, and make others happy wherever we go.
* * *	Let us practice all the teachings
in Christ’s Sermon on the Mount, that will give
us strength and power to be faithful unto the
end.”
	Mrs, Agnes Swartz spoke of the blessings we
enjoy; said the Lord would try us to see what we
would do; “we expect to be tried; it is good to be
tried.” Prayed the blessings of the Lord to rest
upon His Saints, and asked God to bless Sister
Horne and all that were trying to do some good.
	Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball spoke of her recent re-
turn from the Temple, and the beautiful influence
there; it was wonderful to see the interest taken
in the work for the dead. Related incidents con-
cerning the Prophet Joseph, when in prison and
in chains, and how he rebuked the wicked, and
they ceased their blasphemy, and he had peace
during the remainder of the night. Made other
edifying remarks, and added, “No matter what we
suffer, let us acknowledge the hand of God in all
things.”
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox spoke of the performance
of duty with an eye single to the glory of God.
Urged us to seek for wisdom, that we might be
able to perform all our duties in righteousness.
	Mrs. C. Smith, Prest. of Draper R. S., Mrs.		
Mary Porter, of the Granger R. S. and Mrs.
Sarah Gibson, Prest. of the R. S. of Sugar
House, each spoke a few minutes, bearing testi-
mony to the truth, and also to the improvement
being made in their respective wards.
	Mrs. M. Pitchforth spoke of our persecutions,
and upon the principle of plural marriage. Said,
“We should never allow our feelings to cause us
to speak against this order. The Gospel helps
the people to improve in their manners, for our
religion teaches us true politeness. It is wrong
for our children to be sent to outside schools, for
the influence there is against the Gospel. Save
your children; keep them in the truth.”
	Mrs. Emma Terry rejoiced that-she had been
born and reared in the Church as she had not the
teachings and old traditions to contend with; she
was sure the Lord would come out of his hiding-
place and rescue us from our enemies. “Plural
marriage is a blessing to all who receive it.”
Spoke of setting good examples, and of many
good things, in an intelligent and edifying manner.
	Mrs. Ann Griffiths spoke feelingly of her ex-
periences in times of trial and of drivings from
our homes, and said many excellent things.
	The Secretary of the Stake, Mrs. E. Howard,
said she hoped all would assemble as often as 
they could to obtain spiritual food; referred to
other important subjects, and closed by repeating
the golden rule, and said, “do not let us esteem
ourselves above others.”
	Prest. Horne made closing remarks, referring to
the most important subjects in an impressive man-
ner, and thought each Relief Society should have
funds on hand if necessary to send one represen-
tative at least to attend the conference. Each
branch should contribute 50 cts. a year to the
contingent fund. Urged the sisters to care for the
sick and the needy, to cooperate with those who
have charge of the Primaries and Sabbath Sohools.
to teach by example as well as precept, to keep
the children out of the streets at night, to culti-
vate every virtue and try to have faith for the

[Column 3]
healing of the sick among us. Touched upon al-
most everything that would promote our happiness
peace and prosperity as a people.
	Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing, “Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.” Benediction by Counselor E. S. Tay-
lor. 
	Condensed from the minutes of Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard, Relief Society Stake Secretary.
	Y. L. M. I. A.
	Condensed minutes of the Conference of the
Y. L. M. I: A. of this Stake, held March 18, in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Coun. M. E.
Dougall presiding. Present on the stand were
Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Prest. of the Central Board,
and her Counselors, Mrs. M. Y. Taylor and Mrs.
M. H. Tingey, also Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Prest.
B. W. Smith, Dr. M. C. Shipp, Mrs. Lillie
Freeze and others. Excellent singing by the 19th
Ward choir. Roll called a majority of the Asso-
ciation reported, minutes of previous conference
were read. The morning session was principally
occupied in reading the statistical reports of the
associations. Remarks were made by Mrs. J. C.
Howe, Mrs Z. G. Eardly, Mrs. E. C. Clawson,
Mrs C. H. Clayton, Mrs. M. Irvine, Mrs. B. W.
Smith, Mrs. L. Freeze, Miss G. Sansome and 
Mrs. Alice Kimball; each bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the work in which we
are engaged, and exhorted the young ladies to
qualify themselves for the great future in store for
them; to study the scrtpture and be able to teach
them to their children; to read good books, and
thereby gain pure and noble thoughts; to attend
good meetings and obtain the Spirit of God,which
is always found there; to be prayerful and obedi-
ent to the commandments of God, and to His
revelations, which have been given expressly to
this people; in short, to so conduct themselves as
to be patterns of nobleness and virtue.
	During the morning session the revelation given 
four years ago to this people through the revela-
tor President Taylor, was read, and was listened
to with rapt attention.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing
prayer by Mrs. Erickson.	
	Afternoon Session: After singing prayer was
offered by Mrs Mary P. Young. Mrs. Dougall
gave the report of the Stake.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp then addressed the meeting;
spoke of charity, urged the young to avoid criti-
cising people’s actions, for such criticisms would
not be just, as we do not understand the motives;
also exhorted them to use their influence for the
good of society. Spoke of tithing and the bless-
ings promised to those who observe that law, and
alluded to other important subjects.
	Mrs. Kimball followed up the subjects intro-
duced by Dr. Shipp and referred to some of her
early experiences in the Church.
	President Elmina S. Taylor then addressed the
meeting in an impressive manner; among other
subjects, spoke upon the home; urged them to
cultivate love for the beautiful, “and even though
the home be a humble one,it can be a most charm-
ing place.” Advised the young ladies to cultivate
faith, and upon other matters of importance.
	Other speakers were Miss Sarah Eddington,
Mrs. Jane Freeze, Coun. M. Y. Dongall, Mrs.
Parkinson, Prest of the Y. L. of Oneida Stake.
Each of these sisters bore faithful testimonies,
and referred to the subjects already mentioned.
	A letter written to the Conference by the Stake
President of Y. L., Mrs. M. A. Freeze, was read,
after which the Conference adjourned for three
months,with singing and prayer.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON the 17th of March a small number of the
friends of Sister Elizabeth Goddard met at her
residence in the 13th Ward, in honor of her birth-


[Column 1]
day. On that day she reached the age of seventy
years, the allotted time of three score and ten.
Congratulations were extended, and many happy
returns of the day, from all those assembled, with
increased joy and happiness each year. Pleasant
conversation was indulged in during the afternoon,
and the time passed most agreeably, as it always
does when Latter-day Saints meet to do each
other honor.  A bountiful dinner was heartily
partaken of, and after dinner there was singing by
the head of the household, Elder George God-
dard, and his son, Heber, in which several of the
company present joined. Of those present we
remember Mrs. Catherine Horrocks, Mrs. M. Isa-
bella Horne, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, Mrs. Rachel
R. Grant. Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Mrs. Ann Woolley, widow of the late
Edwin D. Woolley, Mr. and Mrs. F. D. Mitchell,
Mr. and Mrs. Will. Dougall, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
Lyon, Mr. and Mrs. Orson Woolley, Mrs. Mary
S. Goddard and daughter Nellie. Mrs. Goddard
has occupied the position of Secretary of the
Relief Society in the 13th Ward ever since its
permanent organization, and has most efficiently
performed the arduous duties of that important
office to the satisfaction of the Society. Her life,
in some respects smooth, has been rich with events
of importance, and not wanting in the sombre
shading, that gives tone and interest to the lives of
individuals, and has a tendency to elevate and
strengthen human character. Aside from domes-
tic duties and the care of a large family, thirteen
children in all, and the active responsibility of
Secretary to the Relief Society in her own ward,
Sister Goddard has devoted much time to the
Sabbath School, in which she has been a teacher
many, many years. In fact her life has been
replete with usefulness and good works. As one
of her first acquaintances in the valley, we most
heartily and sincerely congratulate her on having
attained the age of seventy with all her faculties
unimpaired,and with such bright prospects before
her of enjoying the evening of her life with the
husband of her youth, after forty and more years
of wedded happiness.  May Bro. and Sister
Goddard live to celebrate their golden wedding,
and together enjoy all the blessings of the new
and everlasting covenant, is our earnest wish and
desire.
[Column 2]
We should rise up en masse and claim our rights
as guaranteed to us by law. But such a changable
and shaky, bogus law we could put no trust in;
but if we could reach the President, and he would
listen to reason and common sense, which I be-
lieve he would, we would tell him that we are
trying to lead a virtuous, honest, moral, upright
and Christian life, and we offer up our daily pray-
ers to our Heavenly Father, that He will bestow
upon us His Holy Spirit to lead and guide us into
all truth, and that the people of Utah, in the ma-
jority, are a law-abiding people; that they desire
peace, and seek to pursue a course that is honor-
able and upright in the sight of all good men and
women. We would prohibit the use of liquor, to
lead to drunkenness, also gambling places, houses
of ill fame, and many other vices that the law
sustains. Against our own judgment and moral
conduct, our would-be reformers and oppressors
tell us this is civilization, and they say our young
people ought to be free to walk in by and forbidden
paths.
	We agree with Henry Ward Beecher, when he
said, “Bring up your sons and daughters in purity
of life, and let them not mingle with the evil in-
fluence that blots the moral character and cannot
be erased.”  The Latter-day Saints are taking
this side of the question. We will set up our
guide-boards to our youth, and write thereon this
motto: “Keep yourselves pure and unspotted from
the evils  of the world, and walk by the light of
truth, that you may go down to your graves in
honor and peace.” The world has become very
wicked, and her sins have reached up unto the
ears of the God of Sabaoth, and these words are
written on the wall, “Mene, Mene, Tekel, Uphar-
sin.”  The glory of our grand old Republican
Constitution has departed, and the Edmunds-
Tucker bill has burst asunder the national bands,
whose links were made strong by that instrument,
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, which
granted independance of mind and religious free-
dom to all its subjects; and now this partial law
grants rights to other Territories and deprives
Utah of those same rights. Where, oh where can
the justice of these measures be found? No
where, and they will tumble to pieces with the
usage. Changing an impartial law to a partial one
leads to all its attendant evils—coercion, disrespect
for other’s rights, abuse of Federal power, con-
tortion, greed for other’s hard earned means, con-
fusion and disruption of tranquility and peace.
Those who live under these disruptive technicali-
ties have no safety in the pursuit of happiness;
and when a nation takes retrograde steps it is
soon to fall in its greatness.
	I will here prophecy that not many years hence
the present state of affairs will bring about a great
revolution. This nation has risen to its zenith.
The law of God is set aside, and the fundamental
principles of the holy Scriptures are disregarded
as idle tales. Where can there be an excuse
found with Bibles all over the land? How many
are there that read the word of God and act by its
wise counsels and its noble precepts? They can-
not be found in the halls of Congress, for surely
not much of its spirit is infused into their hearts
or they would not clamor so hard for injustice.
	But we have many friends abroad, who look at
things the same as we do, who see destruction in
the whirlpool. We thank them for the offset they
made against unconstitutional measures, and those
who favor Woman Suffrage, such as Judge Black,
Senator Vest, Call, McVeagh, Bennett and many
others, that I do not now call to mind. We also
thank the Memorial Committee of women who
went before the President and spoke in our behalf.
The majority of women of this Territory are
suffragists, and while we exercised the power to
vote we were always treated with the greatest re-
spect at the polls; men and women cast in their
votes and walked peaceably away to their several
homes, and attended to their various occupations

[Column 3]
as on any other day, and the many years that I
have voted I have not seen any brawls, conten-
tions, drunkenness or rabbles, or anything to dis-
turb the peace on election day. We have always
had the right to vote in Church affairs, and voting
has been no new thing to us, to have a voice in
appointments. We have all the rights accorded
us that we desire, and by our own appointment we
vote for those who are men of honor and integrity
of character; our vote is united for a good man,
and not for a mean one.
	The wholesale bill’s ruling as it passed the two
houses of Congress, is taken up by Judge C.
Zane and stretched out to condemn everybody. It
does not stop with the Latter-day Church, but
will condemn all members of churches for its es-
tablished belief in doctrine, if derived or estab-
lished from the Bible—for it upholds plural mar-
riage throughout all its pages, and God declares
Himself the friend of those who practiced it. The
Christian world will have to deny the Bible teach-
ings, or they will abet, counsel and uphold plural
marriage, although they do not practice it, but are
parties knowing that the Bible upholds and sus-
tains this practice. “The rich man lifted up his
eyes in hell and saw Lazarus in Abraham’s
bosom” in a state of happiness. Now, God and
Abraham agreed as touching this matter, and
God has commanded His people to practice it,
and He will be their friend, and His law, made by
Him, will stand forever.
	Latter-day Saints, stand by  it, be firm, and do
not falter. Mr. Zane, are you or any of your as-
sociates believers in the Bible? Did not those
who wrote in it practice, teach and uphold this
doctrine of plural wives? If you do, how can
you conscientiously take that test oath?  I would
advise all believers in the Bible, that do not be-
lieve in it, to be careful how they use the name of
Deity in taking an oath upon such sacred matters
as concern Ecclesiastical church members, that
the law has no legal claim upon. What a mixture
of State and Church, and what a mixed up state
of affairs to hasten the end.
	M. A. M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, March 25th, 1887.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A WOMAN ON THE QUESTION OF
				RIGHT.
	The women of this community are going to
have a voice in the new law, or wholesale inquisi-
tion law, or whatever name it can be called by.
The widows of this Territory are lawful voters, as
I can prove, that when the right of franchise was
taken from us widows, in the fall of 1882, the
highest law in the land accorded us that right.
For threes years we were excluded from voting,
although we had had the right for fourteen years;
therefore, we were prohibited unlawfully; if not,
why did the law decide, in the year 1884, that the
widows were lawful voters, and they availed them-
selves of this privilege, and cast in their vote
without challenge, and to the aforesaid complaint
individually they sustained damage to the amount
of twelve hundred dallars and costs of suit. We
still remain widows, and have broken no law, and
are innocent of any offense whatever; there has
been nothing adjudged against us, and we are in-
nocent until the law proves us guilty.
    What confidence can we find in such supreme
laws, that will acknowledge and sustain its people
in certain rights, and in a short time after, before,
their words get cold, and they, take time to draw a
long breath, they condemn all they have done
formerly, and pounce upon the innocent persons
that their law set on their case and proved them
lawful voters.
    It appears to me that the law on these points is
open to the widows of this Territory for appeal.


APPRECIATION OF THE EXPONENT.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER: - The inmates of the Deseret 
Hospital, in which you have so long occupied the
position of Secretary and Treasurer, wish to re-
turn their sincere thanks to you and several
others for your valuable papers. I have often
heard the remark, during my two years' residence
in the hospital, "May God bless Sister Wells for
remembering us with her paper."
	Could you realize the good feeling of these true 
hearts who utter these words, it would lighten, I 
am sure, some of the many cares of your busy life.
If you could find time to write a few lines to our
suffering ones, who so often wish they could see
you in person (although I have explained to them
how fully your time is occupied) it would be 
another "crust of bread cast upon the water to re-
turn after many days."
	Thanks for the last papers just received, which
are at the present time in the hands of the patients,
brightening and relieving the tedium of weary
hours. I truly hope those whose names I so often
see in your good paper, will remember the sick
and suffering in their good wishes and prayers,
and also the working corps, although not needing, 
perhaps, the encouragement of the pen, yet solicit
a place in the faith and prayers of the faithful,
that we may ever be found trying in our humble 
way to do even as He would have us do. Though
I am alone, being far from every earthly tie, yet
I am not alone, for God has led me into the 
House of Truth, even into the midst of His own,
and the comfort of this gives to me and my co-
workers strength for our daily duties. We live


day by day hoping, if ever so little, that we are
helping in our Father's vinyard, and, like you,
dear sister, proving a comfort to many afflicted
ones.
	Our prayer is that you may long be spared to
continue your good work.
			Yours most sincerely,
				   MRS. JENNIE WHIPPLE,
				Matron of Deseret Hospital.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿TO THE Y. L. M. I. A.,
	RUSHVILLE DISTRICT, CLIFTON, IDAHO.

MY DEAR YOUNG FRIENES:
	How glad I am to meet you all once more
at our meeting. How blest we are, and how
happy we should be! We have kind parents,
who supply all our temporal wants, brothers
and sisters, friends and relatives, with whom
we associate daily, and here we are privileged
to meet once a week, to exchange our thoughts
and ideas, to be a mutual benefit. Each one
can gain some knowledge from the experience
all have had since our last meeting.
	There is no need to fear and tremble, when
we arise to speak, but rather cultivate confi-
dence in ourselves by speaking at every meet-
ing we attend, and by study and research dur-
ing the time we have between our meetings.
The practice of reading is a great help to
speaking. In your reading, be in earnest, al-
ways getting a perfect understanding of what
you read. Telling or writing in our own lan-
guage what we have read is an excellent way
to impress it upon our minds ready for use at
some future time.
	Besides these blessings, we should rejoice in
the knowledge that we have been privileged to
come upon the earth at this favored time, and
that we have been counted worthy to be num-
bered among the Saints of God; we should also
rejoice to know that we have come through the
royal lineage of the new and everlasting coven-
ant, heirs to all the blessings and privileges
belonging thereto.
	Now, we are all over the age of accounta-
bility; God holds each one of us accountable
for our actions. Each one has to form or
make her own character; be it good or bad,
that depends upon each one of us individually.
We are forming a character day by day. The
acts of each day form, as it were, a stone of the
main structure. How careful we should be to
have them good.
	As we pass through life, we wield an influ-
ence either good or bad, and this influence
bears upon our neighbor in a certain degree,
hence we are not only responsible for our ac-
tions, but the influence we may carry with us.
Now is the time we are building the founda-
tion of our character, and it is necessary for
us to know that we have a permanent one, one
that will stand through the trials and tempta-
tions of a life-time.
	Love should fill each heart; kindness should
dictate every action of our life; mercy should
be on our right hand and charity on our left.
The love of God and our fellow beings should
abound in our bosoms all the day long. We
should be slow to anger and quick to forgive.
We should never hold hatred against any one,
and above all, let virtue and chastity be our
crowning pride.
						D. E. DUDLEY.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS

	EASTERN ARIZONA STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake was held at Snowflake,
Friday, March 11th, 1887, commencing at 2
p.m., Mrs. Emma S. Smith presiding. After
singing, prayer was offered by Bro. Oscar

[Column 2]
Mann. Singing again. Verbal reports of ten
branches were given by their respective presi-
dents.
	Prest. Smith expressed herself much pleased
with the good attendance, and was thankful
that we were permitted to meet under such
favorable circumstances, and also pleased with
the good reports.
    Sister Sarah Driggs made a few encouraging
remarks, and made some suggestions in regard
to conducting the working meetings.
	The statistical and financial report was then
read.
    Coun. Frances White said her prayers were
continually offered for the unity of the Saints.
Spoke of the good the Society of St. Johns
had done in aiding the poor, and urged all to
be diligent in keeping the commandments of
God.
    Sister Mary J. Minnerly felt that although
we have many difficulties to labor under, we
are continually being blest and prospered. De-
sired the faith and prayers of the sisters in
her behalf, and spoke upon the necessity of
children attending the Primary.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith exhorted all to be
faithful in the discharge of their duties. Sug-
gested that each Society have one of their 
members appointed to take charge of the busi-
ness, in order to lighten the burden of the
president. “Mothers should teach their child-
ren the principles of truth and honesty, and
should seek to guard them against infidelity.”
	Conference adjourned for three; months.
Singing. Benediction by Bro. L. H. Hatch.
	DELLA FISH, Secretary.

	BOX ELDER STAKE.
	Condensed report of the quarterly conference
of the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake,
which convened at 10 o’clock on the 8th of
March, in the Tabernacle, Brigham City,
Sister Harriet A. Snow presiding. Editor
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Mrs. Emmeline
B. Wells, was on the stand, and the Stake
Board and representatives from the various
branches of the R. S. of the Stake. After
singing, prayer was offered by Coun. Susannah
T. Booth.
    Prest. H. A. Snow made some opening re-
marks.
    Sister Annie Wixom was nominated Secre-
tary pro tem. Roll called. Minutes of pre-
vious conference were read and accepted; also
the reports from the different branches.
	Prest. H. A. Snow: “I feel thankful to be
here, and see so many of my sisters present;
we want to be very particular in our duties,
that our associations may be in perfect order.
We cannot vote any more, but one loss is one
little gain; we can advocate the principle of
celestial marriage. Knowledge will give us
confidence in ourselves; we can acquire this by
keeping the commandments of the Lord in
private and in public. The daughters of Zion
have a work to perform, and if we are faithful
to our privileges we will be a power in Zion, a
help to the brethren. That we may grow in
grace and knowledge is my prayer.
    Sister E. B. Wells: “My beloved sisters and
brethren, I am happy to be here with you. I
have enjoyed the reading of the minutes and
reports. Through these organizations, that
have been established in our midst, we become
acquainted with each other’s condition. No
matter where you are, if you are zealous in
good works, and energetic in the performance
of duties, you will receive wisdom and knowl-
edge.” Referred to the sentiments expressed
by senators on our question, and spoke in re-
gard to our present circumstances, and of hav-
ing confidence in each other, and not judging
each other hastily; said these days reminded
her of the days of Nauvoo. “We must not
say all we think; it is better to stop and con-

[Column 3]
sider before speaking and answering questions,
and we cannot be too careful; we must seek for
wisdom in all our ways. We who have been
interested in the Relief Society can testify that
it has been one of the greatest educational
privileges we have ever enjoyed; I am sure I 
can. I think if there ever was a people on
the face of the earth who are practical as well
as spiritual, they may be found in the Relief
Society. The time has come when women are
remembered, and I believe in the future they
and their good works will be remembered
more than in the past. Things are not so bad
as they might be; if we keep the Spirit of the
Gospel, the Spirit of the Lord, our trials will
not be so heavy as we anticipate. We shall
endure unto the end if we keep that Spirit,
and it is to those who endure that the reward
is given.”
Singing, “Zion stands with hills surrounded.”
Benediction. Adjourned until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session: Sister E. S. Taylor had
arrived, and was with us.  After the opening
exercises, the Secretary read the condensed re-
port, also the report of the Stake treasury.
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker of Honeyville:
“We are living in a great day; many have de-
sired to live in this dispensation. I feel grate-
ful that we have passed through so many
scenes, and are still numbered among the Lat-
ter-day Saints. It is well for us to look to our-
selves, and see if we are standing on the right
foundation.”
Sister M. A. Hubbard: “We have great rea-
son to rejoice if we possess the Spirit of the
Lord while passing through every scene; I re-
joice in the principles of the Gospel. We
have everything to encourage us. Let us al-
ways feel subject to the Priesthood, cherish and
sustain them.
	Sister E. B. Wells said: “In regard to the
world, there never was more inquiring con-
cerning this people than at the present time."
Spoke eloquently in regard to having all the
laws tested. Said, “If those who feel weak
will bear their testimony, it will strengthen
them. We should uphold and sustain the
Priesthood. I believe it is every one's privil-
ege to have that Spirit within that will direct
them through all places and show them the
truth. Some say, ‘I have a strong testimony,
but cannot give it.’ ” She believed it necessary
to testify for the good of others. I can testify
that I have lived in the principle of plural
marriage many years, and enjoy the associa-
tion and blessing attending it. No condition is
more conducive to the cultivation of human
character, to the putting away of selfishness
and disciplining one’s self. To love a sister-
wife is indeed noble. We shall enjoy the sweet
Spirit of the Lord, and our trials will be sancti-
fied for our good if we go through them with-
out murmuring and complaining, but if we
always murmur, the Spirit of the Lord will
leave us.” Encouraged the sisters to bear
their testimony to the world, to write for the
EXPONENT. “I have always said from the be-
ginning of this persecution, that we will be
pretty well instructed in law and government
before we get through. I believe it is just as
necessary that women should understand princi-
ple, and be able to answer any question proper-
ly, as it is that our brethren should, who go out 
to preach the Gospel. Those who come here of
late, generally expect us to be nearly perfect;
if we are not, we certainly are striving to be.
My prayer is that we may gain the victory."
Prest. E. S. Taylor: "I think there is one
good thing accomplished by this persecution,
that of drawing the Saints together; no matter,
as long as we have the love of the Gospel we
are united; they may put our brethren in
prison, but as long as it tends to purge out the
hypocrite of Zion I think we do not need to
fear our enemies, but more false brethren and
false sisters. Some say we are given to pride


[Column 1]

each one can examine themselves. The great-
est gift is charity; it covereth a multitude of
sins; we must do to others as we would that
they should do to us. No one can do the work
for us; each one has to do her part, and stand
on her own individuality; I thank God for it.
Every good act the Lord will reward, for He
is just; as Sister Wells said, 'If we always had
justice we should not be tried at all.'" Spoke
of the beauty of wives putting themselves into
each other's place; "do to others as you would
like to be done by; the same with those who
have help, and those who work for others; we
are all selfish, but we should cultivate the
Spirit of Christ. Let us be thankful if we
understand principles better than others, and
teach and have charity for those who don't.
As Sister Wells said, 'Try to get the spirit of
every principle.' When we get so firmly estab-
lished, that we have a love of it, we shall see
the beauty of the principle of plural marriage;
we shall feel that Father is at the helm,
full of mercy and love; let us kiss the rod
whenever we are smitten."
	Emilia D. Madsen made a few remarks:
referred to the subject of doing good to others,
and quoted the Savior's words, "Some have en-
tertained angels unawares," ect.; also, "Inas-
much as ye have done it unto one of these
little ones, ye have done it unto me," and gave
excellent advice on these two subjects.
	Sister Peery of Three Mile Creek: "I think
we have had a feast; what are we without the
Spirit of the Lord? He is a Father and
friend in very deed; let us be humble and
prayerful; He knoweth the desire of our
heart."
	Sister Wixom and Sister Dewey each spoke
a short time.
	Prest. Harriet Snow: "I feel thankful for
this conference, and what has been said; I wish
we had time to hear from all the presidents."
	Singing, "How firm a foundation." Bene-
diction by Coun. Olivia Widerborg.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.

Y. L. M. I. A., BOX ELDER.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of Box Elder
Stake, convened in the Tabernacle at Brigham 
City, March 9, 1887, a large assembly of young
ladies being present. On the stand were Terri-
torial Supt., Elmina S. Taylor, Stake Presi-
dency, branch presidents and representatives;
also Harriet A. Snow, Prest. of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake.
	After the usual preliminary exercises, em-
bracing roll, minutes and reports from nine of
the various associations, read by the Secretary,
Lydia S. Pierce. introductory remarks were
offered by Supt. Minnie J. Snow.
	The first exercise on the programme was an
essay on health, creditably given by Susan
Hubbard of the Willard Association. Lecture
upon the "Personality of God," by L. S. Pierce,
giving proofs from the Bible, and Phena
Madsen proofs from Church works. The sub-
ject was efficiently treated upon, each showing
a thorough research and comprehension of the
subject. A vocal selection, "Ever Constant,"
was sweetly rendered by Miss Martha Wright
of the 1st Ward, Brigham City.
	Territorial Supt., E. S. Taylor, addressed
the assembly: In remarking upon young
ladies educating themselves to fill useful posi-
tions, advised the study of phonography.
Spoke in high praise of the able manner in
which the preceding lectures were given. Said,
"The fact of our Lord and Savior appearing
and revealing the plan of salvation to Joseph
Smith, an illiterate youth, should ever be an
invincible proof to us of the truth of our re-
ligion." Considered woman's franchise a
privilege given of God. Though now unjustly
denied our rights in this regard, believed they
would be restored in the near future. "It is
natural for women to be just and love morality;

[Column 2]

were they allowed to legislate and create laws
there would be no drinking saloons and other
institutions of immorality and vice in our
midst." Referred to present fulfilment of
prophecy; believed the Mormon girls the
brightest, as a majority, of any class with
whom she had met in the world. Encouraged
them, through prayer and watchfulness, to
fortify themselves against temptation. Ad-
vised the observance of the commandment,
"Honor thy parents," and claim the blessings
promised as a reward. Condemned tight lac-
ing and other practices abusing the laws of
health, and advised the cultivation of good
taste in dress.
	After singing and prayer, conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened by singing, "I'll
serve the Lord while I am young." Prayer
was offered by Prest. Harriet Snow. Con-
densed report of the Stake read, after which
Alvira Rees was presented by Supt. E. S.
Taylor and sustained as Corresponding Secre-
tary for the Stake.
	Subject, "The higher culture of woman,"
was treated upon in a practical and impressive
manner by Coun. Hattie Jensen. "Will the
good old times come back again," was sung by
Misses Ettie and Louisa Madsen of the 3rd
Ward.
	Encouraging and instructive remarks were
made by Avilla Christensen of Bear River
City Ward, Eliza Davis and Ettie Madsen of
the Fourth Ward.
	Sister Taylor expressed her pleasure with
the exercises and manner of presenting the
programme. Offered instructions regarding
the order and laws necessary to be observed in
governing these associations. Dwelt upon the
duties of officers. "Where organizations are
effected, the Stake Supt. of Y. L. M. I. A.
should be present; also the Bishop of the ward.
When difficulties arise in these associations, go
for counsel to the Stake Supt., and should the
matter not be satisfactorily adjusted, appeal to
the Territorial Supt., before engaging the at-
tention of the Priesthood.
	Prest. M. J. Snow expressed a pride and
pleasure in laboring with the intelligent young
ladies comprising these associations, and noting
the rapid improvement and progress apparent
in our midst.
	"All is Well," was sung by the assembly 
with spirit and feeling. The benedictory
prayer was offered by Prest. Marion Peery.
Conference adjourned for three months.
	On the evening preceding our conference
about thirty of the officers of the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Brigham City, some from the neighbor-
ing towns, and a few invited guests, assembled
at the residence of Prest. Minnie J. Snow,
where the evening was pleasantly and profitably
spent. Mrs. Lydia S. Pierce, Misses Ettie
Madsen and Alvira Rees acted as programme
committee, Presidents Fannie Graehl, S. A.
Wrighton, C. Hanson and Freddie Widerborg
as committee on refreshments.
	The exercises commenced with singing. The
following address was given by the Prest:

"My Dear Young Sisters and Co-laborers in the
Cause of Improvement:

	"In obedience to the request of our pro-
gramme committee, I arise to offer a cordial
greeting and a hearty welcome to all present.
	We have gathered this evening to meet with
our beloved and esteemed Prest., Sister Elmina
S. Taylor, and in behalf of the young ladies
of the Mutual Improvement, offer our hospi-
tality and welcome her to our city, to listen to
words of advice, counsel and instruction, that
the Lord shall inspire her to utter; also to par-
take of the blessings of sociability and friend-
ship, increased and intensified by that love
known only to those having a knowledge of
the Gospel. How comforting, beautiful and

[Column 3]

grand are the principles of our holy religion,
and how blessed are we to be chosen from
among the many to labor in the Lord's vine-
yard for the establishment of these glorious
truths in the hearts of the fair daughters of
Israel.
	"We should indeed feel proud of such a
mission, and, sensing its importance, should
ever inspire our hearts, stimulate our actions,
elevate our ambitions and direct our energies,
to prove to our Heavenly Father, angels and
people, that we are worthy of that noble call-
ing.
	"When life's dream is ended, may we leave
behind unmistakable traces of an earnest, ac-
tive and faithful life; then, when meeting our
Savior at His throne of glory, merit the wel-
come plaudit, 'Well done, thou good and faith-
ful servant,, enter thou into the joys of thy
Lord." To realize the fulfillment of this
glorious hope it is necessary that the spirit of
obedience be cultivated, selfishness repressed,
union and confidence be preserved. May the
blessings of God be ours in rich abundance,
the spirit of intelligence and love flow from
heart to heart, making this a season of rejoic-
ing long to be remembered with pleasure and
satisfaction."
	The company now repaired to the dining
room, and surrounded the tastefully spread
tables, with their inviting supplies, generously 
provided by the young ladies.
	Grace was offered by President Harriet A.
Snow, who invoked the blessings of God upon
these His daughters. Our hearts ascended to
God in prayer for Apostle Lorenzo Snow, de-
prived of this, his former home, and the so-
ciety of his family, that peace, comfort and the
blessings of heaven descend upon him accord-
ing to his requirements.
	The ceremony of discussing the tempting
viands came next, and was disposed of most
satisfactorily, every one throwing off all re-
straint and vieing with each other to be agree-
able and contribute to the enjoyment of the
occasion. The bright young faces, the intelli-
gent countenances, beaming with smiles, and
the beautiful surroundings, presented, indeed,
a pretty picture. The supper over, all were
seated in the parlor, when Sister Taylor ad-
dressed the company as follows:
	"I am happy to be here; it does my heart
good to see your bright, happy faces, glowing
with intelligence and truth; also to witness
 your union. I thank you sincerely for the
kindness shown me to-night. It is truly grati-
fying to associate with young ladies on occa-
sions of this kind, who can deport themselves
politely, with propriety, and yet be filled with
joy and mirth. If proper, I would wish that
your lives always be pleasant and happy, and
your trials very light. May God watch over
you and keep you pure."
	The rest of the evening was devoted to
speeches, testimonies, reading, interspersed with
vocal and instrumental music, until a late hour,
when ended a very interesting occasion, par-
ticularly remarkable for the freedom and sweet
spirit of genuine good will that characterized
every feature of the entertainment.
	Respectfully,
		ALVIRA REES, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿ORGANIZATION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A special meeting of the Beaver Relief So-
ciety, having been called on the 16th of Dec.,
1886, to consider the advisability of dividing
the Society and organizing one in each ward, it
was unanimously agreed by the Stake Presi-
dency, Bishops, and Society, that it would be
proper and in keeping with the times to do so.
The former organization was dissolved, and
presidents chosen for the two wards. The


meeting then adjourned until the 31st of Dec.,
when the organizations were completed with
the following officers:
	For the First Ward, Ruth W. Tyler, Presi-
dent; Jane R. Baldwin and Charlotte Carlow,
Counselors; Alice M. T. Tanner, Secretary;
Mary A. White, Treasurer. For the Second
Ward, Harriet E. Fotheringham, President;
Mary Campbell and Orissa Harris, Counselors;
Hettie Gentry, Secretary; Mary E. Murdock,
Treasurer.		
	The sisters are taking hold with renewed
energy and diligence, to accomplish that for
which the Societies are organized, viz., to assist
the bishops in looking after the needy, etc. A
great deal has already been accomplished in
each ward, and all feel that the division of the
Society will be productive of much good. The
utmost union and harmony exists, and there
never was a time when there was more interest
taken than at present.
		LUCINDA HOWD, Prest.,
		ALICE M. T. TANNER, Sec. pro tem.
	Beaver City, U. T., March 10, 1887.


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the “French Craze” for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
land scapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N.Y.


BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—A I'd Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy's Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won't You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don't Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor's Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack's Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight, This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We 
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	He who shall introduce into public affairs
the principles of primitive Christianity will
revolutionize the world.—Benjamin Franklin.

		Up to labor! from thee shaking
			Off the bonds of sloth, be brave!
		Give thyself to prayer and waking,
			Toil, some fainting heart to save!
							—Miss Bremer.

	Happiness is a roadside flower, growing on
the highways of usefulness; plucked, it shall
wither in thy hand; passed by, it is fragrance
to thy spirit. Trample the thyme beneath the
feet; be useful, be happy.—Tupper.


OBITUARIES.

	Died, at Meadow, Millard Co., Feb. 11, 1887, Sarah L.
Stott Bond, in her forty-fifth year, after a short, but severe
illness. Sister Bond emigrated from London, England,
while yet a girl, singly and alone, and came to Fillmore,
where she became the wife of William Stott, to whom she
bore a family of children, three of whom are now alive.
She was left a widow, and was married to Wm. Bond but
a few months previous to her death. She died as she had
lived in full faith of the Gospel. She was much respected
as the President of the Primary Association of this place,
which position she filled with honor from the organization
of the Association. At her funeral consoling remarks were 
made by Bishop H. B. Bennett and Elders William
Stewart and John Nield.
				
						ELIZABETH BUSHNELL,
						HANNAH STEWART,
									Counselors.

	[The following obituary notice has been overlooked, for
which we are very sorry, yet feel, although late, should
find a place in the columns of our paper:—ED.]

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	With feelings of deep sadness I record the death of
another faithful, untiring and dearly beloved member of
the Relief  Society of Kamas. Sister Mary Lewis departed
this life May 29th, in her fifty-ninth year, leaving to mourn
her loss her beloved companion, Bro. Morgan Lewis, with 
whom she had gathered to Zion from their native country,
Wales, and with whom she had uncomplainingly passed
through such hardships as few, even of the early settlers of
these mountain vales, were called to endure. Together
they had nursed through thirteen years of suffering a dearly
loved daughter, who was in childhood stricken with that
terrible malady, rheumatism, and lingered in much suffer-
ing for years, till her pure spirit was freed by death. In a
little less than four years her mother has followed her, 
leaving, also, a daughter and four sons, the oldest of whom
is a helpless invalid, having for two years been afflicted with
the same disease that carried off his sister. For his sake
the fond mother desired to tarry, saying, "Joseph is getting
better now, and I long to see him once more on his feet;
and to His will I bow." In her the afflicted of our com-
munity have found a true and tender consoler. She was
ever patient, cheerful and charitable, and our Society has
lost one of the most faithful of its members. The deepest
sorrow and sympathy is felt for the bereaved family, and 
fervently we pray the blessings of God on them, that they
may acknowledge His hand, and that they may follow her
bright example.
							 LAURA C. PACK.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	-	25c. per copy 
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.		"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-	$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving 
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE 
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of 
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50		"

[Column 2]
R. K. THOMAS 

EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS 

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
