VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1886.	No. 13.


AFTER OPPRESSION—FREEDOM.

MAY L. MARLER.

In these valleys of the mountains
	Dwell a people much oppressed;
	In these valleys of the west,
With their crystal flowing fountains,
	Here they thought they would find rest,
	But, alas! they're sore oppressed.

Driven out from eastern homes,
	For obeying God’s command—
	To this far western land
Their weary feet did roam,
	And with strong and willing hand
	They tilled the sage brush land.

They made a land of beauty
	Of a dreary desert place;
	They're a righteous, honest race,
And have ever done their duty,
	Thanking God for every grace,
	And for this safe resting place.

But, lo! our rest is broken,
Eastern Senators have spoken,
	And their laws they think in preference
		To God's laws must be obeyed;
They believe not God's commandments,
So they're making "new amendments,"
	And they think upon this people
		They will make an awful raid.

When oppress'd, we cling together,
And their laws can never sever
	Our hearts from wives and children,
		Nor break divine command;
Though we suffer by laws they make,
We’ll bear it for the Gospel's sake,
	And bravely hope for freedom
		In this our promised land.

Bye and by, when God has tried us,
	Till no dross with us remains—
Then, these men that have belied us,
	Who at present hold the reins,
Will see our land restored to freedom,
	And our people greatly blest;
Utah then will prove a haven
	To all those who are oppressed.

Soda Springs, Idaho, June 12, 1886.


MAY WE PASS THE “NARROWS”
		   IN SAFETY.
			
	   May we safely pass the "narrows,"
	      Is the prayer of many a heart,
	   Which cruel persecution harrows
	      With its bitter, piercing dart.

	   Very narrow now the path is
	      Which the true Saint has to tread,
	   Winding through courts and prisons, ’tis
	      Enough to fill the soul with dread.

	   Yet, nothing strange to us has come,
	      The former Saints were also tried; 
	   To suffer is the common doom,
	      Unless the "faith” can be denied.

	   But firm in truth’s great cause then stood
	      Those worthies of a former day,
	   Who "all things” suffered and endured
	      Rather than throw the pearl away.

	   The prize they sought was life eternal,
	      A life beyond the power of death;
	   Fraught with joy and biss supernal,
		That would not vanish with their breath.


They in safety passed the “narrows,”
	      For in Israel’s God their trust:
	   By faith in Him they burst the barriers
	      The wicked placed around the just.

	   What were bolts and bars to Peter,
	      When he was into prison cast,
	   Safely bound with chain and fetter,
	      With soldiers charged to keep him fast?

	   How very narrow was the road
	      For Daniel, made by wicked men.
	   When he must cease to pray to God,
	      Or go into the lion’s den.

	   Of this aware, he did not falter,
	      Although he knew the king’s decree,
	   Made by laws that none could alter,
	      On him must executed be.

	   The “narrows” he in safety passed,
	      Though hungry as the lions were,
	   And for this reason made to fast, 
	      They could not hurt—his God was near.

	   Straight and narrow was the pathway
	      By the Prophet Nephi seen;
	   And mists of darkness on it lay,
	      Nor ray of light scarce intervene.

	   But clinging to the Iron Rod,
	      Through all the turmoil and the strife,
	   Pressing along the narrow road,
	      Many did reach the “Tree of Life.”

	   Be the “narrows” e’er so narrow.
	      God can bring us safely through;
	   He who careth for the sparrow,
	      Careth for His children too.

	   And although the fiery arrows
	      Thick and fast around us fly,
	   All will safely pass the “narrows”
	      Who on Israel’s God rely.
						   HANNAH CORNABY.
Spanish Fork, Nov. 9, 1886.


[column 1]
VIEWS ON PLURAL MARRIAGE.

BY ONE WHO HAS HAD A LONG
EXPERIENCE.

     If strangers wish to know the views of 
women who have entered into the order of
plural marriage, as revealed by God our Hea-
venly Father in this age and ages past, I, for
one, take great pleasure in setting forth mine,
which are founded on Bible testimony and di-
rect revelation from a higher source than man.
I was first taught this divine principle in the
renowned city of Nauvoo.  The stand point
was the holy Scriptures.  Was it right in the
sight of God for holy men of old to marry
more than one wife?  Yes, they echo back, as
did Jacob when Esau, his brother, said to him,
"Whence came all these," he saw so numerous,
Jacob answered, "These are the children God
hath so graciously given thy servant."  And
these were through four plural wives.  "And
God appeared unto Jacob again; and God said
unto him, I am God Almighty: be fruitful and
multiply; a nation and a company of nations
shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of
thy loins."  "And the land which I gave
Abraham and Isaac to thee will I give it, and
to thy seed after thee will I give the land."
Genesis.  "And now I expect to go up on
Jacob's ladder, for it was set up on the earth,
and the top of it reached to heaven, and the
Lord stood above it, and said to Jacob, And 
thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth; and

[column 2]
thou shalt spread abroad to the west and to
the east, and to the north and to the south; and
in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of
the earth be blest."
     I feel thankful that I have had the privilege 
to climb Jacob's ladder, that when I reach the
top I may see the face of my Heavenly
Father, and receive my blessings, for there is
no other way to obtain them only as the Lord
has spoken through men who begot offspring
by plural wives, notwithstanding the court's
interpretation, that the first wife is the only 
legal wife.  Rachel, then, was not a legal wife?
Jacob, being a Patriarch, blessed her offspring
with eternal blessings, and said, "From thence
is the Shepherd, the stone of Israel."
     Now we are told by the interpreters of the
law, that Latter-day Saints are criminals, and
their marriages are after the heathen nations. 
But the house of Israel, God's chosen people,
were the only ones that married by God's di-
vine law, and He sanctioned their marriages,
and God's prophets gave plural wives to right-
eous men by that law, and no other people could
hold their wives in eternity, let them marry
one or more.  And so it is now; civilized na-
tions marry one wife only, and heathen nations
marry more than one; but God views them all
in one condition; they all marry "till death
doth us part," and not by God's law, for eter-
nity.  And none can marry by this law only
those who hold the holy Priesthood after the
order of the Son of God, as the ancients held
it.  Then why do they fret themselves about
us?  No other people on the face of the earth
but God's people, whom He has chosen to bear
His Priesthood, and set up His kingdom on
the earth, preparatory to His coming, can give
any woman to a man, that he can hold not only
for time, but eternity; and as the Savior an-
swered the Sadducees, that in the resurrection
they neither marry nor are given in marriage.
These ordinations have to be performed here
in holy temples.  "That which is sealed on
earth is sealed in heaven;" and, "What God has
joined together let no man put asunder."  You
lawyers read your Bibles, and you will see a
woe pronounced against you by the Savior,
"who lay heavy burdens upon the shoulders of
others," etc.  You are fighting against God's 
work and not against man's, and that to
your sorrow and downfall.  Every weapon
that is formed against Zion shall perish,
and Zion shall prosper and become the joy of
the whole earth.  For Zion is the pure in 
heart, the covenant people of the Lord.  They
who make covenant by sacrifice and keep the
commandments of the Lord, even as Abraham
did; for the Lord said, "That he will command
his children and his household after him, and
they shall keep the way of the Lord to do
justice and judgment."  Paul says, Romans,
last chapter, 25-26 verses: "Now to him that is
of power to establish you according to my
Gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, ac-
cording to the revelation of the mystery, which
was kept secret since the world began," "but
now is made manifest and by the Scriptures of
the prophets, according to the commandment
of the everlasting God, made known to all na-
tions for the obedience of faith.
     The Latter-day Saints are obedient to that
faith established by prophets of old.  He chose
a generation from plural wives to place His
name on them to serve Him to the end of time.
Exodus, chapter 19, verse 5:  "Now, therefore,
if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my


covenant, then ye shall he a peculiar treasure
unto me above all people, for all the earth is
mine." 6th verse: "And ye shall be unto me a
kingdom of priests, and a holy nation." Now,
all the surrounding nations worshiped idol gods,
and this displeased the Lord, and on Mount
Sinai He spoke to the children of Israel by
Moses: "Lo, I come unto thee in a thick cloud,
that the people may hear when I speak with
thee." That they might know Him, the true
and living God, whom to know is life eternal,
and Jesus Christ, whom He has sent. The
lineage of our Savior is from plural wives. St.
Luke, chapter 1st: "And hath raised up a horn
of salvation for us in the house of His servant
David." 55th verse: "As he spake to our
fathers, to Abraham and to his seed forever."
The Savior said He came not to destroy, but
to fulfil the law. "Blessed are they that do
His commandments, that they may have right
to the tree of life, and may enter in through
the gates into the city." Thereon are written
the names of the twelve tribes of Israel.
	I have quoted sufficient Scripture to prove
that salvation comes by a God, who gives what-
ever commandment He sees fit; and obedience
to that will justify all mankind, for He will
reign triumphant over all.
			MARY ANN MERRILL PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 7, 1886.


98				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
﻿AN OLD LETTER.
	[Some apology may be necessary in publish-
ing such an old letter from a person unknown,
but my mother wrote it when in Nauvoo wait-
ing with the others until they could follow
those who had gone on ahead to open up the
way into the desert. She afterwards died
upon the journey, and sleeps in an unknown
grave upon the wild prarie; she died of the
hardships and suffering that followed the
driving of the Saints across the river, where
they suffered for lack of shelter and suitable
food at the time of the terrible mobbings and
difficulties. Many others suffered the same
fate. I do not propose to enter into particu-
lars, but that mob and those who instigated
them will have many deaths and much suffer-
ing to account for in a day to come.—Ed.]
		NAUVOO, ILL., August 4th, 1846.
TO MY DEAR CHILDREN, HENRY AND LUCY:
	We received your letter with most grateful
thanks to Almighty God for His goodness.
Yes, my children, we do mourn the death of
little Francis. I feel the earthly loss greatly.
He was indeed a remarkably beautiful child,
but now glorified and more beautiful in the
heavenly courts above. I am glad that you
have his portrait; it will be a comfort; but we
shall see our dear ones with immortal bodies,
nevermore to part. I am firm in the belief of
the coming of Christ, and the final restoration
of all things. Time is bringing forth teachers
and preachers new and old. It is a day of
wonders, a day of gospel grace and of salva
tion to those who believe and obey. I do most
earnestly beseech of you, in the name of Israel’s
God, not to murmur at our absence; we shall
soon leave this blood stained place and journey
about four hundred miles from here to remain
for the winter. Those who have not teams are
sending for them. Hiram was going out to
stay with Emmeline and help take care of
herds, but he was sick and could not go then,
and I am counseled by a sister not to let him
go, but keep him with me, as there are none
but men alone there now.
	The mobocrat spirit is influenced anew. The
settlers that bought property of the Mormons
are taking in new comers, and all their talk is
of whipping, hauling and driving them from
place to place until worn out—burning houses,
fields, fences, wheat, corn, and everything, to

[column 2]
make the people leave the city, so that they
can come in and plunder. Still, my children,
I must tell you I am not sorry, nor never have
been, that I came here. This beautiful place
has all been built up by poor, persecuted Mor-
mons—Latter-day Saints. The Temple is ad-
mired by every beholder. yet we leave this
great work of art with pleasure, because God
has so ordered it. We will go and build up
another, “and another shall not inherit it, saith
the Lord.”
	I presume you have heard that five hundred
of our young men of the camp have enlisted in
the U. S. service to go out to Mexico
under pay for their services. Some are
going to take up their line of march next
Spring and cross the Rocky mountains. If it
be the Lord’s will, He will prepare ways to
bring us all together as one family. Though
unseen to you now, my dear children, God is
over all, and sees the end from the beginning.
Read His word, watch the signs of the times,
ask wisdom of God, who giveth and upbraid-
eth not. Take care to read all the news, and
strive to get at the truth; put away prejudices;
you will see the hand of the Almighty Creator
in this movement; a great destiny is bound
upon it. We need have no fears for the future;
though trials must needs come, we know that
He who controls all events—without notice not
even a sparrow falleth to the ground, “whose
path is in the great waters,”—directs this move-
ment with a design (though, as yet, to the
world incomprehensible) that will unfold, step
by step, to the wonder and admiration of mil-
lions yet unborn.
	August 5th.	Oh, my darling little Catha!
My precious, sweet pet! you cannot think how
much your far-away grandmother longs to see
your dear face once more, and your aunties,
Maria and Ellen, want to see you; we all think
and talk of you often. The girls have been
out blackberrying; they went in a California
wagon; quite a number of the boys and girls;
you would have liked to be with them I know;
they are all as merry as birds, but I am disap-
pointed, for not one berry have they brought
back; but I will tell you what they have brought
back, some peaches, wild plums, crab apples,
hazel nuts and wild flowers; we have nice grape
and blackberry wine here also. Dear, darling
Croyden! grandmother wants to see you, too.
I just went to the door and saw a steamboat
coming up the river; it soon stopped, for it
could not get over the rapids, the water is so
low, but I could not see my dear little Carry
and Loui; if I had, your Uncle Hiram would
have taken his paddles and little canoe and
gone to fetch you to me; but he says to tell you
to grow fast, and come west and help him hunt
the buffalo and deer; they are plentiful where
we are going.
	 I hope in my heart that I shall see you all
good children. Mind your father and mother,
and this Scripture always, too; do not forget it:
“Remember thy Creator in the days of thy
youth;” then the blessings of peace will follow
you all the days of your lives, May the Lord
bless you all, my beloved children, and have
you in His holy keeping, is my daily prayer
for you, and in His own good time bring us all
together again.
	Oh, I do long to hear where my boy is now!
Where has Manson gone? You wrote the
family that they were to go with Mr. K—
and Rice this fall; I do hope that they are all
together now; I am very anxious to hear how
they are and where. Tell me all you know
about them; if Manson is with them, as I hope
he is, and as soon as I know where they are, I
will write to him before we leave here. Oh,
my son, I do feel very anxious for thee! Give
my love and kiss those dear little boys for their
grandmother, if they are there yet. Tell your
brother James I will write to him before we
leave here. Oh, my son James! if he had come

[column 3]
and gone with us a mother’s blessing would
have been more to him than all  the treasures
of this world. Give our love to him, and re-
member us to all friends left behind. We
have had letters from all the children left but
Manson and James; I think it very strange,
and wonder that they do not write. I shall be
more than glad to hear from you all soon again.
Do write, Lucy!
	Good news has come in from the camp of
Israel; all are well and happy; they are going to
winter on the Bluffs, only three hundred miles
from here; the journey will be shorter than we
expected, and the horses will be back the
sooner, if the weather is favorable.
	August 6th. It is very hot and dry here at
prosent. Maria is not at home to-day;  she has
gone to Brother Gorlie’s to teach Louisa to
braid hats. O my Lucy! I must now tell you
something new (under the sun) that has hap-
pened to me; your industrious, busy mother has
been out of work; had nothing particular to do
—I bought a skein of cotton yarn, and am knit-
ting for myself. Please give my love to Fanny
Granger; tell her I think she has done well to
bear a son to her husband in his old age. May
the child become a staff and stay to them both.
Remember us to Calvin Wilson; tell him to
keep his promise and come west next fall. He
can have all the painting he can do of any
kind. There are some excellent painters and
first class mechanics from all parts of the
world. He can hunt and fish, play the violin
—we believe in innocent amusement and recrea-
tion, “a time and season for all things,” accord-
ing to the Scripture. We may have a sumptu-
ous feast and merry time yet together, kill the
fatted calf—at any rate, when my children
come I will make merry for them. Give my
love to Mr. Hinckley, poor old man! Try to
be patient, and I am sure you will Lucy, and
all will come out right in time. I would like
to write more, but my pen is nearly worn out,
and I want you to be able to read what I do
write, so I will draw to a close.
	Do not forget to watch and pray. You
have a very precious charge, and many cares,
but put your trust in God, and strength will
be given you according to your day and your
need. May the love of our Father and the
blessing of His peace abide with you ever, my
dearly beloved children.
		This from your affectionate
			MOTHER AND GRANDMOTHER.


THE SCOTCH GIRLS.

	The Scotch people are very fine looking, and
their faces have great strength of features and
at the same time much refinement. The Scotch
girls are exceptionally fine looking, and even
among the lower classes you see very many re-
fined faces. In the stores there are lady clerks
who would pass muster as well bred girls any-
where, and many of the barmaids in the whisky
shops are beauties. The women of Scotland
do a great deal of work. A white-capped,
middle-aged, rosy-cheeked lady usually pre-
sides over each of the largest hotels, and near-
ly all the railway restaurants are managed by
women. Both sexes in Scotland have, as a
rule, good, healthy physiques. There are
more tall men and women than in America.
They have better complexions, a more active
walk, and are, as a rule, stronger and
healthier.


The fact is that a certain class of men love
to be quiet, and are ready to sell their country
to the evil one himself, that they may live at
ease and make no enemies. They have not
the manliness to plead for the right, for it
might cost them a customer or a friend, and so
they plead a superior holiness as an excuse for
sulking.—Spurgeon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOW LONG, O LORD?

			BY M. J. TANNER.

My spirit is with thee, my heart is oppressed
With the sorrows of Zion, my home in the west;
And the voice of thy mourning is with me to-day,
For the tears of His children the Lord will repay.

I will turn to the mountains, my footsteps once more
Shall tread in thy green grassy vales as of yore;
And my song shall arise as an anthem of woe,
For thy sons that are chased as the wild mountain roe.

He has hardened the hearts of the Pharoahs, to-day,
And their hands are upheld by Thy beloved ones to stay,
And the cries of thy orphans are borne on the gale
And the tears of thy widows no pity avail.

Great Spirit Almighty! how long wilt thou prove
The hearts of Thy children, the sons of Thy love;
How long shall the tears of Thy daughters arise,
And the prayers of the martyrs ascend to the skies.

How long wilt thou suffer their blindness and lust
To trample the hearts of Thy Saints in the dust;
How long will the light of Thy smile be withdrawn,
Ere the darkness of night be dissolved in the dawn.
	East Saginaw, July, 1885.


ADDRESSED

TO SISTER FANNY BROWN, ON HER DEPARTURE
			FROM OUR HOUSE.

	Sister dear!  I hate to lose you
		From my home, where long you've staid,
	And my heart would ever choose you
		Of friendship as a timely aid.

	Let me tell you how I've found you—
		Ever kind and ever good;
	Meek and kind to all around you,
		An honor in the place you stood.

	Often were you left alone;
		Business call'd your love away;
	Yet none heard, or sigh, or groan,
		But filling duties of the day.

	Faithful wife and loving mother;
		As a neighbor good and kind;
	Nought to vend about another,
		Of their doings—faults to find.

	Lady! Sister, I present you
		To your Sisters; aud would say
	Here is one to represent you
		If you'll follow in her way.

	Now the unpleasant word farewell
		I must speak it for a time
	May love and peace forever dwell—
		And God be with you Sister Mine!
							HANNAH T. KING.
Dernford House, October 1, 1874.


[For the EXPONENT.]
			MARRIAGE.
	We learn from the Bible that the first com-
mandment given to our first parents was, "Be
fruitful, and multiply and replenish the earth."
There has also been much instruction given
in this dispensation in regard to this very im-
portant subject. Doctrine and Covenants,
page 197, verse 15, says: "Whoso forbiddeth
to marry is not ordained of God."
	I firmly believe if there is a people on the
earth, who are trying to carry out this divine
commandment, it is the Latter-day Saints. I
am very well acquainted with the people, and
have been a close observer, and being an assist-
ant in the Primary Association, and a mem-
ber of the Young Ladies’ Association, I have
a good opportunity to see the pains taken with
the children of the Latter-day Saints, by both
parents and teachers, and indeed it is wonder-
ful the intelligence that is manifested by these
precious children, in reciting, singing and

[column 2]
writing. It makes me think there are not many
pleasure seekers among the mothers, if frivolity
is the leading feature with some. It really
seems there are many who endeavor to make
duty a pleasure. I feel that those who seek
much after the pleasures of this world get
their reward as they go along. I sometimes
think if the mothers of the United States
could only see the beautiful sights I so often
see, not saying anything about Sunday School
and day schools, which are well attended, we
would never hear of such assertions as I will
copy from J. H. Kellog's Doctor Book, page
35. "From a very large verbal and written
correspondence in this and other states, I am
satisfied that we have become a nation of
murderers." Said a distinguished clergyman
of Brooklyn, in a sermon, "Why send mission-
aries to India, when child murder is here of
daily, almost hourly occurrence; aye! when the
hand that puts money into the contribution
box to-day, yesterday, or a month ago, or to-
morrow will murder her own offspring?"
	"Whether this gigantic evil can ever be eradi-
cated is exceedingly doubtful. To effect its
cure would be to make refined Christians out
of brutal sensualists; to emancipate woman
from the enticing, alluring slavery of fashion,
to uproot false ideas of life and its duties, in
short to revolutionize society. The crime is
perpetrated in secret. But the evil is a des-
perate one, and is increasing. Let every Chris-
tian raise the note of warning. From every
Christian pulpit let the truth be spoken in
terms too plain for misapprehension. Let
those who are known to be guilty of this most
revolting crime, be looked upon as murderers,
as they are, and let their real moral status be
distinctly shown." Could not the Latter-day
Saints consistently enough say, "Why send
officials to Utah, if this is the condition of af-
fairs?" Are they not planning their own de-
struction in these murders of unborn infants?
Can they expect that they will always be pros-
pered when they are "lovers of pleasure more
than lovers of God," and neglect to "multiply
and replenish the earth," for marriage is but a
low mockery except we endeavor to carry out
that which our Father in heaven intended we
should.
	The great excitement which prevails at the
present about the Mormons, as they generally
call them, puts me in mind of the expression,
"Little troubles are noisy, but big ones are
dumb." According to predictions made by
Isaiah, the big ones have not come yet. Isaiah,
49th chapter, 26th verse says: "And I will feed
them that oppress thee with their own flesh;
and they shall be drunken with their own
blood as with sweet wine; and all flesh shall
know that I, the Lord, am thy Savior and thy
Redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob." Of
course the Saints believe this applies to them,
and they sometimes say, as is often remarked,
"It is necessary that offenses come, but woe!
unto those by whom they come."
	Who knows but the present crusade is in-
tended to take away those things from the
daughters of Zion, which Isaiah the Prophet
said should be taken away. Of course it is
very natural for us to love the things of this
world, but we should not let ribbons and laces
become stronger fetters than iron chains, caus-
ing us to neglect our more important duties
in the marriage relation.
	I will conclude by saying, my venerable
grandmother has told me many little incidents
which occurred when she first came to the
valleys, when she was raising her large family,
and if nothing happens more than I expect, I
may say more about the marriage question at
some future time.
	Ever praying for Zion's triumph, I remain,
as ever,			Your friend,
						M. J. MORRISON.
	Nov. 6th, 1886.


FROM ONE WHO KNOWS.

	Having read in the WOMAN'S EYPONENT
a request of the sisters to furnish some sub-
stantial testimonies upon the subject of plural
marriage I will here say I have had a long and
happy experience in that celestial order of
marriage.
	In the spring of 1851 my husband married
a second wife in obedience to the counsel of
those, that had a right to counsel him and be-
cause he sincerely believed the principle to
be true. I was willing and even anxious that
he should do so for I know he did it to be
obedient to the law of God and not from any
spirit of selfishness, and we lived together, the
second wife and myself, for two years; then it
pleased God to call her from this world and I
felt her loss deeply. I was glad when my hus-
band married another wife and although we
have passed through some trials during the
twenty-two years we have lived in this order
together yet we know it is the will of our
Heavenly Father that we should be tried in
all things and I am fully convinced that it is
right and that the principle is a divine one.
	In any of the trying scenes that I have
passed through I never have said I was sorry
we had entered into that order of marriage or
obeyed that principle for I have had testi-
monies in my own experience that have con-
vinced me of its truth. I cannot give the
event or the evidence  in writing that have
convinced me but the spirit of the Lord has
enlightened my mind and borne witness to its
truth. My husband has been dead now five
years and we, his wives, both of us, look for-
ward to the time when we will meet him in the
resurrection. We expect to be reunited with
our husband in the celestiel kingdom of God
having kept the celestial law.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
						C. H. Martin.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The New York Bureau of Labor Statistics
reports that 200,000 women in New York City
represent ninety-two trades.

	The nineteenth annual Washington conven-
tion of the National Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation will be held Jan. 25, 26 and 27. Head-
quarters at the Riggs house.

	The House of representatives of Vermont
passed the bill granting municipal suffrage to
women by a vote of 135 to 82. Rhode Island
has also passed a bill of the same character.

	Dr. Newman has permitted the introduction
of a novelty in his Washington church, in the
shape of a reply from the members of the con-
gregation to the statements of the preacher.
Much good might come from such a plan in
many churches.

	The Liberal ladies of England recently held
a great demonstration at Cheshire, at which
time it was decided to form a Woman's Liberal
Association to combat the work of the Prim-
rose League and to contribute to the return of
Mr. Gladstone to power at the next election.

	The National Woman's Suffrage Association
will celebrate at Washington, D. C., in 1888,
the fortieth anniversary of the first woman
suffrage convention ever held. At this time a
World's Woman Suffrage Association will be
formed, and advocates of this reform in all
countries are invited to participate.

	A Vermont correspondent informs us that
women in that State must own taxable property
in order to vote for school committee, but need
not own two hundred dollars’ worth. The pay-
ment of a tax on proporty, however small,
qualifies women to vote. Men, on the other
hand, can vote upon payment of a poll-tax.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		  - 		  Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						   SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY, 		-		DECEMBER 1, 1886.


MR. CURTIS' LETTER.

	George Tickner Curtis Esq. an able and
learned as well as brilliant lawyer of Washington
has written a letter to the Secretary of the Interior
giving his opinions and views of the Mormon
question, and making specific recommendations.
Mr. Curtis has carefully studied and
examined the grounds and has arrived at his con-
clusions without prejudice. He has manifested a
liberal spirit and feelings of humanity in setting
forth his arguments upon this matter. It is to be
hoped that the people of the United States gen-
erally will have the opportunity of reading and
considering his letter. It will be edifying to any
one and cannot fail to do a large amount of good
wherever it is circulated. His reasoning is hu-
manitarian to say the least. He has no idea of
advocating the methods of modern warfare.
	It will be remembered that this gentleman of
the law made a very candid and exhaustive speech
on the Snow case before the Supreme Court in
Washington last spring and is expected to appear
in the segregation of cases that is to come up
there before the Supreme Court sometime
in January. It is a consolation at a time
when the country seems flooded with bit-
terness and prejudice against our people, to
find a man so clear-headed and large-souled as
well as fair-minded and honest as Mr. Curtis, and
one, too, who is disposed to speak for the perse-
cuted and oppressed, even though his belief is not
in harmony with theirs.
	Mr. Curtis is a thorough gentleman of the old
school and has a most wonderful memory of both
dates and events; his knowledge of facts and
figures so many years back was a perfect surprise
to us; he is a most agreeable, animated and enter-
taining conversationalist, and never seemed to tire
of Mormon subjects.	
	Mr. Curtis' letter speaks volumes to those who
are trying to rob an unoffending and unpopular
people of the freedom to which they are entitled
as citizens of the United States, and the rights
they have so dearly earned in settling the desert.
Everybody should read it and cannot fail to be
edified.


[Column 1]
		THE INDUSTRIAL HOME.

	During the summer we devoted much space to
the discussion of the introduction into Congress
of the bill of Mrs. Angie F. Newman, asking
that Honorable Body to appropriate $100,000 to
the Industrial Christian Home Association for
the construction and equipment of an institution
such as the bill specified.  Congress made an ap-
propriation of $40,000 for the purpose designated,
viz. to provide means "for self-support of the
dependent classes in Utah and to aid in the sup-
pression of polygamy therein." Such an institu-
tion might perhaps be made self-supporting and
even a money making affair if the Mormon women
[---] be induced to become recreant to the prin-
[---]r religion, and deny the faith.  But

[Column 2]
Mrs Newman and the other ladies interested in
this institution will find, and Congress will also
comprehend in due time, that the offer made them
and terms specified will be rejected in the same
sort of way as the proposals of His Excellency,
Gov. West, to the brethren in the Utah Peniten-
tiary, imprisoned there for conscience sake.  Mor-
mon women are as true, as loyal and as constant
to the principles they have embraced and in
which they steadfastly believe as their brothers,
and are also as willing to suffer for the truths’s
sake and have proven it again and again in days
that are past, and at the present are giving abund-
ant testimony of integrity and selfsacrifice.
	With the Mormon woman her religion is more
than her life, more than food or raiment and cer-
tainly she will not prove false for the sake of
these.  The family ties and associations are some-
thing so sacred that they cannot be broken with
impunity.  Even were they as unhappy as they are
represented, they would still cling to the faith and
the principles which they know are of divine origin.
Happiness is not the highest object to be attained
here ,or, at any rate, happiness in the common
acceptance of the term.  To do the greatest good
to the greatest number, to be instrumental in en-
lightening the human family in regard to the way
of salvation and an exaltation hereafter is an ob-
ject worthy self-denial and even suffering.  No
one will tell us that those who possess the great-
est amount of knowledge are the happiest; not at
all.  It is said “knowledge is power” but we have
never heard anyone say knowledge is happiness.
Yet there have been many striking instances of
the true happiness of Latter-day Saints under the
most trying circumstances.  Every day,almost,we
come in contact with women,who bear the strong-
est testimonies possible of the happy condition of
large patriarchal families.  But were it not so
what will not woman do for her religion,her family
and her home.  And when these home ties, these
holy obligations extend into eternity reaching out
into the future ages beyond the finite conception,
is any sacrifice too great to make in order to se-
cure the blessings of the family relationship and
of progression for the ages to come?
	Mrs. Newman and the other would-be benevo-
lent ladies know so little of the hopes that ani-
mate Mormon women,that it is impossible for them
to give any verdict in the case.  Time will prove
how much endurance, fortitude and courage these
women,many of them young,possess; and whether
they have not as much real, true, genuine love for
the husband they have chosen, as those who have
“a man all to themselves,” which is brought for-
ward as the strong point in favor of the opposition.
Women in all the ages of the world have proved
their love and constancy in the marriage relation
to be of superior quality so far as enduring trials,
privations, sufferings and even cruelty for love
alone, but love joined with religions principle
must be of even a stronger character.
	The Woman’s Indusrial Home in this city will
remain empty, unless women of other denomina-
tions find employment and means of a livelihoud
within its walls.  It may be that some who have
once been members of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints may be willing to accept the
conditons of “The Home,” but it will be those
who are in darkness who have not the Holy Spirit
abiding in them.
	We understand the place in the Twelfth Ward
formerly occupied as the Deseret Hospital has
been leased and that a very competent woman
from Kansas, Mrs. Dr. Wood, is to have charge
of it as matron.  In the city of Washington or
almost any large city in the States, and at any rate
in several towns in Kansas such an institu-
tion would be largely patronized no doubt,
but in Utah there is not the least need of
it.  There is more household and other work
for women than there are women to do it, and

[Column 3]
it is a needless appropriation by Congress, for
a purpose that has no real existence.
	History records notable incidents of women who
have made the most heroic efforts to save one be-
loved, a husband or a lover.  There is probably
no instance upon record of the devotion and hero-
ism of any women that might not have a parallel
in Mormonism.  Certainly their record has already
proven that they are capable of making sacrifices
such as are unequalled by any other women in the
present day at least.  Queen Elinor, wife of Ed-
ward the First of England, sucked the poison
from the wound her husband had received in the
Holy war from a poisoned arrow.  She considered
not her own life in the matter but only to save one
dearer than life itself.  There are things one
might feel to do under pressure or a complication
of circumstances brought about by the persecu-
tion against one’s religion for the sake of a princi-
ple,  and  for  the  one  beloved  that  would
be still more of a sacrifice than to
lay down one’s life. There is no such
thing as setting any bounds in reference
to woman’s devotion to the man she loves
It is one of the things that it would be entirely
impossible to tell.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly rooms on Thursday December 9th, com-
mencing at 10 a.m., and at 2 p.m.  A verbal re-
port from each branch in the Stake will be ex-
pected and it is most desirable that the President
or one of her counselors should be present to
make the report and clearly represent the con-
dition of the respective branch over which she
presides.  It is earnestly hoped that this advice
will be acted upon that the President may know
as much as possible of the spiritual as well as
the temporal condition of each of these organiza-
tions in the Stake.
	ON Friday December 10th the Young Ladies’
Associations of this Stake will hold their quarter-
ly conference at the same place,the meetings com-
mencing at 10 a.m., and at 2 p.m.  The presidents
are expected to make verbal reports personally
or through one of the counselors.
	ON Saturday the Primary Associations of the
Stake will hold their regular quarterly conference,
and it is expected there will be a good attendance.
The exercises will be interspersed with singing
and reciting.  All who are interested in these or-
ganizations are cordially invited to attend the
conferences.
	The regular meeting of the officers of the Y. L.
M. I. A. in this Stake, which occurs on the first
Saturday in every month, will be held hereafter
(for the present) in the Relief Society Hall in the
Fourteenth Ward instead of the residence of Mrs.
E. S. Taylor; the attendance at these meetings
is so large that Mrs. Taylor’s parlor proves too
small a place.  The Relief Society Hall is in
the upper part of the brick building just west of
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on first
south street.  All those interested in mutual im-
provement are cordially invited.  Meetings com-
mence at 11 a.m. The next one will be December
4th.  The entrance to the hall is in the rear of the
building.


HISTORY OF JOSEPH SMITH.

     We have reason to believe that many things
were introduced among the Saints, before God had
signified the times; and, notwithstanding the princi-
ples and plans may have been good, yet aspiring
men, or in other words, men who had not the sub-
stance of Godliness about them,—perhaps under-
took to handle edge tools.  Children, you know,


[Column 1]
﻿are fond of tools, while they are not yet able to
use them.
   Time and experience, however, is the only safe
remedy against such evils.  There are many
teachers, but perhaps not many fathers.  There
are times coming when God will signify many
things which are expedient for the well-being of
the Saints; but the times have not yet come, but
will come, as fast as there can be found place
and receptions for them.
   And again we would suggest for your considera-
tion the propriety of all the Saints gathering up a
knowledge of all the facts and suffering and
abuses put upon them by the people of this State;
and also of all the property, and amount of
damages which they have sustained, both of
character and personal injuries, as well as real
property; and also the names of all persons that
have had a hand in their oppressions as far as
they can get hold of them and find them out; and
perhaps a committee can be appointed to find out
these things, and to take statements and affidavits,
and also to gather up the libelous publications
that are afloat, and all that are in the magazines,
and in the encyclopedias, and all the libelous his-
tories that are published, and are writing, and by
whom, and present the whole concatenation of
diabolical rascality, and nefarious and murderous
impositions that have been practised upou this peo-
ple, that we may not only publish to all the world,
but present them to the heads of government in
all their dark and hellish hue, as the last effort
which is enjoined on us by our Heavenly Father,
before we can fully and completely claim that
promise which shall call him forth from his hiding
place, and also the whole nation may be left with-
out excuse before he can send forth the power of
his mighty arm.
   It is an imperious duty that we owe to God, to
angels, with whom we shall be brought to stand,
and also to ourselves, to our wives and children
who have been made to bow down with grief, sor-
row and care, under the most damning hand of
murder, tyranny and oppression, supported and
urged on,and upheld by the influence of that spirit
which hath so strongly riveted the creeds of the
fathers, who have inherited lies upon the hearts
of the children, and filled the world with confusion
and has been growing stronger and stronger, and
is now the very main spring of all corruption, and
the whole earth groans under the weight of its
iniquity.
   It is an iron yoke, it is a strong band; they are
the very hand-cuffs, and chains and shackles and
fetters of hell.
   Therefore it is an imperious duty that we owe
not only to our own wives and children,but to the
widows and fatherless, whose husbands and
fathers have been murdered under its iron hand; 
—which dark and blackening deeds are enough
to make hell itself shudder, and to stand aghast
and pale, and the hands of the very devil trem-
ble and palsy.  And also it is an imperious duty
that we owe to all the rising generation, and to all
the pure in heart, which there are many yet on
the earth among all sects, parties and denomina-
tions, who are blinded by the subtle craftiness of
men whereby they lie in wait to deceive, and only
kept from the truth because they know not where
to find it; therefore that we should waste and wear
out our lives in bringing to light all the hidden
things of darkness, wherein we know them; and
they are truly manifest from heaven.
   These should then be attended to with great
earnestness.  Let no man count them as small
things; for there [--] much which lieth in futurity,
pertaining to the Saints, which depends upon
these [---]gs.  You know, brethren, that a very
large sh[-]p is benefited very much by a very small
helm in the time of a storm, by being kept work-
ways with the wind and the waves.
   Therefore, dearly beloved brethren, let us

[Column 2]
cheerfully do all things that lieth in our power,
and then may we stand still with the utmost as-
surance, to see the salvation of God, and for his
arm to be revealed.
   And again, I would further suggest the impro-
priety of the organization of bands or companies
by covenant or oaths, by penalties or secrecies;
but let the time past of our experience and suffer-
ings by the wickedness of Doctor Avard suffice,
and let our covenant be that of the Everlasting
Covenant, as is contained in the holy writ, and the
things that God hath revealed unto us.  Pure
friendship always becomes weakened, the very
moment you undertake to make it stronger by
penal oaths and secresy.
   Your humble servant or servants, intend from
henceforth to disapprobate everything that is not
in accordance with the fullness of the gospel of
Jesus Christ, and is not of a bold, and frank, and
upright nature.—They will not hold their peace as
in times past when they see iniquity beginning to
rear its head, for fear of traitors, or the conse-
quences that shall follow by reproving those who
creep in unawares, that they may get something
to destroy the flock.  We believe that the experi-
ence of the Saints in times past has been suffici-
ent that they will from henceforth be always ready
to obey the truth without having men's persons in
admiration because of advantage.  It is expedient
that we should be aware of such things; and we
ought always to be aware of those prejudices
which sometimes so strangely presented them-
selves and are so congenial to human nature,
against our friends, neighbors and brethren of the
world, who choose to differ with us in opinion and
in matters of faith.  Our religion is between us
and our God.  Their religion is between them
and their God.
   There is a tie from God that should be exer-
cised towards those of our faith,—who walk up-
rightly, which is peculiar to itself—but it is with-
out prejudice, but gives scope to the mind which
enables us to conduct ourselves with greater lib-
erality towards all others that are not of our faith
than what they exercise towards one another.
These principles approximate nearer to the mind
of God, because it is like God, or godlike.
   Here is a principle also which we are bound to
be exercised with, that is in common with all men,
such as governments and laws and regulations in
the civil concerns of life.  This principle guaran-
tees to all parties, sects and denominations, and
classes of religion, equal,coherent, and indefeasi-
ble rights; they are things that pertain to this life;
therefore, all are alike interested; they make our
responsibilites one towards another in matters
of corruptible things, while the former principles
do not destroy the latter, but bind us stronger and
make our responsibilities not only one to another
but unto God also.  Hence we say, that the Con-
stitutiou of the United States is a glorious stand-
ard; it is founded in the wisdom of God.  It is a
heavenly banner—it is to all those who are privi-
leged with the sweets of its liberty, like the cool-
ing shades and refreshing waters of a great rock
in a thirsty and a weary land.  It is like a great
tree under whose branches men from every clime
can be shielded from the burning rays of an in-
clement sun.
   We, brethren, are deprived of the protection of
this glorious principle, by the cruelty of the cruel,
by those who only look for the time being, for
pasturage like the beasts of the field, only to fill
themselves; and forget that the Mormons as well
as the Presbyterians; and those of every other
class and description, have equal rights to par-
take of the fruits of the great tree of our nation-
al Liberty.  But notwithstanding we see what we
see, and we feel what we feel, and we know what
we know, yet that fruit is no less precious and de-
licious to our taste; we cannot be weaned from the
milk, neither can we be driven from the breast;
neither will we deny our religion because of the

[Column 3]
hand of oppression; but we will hold on until
death.	
   We say that God is true; that the Constitution
of the United States is true; that the Bible is
true; that the Book of Mormon is true; that the
Book of Covenants are true; that Ghrist is true;
that the ministering angels sent forth from God
are true, and that we know that we have an house
not made with hands eternal in the heavens,whose
builder and maker is God:—a consolation which
our oppressors cannot feel, when fortune, or fate
shall lay its iron hand on them as it has on us.
Now, we ask, what is man?  Remember brethren,
that time and chance happeneth to all men.
   We shall continue our reflections in our next.
   We subscribe ourselves, your sincere friends
and brethren in the bonds of the everlasting gos-
pel, prisoners of Jesus Christ for the sake of the
gospel and the Saints.	
   We pronounce the blessing of heaven upon the
Saints who seek to serve God with undivided
hearts, in the name of Jesus Christ.  Amen.
				JOSEPH SMITH, jr.,
				HYRUM SMITH,
				LYMAN WIGHT,
				CALEB BALDWIN,
				ALEXANDRR MCRAE.
   Deseret News, Feb. 2d, 1854.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

			SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	Semi-monthly meeting, held August 21st,
Prest. M. I. Horne presiding.  After singing,
prayer was offered by Coun. Elizabeth Howard.
Continued by singing, after which the
minutes of previous meeting were read and
approved; also minutes of Y. L. M. I. A. of
the 4th Ward, and P. A. of the 4th, 15th and
16th Wards.
	Prest. Horne, in her opening remarks, ob-
served that this was a time when we ought to
be specially united.  Compared the people to
the children of Israel when they thought the
Lord had forsaken them, as we sometimes
think He has forsaken us.  God has designed a
dividing line to be drawn between this people
to separate the clean from the unclean; had
heard Prest. Young say that if he did not re-
prove the people and check them he would be 
held responsible.  Surely the Prophet's words
were being fulfilled; that the very air was
filled with evil spirits.
	Coun. Sarah M. Kimball had been reading
the history of ancient days, and thought we
were situated similarly to what they were,
easily led astray; the distressing news of various
nations, which she had heard on her return
from her "out" in the mountains, where she
had been for several weeks, had shocked her
greatly.
	Prest. Horne made a few remarks upon faith
and the practice of the principles which we
have embraced.  "We are to be judged by our
works, and not alone by our faith."
	Coun. Howard was glad she had the privilege
of spending a few more days in the Logan
Temple. Thought if we would remember the
counsel that we receive in the Temple, and put
it into practice, we would be a better people.
Made some remarks on Sabbath breaking;
counseled the sisters to keep the Sabbath day
holy, and to reason with their children. Re
ferred to the united order; thought it was go-
ing to be a great trial to the people.
	Coun. M. W. Snow spoke of her recent visit
to Idaho, where she had attended the meetings
of the sisters, and found them improving.  Had
also visited the Temple at Logan; said many
good things.
	Coun. B. W. Smith wished we could lay
aside all our follies and meet together more
often.
	Sister Young thought we had had a feast of


good things; testified to the truth of all that
had been said.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox said we should not
shrink beneath the chastening rod, and bore
a faithful testimony.
	Sister L. G. Richards had been visiting in
the country, and had enjoyed it very much,
and made a few remarks on Sabbath breaking.
	Prest. Horne reminded the Presidents and
Secretaries of the Relief Society Conference,
and adjourned the meeting for two weeks.
Singing.  Benediction by Sister M. Brown.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A REPORTS.

			WASATCH STAKE.
	The Semi-annual conference of the Wasatch
Stake was held at Heber, Nov. 5th.  On the
stand were Prest. Emma Brown and Counselors
and the presidents of the different branches,
Coun. Thomas H. Giles, several bishops and a
number of the other brethren.
	The choir sang,  "Sweet is the work,” prayer
being offered by Sister Mary E. Cluff.  Minutes
and written reports were read and approved.
Prest. Emma Brown and her Counselors, Sis-
ters Daybell and Alexander, dwelt strongly on
the subjects of the word of wisdom, and train-
ing the minds of the young to fit and prepare
them for future use in the kingdom of God.
	All the branches, eight in number, were
most ably represented by their presidents; also
a large number of members from each place.
The verbal reports were as usual, showing no
decrease in either members, or energy on the
part of the sisters.
	Coun. T. H. Giles encouraged the sisters;
Bishop R. S. Duke also spoke well of the ener-
getic enterprise among the sisters.  Said, “We
must strive to fulfill every duty required of a
Latter-day Saint.”
	The meetings were well attended, the sing-
ing by the choir excellent, and a good spirit
prevailed  throughout.   Each  went  home
strengthened, edified and encouraged.
	Conference adjourned for six months.  Sing-
ing.  Benediction by Bishop R. S. Duke.
			JOSEPHINE CLUFF JONES, Sec.

			JUAB R. S. AND P. A.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As I have never seen anything in the
columns of our valuable paper about the Relief
Society of Juab, I thought I would send you
a few items.
	The 30th of October was the third anniver-
sary of the organization of our Relief Society
and Primary Association.  We had a very en-
joyable time; the programme occupied two
hours, with songs and recitations, dialogues and
reports of the Associations, by members of
both.
	After the exercises were over, we had some
very good instructions given us by Sister Pitch-
forth and Bishop Taylor, and at one o’clock a
meeting was called of the sisters, and addresses
were made, in which encouragement and much
good and very valuable instructions were given
from Prest. Pitchforth and Brother and Sister
Bigler of Nephi.
	In the afternoon we had a dance for the
children, and for the older folks at night.
	The Relief Society here was re-organized on
the 16th of last April, with Sarah M. Boyack,
President; Christina Jenson and Mary E. Tay-
lor, Counselors; Frances Jackman, Secretary;
Bell Taylor Assistant Secretary; Christina Jen-
son Treasurer.  The Primary of this place
was re-organized on the 13th of last September,
with Ruth E. Chase, President; M. Boyack and
Annie Jennings, Counselors; Jane Olerton,
Secretary; Retta Olerton, Assistant Secretary;
May Wilson, Treasurer.  The Relief Society
have nineteen members enrolled, and the


Primary have twenty-five.  Both organizations
are in a prosperous condition at present.  I re-
main,
	Yous co-laborer in the cause of truth,
						S. M. BOYACK.
Nov. 8, 1886.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.]
		HENRIETTA’S PARTING.

			BY EMILY B. SPENCER.

	Time passed on.  The meetings were the de-
light of Henrietta’s heart, and the brethren of
the Saints and the sisters in the Church were
as dear to her as her own relatives.  Her heart
was filled with love and peace, and the spirit of
gathering rested upon her, and she longed to
journey to the far off Zion, to the valleys of
the mountains.
	Her lover, to whom she had plighted her
troth, bade her good bye, starting ahead of his
parents and relatives, so as to make them a
home in the Far West.  The parting was not
very sad, for Henrietta expeeted to follow in a
few short months.
	They passed away quickly.  The time had
come when the agonizing parting between
mother and daughter, brothers, and sis-
ter took place.  The carriage was at the door.
Her mother was weeping, wringing her hands
and tearing her hair in grief at parting with
her beloved daughter, and brothers and sisters
were crying.  Henrietta’s heart filled with
sorrow, for she knew it was parting from them
until they met in the great hereafter.
	Giving parting  kisses and words, she ran
from the house and jumped into the waiting
carriage, that bore her swiftly away from her
childhood’s home, her dear and loved mother,
her brothers and sisters.
	Nothing but the love of the Gospel could
have induced her to part with them, and it was
this love that gave comfort to her sorrowing
heart.
		HENRIETTA'S VOYAGE
	The ship lay at anchor.  It was to be the
home of many a Saint for the long weeks they
floated upon the broad ocean to the western
land.
	It was late in the afternoon when Henrietta
came on board, and on the crowded deck order
had not reigned.  She sat on her trunk watch-
ing the fading shore, the blue waters, the many
ships, the tired groups around her, until the
twilight faded, and royal night, bejeweled with
stars, was her companion.
	Through the long hours of the night watch
she thought of her mother, brothers and sisters,
her lovely Scotch home, and many friends.
	Farewell! she had said to all a long, long,
long farewell, and well might her youthful
heart feel sad, as she realized that it might be
a last farewell.
	Then came the comforting assurance that
she was only obeying the command of God,
whose spirit impelled the Saints to leave their
native land and flee to Zion, afar off in the
tops of the mountains.  The cheering influence
of His Spirit fell upon her heart, and as she
mused-upon His goodness and merciful kind-
ness, in restoring the Gospel to the earth, and
in bringing her to a knowledge of the same,
her heart with happiness overflowed.
	Then came the thoughts of the future, and
glad anticipation swelled her bosom, as she
dwelt upon the meeting with her lover in a city
of the west.
	Stars rose and set.  The great dipper wheeled
around the polar star, and at last the brilliant
morning star arose to herald the approach of
day.  Faint bars of light appeared in the east,
widening and brightening, until the fleecy
clouds blushed rosy red, then turned to purple

[Column 2]
and gold, as the king of day asserted his sway,
and smiled once more upon the world.
	But as his rays lit up the shore and beach,
the busy city and calm ocean, the beautiful
panorama of the skies faded, and distinctly
every object was presented to the observant
eye.  
	Soon the deck was cleared of boxes, trunks,
bundles and people, and eyerybody knew where
their own little home was portioned off, and
order was restored.  The ship moved slowly
out to sea, the land was lost in the receding
distance, and the first day of the voyage be-
gan.


ITEMS FROM ST. GEORGE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Although so far removed from “head-
quarters” we do not wish to be considered by
our northern friends as out of the world, and
so I take my pen to give you a few items con-
cerning the sunny south.
	The health of the people is generally good,
although, during the fall quite a number of
children were afflicted with a kind of intermit-
tent fever, all of whom recovered.
	During the past few days three of the mem-
bers of our ward have been laid away to their
final rest, viz.:  Sister Annie Burgess Syphus,
from the effect of puerperal convulsions.  She
leaves a husband, a new born babe, parents,
brothers and sisters to mourn her sudden de-
mise.  She was a good, true woman, and much
sympathy is felt for her friends in their afflic-
tion.
	A few days later Sister Mariette Calkin
passed away after a few days illness.  The
cause of her death was a cold, which settled on
her lungs, though she has been very feeble for
a long time, being kept up only by her strong
will.
	Her face will be missed from among us, still
we feel that she is happy, having joined her
husband and children, all of whom died many
years ago.
	Following closely upon Sister Calkin, Bro.
Wm. G. Perkins, Patriarch, or, as he was more
generally known, “Uncle Billy,” was gathered
to his fathers.  Old age and general debility
was the cause of his death.
	He has been in a very low state for a long
time, and there is a general feeling of relief
that so good a man is relieved of his sufferings;
also of sympathy for his aged companion in
her lonely condition.
	On the 18th inst. a very enjoyable time was
spent by the members of the Fourth Ward Re-
lief Society and their friends, the event being
the 70th birthday of Sister Anna L. Ivins,
Stake President of Relief Society.
	The Sisters planned a surprise for Sister
Ivins.  Tables were spread in the Lyceum, at
which a hundred people sat down.  After sup-
per, Sister Eyring, in behalf of the R. S., pre-
sented “Aunt Anna” with a nice shawl.
	Speeches were made by a number of the
brethren, which were listened to with great in-
terest.  At dark the party broke up, all feel-
ing amply repaid for their efforts to do her
honor.
	We are having a snow storm to-day, an un-
usual thing in Dixie.
		Wishing you success, as ever,
							CACTUS.


A SIMILAR INCIDENT.
SISTER WELLS:
     In perusing the EXPONENT of October 15th,
I noticed an article signed "Aunt Em," the
caption “When we were Girls.”  It brought to
mind an incident similar, only "When we were
Boys.”


Some four or five years ago, I had been ab-
sent three or four days; on my return I was in-
formed that a fine old gentleman had called to
see me, claiming acquaintance in the days of
"Auld Lang Syne."  I not being home, he left
his address:  Orrin W. Giles, Lyons, Wayne
Co., N. Y.  Judge of my feelings.  He and I
were boy and young men associates until I left
New York for Nauvoo in 1843.  The day I
celebrated my twenty-first birthday, he was one
of the party.  At my wedding, in 1825, he
was one of the guests. He came to Ogden to
visit a son, Frank Giles.  He said he happened
to think I had come to Utah. The first man
he made inquiry of informed him of my place
of residence.  We had not heard of each other
for verging on forty years.  He died three
years ago, aged eighty-one years.  I was seven
months his senior.  I am this day eighty-five
years, four months and twenty-eight days.
						   T. COLBRON.
	Peterson, Morgan Co., Dec. 1st, 1886.


Mrs. Elizabeth Lisle Saxon was in Utah
several weeks in the fall of 1882, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Amelia F. Young, and is one of
the few, who, after being entertained and kindly
treated here, has never, to our knowledge,
spoken a word against the Mormons, but wrote,
about that time, some very strong letters to
eastern papers, that were published in full.
She has a kind heart, and although she did not
accept the Mormon doctrine, she saw much to
admire and praise, and was not afraid to say
so.—ED.
	"Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer is soon to publish a
corrected and revised edition of her "Sonnets,"
with the addition of some not hitherto printed.
She will have a paper in the December num-
ber of the Contemporarg Review, on the rela-
tion to health and physical development of the
higher education and the intellectual effort of
women."
	Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer visited Utah in 1884,
and we had the pleasure of meeting her two or
three times.  She and her husband dined with
President Taylor and a number of his friends
at the Gardo.  She spent an evening at our
home, and gave us a very good idea in her
conversation of George Eliot's evening recep-
tions, where the Literati of London were wont
to assemble.  She spoke in the highest terms
of praise of George Henry Lewes.  At that
time Mrs. Pfeiffer was greatly interested in
dress reform, and wore that evening a dress
which was simply a silk shawl, so arranged as
to be a graceful and perfect dress, which she
explained to us as her idea of symplicity and
elegance. Mrs. P. has written some of the
best articles on woman's suffrage we have ever
seen, and they have attracted a great deal of
attention by members of Parliament.  Since
her return to England she has published an
interesting book, charmingly written, entitled,
"Flying Leaves From The East and West."—
ED.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE TO MARGARET
			FULLER.
	Mr. Herbert M. Sylvester, speaking last
week before the Quincy Woman Suffrage
League, paid a high tribute to Margaret Ful-
ler, He said:
	"As we recall Emerson and Thoreau and 
others of the early Transcendental school,
there comes to mind another within that
charmed circle whose influence upon the
women of America was not the least in im-
portance: I mean Margaret Fuller. Perhaps
no woman of cis-Atlantic reputation has left
a more marked impression of her own indi-
vidualism upon the literary history of her
country. The character of Margaret Fuller
is one to be studied by every young woman
of honest purpose and honest ambition. Every
nerve and fibre of her grand womanhood re-
sponded to the desire to make the name and
vocation of woman honorable not only in the
household but in the world of letters. Her
great sincerity was her passport to the success
which has been awarded to her in latter years,
and which has given her a memorable name
and place among the 'men of letters' who have
made their country famous.
	"No woman possessed a more marked indi-
viduality, and no woman of an earlier or a
later date has made a more lasting and benefi-
cient impression upon those who knew her
personally or upon those who have become ac-
quainted with her through her writings. Not
every one  may have benefit of such stern
training as fell to her lot; not every one may
be formed in such trenchant mould, mentally,
as she; and yet without such she might have
lost her poise and even her noble purpose in
the grander struggle she was making in the di-
rection of woman's emancipation from the
then senseless and unjust discrimination which
greeted her efforts.	*	*	*	She 
was the pioneer in woman's work, and as such
she has won the highest honor. Every woman
ought to feel it in her to say, "God bless the
memory of Margaret Fuller." It is from such
that humanity learns the lessons of its better
living. As the powerful blows of the smith
shape the metal, hot and glowing upon his
anvil, so the Margaret Fullers, the Emersons
and Thoreaus of to-day will leave the impress
of personality upon the material which is to be
wrought into the thought of the days to come.
Let no woman fear to do her best, for her re-
ward is sure."—Ex.


[column 1]

		NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

Mrs. Mary Mapes Dodge has resumed the 
editorship of St Nicholas, at a salary of $5,000
a year.

[column 2]

	Mrs. P. D. Armour, of Chicago, is a practi-
cal philanthropist. One of her works is a
mission school, the maintenance of which costs
$10,000 a year.
	Miss Rose Coglan began her professional
life as a witch in “Macbeth,” and when the
time came for her to speak she ran off the stage
in a fright.
	Mme. Adam, who is in failing health, is
about to retire from the editorship of the Paris
Nouvelle Reveu. She will be succeeded by
Doctor Cryon, an intimate friend of M. Kat-
koff, a Russian physiologist. Dr. Cryon was
formerly co-editor with Jules Simon of the
Gaulois.	
The Princess Louise has made several draw-
ings for the Youth's Companion to illustrate in
anticle on “Salmon Fishing on the Casca-
pediac,” by the Marquis of Lorne. They use
the money which they receive for their work
in helping poor English and Scotch families to
emigrate to Canada. 
Miss Jean Ingelow has met with a deep
affliction in the sudden death of a beloved
brother, William Frederic, Ingelow, whose
home was with her in London. Writing to a
friend, she hopes that her correspondents in
the United States will not feel hurt because of
her apparent neglect in answering their let-
ters.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Merriam Putnam, who cele-
brated her 102d anniversary at her home near
Danvers, a few days ago, still lives in the
house to which she came as a bride eighty-two
years ago. Mrs Putnam is believed to be the
oldest living teacher. She taught school for
two summers before she was married—the
summers of 1803 and 1804.
	It was a Chinese empress, See-heig, who,
somewhere about 2,800 years B. C., first dis-
covered and utilized the product of the silk
worm. Finding the fibres fine and strong, she
prosecuted her researches, learned how to breed
and rear the worms and initiated a new industry
The world is thus indebted to a woman for one
of its great manufactures.—Chicago Tribune.
	Miss Alice R. Jordan, the young lady who
took the degree of L. L. B. at Yale College
last June, and who is the first and only lady
who ever graduated from that institution, is
but twenty-three years old. Two years ago
she was admitted to practice in the Circuit
Courts, and last week was admitted to practice
in the Superior Court. Michigan is her native
State, and it is proud of her.
	According to Fraulein Louisa Lauw, Mme.
Patti deliberately proposed to the Marquis de
Caux, and not he to her. One evening, while
they were sitting chatting alone, he innocently
mentioned that Paris reported them to be en-
gaged, and he laughed. “Very well—why not?
I should be very happy, I am sure,” returned
Adelina; and with some pleased confusion the
Marquis, accepted her hand then and there.
	A meeting of women who are lawyers and
government clerks was held October 19th, at
the residence of Belva A. Lockwood, Washing-
ton, D. C., to offer a tribute to the virtues, the
statesmanship and the beneficence of the late
Chief Justice, Salmon P. Chase. Mrs. M. D.
Lincoln presided at the meeting. Complimen-
tary resolutions were offered and remarks sus-
taining them were made by Mrs. Lockwood,
Mrs. McPherson, Mrs. Dennison and Mrs.
Chambers, after which the resolutions were
adopted.	
At the close of a woman suffrage meeting in
Kansas recently, “Mrs. Saxon held a mother's
meeting, at which she moved many to tears
and all to a new appreciation of the responsi-
bility and dignity of womanhood.”


MISCELLANEOUS.

	History is the revelation of Providence.—
Kossuth.
	We cannot conquer fate and necessity, but
we can yield to them in such a way as to be 
greater than if we could.—Hannah Moore.
	A book is a living voice.  It is a spirit walk-
ing upon the face of the earth.  It continues 
to be the living thought of a person separated
from us by space and time.  Men pass away:
monuments crumble to dust—what remains
and survives is human thought.—Smiles.
	That was a sweet thought by the child who 
said:  "Mother," one cold, windy night, wak-
ing up as her mother went through the chamber,
"mother, I asked God to take care of some
poor child, to-night, and I told Him, to-morrow,
I would try to hunt her up and help her, too."
Prayers, without individual effort, are as use-
less as the power of steam without a master
hand to guide and control.—Ex.


Patents have been issued to women during 
the week ending Nov. 2., 1886:
	Dora Mitchell, Ottuwa, Iowa, Picture-
hanger.
	Lillian Whitefield, Reading, Mass., Com-
pound for transferring designs to surfaces from 
perforated patterns.
	Katie Williams, Providence, R. I., Hair-
curling device.
				---
	Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Nov. 9:--
Addie Bond, New York Cuff-retainer.
	Christenia C. Donnor, Ionia, Mich., Steam
Cooking Vessel.


Laura S. Gott, La Grange,Ohio, Fire Escape.
	Mary A. L. Hine, Chicago, Ill., Bottle Mop-
per.
	Sarah L. Hunter, Little Rock, Ark-, Flower
Pot.
	Serena E. Norton, Chicago, Ill., Flour-
Sifter and Safe.	
	Mary Ruggles, Saratoga Springs, N. Y.,
Cooking Attachment for Heating Stoves.
	Emma J. Lawrence, Philadelphia, Pa., De-
sign for Rug.


104			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


From the annual report of the New York
Exchange for Women’s Work it appears
that during the past year nearly $40,000 has
been paid to consignors of work in the several
departments, which include all varieties of
painting and fine needle and lace work. In
the order department 1,100 orders were re-
ceived and filled. The exclusive object of
this society is to assist reduced “gentlewomen."


CORRESPONDENCE. 

Meadow, Utah, Nov. 9, 1886.
Editor Exponent:
	It is some time since our settlement has been represented
in your valuable paper, and it would have afforded me
more,pleasure to write you now if I was not called upon to
report the death of one of the officers of our Relief Society.
I append an obituary and resolutions adopted at our last
meeting, The Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. are in
good working order, and their influence for good is felt in
our community.		
	Our brethren have recommenced work on our new meet-
ing house with a determination to finish it for use this winter,
and all who have visited us, and noticed our present incon
venient and dilapidated house, will certainly say, “God
bless them!" Our Young Ladies’ Association have pre-
sented the Building Committee with ten dollars, and are
working zealously to raise means to purchase a Sacrament
set.	
	The EXPONENT reaches us regularly, and we highly ap-
preciate your efforts, and trust that you may be abundant-
ly blessed in your labors.
			Yours in the cause of truth.
										EMMA.
				OBITUARY.
	Sister Hannah Lees Fisher was born near Rushworth,
Yorkshire, England, in the year 1824, and was baptized a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in 1841. She emigrated with her husband in 1849, and
came to Kanesville, Iowa. In 1852 they moved to Fillmore,
Millard County, Utah. Seven years later they located at
Meadow to assist in building up the settlement. When
the Relief Society was organized Sister Fisher was set apart
as First Counselor to the President, which office she held
till the time of her death. She has been ailing for the last
year and was taken to Provo to be treated by Dr. Pike, but
she grew gradually worse, and passed peacefully away
Oct. 4th, when her body was brought home for interment.
The funeral services were held in the school house, which
was very tastefully decorated for the occasion. Our de-
parted sister has passed through many privations with the
Saints, and died in full faith of the Gospel and the hope of
a glorious resurrection. She leaves a husband, three
children and several grandchildren to mourn her loss.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT ADOPTED BY THE MEADOW
			RELIEF SOCIETY NOV. 4TH, 1886.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst one of our respected officers, Hannah Lees
Fisher, who, for many years, occupied the position of First
Counselor to our President, and
	Whereas, In the death of our respected sister, Meadow
Ward loses one of its earliest settlers and oldest, members,
and our Relief Society one of its first officers, and a loving
husband and children are called to mourn the loss of a
faithful wife and affectionate mother, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we tender the family of our departed
sister our sincere sympathy in this hour of their bereave-
ment, in the hope that these expressions of respect and con-
dolence may tend to console them when they realize how
the labors of their beloved wife and mother are acknowl-
edged and appreciated by her co-workers and associates;
and, be it further
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon the


minutes of the Meadow Relief Society, that a copy hereof
be presented to the bereaved family, and that a copy be
furnished the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
						MARTHA BENNETT, Prest.,
						JANE ROWLEY, Sec.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	The following Resolutions of Respect for our beloved
sister, Mrs. Mary Dunsten, born August 1st, 18—, died
September 22nd, 1886, were unanimously adopted and
sustained by the members of the Relief Society of the
Sugar House Ward, of which she was a member.

	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to remove
from this sphere of action our beloved sister, Mrs. Mary
Dunsten, we feel that we have lost an efficient member of
our Society, a kind neighbor and loving sister; and while
we deplore her loss, we feel to bow in humble submission
to Him who doeth all things well.
	Resolved, That we extend to the sorrowing family our
heartfelt sympathy, and trust that they will feel to acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in this visitation, that she is not
lost, but gone before.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the bereaved family, that a copy be placed upon the minutes
of the Society, and that one be sent to the EXPONENT for
publication.
	Sweet be her sleep, while her loss we deplore,
	Thoughts of her virtues increase more and more;
	'Twill be long ere the sting of the parting be o’er—
	God grant we may meet her on heaven’s bright shore,
	Where sorrow and parting shall greet us no more.
				SARAH B. GIBSON, Prest.,
				CATHERINE STAKER,
				ESTHER S. HARDY, Counselors,
				BETSY BOLWINKLE, Sec.


A GOOD WOMAN GONE TO REST.

	Sister Judith Bellows departed this life Sept. 30th, 1886,
at the residence of her son, John F. Bellows, Lake Shore
Ward. The deceased had been failing for some time, and
died without a struggle, at seven o’clock p.m. She had
her share in the mobbings and drivings of the Saints. Her
husband, father of her children, was poisoned, and died
from the effects of it, administered by the mob that came
up against the Saints; after which she, with her children,
suffered the privations in common with the Saints in those
terrible times, remaining true and faithful to the Church
and kingdom of God; she has borne many true and faithful
testimonies to the restoration of the Gospel; this knowledge
was her chief joy by day and night. Did considerable
work in the St. George Temple, in 1883. She became so
feeble in health that she had to leave, much against her
will, having enjoyed her labors so much. On every oppor-
tunity she would exhort all to faithfulness. Her integrity
to the truth and her many good qualities are worthy of
imitation.
	She was a member of the Relief Society, and as such
was highly respected and esteemed.	
						EMMA CURTIS,
						ANN NEBEKER, Committee.
						M. A. HARDY,
	We don’t feel to mourn
	For our sister departed,
	She has gone to the rest
	That	remains for true hearted;
	She has gone to her husband,
	Who long has been waiting
	To clasp her with joy to his bosom again.
	
	She has suffered, but borne
	All her sorrows in patience—
	Her troubles and trials
	Have all passed away;
	She has won the bright crown,
	By faith and endurance,
	Her reward is obtained, her joy is complete.

	Farewell, then, dear sister,
	We would not recall thee,
	We know thou art safe in the haven of rest;
	Thou hast finished thy work,
	Thou hast fought the good fight,
	Henceforth thou wilt dwell
	With the good and the blest.
							EMMA CURTIS.


OBITUARY.

To the memory of Elizabeth Dutsen, who departed this
life of old age at Goshen, Utah Co, August 19th, 1886,
after laying upon her bed suffering with paralysis for one
year and ten months, during which time her daughter, Sis-
ter Mary Johnsen, our beloved President, waited upon her
with untiring zeal. Our aged sister was baptized by Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff in 1840, in Herefordshire, England.
She emigrated to Utah in 1862. Was the mother of eleven
children, grandmother of forty, and numerous great-grand-
children. She endured many trials for the sake of the
Gospel; embraced the law of celestial marriage, and died
at the advanced age of eighty-three years in full faith and
hope of a glorious resurrection.
	We feel to acknowledge the hand of God in relieving her
of her sufferings, in taking her from this weary world to a
higher and better one.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with her children
and friends; and further, be it
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon the
record of the Relief Society, and that a copy be sent to the
EXPONENT, and also her family.
						MARY DEDDS,
						LOUISA TAYLOR, Committee.
						SARAH ROBEETS,


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Bcr 306. SALT LAKE CITY
	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.
And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
