VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1887. NO. 16.


[Column 1]

A CHRISTMAS POEM.

THAT SAD YET BEAUTIFUL STORY.

Christmas dawns again in gladness,
	Quick the years of earth roll round;
Banished now the thoughts of sadness,
	Happy thoughts to-day resound!
		Bless the day, the happy day!
			Christ's sweet birth forever may
		Brighten hearts of chastened hoping 
			Into love and joy, we pray!
 
Ne'er forget we in our joyance
	Them whom persecution doom
Unto suffering for obeyance
	To their God, in a living tomb.
		Brethren. sisters, let us pray
			That our faithful brethren may 
		Drink the cup of brightest gladness,
			By God's Spirit all this day.

'Tis night. Judea's throngs have gone to rest;
	A wandering pair for shelter seek in vain;
The crowded inn holds not another guest,
	And deafened ears are turned to cries of pain.

My Father! must I die?" the Virgin cries,
	While tears of anguish mark her fair young cheek;
'None careth for mine heavy agonies;
	Oh!give me aid—the humblest roof I seek!"

"None careth for thee, dear one? O, my love,
	My Virgin Bride, mine Angel, say not so!
For aid I've sought in vain; but, as a dove,
	Shall Peace soon bless thee; seeking it I go."

And faithful Joseph soon returns to say:
	"No other shelter than a stable's roof 
Can here be found, this night; content thee, pray, 
	And from this one, dear heart, stand not aloof,

"For cold the winds do pierce thy gentle form,
	And thy dear head is bowed in sickening pain;
Come, loved one, shelter from the raging storm
	At least 'twill give—and from the threatening rain."

She leans upon his arm, and sweetly tells,
	In looks, her gratitude for even this;
And from her heart a prayer of pure love swells,
	As on her cheek she feels a husband's kiss.

And through the weary, wakeful, lengthened night,
	Our Savior's mother strives with nature's chain,
As only mothers know; that heavy fight
	For life, and its belov'd reward through pain.

But all hours pass, the blackest and the bright;
	And those hours passed for her, and morning found
A nestling babe, that, born with dawning light,
	Caused heav'n and earth with brightest praise to sound.

And who but mothers know the happy thought
	Of her, the favored of all women blest?
Nay, mothers, even we, who have not brought
	The world a Savior, know not how she pressed

Her darling in her arms. The gentle one,
	Whose innocence was proof 'gainst all earth's wiles—
Oh, none can tell how gazed she on that son,
	As, charmed, she lingered on his baby smiles.

And never mourned her tender heart, for ruth
	Her little boy did never stray from right;
Truth, justice, righteoueness attend His youth,
	And these, with knowledge, make His manhood bright.

And ever and anon the tempter's darts
	Are hurled with vengeance at that head in vain;
And well He knows the griefs of human hearts,
	And well He feels life's keenest, heaviest pain.

[Column 2]

But God-like strength dwells in that holy breast;
	No wiles succeed, all righteous laws He gives!
Succeeding ages by His laws are blest,
	In Him alone a world's salvation lives.

Alas! for thee, Judea! Can thy ears
	Still close to moaning cries of pain and grief?
Thy hardened heart resisteth still those tears
	Of God-like manhood, pleading heav'n's relief!

Beersheba to Dan unite to call
	Upon their heads the curse of holy blood—
Alas! and still they clamor for the fall,
	Upon their children, heaven's vengeful flood.

Ascending lone the mount, the Suff'rer cries,
	"If it be possible, my Father great,
Then let this cup pass by!" His heart replies
	Quick to the prayer, "Thou hast not long to wait!

"Thy Father's glories soon shall shine around Thee;
	Bear up, my Son, for yet a little while;
Amid temptations, faithful have I found thee,
	Be faithful still and win Thy Father's smile.

"For myriads watch Thee now, mine own belov'd,
	Their fate eternal upon thee is laid;
Then stand thou firm, nor from Thy path be mov'd,
	A few short hours—the sacrifice is made!"

"Thy will be done, not mine! Forgive the weakness,
	O Father kind and wise, that in my grief
Petitioned Thee, in lowly, earnest meekness
	To send; e'en now, Thine aid for my relief.

"I go, I go, to meet a doom of suffering,
	Oh, well I know mine hour hath come to die!
Great God! receive in heaven my lonely offering—
	To save mankind, my Father, here am I.

"I have not sinned; my heart is pure; the wicked
	'Gainst me find no complaint. Alone I tread
The wine-press. O, my Father! by Thy Spirit
	Pour forth Thy strength upon my suffering head!"

The hour had come; the dreadful, awful time;
	So great that darkness covers all the earth!
Yet who can read the solemn depths sublime,
	That burst from dying lips of suffering Worth:

"And am I thus forsaken, O, my God!"
	While torment holds that pure and youthful form.
"And so, 'tis finished!" As that high head bowed,
	And death released Him from earth's blasting storm!

He dies, and we are saved! Ah, who can tell
	The gratitude we owe to that pure life!
And pray we e'er that we may serve Him well,
	And that, untarnished, we may win earth's strife.

For through that Savior glorious things are giv'n,
	To him that overcometh in the strife—
Pure rest eternal in God's highest heaven,
	And chastest joys amid eternal life!

		RUBY LAMONT.


WHAT TO DO WITH YOUR
EXPONENT.

	Sisters, save your EXPONENT. Do not waste
or destroy them. After you have read them
you can put them to much valuable service by
sending them to your friends in the east, or
elsewhere, or if you happen to have no relatives
or friends with whom you correspond, procure
from some one of our missionaries abroad the
name of an inquiring friend, and furnish her
with this beam of light from Utah. You have
no idea what an amount of good you can do
in this way until you have once tried it.
	A missionary brother writes, "Send me all


your EXPONENTS, they are better than tracts,
Many times when I call upon a family, and
am refused the privilege of bearing my testi-
mony, I say, "Would you like a paper published
by the sisters of our Church?" They say, "Oh,
yes; by all means give me one. I did'nt know
your women knew anything of literature. Why
I thought your women knew nothing but
drudgery. I thought the Mormon women had
no voice, were not allowed to speak," etc.
	Printed matter is now carried very cheaply
through the mails, and when at the cost of so
very few cents we can do so much towards en-
lightening the world as to our real condition,
by sending our EXPONENT abroad, it does not
pay to either sell them for wrapping paper, as
many do, nor to destroy them. If we are live
Latter-day Saints we will be on the alert for
every opportunity to promote the Latter-day
work, and will not overlook these, what many
may call small matters, but which, when looked
upon in the right light, are very great ones. I
consider that if we can say or do anything to
dispel one erroneous idea entertained against
us as a people, we have done a great thing.
	We, the women of Latter-day Israel, are the
promoters and sustainers of the great law or-
dained of God for the saving of the women of
this nation, as well as those of other nations,
and we should not be slow in our endeavors to
publish this fact to their ears. The ignorance
that prevails among the women in the east
with regard to the women of Utah, and the
erroneous ideas they have of our real condition,
is astonishing, and it is our duty to dispel these
false ideas as far as it lies in our power to do
so.
	The EXPONENT is not the voice of its editor
and the writers of its columns alone, but it is
the voice of every woman who professes to be
a Latter-day Saint, and it is the duty of every
one of these to help send this voice abroad,
and there is no sister so poor or so illiterate as
to be unable to do her part. We see from the
quotation made from the missionary's letter
that the Exponent can find its way into many
homes where our Elders are not admitted.
This fact ought to stimulate us to follow the ad-
vice I have given above, and let this paper
accomplish all the good that it can.
	Perhaps I have said enough, at least I hope
I have said enough on this subject, that at least
some sister may act upon the advice I have
given with regard to the disposition of this
valuable paper.
	Mc.


A WOMAN’S QUESTIONING.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Don’t you think we have fallen on very
curious times? I want to know if this is the
land of the free and the home of the brave, or
is it only a boast? Is this the land where all
are declared to be free to worship God accord-
ing to the dictates of their consciences? Also,
where no laws should be enacted that should
hinder a man (or a woman I suppose) from
seeking happiness as best suited them, provid-
ing they did not tread on any body elses toes?
Is this the country that has invited immigra-
tion to help develop its vast resources, and de-
clared all men equal before the law, or have I
had a beautiful dream that these things were so,
only to awake and find it only a dream, a
phantom, a shadow, without substance?


A few days since, a celebrated prosecuting
(persecuting) attorney declared in open court
that the Mormons must be convicted whether
they could obtain proof of guilt or not. Phew!
is this justice? And recollect, cohabitation is 
only a misdemeanor, while Hopt, the murderer,
is still alive, and, judging from appearances,
will be pardoned when it can be done on the
quiet. But then, he is not a Mormon; oh, no!
Then we have that noble, brave deputy marshal,
Thompson, that hides in houses and shoots
men down (in the back, remember) as they pass
along the streets, and who has a jury ready at
his command, and more than willing to do his
will, for so much per diem. This is called
manslaughter, and he is admitted to bail; we
may look for a verdict of justifiable homidice
or some such trash; but then the murdered man
is a Mormon, that makes all the difference; had
it been the other way the Mormon would have
had to die, but they will make their verdict to
please the howling wolves that would like to
devour us body and soul, if they could. The
fable of the wolf and the lamb was never more
verified than in the present crusade.
	When Senator Logan was here with the G.
A. R., he said in his speech, if we did not like
the treatment we are getting we might emi-
grate. Kind, very kind! but he has gone first.
I should not be surprised if more of the wolves
were stopped in their mad career. Has the 
whole nation got hydrophobia?
	Those that live longest will see most. If we
are only true we shall come out of the furnace
purified of all the dross.
							MARY.
	Grantsville, Jan. 10, 1887.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		
	SHALL WE BE LIKE THEM?

	BY ELDER H. E. BOWRING.

	"Why can't they be like the rest of us?"
This remark was made by Grover Cleveland,
President of the United States of America, in
reference to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in Utah, and was no doubt
elicited by the thought that if that people
could be induced to give up their faith in the
revelations of the Almighty (which the Presi-
dent and the majority of mankind do not
recognize), it would save the government and
himself much trouble and expense, and the
people vexatious prosecutions, imprisonment
and much suffering. There is no doubt that
the President was honest in the thought that it
would be for the benefit of those alluded to;
but let us consider the question, and see what
we would be like. Would it benefit us to be
like their corrupt politicians, pettifogging law-
yers, and time-serving priests? Shall we con-
form to the practices and vices that appear in-
separable with the boasted civilization of the
present age, and be like "the rest of them" in
their licentiousness, debauchery and drunken-
ness; their swindlings, robberies and defalca-
tions? Shall we adopt their dreadful practices
of infanticide, fœticide and abortion; their
assignations, seductions and adulteries; their
murders, suicides and pollutions? Shall we
copy them in their man-made systems of reli-
gion, having a form of godliness but denying
the power thereof; ever learning, but never
able to come to a knowledge of the truth?
Shall we heap to ourselves teachers having
itching ears, and turn the truth into fables?
Shall we, like them, transgress the laws, change
the ordinances, and break the everlasting
covenant? Shall we imitate them in what is
admitted by themselves to be a social evil, and
have our beautiful cities infested with thousands
of prostitutes, bringing disease, death and per-
dition to our once happy homes, corrupting our
chaste, virtuous and lovely sons and daughters,
and instead of a comparative heaven, bring a
very pandemonium of evils into our midst?

[Column 2]
Shall we repudiate our wives whom we have
covenanted to love and cherish not only for
time, but for eternity? Shall we turn them
out, and trust them to the tender mercies of a
cold-hearted and cruel world, and have them
branded with the name of harlot, and consign
them to a life of shame? Shall we allow our
much loved and cherished sons and daughters
to be branded with the name of bastard? those
whom we have reared in happy homes, taught
to be strictly chaste and virtuous, bringing
them up in the fear and admonition of the
Lord, teaching them to be sober, industrious,
honest, God-fearing and law-abiding? Shall
we disobey the commands of God, and ally
ourselves with the world, the flesh and the
devil? Our answer is No, no, no! a thousand
times No! Now in the celestial order of mar-
riage, to which, evidently, the President was
alluding, who is injured? Who complains?
Who murmurs? Have the parties who of
their own free will and choice have entered
into the covenant of eternal companionship,
asked for protection from the courts or the
federal government? Have they complained
of cruelty, desertion or neglect, unhappiness,
misery or want? Are not our wives and child-
ren well fed, housed and clothed, and sur-
rounded with the necessaries, comforts and
many of the luxuries of life? Will not our
people compare favorably with those of any
State or Territory in the Union? Let our
wives and children answer, for they are direct-
ly interested. Let the disinterested traveler,
merchant and statesman, who has had the
opportunity of visiting our happy homes, our
comfortable firesides, our thrifty farms, factories
and workshops, tell of our brotherly love, our
hospitality, our love of hearth and home, our
affection for our wives and children, and our reve-
rence for our country, our religion and our
God. Thousands could testify of the truth of
these things if they had the moral courage to
proclaim themselves friends to an unpopular
religion and people. The writer of this article
has seen in the past four months in England
more contentions, jealousies, evil speaking,
angry passions, unkindness, envy, malice and
uncharitableness in the monogamic relation,
than he has in all his thirty years' experience
among the despised, but happy Latter-day
Saints in Utah. Who, then, shall we imitate?
Shall we not strive to be like the ancient
worthies, who, through faith, subdued kingdoms,
wrought righteousness, obtained promises,
stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the
violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword,
waxed valiant in fight, and put to flight the
armies of the aliens? Like them, and like
those noble Saints of latter days, when persecu-
ted, imprisoned or tormented, we will not ac-
cept deliverance at the expense of our honor
and integrity to our covenants, knowing that
we will obtain a better resurrection and an ex-
altation in the kingdom of our God. We will
rather follow in the footsteps of Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob, of Moses, Elkanah and
Hannah, of ancient apostles and prophets,
also those of our own day. We will imitate
the example of those noble women of Utah,
who recently met in convention at the Salt
Lake City Theatre, where thousands of our
wives and mothers, sisters and daughters,
young and old, protested against the prosecu-
tions and persecutions of their husbands and
fathers for their faith in, and obedience to the
commandments of the Almighty. Their resolu-
tions and protestations were echoed and en-
dorsed by their sisters in every city, town and
hamlet of the Latter-day Saints. In the
words of our immortal poetess, "Our hearts are
fixed; we know in whom we trust" We will
follow their noble examples; our faith is as firm
as the everlasting hills, as unchangable as the
immutable laws of Jehovah. Through obedi-
ence to the everlasting Gospel we have obtained

[Column 3]
a perfect knowledge that the Almighty lives;
that through the atonement of our Lord and
Savior Jesus Christ we can obtain salvation by
obeying the laws and ordinances of His king-
dom; that He does and always will reveal His
mind and will to His servants the prophets,
when He has a Church upon the earth; that
He has given us laws to obey in the age in
which we live, and revealed them to his apos-
tles and prophets; that the angel has come to
the earth who was spoken of by John the
Revelator (Rev. xiv, 6), and delivered the
everlasting Gospel to the Prophet Joseph Smith,
who came forth with the same promise the
Savior gave in His day when upon the earth,
that if any man would do the will of his
Father, he should know of the doctrine,
whether it was of God or not, and that the
signs should follow and be enjoyed by those
who believed and obeyed the message of life
and salvation, with all the gifts and blessings
that were enjoyed by the ancient Saints.
	The Elders of the Church have gone forth
proclaiming the message of life and salvation
to the inhabitants of the earth, warning them
of the judgments that will be poured out upon
those who will not know God nor obey the
Gospel of His Son Jesus Christ. After their
testimony the prophet declared they should
have the testimony of plagues, pestilence and
famine, earthquakes, bloodshed, secret combina-
tions, wars and rumors of wars. Desolation
and death should stalk through the land, until
the inhabitants of the earth should be destroyed
and but few men left. Knowing these things,
who shall separate us from the love of Christ?
Shall tribulation or distress, or persecution  or
famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? "For
I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life,
nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor
things present, nor things to come, nor height,
nor depths, nor any other creature shall be
able to separate us from the love of God which
is in Christ Jesus our Lord."—Millennial
Star.

		NOTES AND NEWS.

	Tennyson's new book of poems contains the
three act play "The Promise of May." which
was produced in London some years ago. The
greatest interest in the volume centers in
"Locksley Hall," in which the poet reviews
the life of mankind during the last sixty years
and comes to the conclusion that its boasted
progress is of doubtful credit to the world in
general and to England in particular. A
cynical vein of denunciation of democratic
opinion and aspirations runs throughout the
poem, in marked contrast with the spirit of
the "Locksley Hall" of the poet's youth.
	John G. Whittier, the venerable Quaker
poet, celebrated his seventy-ninth birthday
December 17th, at Oak Knoll, Danvers, Mass.,
where he received the congratulations of hosts of
friends. The day was observed in Amesbury
by some of the schools in reading and reciting
selections from his works and also in a like
manner by some of the literary societies. Mr.
Whittier was the recipient of a large number
of callers. The poet is in good health, but
passes most of his time indoors.—Ex.


Mrs. Dinah Mulock Craik, the English
novelist, is now an elderly woman, given to
wearing caps over her snow-white hair. She
lives in the country, and occasionally goes up
to London to visit with literary people.
	The first statue of a woman, not of royal
birth, set up in England, was recently erected
in memory of Miss Dorothy Wyndham Patti-
son, better known as "Sister Dora," the famous
hospital nurse."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


STAND SIDE BY SIDE.

If God should judge us as we judge one another,
	How hard our lot would be;
If He shows no more mercy than we show to our brother,
	How much of hope have we?
If He should criticise our most earnest labors,
	With just as cool regard
As we oft criticise our nearest neighbors,
	Oh! where is our reward?

All things that can be shaken, will be shaken,
	So says the word of God;
And should we feel that we are almost forsaken,
	"Passing under the rod,"
How much it would increase our heaviest trial,
	And every pain renew,
If loved ones pass us by with cold denial,
	And friends should prove untrue.

When wicked men are seeking to decoy us,
	To gain their selfish ends,
By strange devices and inhuman laws destroy us,
	'Tis then we need our friends;
When even the grand old Constitution trembles
	Beneath their wicked sway,
And every human prop beneath us crumbles,
	O, Saints, be true, I pray!

When all the world rejoices in our sorrow,
	And all our hopes deride,
Aud speak of harder times for us to-morrow,
	We should stand side by side.
When our best men are led as to the slaughter,
	Confined in loathsome dens,
Or else renounce their wives, their sons and daughters—
	How can we falter then?

Our Lord has given us one great, gracious promise,
	That, though we stand alone,
His grace and strength will be sufficient for us,
	He will sustain His own.
As gold is tried in seven times' heated furnace,
	So must the Saints be tried;
Then will our God work out a great deliverance—
	Till then, stand side by side.

		E. A. BENNION.
Vernon, Dec. 14, 1886.


[Column 1]

A LITTLE PLAIN TALK.

	"Man's inhumanity to man
		Makes countless thousands mourn"

	The above quotation applies equally to
women. How surprising it is to an intelligent,
far-reaching mind to note the injustice done
to one another by our own sex.
	A number of speeches made in my hearing
by some of our sisters (I am sorry to say) in
my opinion go far to substantiate this fact.
	Some of these I will take the liberty to re-
peat in this little article, for the purpose of
showing what a habit some of us are uncon-
sciously falling into; instead of observing the
Mormon creed and helping to sustain the in-
telligent women that are among us. and that
have qualified themselves to occupy positions
that require education and intelligence, we
let jealousy creep in, and when this unruly
tyrant once takes possession of the citadel of
our hearts, we find he is very hard to conquer,
and we say and do that which we ought not.
If we will only try to possess ourselves of a
magnanimous disposition it will be of far more
worth than any of us can imagine; it will
strengthen and fortify us against such low,
petty views, that are constantly trying to take
possession of us, and we will possess a charitable
heart toward all our fellow sisters. The Bible
says, "Hatred stireth us strife, but love cover-
eth up all sins." Again: "A man shall be
commended according to his wisdom, but he
that is of a perverse heart shall bedespised."
Therefore, let us be willing to accord to each
one the mission they have to perform with all
magnaminity of heart.
	One sister says, in answer to an inquiry,
"No, I am not a subscriber for the EXPONENT;
I do not get much time to read, in fact I do
not believe much in woman's rights. I believe

[Column 2]

that a woman's mission is in attending to her
household duties."
	Oh, dear!  what a pity to have been born a
woman, if the name but serves to stay our pro-
gression intellectually. Our ideas of woman's
rights are a little different to those the world at
large entertain on the question, but we are not
the down-trodden, ignorant women we are re-
presented; we would have the world understand
that we are willing to and do stand by our
husbands, fathers and brothers in every princi-
ple, and especially the one grand principle of
our religion—celestial marriage—and this has
been accomplished most effectually through
the columns of the EXPONENT, edited by a
woman, and contributed to by such gifted
sisters as Sister Eliza R. S. Smith, Hannah T.
King, Helen Mar Whitney, and many others
I might mention, would time and space permit.
It is through the columns of this little paper
that the world in general have received much
enlightenment concerning the misrepresented
people of Utah, and I feel thankful to our
Heavenly Father that we have sisters capable
of assisting in this great work.
	Another sister said, "What! paid her as
much as you would a male physician?" in
speaking of a woman doctor, "the very idea of
paying a woman as much as a man. If I had
occasion to engage the services of either I
should certainly employ one of the opposite
sex."
	Just look at the absurdity of such a speech;
because one happens to be born a woman, she
should receive only half salary, or perhaps it
would better please jealousy and envy, who go
stalking abroad arm in arm, if she endeavored
to gain a livelihood by playing at rub-a-dub-dub
at the wash tub. This feeling should not exist
among the women of the Latter-day Saints.
	Let us strive to be up to every duty, and
hearken to the Scripture, "Get wisdom; and
with all thy getting, get understanding." If
we do this, each striving to help the other, we
will have a calm and contended mind, and be-
come noble, intelligent women. One author
says that the moment we acknowledge jealousy
in our hearts towards anyone that moment we
acknowledge them our superior.
	So let us be on the lookout, ever prayerful
and humble, willing to help sustain all that are
doing a good work, and whatever our station
in life, or the mission we are called upon to fill,
we will reap our reward in time to come.
		I. H.


A WORD TO THE SISTERS.

	I thought I would try and write a few words
to my sisters. My mind is crowded with sub-
jects, and yet I do not feel able to do any of
them justice, but in my weak way I may speak
upon several, and the first one that is in my 
mind is this: Whose duty is it to teach the
principles of the everlasting Gospel? Well, I
should say it was the duty of every Elder in
Israel; and should we stop here? No. Accord-
ing to my understanding it is the duty of 
every Latter-day Saint, both male and female,
to teach every pure and holy principle, and
not only teach it, but practice it, too. We are
the light of the world; we claim to be God's
people. Then it becomes our duty to let our
light shine to the world, and to do this we
must set an example worthy of imitation, by
our conversation, our actions, and our dealing
one with another. We should also set this ex-
ample before our family, our neighbors and
the world at large, and when we are doing this
we are preaching the Gospel.
	Some will say, "Well, I can do all this, but
to stand up before a congregation to speak, I
can't do that." I would ask you, my sisters,
why you cannot do this? Are you ashamed
to stand up before your sisters and bear your 
testimony to the work of God. Haven't you
had sufficient evidence that this work is true?


If so, then why can't you tell it to others? Let
me be plain with you, my sisters; it is no good
spirit that prompts you to feel that way, and I
would advise you, for your own good, to throw
off such feelings as that, and ask the Lord to
strengthen you, that you may be able to tell
the world of His goodness and mercy. If you
will do this, it will strengthen you and also
your sisters to hear you bear your testimony.
We must work for the promised reward; we
must strive for the crown we expect to wear,
and whenever we are called upon by our Lord,
we must work for him faithfully there.
	Now, there has been a great deal said to
mothers in regard to training their children,
which is a subject that too much cannot be
said upon; it cannot be spoken of too often,
but at this time I wish to speak to wives. I
would ask you, "Have you acted in a way to
make your husband love you and have full
confidence in you?" If so, you have it in your
power to control that man to a great extent,
to make him either good or bad, for the
woman, though she is considered the weaker
vessel; has more power and influence over man
than many may suppose.
	Then, knowing these facts, and considering
our position here on earth, that we are given
to man by God for helpmates—for what? To help
exalt him ourselves. Still we are dependent on
man to resurrect and exalt us; yet there is a
great deal depending on us whether we help
that man to be worthy of an exaltation. We all
want good and noble men, kind and affection-
ate husbands; then let us make them so by
kind words, noble deeds and good example.
When he feels despondent and low-spirited,
speak kind and comforting words to him; keep
your house and your person clean and tidy,
make everything look comfortable and pleasant,
and then your husbands will love home and
your society.
		M. O. BRADY.
	From the Advocate manuscript paper, Erastus.


TO MOTHERS.

	BY GRANDMOTHER.

	Now, I suppose you will think, what has
grandmother got to say now; I should think
she had said enough by this time; but that is
all a mistake; she has got a great deal to say
yet, for I love the little ones that God has
given to the daughters of Zion, for bright and
shining lights in the kingdom of God, and I
want to see every mother noble and true, and
teach the little ones noble principles--to be
virtuous, honest and industrious, for the more
the mind is kept employed, the easier children
can be governed. How the mother's heart
will rejoice to see her children grow up without
a spot or blemish on their pure and good name.
Oh! how different to see them take the other 
course, and bring their parents' grey hairs
down in sorrow to the grave; and when it is
too late they can look back and see where
they might have done better. The time to sow
the good seed is in their infancy.
	Some will say, "Oh! let them come to the 
years of understanding before you teach them
too much;" but you leave them that long to
themselves, and they think then that they
know too much to be taught, and they will
have no respect for their parents, nor for the
aged of either sex. But the mother who
teaches her children correct principles, and
rears them in the fear and admonition of the
Lord, and teaches them to respect and honor
old age, they will respect their parents and be
good children; they will be loved by everybody
and they will make good Latter-day Saints,
and be good citizens.
					CLARISSA WILHELM.
From the Advocate manuscript paper Erastus.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from. 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 15,1887.


[Column 2]			
	COMMENTS.

	The Edmunds Tucker Bill, of which so much
has been said of late, passed the House of Repre-
sentatives by a large majority with a "whoop and
a howl," on Wednesday, January 12th.  This out-
rageous bill derives its name from two leading
men in the Congress of the United States, and it
is greatly to their discredit that they should thus
degrade the talents given them, and subvert the
aims and intentions of all law-making and good
government by yielding to a popular clamor and
prejudice born of rumor and misrepresentation.
Senator Edmunds formulated the bill at first, and
it passed the Senate last session of Congress, and
was sent to the Lower House, where it was referred
to the Judiciary Committee, of which John Ran-
dolph Tucker is the Chairman, and in this way
this compound anti-Mormon, anti-American bill
received its double name.  Hon. John T. Caine,
Delegate from Utah, occupied an hour and a half
in opposing the passage of the bill, and exposing 
its inconsistent and iniquitious measures, and the
cruelties it would inflict upon an unoffending, and
already oppressed and persecuted people.
	His speech was able and eloquent, and he was
greeted with many congratulations at the close.
It was a strong protest against adverse legislation,
setting forth in a forcible manner facts and condi-
tions as they actually exist, as against false reports,
slanders and mis-statements.  Mr. Bennett, of 
North Carolina, spoke one hour upon the worst
features of the bill;  we remember this gentlemen
as the only one with whom we conversed, who 
said he would consider the bill prayerfully, and
we made a note of it at the time.  Reed, of Maine, 
who approved the bill, spoke in its favor for twenty
minutes, traducing and villifying the Latter-day 
Saints in the bitterest manner.  Reed might with
all propriety be termed a hot-headed Mormon-hater.
He was followed by John Randolph Tucker, the
god-father of the bill, who succeeded in arousing
sufficient antagonism to the Mormon people to
push the bill through under the excitement of the
hour, just when in the mist of clouds of dark mis-
representation and slanders it was rendered possi-
ble. 
	It seems incredible that such an outrageous bill
should pass without further protest;  there were a 
few negatives, but not enough to demand the
yeas and nays.  Doubtless Mr. Tucker is proud of 
that day's work, but, after all, if the bill should fail
of passing the Senate, or the President refuse his 
signature, he will not succeed so admirably in 
gaining popular favor at the close of his public
career by his attempt to crush out the Mormons.
	Mr. Tucker is a Presbyterian in faith, and
illiberal and bigoted in his religious views, as most
of that sect are.  He is strongly opposed to 
woman's suffrage, and after a hearing before his
Committee on that question, last winter, when
some of the ablest and most eloquent women in 
the land presented arguments and logical reasons
for the support of such a measure as the ballot in
the hands of women, Miss Susan B. Anthony,

[Column 2]
anxious to know what effect the speeches had made
upon him, inquired what he thought of the cause."
He replied, he was "too old to change his views."
"Then," said Miss Anthony, with the ready wit
which never forsakes her, "aren't you too old to
sit in the Congress of the United States?" Mr.
Tucker, who is very good natured, only laughed
at the joke, as he possibly considered it, though
Miss Anthony was in sober earnest.  Perhaps he
looks upon the Mormon question as only a possible
joke, but he will yet find that the Mormons are
most solemnly in earnest about adhering to their
religion.
	Senator Edmunds is, in every respect, a differ-
ent kind of man.  He is proud, rich, cold as an
icicle, aristocratic and arrogant.  He would never
have been half as famous as he is, and as widely
known, had it not been for the Mormons.  But
such popularity will not avail him much "in the
long run."  People who build themselves up on
the ruin of others are sure to have a terrible fall,
some day, and his will assuredly come.  There
are men here in Utah—"Liberals" they falsely 
style themselves—who are urging Congress to do
this great wrong against the people of Utah, and
deceiving the general public and members of Con-
gress, who are not themselves acquainted with
facts, by means of messages, telegrams and frac-
tional statements of things, elaborated and em-
bellished with falsehoods to suit their purpose.
Senator Edmunds and John Randolph Tucker are
not deceived, however; they know the situation
having heard the facts from those who are author-
ized to speak for the people, and therefore they
cannot plead ignorance, and are left without ex-
cuse.  On the question of woman's suffrage, Mr. 
Tucker holds the Southern view that women are
too good to dabble in politics or enter the field of
field of public matters in any such way.  But it is
very doubtful about his considering Mormon
women too good;  he likely thinks they are not
good enough, the same as he does Mormon men,
who are not in his bill thought good enough to
have the right to do anything to defend their rights
to the homes and inheritances, which their own in-
dustry and almost superhuman perseverance have 
made in a desert land, previously unknown, ex-
cept as uninhabitable.  But there are some things
neither Senator Edmunds nor the Hon. John Ran-
dolph Tucker, nor others of the same stamp can
do.  They cannot stamp out Mormonism from the
hearts and souls and consciences of those who
have embraced it honestly, and have received a
testimony of its sacred truths.  Persecution can-
not kill a principle, nor can imprisonment, or tor-
ture of any kind, and though laws are made to
root up and abolish it, the seed is sown and will
bear its fruit, notwithstanding all the influence of
the great, the noble and the wise of the kingdoms
and governments of this world combined together.
He who holds the nations and kingdoms and
kings and rulers in His hand has decreed, and
His words cannot fail.
	Even this extremely tyrannical bill, that makes
Mormons, one and all, little better than slaves,
unless they subscribe to an oath, which denounces 
the principles of their religion wholesale, is not
bad enough to suit such men as Baskin, he him-
self stated 'twas not what he wanted; he wants
something more like the Hailey Bill, and could, 
doubtless, see every Mormon hung or put to the
sword.  The spirit of hatred and vengeance, that
characterizes the men who oppose Mormonism in
the present day, is just as vindictive and quite as
cruel as the spirit that sought to destroy the
ancient Saints, when they cast the Prophet Daniel
into the lions' den, and the three Hebrew children
into the fiery furnace;  but even as they were
thwarted in their attempts to take the life of the
chosen of God then, so will they be in this day,
and all their cunningly concocted schemes will
fail, and the principles of truth stand firm as the
rock of ages, and those who abide in the principles

[Column 3]
revealed through the Prophets of God in this dis-
pensation will come off more than conquerors
There is no danger, so great as that of falling away
or becoming indifferent to the voice of the Holy 
Spirit, that leads into all truth, and which, under
all circumstances, is a sure guide and shield and
protection to the Latter-day Saint.


TO SISTER ELIZA R. S. SMITH.

	On the 23rd of December, having had a reunion
of the Nauvoo Saints and others, on the eighty-
first anniversary of the birthday of Joseph Smith,
the Prophet and Seer of the nineteenth century,
the committee most respectfully desire you to
accept the accompanying token of regard, which
will be presented by Elder Jacob Gates. The
article referred to is the artistic work of the
widow James Snow, and her daughter, widow
Sarah K. Young.
	PERCIA BUNNEL,		DIANA SMOOT,
	DEBORAH BILLINGS,	MARILLA DANIELS,
	FRANCES CLUFF,		LOUISA NEWEL,
	EMELINE MILLER,		HARRIET BEAN,
								Committee.
	Provo.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
	With many thanks, and gratitude that words can-
not express, I acknowledge the receipt of the
beautifal cake, politely presented by Elder Jacob
Gates, in behalf of the Committee.
		E. R. SNOW SMITH.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I would like to place a few of my thoughts on
paper, peradventure it should meet the thoughts
of some one else.
	In the year of 1852 I received the Gospel of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, knowing that it
was the power of God unto salvation to all those
that will believe and obey the same in all things,
as fast as it is made known to them. It was on
the 6th day of June that I went down into the
waters of baptism; I then met with many a conflict;
it was then that I upheld the principle of plural
marriage. I did not know that plural mar-
riage was in the Church at that time, but I said
that all good men in olden times had more wives
than one, and why not now? I thought it was a
good principle; it has always looked right to me,
and I have tried to live in accordance with the
same, and live according to the dictates of con-
science, trusting in the God of our salvation for
the outcome. Light and truth must be carried
unto all the world, that every ear may hear the
sound thereof, and the world left without an excuse,
and to clear the way before the consummation of
all things, which is fast hastening on.
	Every principle in its proper place, inasmuch as
the Gospel requires it—faith and repentance, and
obedience to every principle and commandment
that pertains to the salvation and exaltation of all
the human family that dwell on the earth, inas-
much as they will obey the same, and live accord-
ing to these requirements. I know that the
principle of plural marriage is a righteous principle.
I upheld it before I ever heard it was practiced in
this dispensation. It is upheld in the Bible so
plainly among the patriarchal order of families, as
they were acknowledged by the Father of the
Faithful in that day. The Scriptures speak of
faithful Abraham, and represent him as the
"Father of the Faithful." He did all things that
the Lord required at his hands, and it was ac-
counted to him for righteousness, and his children
followed after him. It was said that "I am the
God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." They were
called Abram and Sarai, (Genesis, xvi, 3). "And
Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar, her maid, the
Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the


[Column 1]

land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband
Abram to be his wife." (xvii, 5). "Neither shall
thy name any more be called Abram, but thy
name shall be Abraham, for a father of many na-
tions  have I made thee; and God said unto
Abraham, "And as for thy wife, thou shalt not call
her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be."
Now, you see that the Lord visited them and
talked to them and ate with them and changed
their names. The Lord did not forsake Abraham
and Sarah because he (Abraham) had two wives,
but He blessed him, and told him that his posterity
should be as numerous as the sands on the sea
shore, or the stars in the firmament, that they
could not be numbered. Now Abraham took
Keturah for a wife to enlarge their families, that they
might increase according to the blessing that was
promised him. If we expect to have the blessings
of Abraham, we must do the works of Abraham,
for Abraham, in the Scriptures, is called the
"Father of the Faithful," of which I want to be
one.
	PLURAL MARRIAGE was an ancient order,
though men ignore it now. It was when the Lord
visited His servants the prophets. Men say that
we have no need for the Lord to talk with us, for
such things are done away now; but if He will
not speak to us there must be something wrong; it
must be that we are in the wrong, not the Lord
but I would like to be as good as the ancient peo-
ple of God, and be worthy to go where they
are, I would like to talk with them and enjoy my-
self with them, for I expect to know them and en-
joy their company, which we cannot do if they
will not speak to us, or if we are not worthy to be
spoken to; nor can we learn of their ways or
walk in their paths, that we may be like them. I
would rather be taught of the ways of the Lord
and walk in His paths, let them be ever so thorny,
for without trials what are we? Not worthy of
His notice. I could have no joy if I knew no
God and no hereafter. How could we advance in
the things of the kingdom?
	 I rejoice in knowing that there is a future state,
with all of its organizations, and I realize that I
am responsible for the knowledge that He has
given and blessed me with. Inasmuch as baptism
is necessary, so is the laying on of hands for the
gift of the Holy Ghost, and all the rest of the
ordinances of the Gospel. Plural marriage is as
necessary as any other principle of the Gospel.
If I did not believe in practising plural marriage,
I should not think that I was worthy of any, for
if one principle is wrong the others are wrong also.
How would we feel if we should pass behind the
vail and see those who were not allowed any
privilege to speak to us? I should not expect the
privilege of their society. We must do the work
that will claim the same blessings, then. Where
are all the faithful Prophets and Patriarchs of old,
as well as modern? I want to be worthy to meet
them and enjoy their company; I love them, and
the words that they have taught. We can go to
the Bible and read the words of Abraham, that
good man—he said that he married his sister.
(Gen. xxii, 12). "And yet, indeed, she is my sister.
She is the daughter of my father, but not the
daughter of my mother, and she became my wife."
Now this goes to prove that his father practised
plural marriage also. Abraham, whom the Lord
especially favored, had more wives, and his grand-
son is the same Jacob that, when traveling on his
journey, (Gen. xxviii, 11), "lighted on a certain
place, and tarried there all night, because the sun
was set; and he took of the stones of that place
and put them for his pillow, and lay down in that
place to sleep." (12). "And he dreamed: Behold,
a ladder set upon the earth, and the top of it
reached to heaven, and behold the angels of God
ascending and descending on it." (13). "And, be-
hold, the Lord stood above it, and said, 'I am the
Lord God of Abraham, thy father, and the God of
Isaac; the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I

[Column 2]

give it, and to thy seed." (15). "And thy seed
shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt
spread abroad, to the west, and to the east, and to
the north, and to the south, and in thee and in thy
seed shall all the families of the earth be
blessed."
	Do we belong to the families of the earth?
Mark, He said that all the families of the earth
should be blessed. Now, where is one that it does
not reach? Have we not all sprung from the
patriarchal families, and how can we expect to get
along without obedience to the same law? There
is no blessing promised without obedience. Jacob
worked seven years for Rachel, and was deceived
and got Leah, and then he worked another seven
years for Rachel, and Leah and Rachel each had a
handmaid, and in time they gave each of them to
their husband for wives. This shows to me that
they loved their husband. Jacob, whom the Lord
named Israel, was the father of twelve sons, one
of them was called a dreamer, and his brethren
sold him. He was taken to Egypt, and he became
a savior to all his father's household, and had do-
minion over all things, and all Canaan, where the
famine reached them; and how many of us are of
the seed of Joseph, through the loins of Ephraim,
on whom greater blessings were conferred under
he hands of his grandfather, whom the Lord
talked with, and said his name should be called
Israel from this time forth.
	Moses was conversant with the Lord, and he
was the great law-giver of Israel. In his laws
especial provisions were made for polygamists; it
is not mentioned as one of the crimes for which
penalties were provided.
	Elkanah was a polygamist, yet his son Samuel
was a great prophet and judge in Israel. He was
born and lived under the special favor of God.
	David, king of Israel, was chosen of the Lord.
(1 Samuel, xvi, 12-13). "He took Abigail and
Ahinoam, and they were also both of them his
wives." 1 Samuel, xxv, 72-73. "He took him
more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem."
(2 Samuel, v, 13), we are further informed that,
"David did that which was right in the eyes of the
Lord, and turned not aside from anything
that he commanded him all the days of his
life, save only in the matter of Uriah, the Hittite."
(1 Kings, xv, 5). In this passage we have an as-
surance that David did right in taking all his wives
and concubines except in one instance, for which
he was severely chastised. When Nathan, the
prophet, reproved him for this sin, he said to him,
"In the name of the Lord I gave thee thy master's
house, and thy master's wives unto they bosom."
(2 Samuel, xii, 8).
	I might quote the passages from the beginning
of the Bible to the end thereof, and all would prove
these things, the purposes of the Lord, which are
one eternal round. Search the Scriptures; in
them ye think ye have eternal life, but they are
they that testify of these things. It has not for-
bidden these things for which many have to endure
the penalty of a broken law, and imprisonment
without a just cause, and with a conscience void
of offense toward the laws of man. God has com-
manded and we must obey. In this life only can
we prepare for the next existence, and because
we try to keep the commandments of God, our
fathers, husbands, brothers and sons are placed
before the tribunal and unjustly condemned, and
doomed to stay in prison for months or years, and
they will and do submit for conscience' sake. We
have endured many things, and hope to endure all
things. We feel sorry for our persecutors; they
know not what they do; they are measuring arms
with the Supreme Being, who has said He would
not be mocked nor hold them guiltless that oppress
His Saints. He has said that offenses must come,
but woe! unto them by whom they come. Jesus
said, "Judge not, lest ye be judged, condemn not,
lest ye be condemned." He said, "Let him that

[Column 3]

s without sin cast the first stone at her, and they
all fled."
	We have no hardness in our hearts toward our
oppressors; their lot is hard; they will condemn
themselves in that day when we all shall meet at
the bar of God; where none can say that God is
not just. We pity them, and say, "Oh Lord! have
mercy on them, for they know not what they do."
We fear not, for the Lord is at the helm of the
ship Zion, and He can steer it through the storm
that rages wild and fierce; we have nothing to fear
if we are faithful to our God. We must be tried
and proven until we are like gold seven times
tried in the furnace, and the dross is all con-
sumed.
		SARAH SUDWEEKS.
	Junction, Piute Co., Dec. 29, 1886.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Y. L. M. I. A. CIRCULAR.

To the officers and members of the Young Ladies'
	Mutual Improvement Associations of the
	Oneida Stake of Zion:

DEAR SISTERS:
	As we are unable to meet with each Association
as often as we desire, we take this opportunity of
letting you know our thoughts and wishes con-
cerning the young ladies of this Stake. We are
engaged in the same great cause, and it should be
our greatest object to improve in all good things.
	The Presidency of the Church, in their wisdom,
have seen fit to organize these Associations for
the benefit of the young people of Zion, and it is
our duty to live up to the privileges we have. We
should learn the will of the Lord and then do it.
The Lord loves those who diligently serve Him,
and will help those who help themselves. The
Savior said, "The pure in heart shall see God."
	We would like to ask you, as daughters of Zion,
"Are you living pure and honest lives, so as to be
able to claim all the blessings in store for the
faithful?" We realize that a non-performance of
duty deprives us of the Spirit of God; therefore,
we would exhort you not to give way to evil in-
fluences, but heed the good instructions given you
from time to time.
	Are we, as young ladies, seeking to improve 
our minds as much as we are striving to adorn our
bodies with all the fashions of the day? If we
are not, now is the time to commence. Study the
best books you can get, especially those treating
upon our holy religion; also the laws of life and
health. Seek good society; use your influence
with the young men you may be associated with to
refrain from habits that are not in accordance with
the mind and will of God. Young ladies, you
have more influence than perhaps you are aware
of. President Young stated on one occasion that
young ladies had more influence than he, "For,"
said he, "you can put a stop to round dancing and
I cannot." If we have such an influence as this,
let us use it for good, and in the direction suggested
by him.
	Beware of those who are not of our faith, or
who speak lightly of sacred things. Be polite and
courteous to all, and respect old age. Avoid
speaking evil of others. Do not criticise the
authorities, but pray for them, and for all who are
in trouble or distress. Pay your tithing and fast
offerings, that you may be blessed. Keep the
Sabbath day holy. Be industrious, prayerful and
humble, for we are living in a most eventful age,
when much depends upon the youth of Zion, and
the young ladies are now called upon to pre-
pare themselves for the different positions and
labors they will have to perform, in helping to re-
deem Zion. Let us set our mark high, and faith-
fully and zealously work to it. Be patient, modest
and faithful, and study closely the spirit of the
times, and the sentiments of the living prophet,
that light and truth may be your guide through
this important epoch of our history. Hold your


meetings regularly and at the appointed time.
Have, if possible, one or more representatives
present at our conferences and officer's meetings.
The programme committee will find suitable
lessons to bring before the members from the
Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Coven-
ants. Use a portion of your money made at en-
tertainments, and so forth, to purchase books for
your library. Send the money with list of books
you have, and those you want, to Esther C.
Parkinson, and she will complete the list and
order the books for you. By ordering a number
they can be purchased cheaper.
	May the Lord bless you in your desires to do
right, is the prayer of,
		  Your sisters in the Gospel,
				ESTHER C. PARKINSON,
				RUTH H. HATCH.
	Of the Presidency of the Oneida Stake of Zion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of quarterly conference of the Re-
lief Society of Utah Stake, held Nov. 26th,
1886, Prest. Mary John presiding, with her
Counselors. No visitors present. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of singing and
prayer. As there were no written reports to
be read, the presidents of the various branches
of the Relief Society throughout the county
were called upon to give verbal reports.
	Prest. John said she was pleased to meet
with us again, and "although, owing to bad
weather, we are few in numbers, the Lord has
promised to meet with us, and hence we will
claim a blessing. This is a trying time for us.
Sometimes there seems to be a dark cloud hang-
ing over us, but then we can see a rift in the
clouds and the sun appears, shining. Our
enemies are on the alert to overthrow us; let us
be humble and prayerful. I pray the Lord to
bless us, that we may be worthy of His smiles;"
etc.
	The presidents then gave in their reports,
after which Coun. Marilla M. Daniels gave a
great deal of good instruction to the sisters.
Said, "Straight is the gate and narrow the way
that leads to eternal life, but all that work for
it will gain it. We do not wish to falter and
faint now, but press on to the end," etc.
	Sister Moody, from Arizona, made a few re-
marks, and bore her testimony to the truth of
this work.
	She was followed by Bishop Myron Tanner,
who said he was pleased to hear the sisters
bear their testimonies to the truth of this 
work. "There is joy in these times; the hand
of God is over us for good. We cannot see
 the cause of these things, but the hand of op-
pression laid on the parents is doing more to
convince our children of the truth of Mormon-
ism than anything else could have done. They
are riveting the truths of Mormonism on
them." The speaker here recounted some of
the persecutions of Missouri, and told how he
witnessed the mob strike his father on the head,
and the effect it had on him. The speaker
was affected to tears in relating the occurrence,
but said, "we are called upon to pass through
these ordeals to purify us. Do not let us give
way to anger in regard to these things, but
bear the cross with humble hearts.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing.
Benediction.
	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer. Sister Emily G. Cluff, the first speaker,
spoke of the duties of mothers in regard to
their children. Thought the mother's influence
over them was more than the father's. Ex-
horted the older sisters to speak in Society
meetings; as it encouraged the younger sisters,
and gave them confidence in themselves to
speak.

[Column 2]

	Prest. A. O. Smoot said, "I cordially respond
to the call of Sister John. I am pleased to
meet with you again in a conference capacity.
The adversary is abroad in the land, and it is
time the line of demarcation was being drawn
between good and evil. Evil communications
will corrupt us and our families." Spoke very
strongly against round dancing, as being ex-
pressly forbidden by the First Presidency of
the Church, and asked the co-operation of
mothers and heads of families in discountenanc-
ing it and putting it down; also spoke of the
threatened evil of having saloons opened in
our midst. Exhorted mothers to watch over
the youth committed to their care. "We
should watch in the days of our temptation.
God will purify His people. He whips us in-
to line. I trust the inspiration of the Gospel
will lead us aright, and may the peace of God
be with us. Amen.
	Prest. David John endorsed the remarks of
Prest. Smoot. Said, "The subjects mentioned
are of great importance." Reviewed the
liquor question and other subjects. Said, "Let
us care for our poor and feed and clothe them;
comfort those who mourn, and if any are sick
and not able to attend meetings, it would be
right and proper that the sacrament be taken
to them." Spoke of the class distinction that
was rearing its head among the people. "The
Lord will not permit it. We must be humble.
We are baptized by one baptism; we must love
and esteem our brethren as ourselves; not by
words alone, but by works also, and in minis-
tering to their necessities. It seems to me in
the face of all our persecutions we have no
time to spare in dances. Let us meet often in
houses of prayer, and ask God to preserve us
from the power of our enemies. Let us put
away our vanity and turn to the Lord, for un-
less we do there are worse days in store for us
yet. Everything that can be shaken will be
shaken. We will all be tested. We are pass-
ing through a crisis that will prove us. No
power can crush us but our own weakness. All
these clouds will result in blessings. My
prayer is, that God will bless us and give us
His Holy Spirit.
	Anna K. Smoot made a few remarks in re-
gard to the Primary Association.
	Prest. Mary John felt that the Spirit of the
Lord had been with us. Said, "We will now
adjourn for three months." Singing. "The
time is far spent," etc. Benediction by Prest.
Smoot.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Thirty-third Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake con-
vened on the 14th of December, 1886, in the
tabernacle at Brigham City, Sister Harriet
Snow presiding. After the opening exercises,
Prest. Harriet Snow arose and said, "I feel
thankful we have the privilege to meet once
more in a conference capacity. I trust we
may have the Spirit of the Lord to guide us in
transacting business pertaining to our duties."
	The Secretary being absent, Sister Annie
Wixom was appointed Secretary pro. tem.
Minutes of previous conference were read and
accepted.
	Susannah P. Boothe, Prest. of 1st Ward,
said, "I realize we have to make an effort in
meeting together, as well as in other respects.
We are living in a time that we need all the
teachings we can gather. Let us remember
our brethren and sisters who cannot be with us.
We can do a great deal of good in cheering
those who are down-hearted, besides doing
good to the poor. It behooves each and every
one of us to lift up our prayers early and late
in behalf of the youth of Zion; try to lead
them along, but not drive them. I hope we
will not be weary in well doing, that when we

[Column 3]

leave this existence we may leave a good re-
cord behind us."
	Mary Anderson, Prest. of 3rd Ward: "I feel
almost proud of our sisters who take an active
part in our ward, although we should not feel
proud, still it is a great encouragement. I
think the families in exile have just as hard
times as the brethren in prison. We don't
need to fear our enemies; they can do us no
more harm than the Lord will permit."
	Sister Bigler represented the 2nd Ward.
	Sister Keller, Prest. of Mantua: "I think
we are doing a little good, but we need to do
still better. This is a time when we need to
live near our God."
	Sister Watkins, Prest. of 4th Ward: "The
Lord is overruling all things for our good.
When we do good and show kindness to the
poor, we always reap blessings in return that
are of more worth than money." Bore a
strong testimony to the truth of celestial mar-
riage; felt thankful to have passed through
former persecutions, and hoped to faithfully
pass through the present.
	Coun. Olivia Widerborg: "I am not a very
proud woman, but I am proud of my religion."
Spoke warmly on the principle of celestial
marriage. Said, "I feel to praise my Heavenly
Father for my experience in this order; it has
learned me to strive to root out selfishness. We
would not be perfected if we had no trials."
Reported the Scandinavian Society.
	Bishop Hansen, of the 4th Ward: "Those
present are enjoying the influence of the Holy
Spirit, and their hearts are uplifted. There
are but few of the human family who have
this privilege. The life beyond is of far more
worth than the pleasures of this world. The
principle of celestial marriage is intended as
the greatest exaltation, but we cannot under-
stand all things in one day. There is nothing
that gives more comfort than to do good to
others in need. If we have done good here on
earth, that will follow us; anything else we
must leave behind.
	Sister Perry, Prest. of Three Mile Creek:
"My sisters, I am pleased to meet with you;
my health is poor; I came to get a blessing."
Compared the life of the Latter-day Saints to a
high school, "where they may gain intelligence.
What good we have learned will follow us into
eternity. There is nothing that looks more
beautiful to me than to see two wives of one
husband coming into this house together. The
young and the middle-aged have to prepare
themselves to be able to teach the women of
the world. Let us be kind and helpful to
those in trouble. Let us do all in our power
to share their trials and comfort them.
	After singing and benediction, adjourned
till 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session: After the usual opening
exercises, Sister Hubbard, Prest. of Willard,
addressed the meeting: "I feel to ask the help
of the Lord, for of myself I am nothing. How
could we change one principle of our holy re-
ligion. Our Father has blessed us with so
many things. No evil will befall the faithful;
all will be for our good. We who have em-
braced the principle of plural marriage have
reason to be humble, as families. Let us do
to others as we would that they should do unto
us. The Gospel never looked more beautiful
to me than it does now."
	Sister Harper, of Calls Fort: "We all have
our weaknesses to combat with." Spoke of
the principle of plural marriage. Said, "Let
us be united with each other, that we may be
strong; disunited we are weak. This is a day
for both men and women to prove themselves.
We should be very careful to pray for our sis-
ters as well as our brethren. I want to live so
as to meet the smiles of my Heavenly Father.
	Sister H. Hunsaker, Prest. of Honeyville:
"This kingdom will roll on, whether we follow
or not. Shall we enter into plural marriage?


Yes, let us not be afraid to do so, nor speak
against the principle; the Lord has given it for
the good of the human family.  We are co-
workers with our brethren in the kingdom of
God.”
	Emilia D. Madsen felt thankful to be
counted one with the Latter-day Saints.  “What
a beautiful spirit is here to-day; such a heavenly, 
warm feeling swells our bosoms and fills the 
atmosphere.  When we look at these sisters 
who have testified be strongly to the truth and
beauty of celestial marriage, how can we help
but believe them?  They are growing old,
but there is a light in their eyes, and a
sound in their voices, when they speak as 
they have done, that we are compelled to look
up to them with reverence and respect.”
	Bro. George Cook said, “I have felt the
good spirit in your midst.  We are called upon
to keep ourselves unspotted from the world.”
	Bro. Daniel Zundle: “There is a good spirit
present here.  We may labor trying to do our
very best, but when we lay down these bodies,
and we can look back, we will realize -that it is
but very little we have done to inherit the
great blessings that are before us.” 
	Bro. Wixom said, “I have heard some fine
instructions here; God is with you.  If the
world could realize the prospects that are be-
fore this people, they would rush in here by
thousands, by millions.  I believe we cannot
feel exactly the same as a woman.  She is the
helpmate and co-laborer with man in this great
work.  The man is not without the woman, nor
the woman without the man.”
	Sister Minnie J. Snow: “This is a time of
trying scenes, when we look back and realize
what has transpired within the last three years.
I feel an interest in the progress of this work.
I am led to believe, that more trying times are
to come yet.” 
	Sister Hardy: “These older sisters who have
addressed us are faded; their faces are wrinkled,
but there is something beautiful about them;
they are worthy examples, and we ought to
follow them.  The testimony of the older sis-
ters who have lived in plural marriage seems
to have more effect upon the young people than
a sermon from the brethren.”    
	Prest. Harriet Snow showed some beautiful
green homemade silk, sold at the same price as
the imported, and recommended the Relief
Society throughout to sustain this home indus-
try. “We have had a good conference, and I
feel thankful for the interest manifested.  We
need temporal food often, so do we also need
spiritual.  I like to hear the sisters bear their
testimonies to the principle of plural marriage.
I have lived in it for forty years. 	     *		*
I don’t know what our enemies will do with us.
We are the daughters of God; let us live, then,
as becomes His daughters.  May God bless all
our sisters, in all their efforts, and may we
meet again in three months.  If we are humble
we shall receive knowledge and wisdom to
guide us.”  Singing.  Benediction by Father
Box. 
			ANNIE WIXOM, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	Semi-monthly meeting held Oct. 16th 1886,
Coun. D. H. Young presiding. After the
reading of minutes of previous meeting,
minutes of the P. A. of the 21st, 20th and 15th
wards, and Y. L. A. of the 21st, 2nd, and 3rd
wards were read; and Sister Zina then addressed
the meeting. Said, "This is the day that the
day the prophets foretold," and thought we
would have grace to stand if we lived near to
the Lord. Referred tenderly to the decease of
Sister Hannah T. King, and said, "Our older
sisters are gradually passing away, one by one,


but we should not  mourn  for  them, for,
'Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord.'
Sister King has gone triumphant and victori-
ous, and has left behind her a tangible record
of her life and labors." After many interest-
ing remarks, the meeting was given into the
hands of the sisters.
	Sister Harriet Woodbury spoke in the gift
of tongues, and the interpretation was given
by Sister Zina.
	Sister Sinah Bishop bore testimony that the
interpretation given had been dictated by the
Spirit of the Lord, and made many excellent
remarks.
	Sister Dyer spoke a few words in tongues,
and the interpretation was given by Sister
Bishop.
	Sisters Emily Stevenson, Grix and Morten-
son bore faithful testimonies. Sisters Evans,
Watmough and Brown each spoke, bearing
testimony and exhorting to faithfulness. Sis-
ter Mary Silver made a few remarks about
Sister King, and recited one of her poems.
	Sister L. G. Richards, after a few timely re-
marks, asked that the sisters would unite their
faith and offer up a prayer for our afflicted sis-
ter, Sister Wilkins. Sister Zina asked Sister
Richards to be mouth in prayer, and the sisters
all joined in the amen.
	Sister Zina then spoke a few words, and the
meeting was adjourned for two weeks. Closed
with singing Doxology, and benediction was
pronounced by Sister M. Snow.


[Column 1]

LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

M. J. TANNER.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	10:50. The country grows pleasanter. Fields
are green, and land is being plowed; trees are 
beginning to leaf out, and low mountains or
hills form a background. The sun shines for
the first time since I left home. Things are
not as forward as in Utah, and I miss the irri-
gation ditches.
	Strong City, 11:15. Another wooden town;
wooden houses, wooden fences, and a general
wooden look. There is considerable timber in
this section of the country, but we cannot de-
termine just what kind it is.
	Emporia, 11:55. Quite a large city; street
cars, omnibus and hacks, the first I have seen
since leaving home. Houses of frame and
brick. Depot house of white sandstone. Pleas-
ant streets and fine stores and dwelling houses.
Looks, as we pass through, as if it might com-
pare favorably with Salt Lake City, but it does
not cover so large an area. Inhabitants given
at 4;500. It lacks one of the elements that
constitutes the beauty of Salt Lake City, and
that is, orchards and shade trees. There are
some orchards in the suburbs, but not in bloom.
There are quite a number of churches which
would denote a Christian population.
	Passing through the country we see large
corn fields from last year, the stalks still stand-
ing. It looks strange to see so much level
country. One fancies it must be cloudy, and
the mountains will be there when the clouds
clear away.
	Osage City, 1:15 p.m. Another wooden
town.  It looks so strange to see all the houses
of frame.  No more adobies and very little
brick.  Mrs. H—— is asleep, but I rouse her
up to look at the negroes—a house full of
them.  Black faces of all sizes peering out of
the doors and windows, and standing on the
porch.
	Topeka, 2:45 p.m.  Twenty minutes for
dinner. Topeka is the capitol of Kansas It
is a city of thirty thousand inhabitants. All
is bustle and confusion, but very little of the
city can be seen from the depot.
	Lawrence is a pretty town on the Arkansas

[Column 2]

River. Nice houses, with lawns and yards
nicely laid out. We are passing through a
timber country. New clearings are being
made, and the farms are full of stumps. We
travel for some time through woods.
	Kansas City, 5 p.m. Here we change cars.
It is a lovely city. The houses are built on
the hillside in terraces, one row above another.
The effect is very fine, but I should not fancy
the climbing. We cannot see all the city, but
the depot is very large and filled with cars.
Here we meet Bro. John Morgan, and Bro.
Nelson leaves us to go with him south. They
go to Chattenooga, after visiting New Orleans.
Three of the other brethren go with them.
Here we cross the Missouri River.
	Muscatine, 7 a.m., Friday, April 17th, 188—.
It seems to be a great lumber emporium and a
large city. Here we strike the Mississippi
River, the father of waters. We passed a hard
night; the cars are not so comfortable as the
ones we left, and we got but little sleep. We
have re-arranged our seats, and made ourselves
as comfortable as possible, when the river meets
our view. I remembered the days when I
lived on its banks, and the happy hours I had
spent searching pebbles on its shore. The last
time I saw it was when we crossed it in our
exodus from Nauvoo. My heart thrills as I
watch it, and I forget that I am weary or hun-
gry. There is a steamboat passing.
	Davenport, 7:45.  Cross the river to Rock
Island, and soon lose sight of it. We pass
through Moline, and see the large factory
where the Moline plows are made. We are in
Illinois now, and the country is level and wet.
It stormed hard last night, and is cloudy now.
Very little land is plowed, and no wheat up
yet. The country is covered with water and
mud.  I think the country must be pleasant
when the weather is fair. We pass hills and
woods, farms and vineyards. At Peru we ran
over a cow and killed it. We are traveling
along the Illinois River, and nearing Chicago.
We go to the dressing room and wash and
comb preparatory to changing cars.
	Jolliet. Here the States' Prison is situated.
It is a fine looking city. We pass a beautiful
cemetery, and immense stone quarries and
groves of timber. The ground is green, but
the trees are bare yet. The whole country is
covered with rain and mud.
	Chicago, 3 p.m. We have been duly trans-
ferred from our landing place to another depot,
and have to wait there three hours for the
train. It is raining hard. Some of the
brethren go out to see a little of the city, but
the ladies remain inside. We have seen noth-
ing as yet, for we entered the city between two
rows of freight cars, and see nothing but the
tops of stone buildings and masts of boats
bristling above the cars. We enter a covered
depot, and are emerged in covered carriages,
and see very little but a mass of high stone
walls. Sister Harrison and I go into the
restaurant and get a warm dinner.
	We leave Chicago at 5:15 on the Chicago
and Atlantic. We have a special car. It is
still raining, and all we can see is mud and
water.
		To be Continued.


PRIMARY PARTY.

	The Third Ward, St. George, Dec. 29th,
1886, gave an interesting party. Having an
invitation, I attended the happy children's 
party, given them by the President, Sister
Margaret Mathie, who had provided everything
for their comfort and amusement. Over seven-
ty-five children, boys and girls, were present.
The party was called to order by the President.
The child choir sang, "Happy Children," ac-
companied on the organ by Sister Warren.
Prayer by Sister Mathie. The choir very 
beautifully rendered, "Love at Home."


Then came a time of feasting for the children
on the good things provided for them. A recita-
tion came next in order, by Louisa Cox, entitled,
"Goodbye, Little Bird." Martha Mills and
Ella Bird sang, "Poor Mary came o'er the
Wild Moor," very sweetly, which song was re-
peated. A funny little dialogue, by three little
girls—"What are we good for"showed that
little girls can be of use. "Running away from
home," a dialogue by three boys, pictured
the folly of leaving a good home for the uncer-
tain life of a great city. An original piece by
Sister Mathie was recited as follows:

	O God, the Eternal Father!
		May our faith increase in thee;
	Though our eyes grow dim and shaded,
		May our spirits always see.

	May we e'er be true and faithful,
		And walk in the narrow way,
	May our path to life eternal,
		Grow brighter every day.

	Be kind to the poor and needy,
		The lame, the halt and blind,
	Then in the restoration
		Our place we'll surely find.

	Speak a kind word to the erring,
		For they have the debt to pay,
	And thank God, our Heavenly Father,
		That we've chose the better way.

	Let us teach to Zion's daughters
		To shun the path of sin;
	With words of persuasion and kindness
		Do let us gather them in.

	Say to the gay and thoughtless,
		"It's no time for idle glee,
	For soon the judgments of heaven
		All over the nations will be."

	Next Joseph Mills told what he would do
when a man. "Curfew shall not ring to-night,"
was well spoken by Alma Clark. Two little
girls sang, "Merry Bells," with Sister Warren
accompanying on the organ.
	Then came a recess, and after the children 
came in William Higgins spoke on intoxicat-
ing drinks. Delia Nixon played on the organ,
while the choir sang, "Round the Throne of
God." Mary Cox spoke, very feelingly, "The
Letter." "We're Marching on to Glory," was
sung, Candy, nuts and popcorn were passed
around, and the smiling children dismissed by
Lizzie Cox.
		EMILY B. SPENCER.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HEALTH AND HYGIENE.

	Muchardt, professor of hygiene at the Paris
Faculty of Medicine, declares that aged people
should have exercise for the benefit of all the
organs of nutrition and locomotion as well
as young people. He says that the tendency
to rest brings on a gradual diminution of
strength. Moderate exercise, particularly of
walking, is commended. It is well known that
the disuse of any organ impairs its powers.
Why, then, should not the aged lose the use of
their members the sooner from giving way to
an inclination for rest.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Pima, Graham Co., A. T., Nov. 23rd, 1886,
Caroline Adrianna, beloved daughter of Heber and Caroline
Masham, born May 8th, 1872, at Santaquin, Utah.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT,
	Adopted by the Y. L. M. I A, of Pima, to the memory
of Caroline Adrianna Masham:
	Whereas, by the decree of an alwise Providence, our
worthy young sister, Caroline Adrianna has been taken
from our midst.
	Resolved, That we, her associates and co-workers, of

[Column 2]

the Young Ladies' Association, do fondly cherish her
memory, and while we sadly miss her; we feel to bow in
humble submission to the divine will of heaven.
	Resolved, That we condole with the bereaved family in
the loss of their dear one, not, however, without the con-
soling reflection that she has gone in her purity, and is
worthy to come forth in the morning of the first resurrec-
tion.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be entered in the
Young Ladies' record; also a copy be presented to the
parents of the deceased, and one be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication.
		LAURA NUTTALL,
		LUCINDA GUSTAFSON, Committee.
		LIZZIE BIRDNOE.

	DIED, at Ephraim, Colorado, Dec. 26th, 1886, of In-
flamation of the lungs, Bodel Katrine Poulsen, wife of
Andrew Poulsen, born in Denmark, Oct. 3rd, 1820. Was
baptized in February, 1852; started for Utah, in connection
with her husband and family, in Dec., 1852, arriving in
Salt Lake City, Utah, September 29th, 1853. They made
their home in Manti, Sanpete County, where she patiently
bore the trials and hardships of those early days. While
there she gathered around her a host of friends, assisted in
making a comfortable home, which she enjoyed until 1880,
when her husband was called to this place, she arriving
here in 1881. She was ever ready to impart to the poor,
visit the sick and comfort those who mourned. At the
time of her death she held the office of presiding teacher in
the Relief Society, which office she filled with honor, per-
forming the duties with great credit. We have lost a true
helper, her aged husband a faithful wife, and her children
a loving mother. She leaves a husband, seven children,
twenty-five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild to
mourn her loss. Two children and eighteen grandchildren
have passed behind the vail before her. We sympathize
with the bereaved family in their loss, and hope that we
with them may meet her in the morning of the first resur-
rection, where there is no parting.
		ANNE MARTHA RASMUSSEN, Prest. R. S.

	DIED, at Nephi, Dec. 31st, 1886, of paralysis, Sister
Julia Bryan, wife of the late C. H. Bryan. Deceased was
born in France, January 2d, 1812. She embraced the Gos-
pel in 1851; was baptized by Bro. Bolton. Emigrated to
Utah in 1853, and came to Nephi the same year, where
she resided to the time of her demise. She joined the Re-
lief Society at its organization, and was chosen to hold the
office of teacher. She afterwards held the office of Assist-
ant Treasurer until June last, when she resigned that posi-
tion on account of declining health. "Aunt Julia," as she
was familiarly called, was a diligent and earnest worker in
the interest of the Society, faithful in the discharge of every
duty, diligent in taking care of everything committed to her
charge. Rejoiced in meeting with the sisters and bearing
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, as taught and prac-
tised by the Latter-day Saints. She left home and kin-
dred to cast her lot with the people of God. On Sunday,
her seventy-fifth birthday, her remains were followed from
the family residence to the meeting house; by her family
and intimate friends, the Stake and local officers, teachers,
and a number of the members of the Relief Society. After
singing by the choir, "Softly beams," etc., a very impres-
sive prayer was offered by Bishop Udall. The choir sang,
"Mourn not the dead," etc. The congregation was ad-
dressed by President C. Sperry, George Kendall, Andrew
Love and David Cazier. Her remains were followed to the
cemetery by a large number of citizens, conveyed in
carriages (about forty in number). Singing by the choir,
'Unveil thy boson," and "Wanted on the other side."
	At a meeting of the Relief Society, Dec. 6th, the follow-
ing Resolutions were adopted:
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to release
from her suffering our beloved sister, Julia Bryan,
	We, as officers and members of the Relief So-
ciety, feel to acknowledge the hand of God in taking
from our midst a good, noble, upright and devoted mem-
ber of our Society, feeling that she has accomplished a
noble mission, lived in the celestial order of marriage, and
with her sister wife labored for the interest of the family. In
blessing, she was indeed blessed, with the love and affection
of her husband's children and grandchildren.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
family in the loss of a faithful member and devoted friend,
and that we, her co-laborers, strive to emulate her exam-
ple.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be placed

[Column 3]

on the Relief Society records, printed in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and a copy given to the bereaved family.
		MARY PITCHFORTH,
		AMY L. BIGLER, Committee.
		E. R. UDALL,

	Dearest sister, we have loved you,
	We have loved you fond and true,
	And it fills our hearts with sadness,
		That we have to part with you;
	But a crown of royal brightness,
		Waits to deck your honored brow,
	And a robe of purest whiteness
		Waits your body to endow.

	Where your friends await to meet you,
	And your husband waits to greet you,
		For you have been good and true;
	You have been so kind and patient,
		Ever laboring for the poor,
	And for this the Lord has loved you—
		May you rest in peace secure.

	Dearest sister, we shall miss you,
		We shall miss your presence here,
	But we hope again to meet you—
		Farewell, sister, sister dear.

			S. K.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FOR[-]E
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

			ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1863.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBHODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
12, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
