(To be continued)
Courtesy Great Northern Railway
FLATHEAD RIVER, MONTANA
Wedding Anniversaries By Jessie M. Robinson
WHEN YOU ARE MARRIED ONE YEAR
THE first anniversary is called the Cotton Wedding. For a little dinner, a young couple may issue invitations written in indelible ink on pieces of French nainsook folded like notepaper. Write the date of the marriage and also the anniversary date at the top. The bride should wear her wedding-gown, and on her head a wreath of tiny cotton balls. Cover the dining table with a pretty cotton cloth or with cotton batting to within two feet of the edge, sprinkled with powdered mica (the shiny stuff sold for Christmas trees is the same thing). A small Christmas tree loaded with cotton snow makes a good centerpiece. Use cotton snowballs to hold trifling favors for the guests. Follow the dinner with various merry games. For prizes give packages of sterilized cotton, powder puffs, handkerchiefs, aprons, or anything made of cotton.
WHEN YOU ARE MARRIED TWO YEARS
THE second anniversary is the paper wedding. The bride may wear an entire costume of paper or another gown trimmed with paper. For the table, use either one entire cover of crepe or plain paper, or the very effective paper lace doilies easily procurable at confectionary or bookstores. Have a centrepiece of paper roses, the candleshades of their petals, and serve the ices in boxes held in the hearts of paper roses. Any other paper flowers of course may be suitable. For entertainment after dinner large mottoes containing paper caps may be distributed. These should be put on, and the character impersonated by each wearer appropriate to the headgear. The one drawing a fez might choose the Sultan for his character; a fool's cap may suggest "Simple Simon," a nightcap, "Mrs. Caudle," which must be discovered by the others through asking questions. The guesses are recorded in paper booklets and the person most successful may receive a prize—a book or any paper trifle.
WHEN YOU ARE MARRIED FOUR YEARS
THE Leather Wedding celebrates the fourth anniversary. Leather does not lend itself readily to decorative features, but the bride of four years has no other choice. The dinner table may have a burnt-leather box or basket filled with yellow flowers or growing ferns, with leatherette boxes for candy or nuts. The place cards may be of chamois with the names in heavy gilt lettering. A game or contest is usually enjoyed after dinner, and if any prize is awarded, of course it should be of leather.
WHEN YOU ARE MARRIED FIVE YEARS
THE Wooden Wedding comes at the fifth year. In the summer a picnic luncheon or supper in canyon or park would be appropriate. At other seasons an evening affair must be chosen, and the rooms made to look as "woodsy" as possible. The invitations may be written upon birch bark with green ink. There are also postal cards made of thin wood which would be novel. Have the supper-table without a cloth so as to show the wood, and ferns in the centre in a rustic basket. Wooden boxes or baskets lined with leaves should hold sandwiches, olives, etc. If there is music, selections from "Robin Hood" may recall the "merry men of the greenwood." Afterward, among intimate friends, fun may be had in a contest between the women driving nails into a plank or whittling toy boats, and for the men a competition to dress clothespin dolls. For prizes and for gifts to the hosts—etchings, or any picture framed in wood, a book-rack, or any article enclosed in a wooden box would be appropriate.
WHEN YOU ARE MARRIED SEVEN YEARS
THE Woolen Wedding comes with the seventh anniversary. The material is not effective, but the invitations may be worked in crewels or perforated Bristol-board. The "cobweb party" might be revived, using colored yarns instead of cords—a "fortune" as well as a favor at the end of each. Some unfortunate young man might, perhaps, find a huge worsted mitten, guided in his choice of yarn by one in the secret to insure its selection by a man. The bride, of course, should be dressed in woolen, and may be charming in one of the new knitted sport dresses. On the supper-table a large wedding-cake crowned by a "Bo-peep" doll with her flock of toy sheep would suggest the "wooly" idea.
WHEN YOU ARE MARRIED TEN YEARS
THE Tin Wedding marks the tenth anniversary, for the celebration of which a reception is usually chosen in winter, and a garden party in summer. If it is impossible to have the invitations engraved on thin sheets of tin, they might be wrapped in sheets of smooth tinfoil before placing them in envelopes. The table may be very effectively set with shining new tinware. If the refreshments are served out of doors, each table should have as its centrepiece a tin pot or cup filled with flowers. The wedding dress will now be so old-fashioned as to be interesting or amusing. A coronet of tin stars of graduated sizes and a tin funnel for a bouquet holder will add to the bride's costume. A small tin of canned soup would make an effective booby prize if games are played, tinware, filled with flowers much beribboned makes pretty gifts for the guests.
WHEN YOU ARE MARRIED FIFTEEN YEARS
THE Crystal Wedding commemorates the fifteenth anniversary. The invitations are printed in gilt upon cards of celluloid, or written on cellophane, as both of these materials resemble glass. For table decorations glass should be prominent. Use a luncheon or dinner set of colored glass, crystal candlesticks, and a large glass bowl or vase of any seasonal flower as the centrepiece, having it set upon a large mirror bordered with fern or ivy. Books such as Hugh Walpole's "The Green Mirror," Phyllis Bottome's "The Crystal Heart," rings with glass or gem settings, tiny glass bottles or dishes are some of the prizes suggested if games are played. A beaded dress is appropriate for the hostess.
WHEN YOU ARE MARRIED TWENTY YEARS
THE Linen Wedding comes after twenty years of married life. Linen notepaper may convey the invitations. Use the best linen tablecloth that you possess for the dinner table. If procurable, have blue flax flowers as a centrepiece. Or, as Ireland, especially Belfast, is synonymous of fine linen, a small pot of green shamrock and St. Patrick Day favors might be used. Prizes may be offered for the one who tells the best Irish joke or story.
WHEN MARRIED TWENTY-FIVE YEARS
THE twenty-fifth anniversary is the Silver Wedding. The invitations, engraved in silver, are almost always issued for a reception. The bride wears silver-gray, and Time may have also crowned her head with silver. Only relatives and intimate friends send gifts. The request that none be sent is often written on the invitations. Silver should be conspicuous on the table, and pink roses are as lovely in a bowl of plated ware as in the more costly solid metal.
WHEN MARRIED FIFTY YEARS
ALL the family should assemble to do honor to the couple who, fifty years from the wedding-day, celebrate their Golden Wedding. The preparations should be undertaken by the younger members and the invitations engraved in gilt. The rooms and table should be gay with golden blossoms—yellow maple boughs, ripe wheat, goldenrod, yellow roses, or daffodils. Two comfortable wicker or upholstered chairs may be easily decorated in gold paint and cloth for the aged couple. The gifts need only suggest in color the precious metal, but of course, it would seem most appropriate if the children and grandchildren united in giving some coin or present of real gold. At a recent Golden Wedding a little service of thanksgiving was held under the trees after the formal guests had gone.