Anger By Eva Wansgard
ANGER has always seemed to me such a senseless emotion. Because angry people are so often ridiculous, they have always appeared to me a little absurd so that I am likely to burst into laughter if suddenly confronted by an angry face. Of course, righteous indignation is a virtue. Even Christ drove the money changers out of the temple with a whip in his hand. But why all this senseless tirading when it's just a form of emotional indulgence?
For many years I was a schoolteacher so that of necessity I read many books on and took many courses in psychology, but the finest lesson I ever learned on anger came from a child of three. Sitting at the sewing machine one day, I was startled by the stamping of tiny feet and the loud bursting open and slamming shut of a door. I glanced up as our small son entered the room and, then, perceiving that he had not noticed my momentary attention, I proceeded silently with my sewing. The small apparition of anger strode noisily back and forth across the room with his tiny hands clasped behind his back, an exact replica of his great-uncle George in the throes of a violent temper. Pretending not to have noticed anything unusual, I kept quietly on with my sewing. Finally he stopped and in a voice of extreme disgust exploded, "I are mad!"
"Yes," I said as calmly as I could for I was convulsed with inward amusement, "I see you are. What do you intend to do about it?"
The queerest expression of absolute consternation appeared on his baby face and then he said, in the gruffest voice he could muster, "Well, I can talk big like grandpa does."
Then I smiled and he smiled, too. He sat down and began making a train of his blocks. How truly he spoke! We can all talk big as grandpa does but what does it avail? That is fifteen years ago and we have never had to suffer the angry scenes which take so much of the joy out of life. If anyone at our house commenced talking "big as grandpa does" he would bring to mind the old joke and only "raise a laugh." Cannot others learn from this episode?