Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
JUNE.—Earth in summer's garb holds out her hands laden with gifts of song, and perfume, laughter, and shade of leafy trees to give a distraught world praise and love and peace.
CAROLINE MILLER, of Baxley, Ga., is the winner of the 1933 Pulitzer prize for her novel entitled, "Land in His Bosom," and Sidney Kingsley, of New York, is awarded the prize for the best play, "Men in White" is the title. Both prizes are $1,000.
DOLLY MADISON, Frances Cleveland and Grace Coolidge were the only "First Ladies" who preferred to be known by their own names and they were the most popular.
EVA TANGUAY, the "Don't Care" girl of the movies of an earlier day, after an operation to restore her sight, is planning to come back and intends to dedicate her earnings, above living expenses, to the aid of sightless children.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON personally rescued three persons from an overturned car, administered first aid and then drove them home in her own car. IRENE CASTLE McLAUGHLIN, dress stylist, advocates individuality with a minimum of regard to fashion. She claims there is now no uniformity in skirt length, sleeve size, or neck lines. RS. EDWARD T. GARY, whose fortune was around $10,000,000, remembered, in her will, her manicurist, hairdresser, chauffeur, and others who served her in sums from $10,000 to $30,000. Besides bequests to relatives she bequeathed the residue of her fortune to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER has a clever storiette in a current magazine "Med to Mum" which is a delicious piece of humor and further proves the versatility of this gifted woman. ELIZABETH COBB, daughter of the famous newspaper correspondent, Irvin Cobb, has followed in her father's footsteps and decided on a literary career though she says it is the "most miserable" work in the world. She also says she might have been an actress or archaeologist or a social butterfly but having written three novels she chose literature. ELIZABETH SEEGERS in "The Pageant of Chinese History," covers a period about 3,000 years' B. C. To the modern day. It abounds in Chinese humor and philosophy in its procession of empires, dynasties, wars and conquests. ANN BRIDGE, winner of "Atlantic" novel prize of 1932, has written a new Anglo-Chinese story called "Ginger Griffin" which comes out in May. FRANCES FROST and Lola Ridge divided this year the Shelly Memorial Award. Miss Frost was also the recipient of the first prize for poetry offered by the magazine "Young Israel" for her poem "Autumn." ELIZABETH JENKINS' "Harriet,"' Stella Kramer's "Path to Understanding," Magdelen Halls' "Diary of a Young Lady of Fashion" are some of the late novels offered for summer reading.