		TUESDAY, Dec. 10, 1895.
	Continuing our journey via Como,
Lugano and the wonderful and famous
scenery of St. Gothard, through the tun-
nel which is more than 9 miles long, 26 ft.
broad, 21 1/2 ft. high and takes twenty
minutes to pass through. We had views
of the grandest Alpine scenes. It is an
elevated track in the central part of Switzer-
land between the Cantons of Wei, Valais,
Ticino and the Grisons is a circular plain
surrounded on all sides by some of the
loftiest summits of the Alps. Not far from
Hospice is the source of the rivers Rhone,
Reuss and Ticino. On the brink of a
steep hill was a little church which we
passed five times, the road winding in and
out through the tunnels and mountain
passes each time bringing the church to
view. At one Alpine village we saw a
lovely bride bid adieu to her friends and
drive away to a pretty Chalet on the
mountain side. We wished her all the joy
and brightness in her new home her
happy face seemed to anticipate.
	We had beautiful visions of snowy peaks
and vast fields of sun. While some of the
higher pinnacles were dazzling in sunlight,
in the distance was a snow storm, large
beautiful flakes silently and rapidly falling,
while on the top the sun tinted the snow
with rose, amber and violet; a most beauti-


ful sight which we often see at home. It
speaks of Omnipotence.
	We descend to the valley of the Reuss
where we have grand views of the Alps
and Lake Lucerne, one of the loveliest in
Switzerland, arrive at Lucerne where we
pass the night at Hotel Victoria Bale.
When I came before took a carriage over
the picturesque Brunig Pass to Lucerne,
situated on the Lake in full view of the
Rigi Kulen, Pilotus and other Alpine
peaks; the whole forms a beautiful panor-
ama, while the Lake shores are rich in
legends of Tell. The river Reuss empties
into the Lake, it has several quaint wooden
bridges; the historical are the Muchlen-
brucke, on the ceiling is the picture of the
“Dance of Death,” Longfellows (“Golden
Legend.”) The Lion of Lucerne is a lion
cut into the living rock and framed by vines
and overhanging trees; the dying lion
trans ixed by a broken lance defends with
pathos and grandeur the “Burbon Lily.”
This monument is to the faithful and brave
Helvatians. We ascended the Rigi Kulen
where we have a fine view of Eastern and
Northern Switzerland. The eye sweeps
over eleven lakes, plains and streams, to
the crest of the Jura mountains and over
the Bernese Oberland Alps, a circuit of
three hundred miles. As we ascend the
5,900 feet we see the valley dotted with 
blue lakes, while shining snow-capped
peaks rise one behind another until the
last is lost in clouds. In the distance the
Jura Freu Eiger and many other peaks.
On our return, near the end of the descent
we pass by the remains of the Golden land-
slide which buried all in its ruins.
							KIM.


MISS ANTHONY received an ovation on
Feb. 15, her birthday. The Rochester
Democrat and Chronicle says: “It seemed
as if the entire city turned out to shake Miss
Anthony’s hand and offer congratulations,
and probably Powers Hall never held a
larger crowd. The representative people
of Rochester were there, society, profes-
sional, literary and clergy, and the busi-
ness man and woman were all to be seen,
and a thoroughly happy, good-natured
gathering it was, without the formality that
often marks large social functions. No
one would take Miss Anthony to be 77
years old. She showed not a trace of
fatigue, but every energy was alert, and
happiness and pleasure at the demonstra-
tion of her townspeople seemed to be the
prevailing emotion. Near her was the
faithful sister, Miss Mary Anthony, and
Rev. Anna Shaw and Mrs. Ida Harper,
her guests. In every respect the reception
was a success. It was an ovation to Miss
Anthony, and probably gave her more
pleasure coming as it did from her own
townspeople, than any of the many func-
tions that have been given in her honor.


THE ladies of the Silk Association are
getting along nicely in their endeavor to ac-
quire land on which to plant a mulberry
forest. They meet with discouragements
occasionally, but so far are overcoming all
obstacles fairly well, and if they receive the
financial and moral support they need from
the community success will crown their
efforts, and a silk “works” in St George
will be an accomplished fact.—St. George
Union.


