[TO THE N-A. W. S. A., JAN. 27.]
	“I AM glad to greet and welcome you to 
the State of Iowa. No nation on the globe
entertains a higher respect and admiration
for its women than that of the United
States, and in the courtesy and devotion
due to the nation's fair daughters, the gal-
lant sons of Iowa are not behind those of 
any other state. They love their own and 
are so unselfish they admire them all. 
	“Of the organizations having a national 
or continental scope of operation that have 
met in Iowa, I can think of none to which 
our people will more cheerfully give wel-
come than the body which now honors this 
metropolis with its presence. 
	“Your association holds its meetings in a 
State the territory of which has a peculiar 
history in respect of the suffrage. Since 
the organization of this land as a part of 
Wisconsin, the right of suffrage has been
denied to no person because of the want of 
property possessions, or because of the non
payment of tax of some kind. 
	“Iowa shares with Wisconsin the honor 
of being a pioneer in freedom of suffrage, 
because in no territory or State whose his-
tory began prior to that of Wisconsin has 
such freedom always prevailed. Again, 
Iowa followed Wisconsin in the adoption of 
manhood suffrage, they being the only 
states outside of New England where such
suffrage obtained prior to the amendment

[Column 2]
to the Federal Constitution in conformity
to the same. Again, Iowa stands alone in 
all the Northwest in never lowering the
standard of the right of suffrage by permit-
ting it to be exercised by any one not fully
a citizen of the United States. 
	“At every election held within her pre-
sent borders, whether as a part of Michigan
or that of Wisconsin, or as the territory or 
state of Iowa, full citizenship has always
been a necessary quality for an elector.
	“You are engaged in the interest of the 
futher extension of the electorate. Your 
association has been working on this line
for years. You bring with you able advo-
cates, among them distinguished and re-
nowned veterans Your right to be heard
and for free discussion will neither be
denied nor abridged on the free soil of Iowa
where the intelligence of the people is 
sufficient to warrant the exercise of free
thought and free speech. Your efforts have
been rewarded in securing partial suffrage
in many of our States and the establish-
ment of universal suffrage in four of them; 
while in foreign lands the progress has 
been equally marked, in Great Britain ex-
tending, I understand, to the election of 
every officer except Representatives in 
Parliament. And you, no doubt, feel forti-
fied in the fact that where the electorate 
has once been extended, in no instance has 
the step ever been retraced. 
	“I congratulate your association on the
intelligence and brave women of which it is 
composed, and the persistency, energy and
zeal with which the work has been carried 
on. 
	“I trust that the association will have a 
pleasant and enjoyable session, that its
members will feel themselves benefited by 
the attendance and sojourn here, and that 
they will return to their homes with happy
recollections, and well pleased that the 
twenty-ninth annual session of the asso-
ciation was held in Iowa.”


