AT THE DES MOINES CONVENTION.

	MRS. E. B. WELLS spoke for Utah and
Mrs. Bradford for Colorado, after which 
Mrs. Woods of Wallace, Idaho, daughter of
Mrs. Wells, voiced the following eloquent 
greeting of Idaho to the Convention. As a
pen picture of that interesting country it is
incomparable: —Ed. Woman's Tribune.
IDAHO’S GREETING.
	As representing Idaho, first I wish to ex-
press the heartfelt gratitude of every equal
suffragist in our proud and happy State
to the National American Woman Suffrage
Association for the most generous help
afforded us in our two years’ campaign.
Without the aid of the devoted women,
Mrs. DeVoe, Mrs. Catt, Mrs. Bradford and
Mrs. Johns, who made the arduous journey
across the continent to organize our clubs,
plead the cause and teach us how to work
and win, we would not be celebrating
Idaho’s victory tonight.
	Mrs DeVoe, whom the National selected
to blaze the trail, came to us in the North
in June, 1895, and traveling southward
through the State—often taking wearisome
stage rides over dangerous mountain roads
to reach towns isolated from the railroad
line—to organize clubs in almost every
town of importance in Idaho, a State whose
area is 84,800 square miles, almost double 
that of New York and 28,775 square miles
greater than your beautiful State of Iowa,
(in which I claim a share, for my husband
was born a “Hawkeye” and served with
Iowa’s gallant troops the four years of the
civil war.)
	By the work of these clubs and others
organized later by Mrs. Bradford and Mrs.
Johns under the guidancs of the National
first, the State Assoc’n., next, with Mrs. 
Beattie and Mrs. Whitman at its head and our
devoted, untiring, self-sacrificing and most
efficient state secretary, Mrs. M. C. Athey, we
achieved the results we commemorate to-
night. Without being invidious, I wish to

[Column 2]
pay just tribute to Mrs. Helen L. Young,
Idaho’s only woman lawyer, for most
efficient work done in this cause.
	With her head pillowed on the lap of the
North, her feet resting on the orchards 
of the South, her snowy bosom rising to the
clouds, Idaho rests serene in her beauty of
glacier, lake and primeval forest, guarding
in her verdure clad mountains vast treasures
of precious minerals, the hem of her robe
embroidered in sapphires and opals.
	This is no overdrawn picture, friends;
on our northern line we touch elbows with
British Columbia; in the southern part
of the State are fine sapphire mines, while
one of our border counties (Latah) produces
the most beautiful opals on the continent,
and the output of silver and lead in Sho-
shone county, alone, for 1896 was $5,120,
000; this, too, in a country where for five
years past many of the large mines have
been closed down, awaiting the settlement
of the wage question. But if there are any
gold bugs present they need not worry
over our immense silver and lead produc-
tions, because Idaho is a large gold
producer and while no official record is yet
to be had it is estimated her production of
gold 1896 will be about 12,000,000, so you
see we are helping to keep up the gold
standard right royally although we are
called a silver State.
	But Idaho is not alone a mining State.
If we lack in comparison with the middle
States in area of cultivated soil, we have
our compensation in productiveness. The
great fields of the Palouse and Potlach
countries and other lands tributary to the
Clearwater and Snake rivers, yield annually
thirty-five bushels to the acre, this, too,
without rotation of crops, and the apples, pears
and prunes of Idaho are considered the 
finest in the United States.
	“A trail cut through the banks of snow
		Winds up and o’er the mountain chain
	To where the pines of Idaho
		Stand guard upon the Coeur d’Alene.”
	That part of Idaho called Coeur d’Alene,
and in which is my home, comprises the
two northernmost counties, Shoshone and
Kootenai. It is a nest of mountains with
beautiful lakes nestling among them and
streams of water coursing through every
gulch, except where tower the snow clad
peaks above the timber line; the mountains
are covered with a dense growth of different
varieties of pine, larch, hemlock and cedar,
and the timber interest of Idaho is not one
of the least of her resources. One of the
Des Moines papers characterized the four
enfranchised States as the “wildest and wool-
iest of the west.” We are proud that our four
equal suffrage States are joined together
and united by the ties of the grand old 
Rockies, and we will stand as a great bul-
wark of strength to the States around us,
higher in altitude and higher in attitude.
	I fancy few of you know much of 
the conditions existing in the mining
country, dotted here and there with mining
camps in every gulch, or canyon as you
would say, the preponderance of the adult
male over the women of maturity; the
power of the saloon element, and the cos-
mopolitan character of the people—men
from all parts of the world, ignorant and
cultured, refined and depraved seeking fame
and fortune in the far West—no reading
rooms, no lectures, no lyceums, no spelling
bee or corn-husking, the relaxation of the
farm hand; single men away from home

[Column 3]
and its influences, even if temperate, are
forced from the draughty lobby of the hotel
or tavern to the warmth and comfort of
every well-appointed saloon.
	The missionary suffrage work in such
places was obliged to be quietly consum-
mated without any apparent advocacy on
the part of men who were in reality ardent
supporters of our cause, lest the saloon ele-
ment should organize and by concerted
action, crush the movement as they did in
the State of Washington in 1889. And 
California, too, owes her defeat of the
amendment, at least, partially to this cause.
Yet you may go far to find nobler men
than we have in Idaho, and our cause did
not lack able champions. Our amendment
carried by more than a two-thirds majority
of the votes cast for and against it, the
largest majority any State has ever given
an amendment. And it is an evidence of
the chivalry of men to women voters that
in our legislature, now in session, Mrs. 
Rebecca Mitchell was elected by acclama-
tion to the position of Chaplain of the
House of Representatives. We think this
is the first woman to hold such a position
in the United States.
	We women of Idaho know that eyes out-
side our own State watch with intense
interest the effect of this added suffrage on
the body politic, and that it will add to
or detract from the work elsewhere as we
perform our duties as citizens well or ill.
Naturally we shall make mistakes, but
fortunately God has endowed women with
quick perception and strong intuition and it
will not take us long, I’ll warrant, to profit
by the mistakes made. With good men as
teachers we hope for much, fear little, and
look forward with enthusiasm to the
millenium of honest politics.


