ADA FAUST.

At the Alumni Banquet at the University
of Utah.

	Following is the address made by Miss
Elsie Ada Faust at the University alumni
banquet last year:
	I was pleased indeed when I was called
upon to respond to the toast of the “New
Woman: the expectancy and rose of the
fair state.” The subject—truly a great
one—is one near to my heart, and the only
fault I had to find with it was in the
adjective new.
	The new woman, properly speaking, is
the female infant born today or yesterday
and to be considered on such occasions as
this some twenty years hence.
	Then there is the new woman of the
funny papers—not to be considered at all—
mythical monstrosities clothed in men’s
attire, endowed with men’s faults, equipped
for men’s work; without womanly beauty,
womanly dignity and wholly destitute of
human sense.
	A creature born of some over-tired brain
at a time of desperation, with the laudable
excuse that it were better to make people
laugh than to weep.
	The new woman we shall consider,
though, is not a new woman any more

[Column 2]
than the sun that shone today is a new sun
or the stars that shine tonight are new
stars To one who has only begun to see
they might all appear new, but they have
ever existed, conforming always to God’s
immutable laws.
	The smouldering thoughts and feelings
accumulating in woman since the time that
Eve and her husband were thrust from the
Garden of Eden began to make themselves
manifest when the Pilgrim Mothers and
their husbands severing themselves from
their old life, set out for the rocky shores of
America; became more tangible when our
Pioneer Mothers with their husbands turn-
ed their backs on old disquietude and
dauntlessly pursued their way toward the
setting sun here in this fair state to seek
peace and room for their greater needs;
and have culminated in a set of women
with opportunities to cultivate the brains
and muscles God has given them, and with
brains and muscles to cultivate greater
opportunities.
	The alarmist who with upturned eyes and
an ominous shake of the head fears that
woman is becoming too independent has
cause for his fears.
	She has only just begun to know her
strength, and she is going to try that
strength to the utmost.
	She is going to be just as independent as
her heart, conscience and soul will permit.
She will never rest until she has tasted all
the sweets and bitternesses heretofore re-
served for man only. She will know what
there is in life without any second hand
opinions from her brother.
	With such aids as this noble institution
she will seek the knowledge necessary for
her advancement, and, better still, she will
train her daughters into that much feared
independence and greater expansion of
spirit; but best of all, she will train her
sons that their love for the human race lies
not in the hindering, but in the helping of
woman’s progress.
	The idea that woman is not born with as
great mental attainments as man I will not
for one moment entertain; for so long as 
women are the mothers of their sons, they
must bequeath according to the laws of
heredity their mental, moral and physical
characteristics to those sons, and so long as
women have men for their fathers by those
same laws must they inherit so-called
masculine qualities.
	Writers and speakers have been so busy
separating the sexes and theoretically en-
dowing each with separate elements of
character that they have not had time to
see (and the misunderstanding of this sub-
ject depends largely on the lack of seeing)
that there is no difference, for if we look
well we will find that all the vanities
and faults supposed to be wholly feminine
may be found just as often in man as in
woman; and all the noble traits and attri-
butes of which men have assumed a
monopoly appear just as often in woman.
    *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *
	The new woman, or rather woman in
her new light, does not look down on her
fellow man as is commonly supposed; not at
all, for she knows however short he may
fall below the ideal, she may not do any
better.
	And you will find, though bicycle
mounted, with her voluminous sleeves set
to the breezes, she will not take more than
her half of the road. All she asks is equal
start and privileges down the race of life,


The question is often asked, Will the
world be any better for the new influence
women will have?
	As well ask if the world will be better
for the vapor high up amongst the lofty
peaks of the Alps condensing into pure,
white snow which crowds down veined
with denser crystal and loaded with impure
moraines to meet the warm kisses of the
sun, by which it is converted into tiny
rivulets that wend their way to the blue
lakes beyond, carrying life and joy to
millions of growing things.
	Better or worse though she may make
the world, she will have the satisfaction
that men have ever craved, that of gratify-
ing the ambition born within her.

	“A few can touch the magic string,
	   And noisy fame is proud to win them;
	Alas for those who never sing.
	   But die with all their music in them.

	Nay, weep not for the dead alone
	   Whose song has told their heart’s sad story;
	Weep for the voiceless who have known
	   The cross but not the crown of glory.”

	To me the heroes of history have always
been the heroines. They have been the
mothers by whose suffering the human
race has been propagated—the women who
in any great undertaking have bravely and
patiently, with willing hearts and helping
bands, been ever ready to bear their part.
	I can say, as the most of you can say,
that the best friend of my life has been a
woman. I might say more, that the best
friends I ever had have been women. The
greatest helps in mental, moral, physical
and social ways, and his is indeed an un-
happy lot which does not include such
friends; and he is indeed ungrateful, un-
worthy of being an American, much less
a citizen of our fair state, who can say he
has not drawn his best inspiration from a
woman.
	My faith in woman is great and I extend
my hand to all those who have helped her
to the added privileges conferred with the
coming in of the new state. She will
guard them well as she does her other
treasures, and, new or old, she will not be
found wanting in the future any more than
in the past.


