TO PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF.
	PRESIDENT WOODRUFF is one of the
most unassuming men the world has ever
seen, nothing would be further from his
thoughts than to make a display of, or for
himself in any way or on any occasion.
But the Latter-day Saints delight in doing
him honor and are never weary of sounding
his praises. On the recent celebration of
his birthday in the large Tabernacle,
March 1st, in this City he was ninety years
of age. Before the hour set for the opening
10 a. m., the house was filled and nearly
every seat in the gallery taken. The
Tabernacle choir were in their usual places,
and Held’s band was stationed at the East
end of the gallery and played at intervals
very sweetly.
	When President Woodruff appeared on
the stand he received a magnificent ovation,
the entire congregation rose and waved
their handkerchiefs and joined the choir in
singing the hymn “Our God we raise to
Thee.” The proceedings opened by the
choir singing “Noble Chief,” prayer was
offered by President Joseph F. Smith.
Choir then sang “Hail Prophet, Brother,
Friend,” after which President Woodruff
made an,
ADDRESS OF WELCOME.
	I feel highly honored this morning in
meeting with so many of my friends upon
this important occasion. Yesterday those
who were present might have observed my
condition. I was perfectly overwhelmed in
consequence of the scene before me. It
was not what was said particularly, but it
brought to my mind with overwhelming
power my boyhood and early manhood and
my desire that I might live upon the earth
to find a people who would receive the
Gospel of Jesus Christ as taught by Christ
and the Apostles. In meeting with thou-
sands of the children of the Latter-day
Saints, it brought to my mind those scenes
and the fulfillment of my prayers and
desires before the Lord.
	I hope this morning I may be able to
make a few remarks. I will say this, it
has been a desire of my life, from my boy-
hood up, never to address any assembly of
people whom I could not make hear what I
had to say. I feel the same this morning;
I do not know whether I can make this
assembly hear me or not; but I will do the
best I can.
	As I can hardly expect to ever have the
opportunity of addressing the people of this
State and my friends in days to come, I
have a few reflections upon my mind that
I wish to lay before you. And I will say
that they are different from any of my pub-

[Column 2]
lic speeches that I have been in the habit of
presenting to the people. I have consulted
no man in regard to the course I should
pursue in my remarks here this morning,
and I do not know that I shall satisfy my
friends in the remarks that I may make.
	First I want to say a few words upon
politics. I hope that I will not astonish
you. I have not been in the habit of this
heretofore. But I feel desirous to say a few
things that are upon my mind. In the first
place there is not one item, not one sentence
in the Constitution of the United States,
nor in the laws of the United States, or of
the State of Utah, that deprives any citizen
of any name, nature, religion or politics in
the land, from joining any political party
he wishes or voting for whomsoever he
wishes. This is the right of every man
without hindrance. We have been accused
at times of using Church influence to guide
and direct the State. This is occasionally
presented to the public as our action. I
feel it my right and duty to say here today
that I was acquainted with Joseph Smith
and was acquainted with him from 1833
until his martyrdom. I have been
acquainted with Brigham Young and asso-
ciated with him for forty years of my life,
at home and abroad, under many circum-
stances. I have also been acquainted with
John Taylor and labored with him in every
capacity in which he was called to act. I
have also been a member of the quorum of
the Twelve Apostles for upwards of fifty-
srx years of my life. And I have presided
over the Church itself for a few years. I
have been associated with my counselors
and with the present Twelve Apostles.
And I want to say upon this occasion be-
fore God, angels and all men that are before
me, that I never in one instance have ever
known one leader in this Church ever
attempt to dictate and direct the affairs of
the State as members of the Church. At
the same time, when any man, no matter
who he is—Mormon, Jew or Gentile—goes
forth and uses money or any means to hire
men to vote for him, I think he steps out-
side his right, and stands in a measure
responsible.
	I want to say so much to my friends this
morning. I have officiated for twenty ses-
sions in the Legislative Council in the
Territory of Utah, and one session as a
member of the House, and it never cost me
one farthing for any office I ever held in
the Church or in the State or Territory.
And I never asked any mortal man on the
face of the earth to cast a vote for me that I
have any recollection of. As an example,
perhaps I may be permitted to say I am the
father of fourteen sons and have a number
of sons-in-law, and I believe they are pretty
nearly evenly divided on political party
lines—Democrats and Republicans. I will
give any man five dollars if in conversing
with them he can get any one of them to
say that his father ever told him who to vote
for. Some of you may try to make a little
money perhaps at that. (Laughter.) I
consider everybody is responsible for him-
self, and he has a right to vote for whom
he pleases.
	President Woodruff then spoke of his
early experiences in Sunday schools and in
reading the New Testament, his feelings
when he first saw some of the Elders of the
Church, his reading and testimony of the
truth of the book of Mormon, his baptism
into the Church, and continued as follows:
	At this point I will say upon the subject
of religion, what are the rights of men up-


[Column 1]
on religious subjects? I do not know that
I can do better than to quote Brother
Joseph Smith’s remarks before thousands
of people at a conference in Nauvoo, when
there were many non-Mormons present.
He said, “If I were the emperor of the
world and I had power to control the whole
human family, I would sustain every man,
woman and child in the enjoyment of their
religion.” Those are my sentiments today.
I believe every man—Jew, Catholic, Pro-
testant or anything—has a right to enjoy
his religion unmolested. I believe the
Constitution of the United States guarantees
this blessing and privilege to everybody.
	Now before I close I will again bear my
testimony that this work is of God. This
tabernacle that you are in today was seen
by the Prophet Isaiah and other prophets,
and they spoke of it, as well as the temples
that are built in the valleys of the
mountains. All have been pointed out by
the prophets of God and the Lord revealed
to Isaiah, Jeremiah and many other proph-
ets, our day, our history, our lives our
position in this immense barren desert
which has been occupied by the Latter-day
Saints, and is as we see it today through
the blessings of God. I will bear my testi-
mony to the world to my friends of the
Church and State, and to all men under
heaven that this is the truth of God. The
Lord Almighty has set His hand to accom-
plish this work. Joseph Smith was raised
up by the power of God and the revelation
of Jesus Christ to organize this Church
and kingdom in the dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. His life was short, as was
the Savior’s. But it was a great work that
he performed in the flesh. The Savior
lived about three and a half years after He
entered the ministry. Joseph Smith lived
some fourteen years from the time he re-
ceived the plates and translated them into
the English language. He laid down his
life, as did Christ and His Apostles,
for the word of God and testimony of Jesus
Christ. He will rise in his glorified celes-
tial body and meet again with his brethren
the Apostles and Elders of Israel and this
people, and will stand in days to come as
the leader among us in celestial glory. I
feel to bear my testimony to this. It mat-
ters not about the unbelief of men. They
cannot turn away the work of Almighty
God. The Lord has set His hand to carry
out these great principles which He has re-
vealed, the establishment of the Zion of
God and the preparation for the coming of
the Son of Man. What has been said
about the mountains of Israel will have its
fulfillment. The judgments of God will
follow in the earth in fulfillment of what
has been said, and no power on earth can
stay them. I am anxious, although my
life has been preserved to this great age, I
still am anxious that we as a people may
do our duty, may live our religion, may
keep the faith, may so walk before the
Lord that the Holy Ghost may be our con-
stant companion to lead us in the days that
lie before us. This is my prayer and de-
sire in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	After singing by the choir and congrega-
tion President Lorenzo Snow bore testi-
mony to President Woodruffs remarks, and
stated he had been acquainted with him
sixty years, having known him in Kirtland,
and that he had always lived a life of
purity and holiness, spoke of the example
we could all take from President Woodruff.
	President George Q. Cannon addressed

[Column 2]
the audience, he stated that the vast assem-
blage reminded him of the year 1849, when
the people celebrated the advent of the
pioneers into the valley, there was feasting
and dancing etc. and thanksgiving to God
for the bounteous blessings bestowed upon
His people. Since then great changes had
been brought about in this intermountain
region. President Cannon alluded to Presi-
dent Woodruff as a husbandsman in his
day, and to him belonged the credit of
planting the first potato in the valley, said
this was a most momentous period in the
world’s history, spoke of the spread of the
Gospel in the land and how it would spread
and continue to grow and flourish in the
earth until God’s purpose had been accom-
plished. The entrance of the pioneers into
this valley would be dwelt upon more and
more a the years rolled on. The day
would come when it would make an epoch
in the world’s history and one of the central
figures thereof would be President Wood-
ruff, who was being honored today. The
speaker referred to the excellent qualities
and virtues of the man himself, and felt
that the sound of President Woodruff’s
voice should be engraved upon the cylin-
ders of a phonograph, that in after years
the young and rising generation might en-
joy the sweet and loving vibrations. He
was a man of the utmost integrity, and as
such would forever be held in loving re-
membrance. After the close of President
Cannon’s remarks the choir sang the
anthem "Let the mountains shout for joy,”
and the vast audience rose and sang the
Doxology, and Apostle Brigham Young
pronounced the benediction.
THE RECEPTION
	At the close of the exercises, there was a
reception held for President Woodruff and
Sister Emma Woodruff his wife, whose
birthday occurs on the same day as her
husband’s, though she is more than thirty
years younger. They were seated under a
canopy of bunting and beautiful flowers,
and shook hands with the multitude for one
whole hour. Many estimates have been
made of the number of people; but at all
events it was a constant stream of new
faces during the hour.
	Some very acceptable gifts were presented
to them, a silk quilt from the sisters of
Millville, Cache Co. which received the
first prize at the World’a Fair in Chicago,
it was accompanied by a letter that we
would very much like to use if we had
space. A beautiful bouquet from the
Latter-day Saints college was presented by
Miss Bertha Wilcken, with a very appropri-
ate, choicely worded letter signed by
“The Teachers and Students of the college."
Another suitable gift to President Wood-
ruff was a handsome silver-mounted cane
given by A. W. McCune Esq. of this City.
The Primary children also presented a bas-
ket of flowers little Veda Jones mak-
ing the presentation in a pretty childish
fashion. Several of the sisters presented
flowers and one handsome basket from a
number of sisters containing roses, lilies of
the valley and violets was presented to Sis-
ter Emma Woodruff by Sister Zina Y.
Card with a verse expressive of endearing
sentiments by Susa Y. Gates.
	The anniversary exercises were through-
out a tender and affectionate tribute to the
Prophet seer and revelator whom all Israel
delights to honor because of his intrinsic
worth, his life-long labors in the Church,

[Column 3]
his sterling integrity to the truth and his
many virtues as well as his crown of ninety
years in this probation, and many grand
characteristics too numerous to mention. A
poem by L. L. Greene Richards entitled
“Near The Gate” and dedicated to Presi-
dent Woodruff we shall publish in the near
future


