WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
SLAVERY AS A NATIONAL QUES-
TION.

(Concluded.)
	The opposition to Texas coming into
the Union was mainly from the northeast,
the west, free states as well as slave states,
favored the movement. The Democrats
favored, the Whigs opposed.
	In 1844 the abolitionists had formed into
the Liberty party and ran Birney for presi-
dent, they polled about 60,000 votes
and so defeated Henry Clay, they simply
played into the hands of Calhoun and became
his willing accomplices, says Rosevaelt
“The Liberty party that ran Birney com-
mitted a political crime, they in no way
paved the way for the Republican party or
helped the anti-slavery cause.” The
Republican party would never have med-
dled with slavery, say’s the same writer,
but a war measure made it necessary.
	The men who made the effective fight
were men who stayed in their party lines,
Democrats like Benton and Wilmot, or
Whigs like Seward and Stevens. Like all
other men who really had a great influence
for good or bad on American politics, they
did not fight independently of parties, but
stayed strictly in party lines. From 1844
the slavery question became the “para-
mount issue,” dwarfing all others.
	The cause of Benton’s downfall was his
courage in defending the Missouri compro-
mise bill from the attacks of Southern slave
holders. The type of Southerners that
prevailed before the Revolution and the
type just before the Rebellion were two
different things. The admission of Missouri
was not completed until 1821; then the
question of slavery sunk out of sight for
fifteen years, but when it reappeared it
came to stay, until Lincoln’s emancipation
proclamation blotted it off the face of civili-
zation..
	Jackson’s struggle with the nullification
movement in South Carolina had nothing
to do with the slave question, it was the
tariff, and the tariff lines were not the slav-
ery lines. Dallas points out in the Senate
“that the South falling back with the
North was not due to slavery, but rather to
tariff.”
	Polk succeeded Tyler in 1845, Congress
had a strong Democratic majority. Texas
came into the Union, Polk thought that by
payment of money Mexico might let us
have land beyond the boundary of the Rio
Grande, then came the question “What
would be the Social and Labor System of
this new territory?” Louisiana—in so doing
Missouri had come to us slave holding from
France, Florida the same from Spain, Ala-
bama and Mississippi in like manner under
the laws from North Carolina and Georgia
from which states they were cut off.

[Column 2]
Texas had been colonized by Southerners
but Mexico twenty years before had
abolished slavery, and every acre that she
ceded to us beyond the Rio Grande would
come in as free soil. The burning question
was “should she remain free, or come in as
a slave state?” If a protest was not enter-
ed it was feared Polk would take Calhoun’s
views “that slavery went into every rod
of Federal territory when not excluded by
positive laws”
	David Wilmot M. C. from Penn., intro-
duced the following bill, it carried in this
House but failed in the Senate.
WILMOT PROVISO.
	Provided, That as an express or funda-
mental condition to the acquisition of any
territory from the Republic of Mexico by the
United States, by virtue of any treaty that
may be negotiated between them, and to
the use by the executive of the moneys
herein appropriated, neither slavery nor in-
voluntary servitude shall ever exist in any
part of said territory except for crime
whereof the party shall first be duly con-
victed.
	Although the Wilmot Proviso failed, it
marked a new policy soon to be victorious.
	Gov. Seward declared In 1850 that slav-
ery was the great living issue between the
national parties.
	Texas was the last slave state that ever
came into the Union. Then came in 1850
a group of compromises. The Missouri
compromise had fixed the lines in 1820 and
took the parallel of 36° 30’ as the dividing
line, prohibiting slavery north of it, it
settled the slave question for thirty years.
The credit of this belongs to Henry Clay.
	When California asked for admittance
into the Union, a large part of her land lay
south of this line, the South demanded
some equivalent for her coming in as a free
state. So Utah (including Nevada) and
New Mexico (including Arizona) were
organized without the Wilmot Proviso, and
the slave trade was abolished in the Dis-
trict of Columbia in return; stringent laws
were passed for the arrest of fugitive slaves
in the Northern States..
	In place of settling, the compromises
of 1850 only stirred up the slavery question.
Clay and Webster were dead, Seward,
Chase and Sumner took their places.
Calhoun was dead and Jefferson Davis
came to the front.
	The Kansas-Nebraska Bill gave occa-
sion for the South to try and repeal the
Missouri Compromise. Stephen Doug-
las to quiet the agitation advocated
that the New Territories themselves settle
the slavery question as to their own terri-
tories. Through his efforts the Missouri
Compromise was repealed in 1854, and
Squatter Sovereignty ruled in Kansas and
Nebraska, many voting for the bill upon
the grounds that this would forever end the
slavery question, but in fact it solidified the
North and South against each other and
led to the civil war. The Northerners who
opposed slavery extension, organized under
the name of the anti-Nebraska and later
of Republican party. This party was made
up of anti-slavery Democrats, Whigs,
and of Free Soilers, and their principles
based upon the Wilmot Proviso, the
absolute prohibition of slavery in the
territories. It did not propose to attack
slavery in the slave states, and for this
reason the abolitionists as a rule did not
join it.

[Column 3]
	The pro-slavery Whigs joined with the
Democrats. Through bitterness and blood-
shed Kansas and Nebraska were brought
into the Union as free states, the fight
lasted from 1855 to 1858.
	The election of 1856 showed that the
South was upheld by Northern Democrats,
but the large vote for Fremont by a party
not two years old alarmed the South, they
threatened secession in event of a Repub-
lican victory.
	The South aided by the “Dough Faces”
led by Buchanan and Pierce became so
aggressive by their extreme policy that
a great body of northern Democrats left
them and joined with the Rebublicans.
	The Dred Scott decision in 1857 would
make the whole area of United States soil
slave territory.
	In 1857 the slave trade was resumed
openly. Buchanan and a small party tried
to force from Kansas a slave Constitution
known as the “Lacompton Constitution,”
it failed and in so doing made the gaps be-
tween Buchanan and Douglas, this split the
Northern Democrats.
	In the famous debates between Lincoln
and Douglas in 1858 the opinions expressed
by Douglas against the Dred Scott decision
made him unacceptable to the South and
resulted in the election of Lincoln in 1860.
	The John Brown raid was in Oct. 1859
with twenty men he attacked the arsenal at
Harper’s Ferry to get arms to set up an
asylum in the hills beyond, where fugitive
slaves might find a retreat; the attack found
little sympathy in the North, but it influ-
enced the South with horrors of negro
insurrection. The Republican party of
1860 put “prohibition of slavery in the
territories,” in their platform.
	When the South seceded all the slave
states did not join them. The Vice-Presi-
dent Alexander Stephens declared that
slavery was its corner stone.
	England did not recognize the South,
not that she loved the North but she had
been fighting slavery for years wherever
her fleets sailed.
	The Northern Democrats loyally support-
ed Lincoln	Lincoln Sep. 22, 1862 issued
the famous Emancipation proclamation to
take effect Jan. 1863. This proclamation
was issued solely as a war measure, to
weaken the enemy and to prevent England
interfering in giving aid to the South.
