PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S BIRTHDAY.
	No more beautiful sight could be seen
than the Sunday School Jubilee reception
on President Woodruffs ninetieth birthday.
it is understood generally that it was the
largest assembly ever gathered in the
Tabernacle. Not only were the seats all
taken but the aisles were packed in the
entire building. The electric current
turned into the globes forming the beauti-
ful double star and the word Utah in front
of the organ. The large star was of clear
light and the small star was composed of red
lights. The decorations were tasteful and
imposing. On the stand were the First
Presidency, Presidents Wilford Woodruff,
Geo. Q. Cannon and Jos. F. Smith,
Apostles L. Snow, F. D. Richards, B.
Young, F. M. Lyman, Geo. Teasdale, H.
J Grant, M. W. Merrill, A. H. Lund and
other authorities of the Church and of the
Stake. The General Superintendency of
Sunday Schools and Superintendency of
Stake Sunday Schools. President Geo. Q.
Cannon, General Superintendent presided,
Prof. Evan Stephens and Prof. E. K.
Bassett had charge of the music.
	In the rendition of the exercises, Elder
George Goddard sang “In our lovely
Deseret,” the children joining in the
Chorus. Elder Geo. Teasdale directed the
children in reciting the Articles of Faith,
Prof. Joseph J. Daynes rendered an organ
solo entitled “My Father’s Growing Old,”
Elder Geo. A. Smith gave a brief sketch of
the life and labors of President Wilford
Woodruff, related many striking instances
in his life, miraculous interpositions of
Providence in preserving him, spoke of
his acquaintance with Robert Mason famili-
arly known as the Prophet Mason, mentioned
that he once interpreted a dream of Brother
Woodruffs in which he said that in a few
years to come he would ally himself with a
new Church organization, which would
spring up in due time, which afterwards
came to pass. Brother Woodruff was then
quite a young man he also referred to his
being one of Zion’s Camp and one of the
Pioneers of 1847, and to other remarkable
occurrences, such as his having traveled
110,000 miles to preach the Gospel, had
baptized 2,000 souls, and had written a
journal of 7000 pages covering his work for
sixty-two years.
	After the congregation singing ‘‘Is

[Column 2]
There Anything That We Can Do.”
“Miss Rose Wallace in a happy speech
presented President Woodruff in behalf of
the Deseret Sunday School Union, with a
beautiful basket of ninety roses. Sister
Wallace used these words:
	“President Wilford Woodruff, our beloved
Prophet and leader: In behalf of the
Deseret Sunday School Union, I greet you
on this the ninetieth anniversary of your
natal day, and congratulate you that you
have reached this advanced age, and rejoice
that you are preserved unto us in all the
power of your glorious manhood and of
your high and holy calling.
	We hope and pray that your life will still
be precious in the eyes of our Father for
years to come; that you may be a blessing
and comfort unto His Saints; and that
they shall fill your soul with unspeakable
joy by their faithful, earnest efforts to do
God’s will, and that you shall live until
every holy desire in your heart is satisfied.
	We love you, we bless you Brother
Woodruff, with all our soul, and we thank
you for your gentle guidance; for you
have been to us “as a gentle shepherd
leading us through the gloom into the
bright and glorious day.”
	And since our feeble words cannot ex-
press the love we bear you nor the joy we
feel in your presence, we have brought
these beauteous messengers of love, ninety
roses, whose hearts are laden with the
exquisite fragrance from our heavenly
home where all is love.

	They are the roses Reverence and Regard
		That know no change.
	But bloom forever, though the storms be hard
		And ways grow strange.

	They are the roses that I bring to you,
		Your gaze to greet;
	To scent the way you take with fragrance true,
		And make life sweet.

	Roses to greet you with a wish from me,
		Though skies are drear,
	Still may the path you take all fragrant be
		Through all the year.

	Though roses born of sunlight and June showers
		fade fast away
	There are sweet roses grown in winterer hours
		That n’er decay!

	President Woodruff then addressed the
congregation. He said:
	“I want to say to my young brethren and
sisters and friends in the Sabbath schools
established here in the Rocky mountains,
God bless you and I feel to bless you, as
far as I have the power, I want to say that
this is a scene before me today that has
overpowered me—it has overpowered my
speech. I would rather not say anything,
still I feel I want to make a few remarks to
my friends.
	I never in my life have been in a similiar
position to that of today. The scene before
me has been a fulfillment to all my prayers
from my boyhood up to early manhood.
Eighty years ago I was a little boy ten
years of age attending school the same as
you are here in the mountains of Israel, I
read the New Testament. I read of Jacob,
read of the Apostles and the Prophets. I
could not find a man on the face of the
earth who taught the principles or believed
in them. I prayed to the God of heaven
that I might live to see an Apostle who
would say something that would satisfy me
like unto the principles I read of in the
New Testament.

[Column 3]
	Today I stand in the midst of ten thou-
sand young men and women of Israel—
sons and daughters of prophets, patriarchs
and men of Israel. Men who hold the
Holy Priesthood appointed by the God of
Israel; appointed in the last days to set up
and carry these laws and principles of God
into effect. It is these principles that we
were to look at in the last days. Now I
want to say to you as the rising generation,
I never expected to see a day of this kind
in my life, in my early days. I did expect
as it was promised to me to see a prophet.
I have lived to see him, I have traveled
with prophets and patriarchs and sons of
God, I have lived to see this body of intel-
ligence of the sons of the living God who
come here to the meetings of Israel.
	I rejoice in this for I see before me the
nature of the Latter-day Saints. We can-
not say the Bible is a novel—the Bible that
contains revelation. I have passed through
the periods of boyhood, early manhood and
old age. I cannot expect to tarry a great
while longer with you but I want to give
you a few words of counsel. You occupy
a position in the Church and Kingdom of
God and have received the power of the Holy
Priesthood. The God of Heaven has
appointed you and called you forth in this
day and generation. I want you to look at
this. Young men listen to the counsel of
your elder brethren. Live near to God;
pray while young; learn to pray; learn to
cultivate the Holy Spirit of God; link it
to you and it will become a spirit of reve-
lation unto you, inasmuch as you nourish
it. I feel thankful myself that I have lived
to see this day. I declare unto you that
there are many in the flesh that will re-
main so until the coming of the Son of
Man.
	This is about all I wish to say. I feel
thankful to my heavenly Father that I see
this scene before us this afternoon; that I
see the Gospel manifestations on the earth.
There has been, as it was stated by our
brother, two powers, one to destroy me and
the other to save me. And God in heaven
has willed to spare me to see this day. He
has given me power to reject every testi-
mony and reject every example that leads
to evil. I say to you children, do not use
tobacco, liquor or any of these things that
destroy the body and mind, but honor Him
and you will have a mission upon your
heads that the world know not of. May
God bless you. Amen.”
	Quartette, We Ever Pray for Thee,
especially written for the occasion by Prof.
Evan Stephens, was nicely rendered by the
little Misses Olga Peterson, Mamie Mills,
Annie Peterson and Gertrude Kelly, with a
refrain by Brother E. K. Bassett’s choir.
	President George Q. Cannon was the
next speaker. He said that this was a
most memorable occasion and one that
would live long in the hearts of those
assembled. Ninety years, said the speaker,
was a long space of time for mankind to
live upon the earth. It was gratifying to
know that President Woodruff had held the
Apostleship in this Church longer than any
man that lived in this dispensation. The
Lord had blessed President Woodruff and
spared him to do a mighty work in helping
to roll forth the Church and Kingdom of
God.
	President Cannon called the attention of
the children to the good work which had
been done by President Woodruff. He
had lived a righteous life upon the earth


[Column 1]
and had been miraculously spared to see
the desires of his heart made manifest.
The speaker exhorted the young to emulate
the example set them by President Wood-
ruff, as in their declining years they
would rejoice in keeping themselves
pure and unspotted from the sins of the
world. They should keep the Word of
Wisdom and God would add His blessings.
	The hymn, Song of Praise, was rendered
by the Sunday schools.
	The Lord’s prayer was recited in concert
under the leadership of Elder Richard S.
Horne of the Sunday School Union board.
	Madame von Finklestein was the next
speaker. She said:
	“We are gathered together here in the
name of Jesus Christ our Lord. This is
one of the greatest scenes I have ever wit-
nessed in my life. To see so many child-
ren is like coming into the kingdom of
heaven; and before the honorable President
here. He must feel today that he is in the
kingdom of heaven; for Christ said: ‘Suffer
the little children to come unto me for of
such is the kingdom of heaven.’ And as
these little ones are singing here, they
seem to have come from the heavenly hosts
above singing ‘Glory to God and peace on
earth.’ Long life and good wishes to our
noble President. I want to call him my
own President. I am one of the children
of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is one of
the memorable days of my life. I am the
daughter of that Zion—the ancient city
Zion—and have the privilege and honor to
be in this Zion of the Western hemisphere.
All that I can compare this gathering to is
the one that was held by those who were
led by Moses through the desert—the Child-
ren of Israel. While crying for bread
Moses said to them, I shall pray to God to
send you bread. The next morning when
the children of Israel rose up they expected
to see great loaves of bread lying ready to
eat. They cried, Where, oh where is the
bread? Moses said, There is the bread.
That was it, around like little seeds. They
said ‘Manora’, the meaning of which is
‘Do you want to starve us with this
bread?’ Moses said, Go, gather the bread
and eat. And they went and gathered and
ate, and they were filled. That bread from
heaven was called in the world, manna.
There is where the word originated—a
symbol of praise to the Maker. What is
this that God has sent us into the wilder-
ness? By His mighty power He has led
us forth by His servant, in the desert, in
the wilderness, and planted us to dwell in
this wilderness—brought the children of
srael like mighty Moses through the
wilderness. You have faith that with
many that came to this place and with
them this great man here, through great
persecution, yours are many to feed with
the breath of life the nations that are to
come to you in this Zion. In this we will
assemble together; and all that I can feel
to say is that I wish truly long peace to
this State, and give the glory to God of
srael. It is with you and the children
that are here to remember every one of
you that ye are the temples of the living
God. He is living in you every one.
May you live true to Him as our honorable
President. He is ninety years old, and it is
because he has kept himself pure and un-
spotted from the world, that he has lived in
the world and yet not of the world, in him-
self and with God, as His Prophet, that he is
honored now. May God preserve his life
to these children here, and may they from

[Column 2]
generation to generation observe his coun-
sel. May every blessing be with the
honorable President of this great movement;
and I hope that our President will live
long and that God’s love will rest upon
him.”
	The closing hymn, What Prize Shall Be
Your Reward, was sung by the Sunday
schools and benediction was pronounced by
Elder George Reynolds.
	At the close of the exercises many avail-
ed themselves of the opportunity to shake
hands with President Woodruff and there-
fore it was some time before the entire
audience was out of the building.


