	LYDIA MAMREOFF VON FINKELSTIEN
MOUNTFORD has been delightfully enter-
taining her audiences in the large Taber-
nacle in this city during the past week,
commencing Sunday evening, Feb. 14.
The lectures were given under the aus-
pices of the Utah and Free Kindergarten
Associations and no one who has attended
but must feel much enlightened in regard
to the life, manners, customs, dress etc. of
the Orientals.
	The lecture Sunday night was Ecce
Homo, or from “Bethlehem to Calvary.”
Her wonderful power of delineation shows
her to be a living picture herself, capable of
many striking changes. One cannot but
be impressed by her remarkable originality,
and our first intuitive thought was, that
she had the creative or inventive genius of
her singular subject, and had herself devel-
oped and adapted it dramatically. Some
parts of it were exceedingly forceful and
yet pathetic. Her magnetic power to hold
her audience is super-abundant, if one may
be allowed the expression; one would know
nstinctively that she had a depth of
religious fervor almost unsurpassed. She
throws her whole soul into her subject, and
it is hard to believe one is not living among
the people of Nazareth and the vales of the
orient. To those susceptible of intense
reverence for the Savior, his birth, his life
among the people of his locality, his cruel
death upon the cross, the lecture must have
made an undying impression.

[Column 2]
	Mrs. Mountford’s magnificent figure and
royal costume, together with her tragic
manner in the last scenes of this world-
famous subject was a triumph in dramatic
art, such as is seldom if ever witnessed up-
on the stage, and the Tabernacle with its
immense auditorium and gigantic organ in
the back ground, was certainly an appropri-
ate setting for the living picture.
	The following day the lecture was given
in the afternoon on account of a previous
arrangement of the Utah Kindergarten to
give an entertainment in the Templeton
parlors at eight o’clock in the evening.
	A very large number of children were
present as well as older people. The
lecture was “Village Life in Palestine,”
and included many pretty and interesting
scenes of the home life of these peculiar
people of the East, who still maintain the
same habits and customs of the generations
long since departed, so that one recognizes
very easily the similitudes of the Scriptural
sayings of the early days. The shepherd
carrying the lambs in his bosom was one of
the most unique delineations of pastoral
life among the ancient people, who still
maintain these beautiful and picturesque
ways, and live in as simple a fashion as did
their celebrated forefathers and foremothers.
	Perhaps something still more interesting
was the coat of many colors Jacob gave
to Joseph described by her as the mark of
honor; the description given by Madame
Mountford throws much light upon the
scriptural rendering of this beautiful story,
handed down as it has been for many
generations.
	One must see her upon the platform,
however, to appreciate what is said of her
for no description we can give will do
justice to her peculiar line of acting and her
original style of dramatic art.
	The lecture on Tuesday evening was
“City Life in Jerusalem,” giving a hand-
some oriental parlor and a group of citizens,
of those we term the elite, their native
costumes, costly apparel and in fact a des-
cription of the city itself, its walls and
watchmen, the pass word, the lady herself
giving the call as it was transmitted from
one to another of the watchmen, the response,
the Pilgrims as they journeyed, proclama-
tions; the Eastern armies, the custom of
washing the feet, the Upper chamber
courtship, veiling, wedding procession with
its formalities, all these given vividly by
one familiar with the subject, born and
raised in the midst of the people and hav-
ing the rich clothing and resplendent jewels
with which to illustrate; in its tendency
this all partakes of the spiritual side of life,
as portrayed in the Holy Bible; and the
New Testament in many of its passages is
forcibly brought to mind. The songs of
the Daughters of Zion, the midnight cry
the Wise and Foolish Virgins was a picture
which could not fail to stamp itself upon the
memory of any one who had ever thought
seriously upon the actual enacting of the
scene. The marriage ceremony was very
significant, and especially when the sword
was drawn and sheathed again, and the
bride unveiled.
	Wednesday the last night of her engage-
ment at the Tabernacle, she gave the
Bedouins of the Deseret. This gave the
encampment, the tents pitched, Prince,
Princess and group of Ishmaelites etc., this
wasin itself picturesque but when given with
the beautiful rendering suited to the pic-
tures, it was doubly gratifying, it is impos-


sible to tell our readers in a short article all
this or any one picture contained, but to see
and hear it seems really almost marvelous.
There was much to admire in this, not
only the scenes when described full of
wonderful bursts of beauty and eloquence,
but the great hospitality, the angel visitants
—the baking of cakes upon the hearth,
even as the ancient mothers in Israel did,
and perhaps the most uplifting of all the
Song of Miriam and the war cry. The en-
durance of fatigue by Madame Mountford,
the elasticity, graciousness and perfect ease
with which she carried out the entire pro-
gram evening after evening was something
of a “marvel and a mystery,” she must
have very great reserve nerve force, to go
through all those gesticulations and chang-
es etc., and keeping her voice sweet and
clear so as to be able to sing, at the proper
moment without hesitation.
	Madame Mountford comes of a long line
of religious ancestry, and her father in his
lifetime made great sacrifices for the sake of
searching out the truth.
	His daughter considers it her life-
mission to try and make plain the Bible as
she comprehends it, and when one remem-
bers how many professed Christians there
are who do not accept the old testament one
cannot help feeling her work is grand and
noble in this generation of doubt and un-
belief, and the writer herself feels she
would gladly listen to the same lectures
again and again.


