SLAVERY AS A NATIONAL QUES-
TION.

	SLAVERY came into the United States
not as a national question, but through the
rapacity of man. The infamy was shared
by England and the United States. It was
a source of profit to New England, particu-
larly Boston, Salem, Bristol and Provi-
dence.
	McMaster says “The profit was threefold,
molasses brought from Jamaica was turned
into rum; rum sent to Africa bought
negroes; negroes carried to Jamaica were
changed for molasses which, taken to New
England was turned into rum.”
	With the horrors of slavery in the south,
abolition grew in the north. In 1775
thousands of people in the colonies freed
their slaves, Pennsylvania taking the lead.
In 1784 New Hampshire became a free
state. Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and
Connecticutt provided for gradual abolition.
Virginia and Maryland revised their
emancipation statutes and Congress passed
in 1787 the ordinance which forbade slav-
ery existing in the territory north of the
Ohio river.
	At a convention called in 1783 to parcel
out the western lands into states, a code
was drawn providing for the abolition of
slavery after 1800; this was not adopt-
ed. Benjamin Franklin was President
of the Philadelphia Society, whose memo-


[Column 1]
rial so excited the south in 1790. In 1793
the House of Representatives was asked to
abolish slavery, but refused to do so, stated
what were its Constitutional powers. The
Government, this House said “could not
prevent the importation of slaves before
1808, nor emancipate slaves, nor interfere
with international affairs of a state, for the
purpose of securing better treatment of
slaves, but congress could tax $10 each on
slaves imported and forbid the fitting out
of ships for engaging in African slave
trade.”
	From that moment abolition declined.
The northern states soon provided for the
extinction of slavery; the southern states
would not. In 1793 the south demanded
and obtained the rendition of fugitive
slaves. In 1794 the north demanded and
obtained the law for the suppression of the
slave trade.
	Then came Eli Whitney’s invention of
the cotton gin and the demand for the
slave labor could not be supplied by natural
increase. A world of smuggling and kid-
napping sprang into life; negroes set free
by the north were siezed and sold into slav-
ery. The Quakers protested and the
negroes petitioned Congress in vain. The
House declared the remedy lay with the
Courts.
	The slave trade went on openly; ships
were built in our ports, loaded with mana-
cles cleared for the West Indies, took in a
cargo of rum, raised the Dutch flag and
sailed for Africa where these negroes were
snared like wild animals; so openly was this
carried on Congress amended and made
more stringent in 1800, its slave laws. A
ship load of free negroes from Guadeloupe
landed at Wilmington, Delaware, others
followed from San Domingo landing at
Boston and New York. In South Carolina
these men were beheld with horror, they
had once been slaves and freed by France
had become obnoxious and by force had
been placed on American ships and driven
to the United States.
	Their minds were believed to be inflamed
with wild ideas of liberty by the acts of
Toussaint L'Overture, and the horrors of
San Domingo, the uprising, the massacre
seemed likely to be repeated on American
soil. The South asked the House to pro-
tect the country, the bill passed.
	In 1804 the anti-slavery feeling revived.
North Carolina terrified at the negroes en-
tering her ports, asked Congress to prohibit
the importation of slaves from any part of
the world. When Louisana was purchased
a petition to Congress asked that slavery be
excluded west of the Mississppi river.
	At Cahokid, Kaskaskid Vincennes the
French settlements on the Wabash and at
Detroit both Indian and negro slavery had
existed long before the country came into
the possession of' the United States. In
Michigan the struggle for slavery ended in
1787. A little later in Illinois but did not
end in Indiana until 1809.
	Slavery came for the first time into
national politics towards the close of Jack-
son’s administration, but for a number of
years had no influence in shaping political
movements.
	Abolition Societies were formed in the
north in 1831, but did not come into
prominence until two years later. These
Societies were only in a very restricted de-
gree the cause of the feeling in the north
against slavery. The anti-slavery out-
burst in the north over the admission of

[Column 2]
Missouri was a dozen years before an
abolition society was in existence. When
the abolition movement started, it was
avowedly designed to be cosmopolitan
in character. The originators looked down
upon any merely national or patriotic
feelings.
	Had the majority of the North been in
hearty accord with the abolitionist it would
have disrupted the Union and perpetrated
slavery in the South.
	Rosevelt says “Slavery was responsible
for the streak of coarse and brutal barbarism
Which ran through the Southern character,
and which marked the ferocious outcry
raised by the whole Southern press against
the abolitionist.”
	There had been an uprising in Virginia
at the time the abolition movement came
into prominence and this added to the rage
and terror with which the South regarded
the latter. There had been always a
strong separatist feeling in the South, but
it had been local and never affected all the
states at the same time.
	The Alien Sedition laws were more fierce-
ly resented in Virginia and Kuntucky than
in South Carolina; the tariff which so ex-
asperated the latter pleased Louisana,
Georgia and Alabama; but slavery was an
interest common to the whole South, when
it was menaced all Southerners came to-
gether for its protection.
	As abolition arose and grew in the North,
in the South grew the Separatist move-
ment; and it began to identify itself with
the maintenance of slavery. The un-
scrupulous Southern politician saw that it
offered a chance for them to push forward
and wreak almost irreparable harm to the
nation, if by so doing they could advance
their own selfish interests. Their idea was
to divide the Union. Says Benton “So
pursuing their course the 1st was nullifica-
tion; the 2nd secession, and the last
final separation.”
	The abolitionists immediately brought
themselves before Congress in two ways;
they presented petitions for the abolition of
slavery in the District of Columbia and by
sending to the Southern states pamphlets,
newspapers and ridiculous illustrated cuts,
the Southerners tried to pass laws prohibit-
ing these to be carried in the mail; prices
were set upon the heads of people publish-
ing these and the North gained strength
that otherwise they would not have had.
	Calhoun the leader of the South wanted
to refuse in Congress to receive the Quaker
petition to abolish slavery in the District,
Benton took the ground that the abolition
movement was of far greater danger to the
South than the Northern Senators were
willing to acknowledge. Calhoun claimed
that the question of emancipation affected
the states exclusively and that Congress had
no more jurisdiction over the District of
Columbia than over any other state.
Calhoun’s main object was the disruption of
the Union. He drafted a bill against the
circulation of abolition documents in the
South, claiming that the Constitution was a
mere compact between Soverign states and
that nullification and secession were
justifiable and constitutional; six Southern
Senators joined with the Northerners and
defeated the bill.
	A few Northerners joined with Calhoun
and were for ever after called "dough- 
faces.” Benton urged the admission of
Michigan as a free state, and Buchanan of
Arkansas, as a slave state The slavery

[Column  3]
question did not seem to enter into political
parties but their admission was objected to
upon the grounds that both would give
Democratic majorities to the approaching
presidential election, the Whigs therefore
both North and South opposed the admis-
sion.
	In the acknowledgement of the indepen-
dence of Texas and the trouble with Mexi-
co that sprang from it, slavery played a less
prominent part. The West went wild over
the acquiring of new territory and slavery
had little to do with this craze. The men
who went West as a rule were not slave
owners.
	American settlers pressed into Spanish
Texas before the treaty of 1819 was ratified;
they took their slaves with them and when
Mexico issued a decree liberating all slaves,
Americans refused to be bound by it, and
gave this as a reason for their revolt. Long
before slavery had been abolished in Mexico
the colony of Texas had made an abortive
attempt at insurrection, most of the in-
habitants had come from slave states, but
many had been born north of the Ohio
river. 
(Continued.)


