A FAREWELL PARTY.

	THE sisters, about forty in number, met
by invitation on Saturday afternoon Feb.
20, at 3 p. m. at the handsome residence of
Mr. and Mrs. McCune in this city previous
to their departure for Europe with their
family. Mrs. McCune’s parents were
English and she has many relatives in that
country, and while absent, among other
things Mrs. McCune expects to do, will be 
to visit her relatives and to collect genea-
logical records of her family. The double
parlors were well filled with sisters all anx-


ious to say a good word for one who had
been associated intimately with them in
labors of love and who was also so gener-
ous in bestowing favors and charity to
those who needed a friend or kindly
assistance.
	After happy greetings and some general
conversation Sister McCune signified her
desire to have Sister Zina D. H. Young
preside during the afternoon, and call upon
whom she wished to speak or sing or pray
as she felt disposed.
	The first exercise was congregational
singing, “We thank Thee O, God for a
Prophet,” then an eloquent prayer was
offered by M. Isabella Horne. Sister
Young then made some congratulatory
remarks, speaking in praise of Sister Mc-
Cune’s labors and gifts, and of the great
blessings the Lord had conferred upon her
in giving her wealth, and rejoiced that she
was liberal in dispensing to the poor, felt
she would be blest abundantly because of
her humility and generosity, no good thing
would be with-held from her. Sister Zina
then called upon others. Sister M. Isabella
Horne, Sister Margaret Pierce Young,
Sister Maria Y. Dougall each spoke or sung in
the gift of tongues, blessing, comforting
and spiritually uplifting all present.
interpretations were given by Sister Zina
Y. Card and her mother. With one or
two exceptions every sister present spoke a
few words, some made more lengthy
addresses, all testifying to the kindness and
worth of Sister McCune and wishing
her every blessing of health, strength and
happiness for herself and family while
away, a safe journey to her destination
on land or on sea—and while absent that
her influence should be felt in the spread of
the truth, and that when she should return
home she might come in peace and in
safety, to resume her home duties and her
labors of love among the Saints.
	At the close of the little spiritual feast
the sisters joined in singing the Doxology
and benediction was pronounced by one of
the sisters.
	Refreshments were served to all the
guests, ice cream, cakes, chocolate and
other delicacies, and parting messages
interchanged, and the visitors departed
leaving their blessing with the household,
praying that we might all meet Sister Mc-
Cune again on her return in the enjoyment
of social life and sisterly love as when we
separated.


[Column 1]
