THE SILK INDUSTRY.

Dear Editor Exponent:
	I greatly appreciate your kind endeavors
in trying to work up a renewed interest in
Sericulture realizing it is an important and
beneficial industry and one which is advo-
cated by the far-seeing and those who
know the benefits of home industries.
	I much regret I cannot report much pro-
gress in our Association of late, owing to
there not being a reliable market for cocoons
consequently no quick returns for the labor;
could we have an Experiment Station in
Utah I am confident thousands of pounds
would be raised, thereby furnishing em-
ployment for women and children who
form so prominent a part in feeding and
taking care of the worms, and there is an
abundance of feed, mulberry trees are
grown throughout the state and in some
settlements whole acres have for years been
planted with them. We keep our organ-
ization in running order and move when-
ever opportunity presents. An energetic
company of ladies of Springville entered
into the spirit of raising cocoons with a vim
last season owing to the inducements offered
by the last Legislature and were very suc-
cessful, but through some lack the favors
have not been complied with, which rather
dampens their ardor. They wish to get
their cocoons reeled up and have depended

[Column 2]
upon the encouraging enactment passed in
the Silk Bill which I trust will yet be forth-
coming, as it will be a stimulus to many
others to raise cocoons.
	This County has been one of the fore-
most in Sericulture and has made a mark-
ed success not only in raising cocoons but
eggs; also spun and reeled silk besides
fabrics of pure native silk some of which
were exhibited at the World’s Fair and
were considered very creditable; the suc-
cess which has been achieved has been by
private enterprise.
	The elements in Utah are not excelled
for silk raising as proved by the beautiful
textures as abundantly testified to by ex-
perts. I hope to see this industry greatly
advanced this coming season, there being a
bounty of twenty-five cents on each pound
of good cocoons verified to by a committee,
and a reeler also furnished for one hundred
pounds of good cocoons certified to by
said committee, (see Silk Bill treating up-
on this question.)
	The late Mr. Daniel Graves an inde-
fatigable worker in the silk business desired
to see a corporate body of influential persons
interested in silk culture, advance money so
this industry could be permanently and
successfully established, returning a fair
compensation to all engaged in the under-
taking. May this industry receive the
attention it demands and flourish in our
midst, rewarding the promoters with grati-
fying results.
				Respectfully
					M. A. TILL,
President Utah Co. Silk Association.


