LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meet-
ing held in the 14th ward Assembly Hall
Saturday, Feb. 6, 1897, Counselor E. Webb
presiding. Singing “O, awake my
slumbering minstrel;” prayer by Sister
Mary Silver singing “Come Thou O,
King of Kings;” minutes of previous
meeting were read and accepted.
	Counselor E. Webb said she was sorry
Pres’t. Horne was not here today but felt
if we tried we could have a good time any-
how and have a time of rejoicing. She felt
those who had come out in this very dis-
agreeable weather were saints indeed, felt
to urge the sisters to be careful of what
they said, to be always prayerful; felt we
should always have a prayer in our hearts,
urged the sisters to be united in their en-


[Column 1]
deavors to help the young people felt much
concerned over them, also gave some excel-
lent advice; prayed that the Spirit of the
Lord might rest upon each one of us that
we might have a time of rejoicing.
	Sister O. Brown said she felt well and
felt thankful that we had one friend to
whom we could turn in every condition ;
urged the sisters to be ever prayerful and
watchful, said her heart was filled with
love for her sisters, she felt well and blessed
the sisters.
	Sister Maria Holt desired she might have
the Spirit of testimony, said nothing gave
her the joy and consolation like trying to
keep the commandments of God, felt we
were indeed a blest people we had much to
comfort us when we laid away our dead for
we were sure of meeting them again; urged
the sisters to persevere in their duties.
Referred to the Prophet Joseph Smith and
his wonderful work, exhorted the sisters to
be humble and true.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder said the spirit and
the burden of the Saints seemed to be for
the youth in regard to morality. Said she
was an earnest advocate of Sunday school
work, had always sent her children and
later had been a teacher, said she thought
it was better to neglect some part of our
work and to help to teach the children, felt
in this work we were “feeding the Savior’s
lambs.” Spoke of her Mutual Improve-
ment work, urged the sisters to more dili-
gent and earnest work among the youth of
Zion, referred to the signs of the times and
felt the end was nearer than we had any
dea of. Prayed we might be active and
awake to our duties.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said she had
learned the lesson that the Lord never put
anything upon us only what He gave us
the strength to bear; felt we had heard
some excellent sermons today. We must
improve each moment for we must give an
account of every one; what would be the
penalty of the neglect of duty? God was
Omnipotent and would help those who put
their trust in Him. Let us sustain those
who are over us; made some beautiful re-
marks. The parental roof was the grand-
est safeguard for the young people, she felt
to guard the virtue of her boys as much as
her girls. Prayed the Lord to bless and
guard us from this spirit of apostacy which
was in our midst. Singing “How firm a
foundation.” A sister said she had asked
the Lord many years ago to give her a
testimony of the truth of the Gospel that
she might praise Him in the congregations
of the Saints. Spoke of her gratitude for
her many blessings and of her Temple work
and how her parents appeared to her after
doing their work in the Temple; made
some excellent remarks.
	Sister Goss bore a faithful testimony, said
she lived very near these little people who
are called King David and the Virgin
Mary, gave a very interesting explanation
of them. Prayed she might have wisdom
to raise her family, said she would rather
lay every one of them away than see one
of them marry outside of the Church.
	Sister Margaret Steele felt there was a
good spirit among the sisters, said she felt
here was nourishment and felt it was good
to be here. Spoke of her blessings and her
gratitude for the same, gave her early ex-
periences in the Church and bore a faithful
testimony.
	Sister Jane James felt to rejoice, she had
been greatly blessed in this last year, bore a

[Column 2]
strong testimony; felt to pray night and
morning for the young people and wished
to do all the good she could for them.
Prayed we might all be humble. Another
sister bore her testimony, felt it was good
to be here. Sister Howarth bore her testi-
mony. Counselor E Webb felt we had
had a pleasant time notwithstanding the
stormy weather and the absence of Pres’t.
Horne; hoped the sisters would redouble
their efforts for the young people and the
Sabbath school work, made some closing
remarks. Adjourned for two weeks; sing-
ing “Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing;”
benediction by Sister Margaret Taylor.
