ABOUT THE CONVENTION.

	IT is difficult to decide in view of so
much material as has been furnished by the
National Suffrage Convention what to select
that would be most interesting to the
readers of this little paper.
	Perhaps we ought to tell you that one
of the problems introduced as business, was
what course to take to keep the enfran-
chised states in touch with the National
Association. One proposition was that the
convention hereafter should sit as an upper
and lower house, and the delegates from


enfranchised states sit in the lower house.
	No decision was arrived at but a commit-
tee was appointed to advise by letter or
otherwise with the women of these four
states and try to arrive at some conclusion,
and report to the National officers such
information as could be obtained. This
Committee consists of one woman from
each state, Mrs. Warren, wife of Senator
Warren of Wyoming, Mrs. Mary C. C.
Bradford of Colorado, Mrs. E. B. Wells
of Utah, Mrs. M. C. Woods of Idaho. 
	One of the “new women” at the Con-
vention, and one that made an excellent
impression upon individuals as well as
audiences, was Charlotte Perkins Stetson,
grand-niece of Henry Ward Beecher and
niece of Mrs. Edward Everett Hale. Mrs.
Stetson is a native of Hartford Conn., but
resides in California. She is a poet, writes
short stories and essays,and is an ardent and
zealous reformer; is also both witty and
satirical, yet very sympathetic and has a
most charming personality. The election
of officers resulted as would be expected in
the election of the same board Miss
Anthony receiving the entire vote of the
delegates from all the states. Mrs. Wells
of Utah was chosen to introduce Miss
Anthony to the assemblage. Dr. Shaw
was elected Vice-President at large with
169 votes, but Mrs. Colby had 12, Miss
Blackwell 8 and Mrs. Wells 3 for the same
position. Mrs. Avery Cor. Sec., Miss
Blackwell Rec. Sec., Mrs. Upton Treasurer,
Mrs. Chapman Catt, Chairman organization
Committee, Miss Laura Clay and Mrs.
Catharine Waugh McCullough Auditors,
Mrs. McCullough in place of Mrs. Sarah B.
Cooper, deceased.
	Everything that transpired during the
Convention showed unmistakeably that the
suffrage cause was gaining ground.


[Column 1]
LIVING PICTURES OF THE HOLY
LAND.

