SALT LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the quarterly conference of
the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society held in
the Fourteenth ward Assembly Hall, March


[Column 1]
6th, 1897, President M. Isabella Horne
presiding. Present on the stand were
Elder O. B. Huntington, Elder Jacobs,
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith,
M. A. Hyde of the Sanpete Stake, and
Counselor C. C. Cannon.
	Opened by singing “For the strength of
the hills we bless Thee;” prayer by Elder
O. B. Huntington; singing “Come, O
Thou King of kings;” minutes of last
meeting read and accepted. The statistical
and financial report read and accepted.
	President Horne spoke to the sisters on
their duties, and urged them to greater
diligence. Spoke of the great reward that
would follow the performance of good
works; raised a warning voice against the
sins that were among us; gave many words
of wisdom and counsel to the sisters.
	Elder O. B. Huntington and Elder
Jacobs spoke on the good work the society
was doing, and urged the mothers to look after
the rising generation with greater vigilance.
	Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith
and M. A. Hyde each spoke and gave many
comforting words and valuable instructions
to the sisters.
	Closed by singing “We thank Thee O
God for a Prophet.” Benediction by Elder
Jacobs.
	Afternoon session. Opened by singing
“Our God we raise to Thee;” prayer by
Counselor C. C. Cannon; singing “O ye
mountains high.” The Stake officers of
the Relief Society were presented and sus-
tained.
	There was a large attendance and the
meeting was addressed by President A. M.
Cannon M. I. Horne, Annie T. Hyde,
Julia C. Howe, B. W. Smith, C. C. Can-
non, M. Hyde and E. Stevenson. Many
important subjects were discussed and
strong testimonies borne to the latter-day
work, and a good feeling prevailed through-
out the assembly.
	Adjourned for three months by singing
“This God is the God we adore.” Bene-
diction by Pres’t. A. M. Cannon.
				M. Y. TAYLOR Sec’y.
DAVIS STAKE.
	THE Davis Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence was held at East Bountiful Jan. 28,
1897, President Susan Grant presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “Our God we
raise to Thee;” prayer by Counselor
Joseph Clark; singing “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire.” Present on the stand were
Pres’t. Zina D. H. Young, Pres’t. Hess
and Counselors, Pres’t Susan Grant and
Counselors, and others. Minutes of the
previous Conference read and approved.
	Pres’t. Susan Grant made opening re-
marks, said we did not come together to
advance new ideas but we have come with
a desire to be blest and thought we were
greatly blest in having Sister Zina with us.
“I have been connected with this Church 
for a long time and it is my testimony that
God hears and answers the prayers of the
faithful saints. When we are in deep
sorrow we can go to Him and He will hear
us. We have all enlisted in the service of
God. Our names are all enrolled in the
Relief Society, it is the duty of all the sis-
ters to attend their meetings.”
	Pres’t. Lucina Sessions reported East
Bountiful. Pres’t. Martha Fackeral, West
Bountiful, said they were getting along
very well in the Society.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said “It makes
my heart rejoice to meet with the Saints, I
feel there is a good spirit here. It is now 60

[Column 2]
years since Hyrum Smith baptized me into
the Church of God.” Spoke of apostacy;
said one of the first things that lead to it is
fault finding. Spoke of visiting with
Brother Stevenson before his death, he was
filled with the spirit of the Gospel. It is a
great blessing to have a body dedicated to
the Lord. Spoke of the Relief Society,
said she sincerely hoped more of the young
ladies would join. “I was present when
Brigham Young organized the Young
Ladies’ Association, when he got through
with the organization Geo. A. Smith said,
‘If Brigham Young ever spoke by the
Spirit of God he has today.’ I feel to urge
the sisters to attend the Relief Society
meetings, but do not neglect your children.
I am thankful to meet with you and may
God bless you all.” Sister Randall reported
Centerville Society as doing well and im-
proving.
	Meeting was adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing “Lord dismiss us.” Benediction
by Bishop Lewis Grant.
	Afternoon session. Opened by singing;
prayer by Counselor Henry Rampton;
singing. Counselor Mary S. Clark made
some excellent remarks, said the Gospel is
what makes us happy. Spoke of Temple
work, we should attend to it and do all the
good we can for this life is short.
	South Bountiful, Farmington and West
Layton were well reported by their Presi-
dents as being in good condition.
	Sister Zina made some very interesting
remarks, said there are many here who can
testify to the gift of healing, the mothers can
intercede with our heavenly Father in be-
half of their children, they should teach
them the principles of the Gospel and
to be virtuous. “There is nothing gives
me more joy than to see children improving
