EDITORIAL NOTES:

	GOOD news comes from South Dakota
that the Equal Suffrage Amendment was
submitted by a good majority.
	IN the state of Washington the Woman
Suffrage bill passed the Senate by a vote of
23 to 11.
	THE bill making an appropriation to the
University for a Kindergarten training
school is a good measure, by all means
Utah should have her teachers trained in
her own state.
	ONE of our exchanges says, “If you
must economize, in the name of Christian
humanity do not withdraw your support
from the Kindergarten”—“so say we, all of
us” who are working in the interest of the
children.
	MADAME MOUNTFORD is still in this state
giving her world-famous lectures in the
larger towns outside Salt Lake City, and
we trust meeting with good success and be-
coming acquainted with our people and
conversant with our Church doctrines.
	AT some opportune time during the Con-
ference in April, there will be a business
meeting of the State Suffrage Association,
held at the EXPONENT office, to get an
opinion from the women of the state as to
what shall be done by the enfranchised
states to help other women to obtain suf-
frage, and particularly wbat the women of
Utah will do.
	MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER whose
death has been for some time expected
died at Stamford, Conn., March 8, at 10.32,
on the tenth anniversary of the demise of
her illustrious husband. But very few par-
ticulars are given in the dispatches. Mrs.
Beecher devoted all her time and energies,
during her husband’s life to him and to her
family. Since his departure to the “ other
shore” she has become pretty widely
known throug her writings of him, pub-
lished in the Ladies Home Journal.
	THE executive inauguration exercises
etc. of Hon. Wm. McKinley as President
of the United States were said to be more
imposing, and on a grander and more mag-
nificent scale of elegance than any since
George Washington. However, we at a
distance know very little about it, but if
the money was put in circulation among
workmen and tradesmen, men and women
of the people it might be more effective of
good than to set an example of
ostentatious extravagance. It is better to
give work than to give charity. Certainly
all who are interested in the welfare of the
country would wish for the display to be
somewhat moderate because of the hard
times. Great hopes are entertained by
those who worked for the election of Mc-
Kinley that a more prosperous era will soon
come with the change in the administration;
for which results all who are mindful of
the public weal will ardently hope, and we
trust hope not in vain,


THE Legislature in which women have
been members in both Houses, and the first
woman Senator in any state has made her
debut closed without any calamity befall-
ing because women were elected; in fact so
far as we are aware the women were quite
as energetic and as far-seeing in committees,
and also in other ways, as men and
without doubt their influence in reference
to actual work done, was no doubt in be-
half of the best measures proposed accord-
ing to their conscientious views. If it was
an experiment, which in a certain sense it
was, no one can say it was a failure. It
seems as if it would be wrong to criticise
the first efforts in this direction; undoubted-
ly the lady members have done what they
could, and would like to have accomplished
very much more. It seems rather favorable
to the woman question, that among the
eighteen senators who drew for the long
and short term of office, the one woman
should have been among the fortunate
ones of the long term. Of this session of
the Legislature, the writer would wish to
be excused from commenting, as she knows
only what the newspapers have said, except
in conflicting reports of those who con-
strued all Democratic measures, according
to their own ideas of Democracy.


