EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Secretaries of Stake organization of
the Relief Society are hereby officially noti-
fied to send full and complete reports for
the year 1896—not later than Feb. 20, 1897
without fail—to Mrs. E. B. Wells General
Secretary Constitution Building Salt Lake
Utah.
	REPORTS have been received by the
General Secretary of the Relief Society,
Mrs. E. B. Wells from Beaver, Box Elder,
Cassia, Juarez, Kanab, Morgap, Oneida,
Panguitch, Sandwich Islands, San Luis,
Sevier, Star Valley, Summit, St. Johns,
St. Joseph, Uintah, Wasatch, Wayne.
Parowan, Davis. Reports from other Stakes
should be sent immediately without further
delay.
	PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S 90th birthday
is to be celebrated Monday, March 1, in the
large Tabernacle in a public manner befit-
ting his position as President of the Church.

[Column 2]
The entire program will be in perfect accord
with his office and calling, and the oppor-
tunity given to the people for congratula-
tions will assuredly be appreciated by the
public who honor him as the pioneer
of Utah and a man above reproach, whose
life has been devoted to the good of others
and the welfare of the world.
	THE Relief Society Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion will be held in the
Fourteenth ward Assembly Hall in this
City on Saturday, March 6.—It is very
desirable that representatives should be
present from every branch Society in the
Stake. Meetings will commence promptly
at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., as usual Bishops
and brethren are specially invited also all
the sisters who can possibly attend. It is
hoped it will be a time of rejoicing.
	THE visit of the Idaho Legislature to
this City must have been a pleasure socially
to those who participated in the festivities
of those few days. Senator Joseph Rich
who is, we believe President of the Idaho
Senate, must have enjoyed seeing his old-
time friends and the companions of his
boghead days, and the affair would be
calculated generally to promote a feeling
of reciprocity between the two adjoining
states. We understand the ladies accom-
panying them were much interested in
Utah. We were very pleased to met Mrs.
M. C. Athey, the very efficient secretary of
the State Suffrage Association of Idaho,
and also Mrs. Rebecca Mitchell, Chaplain of
the House in the Legislature and the first
woman ever appointed to that position.
	IT is very unpleasant to be obliged to
apologize for delays but in this instance it
is certainly unavoidable. The Book of
Poems by E. B. Wells so long promised is
not yet ready Even though the author
has made great exertions to get it out in
February. The poems are scattered and
some are, we fear, irretrievably lost, and all
have been carefully revised, which added to
other literary and editorial work is more
arduous than most people would imagine.
The steel engraving has not yet arrived
though we are informed it is upon the way.
We hope when the work is completed the
subscribers will not be disappointed either
in the contents or appearance of the book
itself. Trusting our friends will forgive
the delay and that we may obtain a suf-
ficient number of subscribers to cover the
expense of publishing, we crave the indul-
gence of our patrons and friends a few
weeks longer.


