ADDRESS.

	THE year 1896 witnessed greater succes-
ses than any other since the first pronunci-
amento was made at Seneca Falls, N. Y.,
July 19, 1848.
	On Jan. 4th the president proclaimed
Utah to be a state, with a constitution that
does not discriminate against woman.
Thus we have two states coming into the
Union with the principle of equal rights to

[Column 2]
all women guaranted by their constitutions.
	On Nov. 3rd by a majority of some 6,000
the men of Idaho declared in favor of wo-
man suffrage, and for the first time in the
history of judicial decisions upon the en-
largement of woman’s rights, civil and
political, the Supreme Court of Idaho—
Judges Houston, Morgan and Sullivan un-
animously decided that the amendment so
carried was constitutional. This decision is
the more remarkable because the constitu-
tion might as easily have been inferred to
require amendments to receive a majority
of the total cast at the election, as a majority
of the votes cast on the amendment. By
the former construction the amendment
would have been lost, notwithstanding that
of all who cared to express an opinion two
to one were in favor.
	If any one will go through the history of
our woman suffrage movement since the
days of reconstruction and the adoption of
the 4th and 5th amendments to the Federal
constitution—taking the decisions of the
Supreme Court of the United States in the
cases of Mrs. Myra Bradwell for the pro-
tection of her civil rights, and of Mrs. Vir-
ginia L. Minor for the protection of her
political rights, and the decision of the Su-
preme Court of the state of New York on
the law giving women the right to vote for
county school commissioners, and various
other decisions—he will find that in every
case the courts have put the narrowest pos-
sible construction upon the spirit and the
letter of the constitution. Whereas the
judges of Idaho did themselves the honor
to make a decision in direct opposition to
judicial precedent and prejudice. So the
Idaho victory is a great credit not only to
the majority of men who voted for the
amendment, but to the three judges who
made this broad and just decision.
	The National association furnished speak-
ers to Idaho—Mrs. Devoe in 1895, and
Mrs. Johns and Mrs. Catt in 1896, and they
with Mrs. Bradford and Miss Reynolds, of
Colorado, held meetings and organized
suffrage clubs in the different settlements
throughout the state. I have not yet learn-
ed how many of the resident women took
part in the campaign.
	We also had pending in California a wo-
man suffrage amendment Your president,
vice-president-at-large and National organ-
izer, together with Miss Yates, Miss Hay,
Miss Mills, Mrs. Sweet and Miss Lucy
Anthony gave more or less time to speaking
and working in that state for eight months.
Never have I known a more thorough and
effective educational work done in any of
the thirteen suffrage amendment campaigns
we have had since 1867. Could we have
counted out the two largest cities, San
Francisco and Oakland, the amendment
would have been carried by 500 majority.
And in this connection I want to call your
attention to the immensity of the state,
stretching nearly a thousand miles north
and south and with an area greater than all
New England, New York and Pennsyl-
vania combined. The railroad facilities are
very poor and long and weary stagings are
necessary to reach the men who are scatter-
ed over the ranches and mines of the great
territory.
	San Francisco is to California what New
York City is to the Empire State. All the
rural counties can be educated so that a
majority vote will be given for any measure
of justice, but the cities of San Francisco
and Oakland contain a very large ratio of
foreign born voters and native born China-


[Column 1]
men, who had just come of age, and these
weighted down the intelligence not only of
those two cities but of the rest of the state.
	But California’s defeat is simply victory
deferred, for the legislature is sure to resub-
mit the amendment and the educational
campaign carried on for the last two years
will be continued the coming two, when 
a large enough number will be converted
to overcome the slum vote, and November,
1898 will add to our flag the star of 
California.
	But friends, it is not only in California
that we are likely to have amendment cam-
paigns during the coming two years, but
Nevada and Oregon, and quite probably
Washington and Montana, and it behooves
us to study well the plans and methods not
only of the two campaigns of last year, but
of all those preceding, and to try to devise 
something better if possible. But I think
the one and only sure thing to carry an
amendment is through the organization of 
a club in every voting precinct of every
county of the state. For example look
again to California. In every county thus
organized, with an active committee in
every voting precinct, who visited every
voter and distributed leaflets in every fam-
ily, the amendment was carried. This 
ought to be sufficient to teach the women
of the states that what we want is house to
house educational work throughout every
voting precinct. We may carry an amendment
with education short of this, but we are not
likely to. I believe if the slums of San
Francisco and Oakland had been thus
organized even those men could have been
made to see that it was for their interest
and the interest of their wives and daugh-
ters to vote for the amendment. But while
the suffragists had no committees in those
low-down districts, the “liquor men” had
an active committee in every possible
saloon, dive, or gambling house throughout
the entire section. I am therefore more
and more convinced that it is educational
work that needs to be done. It is of little
use for us to make our appeals upon nation-
al political party conventions, or congress,
or the state legislature for resolutions in
favor of woman’s enfranchisement, while
no appeal comes up to them from the rank
and file of the voters.
	Our work, therefore, for the coming year
is to push local organization more thorough-
ly than ever before, and to do that work
precinct by precinct, even if we compass but
one county of a state during the year. Just
a suffrage club in one city and another
does not reach the voters. For instance,
in my city of Rochester, with a population
of 150,000, we have one club, whereas we
have some twenty wards and I do not know
how many voting precincts, but the business
of that one club should be to find persons
in each one of those precincts to take the
poll list and go from house to house, leav-
ing literature, holding meetings etc., etc.
within the boundary lines of that one pre-
cinct. Until we do this kind of house to
house work we can never expect to carry
any of the states in which there are large
cities. Had Idaho had San Francisco with
all its liquor men and foreigners banded to-
gether, she would have had as hard a
struggle to carry her amendment and would
probably have been defeated as was
California.
	So, friends, I am not in any sense dis-
heartened, and while I rejoice exceedingly
over Idaho, I also rejoice over the grand

[Column 2]
work done in California. It was a thou-
sand times more and better than that ever
done in any other amendment campaign.
So study the methods of California and 
Idaho, and improve on them as much as
you possibly can.


