AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.

	Sister Ann C. Woodbury and Emma
Morris of the Stake Presidency of the Relief
Society, left St. George with the home
missionaries, Brothers Brigham Jarvis and
Charles Seegmiller. We traveled thirteen
miles and camped at the Indian Farm,
Bishop James Andrus and Thomas Judd
being on their way to the Muddy.
	The 21st of Sep. we went to Littlefield
and had dinner with Brother Albert Farmer
and family. We traveled on to Bunker-
ville, the distance of forty-three miles. We
were ready for a good night’s rest which we
had at Bishop Bunker’s.
	The 22nd we had a general meeting at 10
o’clock with the missionaries. We had a
very enjoyable time and a good turn out.
At 2 o’clock we met with the Primaries;
some of the brethren with the mothers filled
up the house, and we felt the Lord had
been with us. In the evening we held a
Relief Society meeting and had an enjoy-
able time, also had good encouragement
from the brethren; the house was full to
overflowing.

[Column 2]
	The 23rd Bishop Bunker and a young
missionary accompanied us to the Muddy.
We crossed the river many times and
traveled through a country where there
seemed to be nothing for either man or
beast.
	We arrived at St. Joseph in time to have
supper with Brother Huntsman and hold
an evening meeting.
	Bishop Jones with a number of the
people of Overton met us here and the
house was full. A number of families have
moved here from Dakota and several of
them were at the meeting; they paid strict
attention. One lady congratulated us and
thought we were doing a good work. I
understood there were sixteen families and
only six houses, the rest live in tents and
wagons. This valley is calculated to sus-
tain many people.
	The 24th was Sunday. In the morning
we went to Overton and met with the
Sunday school which is well conducted.
After the exercises the missionaries gave
some good instructions. At 1 o’clock we
met with the people and had an interesting
time, they meet in a large tent. They
have the rock ready to build a meeting
house. We dined with Brother and Sister
Johnson. Sister Morris and myself called
on Brigham Whitmore and family, he is
building a new store. We left in time to
hold an evening meeting at St. Thomas.
Here Sister Whitney kindly entertained a
number of Overton people who followed us
on.
	Here we had an interesting time, Bishops
Andrus and Judd, also Bishops Jones and
Bunker met with us, and we truly had a
time of rejoicing. Sister Gentry kindly en-
tertained us for the night.
	The 25th we left St. Thomas feeling re-
freshed, and turned our faces homeward.
Bishop Bunker being along we went up a
dry wash by a mine, to save crossing the
river so much, the mine is fifteen miles
from Bunkerville. Sister Morris and my-
self visited a mine for the first time, they
seem to be doing quite a business, I think
they are down a hundred feet, hope it will
be profitable.
	We got into Bunkerville late in the eve-
ning. The brethren were in a meeting and
we went to bed feeling the need of rest.
We were very kindly entertained by Bishop
Bunker and family.
	The 26th we met with the people of
Musquito Flat, we met at 10 o'clock after
traveling six miles, this belongs to the
Bunkerville ward Brother Nephi Johnson
is the presiding Elder. Here we found a
number of families striving to make homes
for themselves and their children. I think
there is a very good people here, judging
from the way they turned out to meeting.
	We went on to Littlefield and had an eve-
ning meeting, all that were able turned out
there are but six families located here, Bishops
Andrus and Judd joined us in this meeting,
having traveled from the Muddy that day;
they bore testimony to the good work that
was being accomplished.
	On our trip we have urged the necessity
of planting mulberry trees, and so lay a
foundation for the development of the silk
industry.
	One of the brethren and wife had a little
daughter born that morning and wished to
name her after us.
	On the 27th we reached home, having
traveled two hundred miles. We trust we
have done gome good in urging the saints

[Column 3]
to their duties. Ever praying for the wel-
fare of Zion I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			ANN C. WOODBURY.
St. George, Jan. 20, 1897.


