[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: BEFORE RAILROADS. | Author: Unknown]

BEFORE RAILROADS.

	Before the advent of railroads through
our beautiful Territory, when we traveled
much by team, it was my good fortune
to make an almost ideal journey through a
very sparsely settled district.
	The party consisted of four persons beside
myself and husband.  There were our two
children aged respectively nine and seven,
the teamster and the inevitable passenger.	
	There was not even a stage route, and it
was considered a matter of unpardonable
churlishness not to be willing to take one or
more persons along, if you were traveling by
team.
	We began our journey way down in the
Blue Valley country, but recently a part of
Piute County.  It is the only place that I
ever saw the sun rise on the horizon.  To
the South lay the grand old Henry moun-
tain, densely wooded from base to summit,

[Column 2]
such a contrast to the surrounding valleys
and mountains that, with the exception of a
meager fringe along the banks of the river
known as the “Dirty Devil,” are as bare of
vegetation as the mouth of a crater.  At a
distance these bare mountains look like
solid granite, but a nearer inspection shows
them to be a species of lime stone, that air-
slacks, and each rain washes a few inches of
this almost impalpable dust down into the
valleys precluding the most adventurous sage
brush from getting firm footing on their for-
ever moving sides.
	But about the journey. We were to ride
in an ordinary wagon drawn by an ordinary
team, with all the usual accessories to camp-
ing out; provisions, cooking utensils, bed-
ding.
	The first day we followed the river, wind-
ing in and out among little knolls of the
above described characteristics.  They were
of varied colors in metallic hues of green,
blue, purple and yellow, and very vivid.
So fine and yielding was this constantly slid-
ing dust, that the wagon moved noiselessly,
and the tread of the horses feet was scarcely
discernible.  So silently in fact that a team
approached us from the opposite direction,
and deeming themselves alone in the midst
of a wilderness, the gentleman kissed his wife
just as our wagon rounded a curve in the
road not three rods from them.
	Sixteen times during the day we crossed
the stream which has a quick sand bottom,
each time being a separate risk of our lives
to give piquancy to the otherwise monoto-
nous journey.  At night we camped at the
mouth of a box canon, called locally the
“Grand Gulch.”
	We built a fire, cooked supper and dis-
posed of ourselves as best we could for the
night; some in the wagon, and others on the
ground with only the canopy of heaven for
a sheltering protection.
	The next morning we passed through box
canon and I hope I shall be able to make
you see it as I did.  If the mountain had
been cracked from crest to sea level and the
wagon road made at the bottom of the
crevice I fancy it would have looked just so;
or as one of the children quaintly remarked,
“God has marked out this road with His
finger that we may not have to go up on
this side of the mountain nor down on the
other.”
	The road itself was scarcely wide enough
to permit two teams to pass each other, but
above our heads towered these massive walls
of rock hundreds and hundreds of feet high,
without vegetation, save here and there
where some hardy shrub clung in a dizzy
and frightened way to the face of the cliff.
Half way through there is a natural well, or
rather a pocket in the rocks that was full,
the day we passed it, of pure sweet rain
water, and I am told that the supply never
fails.
	Just before we emerged from this canyon
which is four miles in length,—into Rabbit
Valley, the cliffs widened out into a vast
terraced amphitheater, bearing so close a re-
semblance to the pictures I have seen of the
Colosseum at Rome as to be striking.  There
is much danger in camping in a place like
this, for although the sun may be shining
over head a thunder shower anywhere
above may pour a deluge of water into this
place at any moment. The down grade is
such as to give such a stream a terrific force
and make life unsafe.  In fact more than
one tragedy has occurred in this same place.
Just at the mouth of the Gulch is a hill that
is literally composed of slabs of stone resem-

[Column 3]
bling monuments. Some of them standing
erect and near enough to the road to be ac-
cessible are thirty and forty feet high and
almost perfectly symmetrical.  Not many
miles from there is another hill of very large
dimensions, that looks like it might be the
chip pile left when the gods had cut up red
cedar and mahogany wood for fire use, so
peculiar is the shape and color, of each
separate stone, and so uniform.
	Where ever in our trip (which was a long
one, reaching over into Beaver valley via.
Richfield and Clear Creek canyon), we found
a house at nightfall we were made welcome
and treated with the greatest kindness.
Even to our hosts rising extra early and
getting us off in good season the next morn-
ing, which is the acme of frontier hospi-
tality.  Where there were no settlers, we
camped out, knew how to take care of our-
selves (which is one of the fine arts) and en-
joyed the situation.  Space and time pre-
vent me from enlarging on many interesting
particulars of the trip, that I am sure would
strike a responsive chord in the bosoms of
many who became acquainted with Utah
before the advent of railroads.
	ELLEN JAKEMAN.


