[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: AN INTERESTING JOURNEY. | Author: Unknown]

AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.
	The comforting addresses by President F. A.
Hammond and others at the funeral of Brother
Swan were consoling in their nature, and calcu-
lated to allay the excess of grief which up to that
time was very distressing.
	After the services were over the cortege wound
its way to the burial-place which is situated on a 
high bluff or mountain top a beautiful resting
place for the dead, it being the season of wild
flowers made the appearance of the cemetery 
still more attractive.
	The next day, which was the regular monthly
fast meeting, the brethren and sisters convened 
at the residence of Sister Lydia Taylor, for al-
though there is a meeting house at La Platta
nearly finished, yet on account of the high winds
it was considered wisdom to meet in a private
house until the windows were all in, and the 
building quite secure.  The meeting was well at-
tended the large room being well filled and a 
lively spirited time was enjoyed by all present.
	In the afternoon of the same day May 5th, the 
Relief Society of the La Platta branch of Burnham
ward was fully organized by President Hammond
and the local authorities, Mrs. Lydia Taylor
President; the names of all the officers will appear
in a future number.
	Friday morning, May 6th, about 8 a. m. we
went on our journey, we were in sight of the San
Juan river, for a long distance the country on both 
sides of the river was settled by enterprising
colonizers, who had built substantial houses some
of them quite smart in appearance, excellent
fences and the gardens under fine cultivation;
immense tracts of land sown with wheat just
showing itself above the ground gave promise of 
an abundant harvest.  About noon camped,
rested our horses, and lunched in a cosy nook be-
tween the mountains, afterwards drove on to a 
good camping ground for the night; we rose
early and drove twelve miles to Cherry Creek be-
fore breakfast, which we partook of under an im-
mense pine tree; then pursued our way through
dense forests of cedar and pine; the road being
very dangerous we had to observe a great deal of
caution, until we passed a long and precipitous
dugway cut on the side of a mountain, after
which the roads were better until we arrived at
Mancos, which is a ward of magnificent distances
being fifteen miles in length; there we were
pleased to hear the welcome sound of the rail-
road whistle for the first time since leaving the
D. and R. G. R. R. at Thompson's Springs on 
our journey.  A few miles further we reached the
residence of Bishop Halls where we recieved a
most cordial welcome from the Bishop and his
interesting wife who is the daughter of President
Hammond, her younger sister, a charming girl
resides with her, and she has also a little daughter 
eighteen months old.
	Here we enjoyed a resting place and felt suf-
ficiently refreshed in the morning to attend Sun-
day School in company with the Bishop and
family also President Hammond and wife, a long
distance away; the meeting house is quite a credit
to the settlement, and they have a good organ,
Mrs.  Halls performs the part of the organist, the
school is well conducted, children orderly and a 
large attendance.  On account of being so far 
from the Bishop's a number of us had our lunch
on the porch of the meeting house.
	At 2 p. m. the regular Sunday services were
held, President Hammond occupying a part of the 
time; Sister Freeze and myself each made a brief 
address.
	Monday morning we met with the Primary in
the meeting house, heard their exercises which
were nicely rendered, and each of us gave a few
words of encouragement to the little folks; they
were a fine lot of healthy looking children, a 
credit to any community.  At 2 p. m. had quite

[column 2]
an interesting time in meeting with the members 
of the Relief Society and becoming acquainted 
with the sisters who expressed themselves as
much gratified by our visit and teachings.
	The next morning was the meeting of the Y. L.
M. I. A. a fine intelligent gathering of young
ladies, who though living in an isolated part of 
the country seemed to be well posted on the 
questions of the day, and on general subjects of 
information; we had an excellent time with them
and enjoyed their society very much.
	After resting for a day or two we visited Mrs.
Dunton the President of the Relief Society, who
lives seven miles from Mancos up in the moun-
tains in a most beautiful locality among timber,
her farm being a plateau of one hundred and
sixty acres almost surrounded by a forest, there
is a delicious spring of water near the residence,
and all the farm not under cultivation covered
thick with lovely wild flowers.  Some of the 
young girls went on a picnic excursion up in the
mountains near Mancos, and found a hundred and
twenty varieties of beautiful wild flowers At Mrs.
Dunton's we had a delicious grouse for dinner
cooked in regular English style, found near her
own house, which we enjoyed with a relish.  The
road going and coming was exceedingly rough;
composed of rocks in every shape, form and size
imaginable; which we got over, as Sister Eliza used
to say with a few "healthy jolts."  The day had
been a very fine pleasant one in every  particular
and we are likely to remember the delightful
scenery, and the picturesque little home "in the 
clearing" so to speak, where industry and thrift
have made beautiful "a waste place in the
desert."
	Success to the perseverance and pluck of such
women citizens, they ought to have the right of 
suffrage, they richly deserve it.
			[To be continued]


