SILK CULTURE.

	As the time is fast approaching to begin
raising the silk worm, I am daily interroga-
ted, "How shall we proceed in silk raising?"
For the benefit of those wishing to engage
in the business, I will make a few remarks
in regard to it, founded on my own experi-
ence,which has heretofore proved success-
ful.
	In the first place we must be alive to our
business. Now the first thing to be done is
to secure silk worm eggs before the weath-
er gets too warm, to avoid them hatching,
and before the leaves are far enough ad-
vanced to begin feeding. In order to avoid
their hatching, place them in a cool dry
place or cellar, if not damp, in a box of any
kind, to preserve them from the mice,
with a goodly portion of gimlet holes bored
in the ends and sides to admit of the circu-
lation of air, there to remain until wanted
to hatch. From the first to the 15th of June
bring the eggs from your cool repository,
and spread them upon a newspaper upon a
table. Leave them in a cool room. It is
best not to expose them too suddenly to
warmth that would hatch them. Leave
them in a cool room a day or two, then take
them to a warmer room, and spread on a
table as before. In a few days they will
begin to hatch. They commence early in
the morning and continue hatching until
near noon.
	Now your labor commences. As soon as
they hatch, they start off in search of food.
Pluck your tenderest leaves, about the size
of a quarter of a dollar, leaving the tip end
and one small leaf. Cut the leaves in halves,
lay them on the worms, where they are the
thickest. When they are all on the leaf, if
it is not full of worms, place it in another
spot, and so on until the leaves are full.
Have another paper near the one you have
your eggs upon. Then take a pen-knife,
and take hold of the edge of the leaf full of
little worms, placing them on the paper
you previously laid on the table, taking
them up one by one as they fill up, lay them
side by side, until all that day's hatching
are taken care of. Now gather some ten-
der leaves, laying one on the top of anoth-
er, say from five to one dozen, according to
the number of worms. Lay them on a
board and cut them with a sharp knife,
about an eighth of an inch wide, and cross-
ways the same. Then sprinkle them light-
ly over the young worms; be careful not to
put on too many, as the worms will attack
the first leaf they come in contact with.
If there is more than enough for them the
top leaves will wilt, and dry up before the
worms can get to the top. Repeat this op-
eration every two hours. If the worms do
not come up it is a sure sign that they
have had too much feed, and are unable to
get up. Then you must feed lighter. Ov-
er-feeding is a great fault in the first stage
and must be avoided. Continue in this
way each day during hatching, taking care
to keep each day's hatching by themselves.
	Any person wishing silk-worm eggs can
be accommodated by addressing the under-
signed.
	MRS. ANN K. DUNYON,
		Draperville, Salt Lake Co.
—Deseret News, May 1st, 1876.


