			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting
which convenes semi-monthly in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms was crowded
to overflowing on Sat. April 28. President
Mrs. M. I. Horne made some remarks up-
on labor and its reward; the return of the
brethren and sisters from the Temple, and
the subject of Storing Grain. Said that as
war was now declared on the Eastern conti-
nent the sisters could see the wisdom
of this mission; thought the sisters ought
to do all in their power to be wise virgins.
Counselor Mrs. P. Woodruff said she re-
joiced to to be with the sisters again, but
greatly enjoyed her visit to the Temple and
with the settlements on the journey. Said
the people south were united and were will-
ing to devote themselves to the kingdom
of God. Mrs. Margaret P. Young referred
to the pure enjoyment she had in the Tem-
ple, and the good influence which seemed
to pervade its surroundings and associations,
and the gratitude and thankfulness she felt
at all times in reflecting upon her visit.
Counselor Mrs. E. Howard, said she felt
the spirit of God poured out upon the hand-
maidens of the Lord; thought it was time
the sisters stopped depending upon Baby-
lon, and should make more sacrifices to-
wards building Temples. She felt it was
necessary to retrench from everything
impure and foolish and prepare our hearts
to enter the Temple of God. Mrs. Martha
B. Young made an earnest exhortation to
the sisters; Mrs. Higgs and Mrs. East testi-
fied to the spirit of God that was manifest.
Mrs. East particularly exhorted the sisters
to offer up their sacrifices to God, and lay
all upon the altar, that they might secure
the great reward promised and not fall
short.
		SPANISH FORK, Apr. 28, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The second annual reunion of the Young
Ladies Retrenchment Association of this
place was held in the City Hall on Monday,
Apr. 2nd. The exercises commenced at 2
o'clock p. m., by singing and prayer.
Speeches, songs, recitations and original
compositions, together with the reading of
the Annual Review by the editor Miss Alice
Jex; interspersed with sweet strains of mu-
sic by Messrs. Thomas Hitchens, John Mor-
rison, and Miss Emma Isaacs; constituted
the afternoon's entertainment.
	Bishop Geo. D. Snell expressed his pleas-
ure at seeing so many present; spoke of the
advantages to be derived from our Annual
Review; as it enabled us to see the progress
made in the year past: spoke of the necessi-
ty of union and adherence to the rules and
regulations of the society: exhorted the sis-
ters to make their own fashions, and not
follow those of the world.
	Mrs. M. J. Morrison's remarks were full
of kindly feeling and expressions of the
pleasure she felt in having the opportunity
of doing good, and hoped to be able to hon-
or the mission assigned her as president of
the association; she also bore a strong tes-
timony to the healing power which she had
seen made manifest in a recent experience;
spoke of the changes that had taken place
in the society since their last reunion. She
concluded by expressing her desire that as
a society they might be more in earnest in
doing the will of our Heavenly Father, that
they might more fully enjoy His blessings.
	Miss Jane Powel spoke upon the subject
of charity, hoped the sisters would culti-
vate it in their daily lives. Bro. Geo. H.
Brimhall, Prest. of the Y, M. M. I. A.,

[Column 2]
made a short address; he was much pleased
to see the energy and diligence displayed
by the sisters.
	Bishop Snell presented the following offi-
cers for the ensuing year. President, Mrs.
M. J. Morrison; Counselors, Misses M. J.
Thomas, Maria Finch, Elizabeth Martell,
Mary Beckstrom, Clara Conrad—Miss
Jane Robertson was accepted as counselor
in the place of Mrs. Jane Reese, who re-
signed on account of ill health. Superin-
tendent Mrs. Jane Powell; Treasurer, Miss
Jane Robertson; Secretary, Miss Hannah
Snell; Ass't. Secretaries, Misses S. Warren
and Emma Evans; Corresponding Sec'y.,
Mrs. Hannah Cornaby; all of whom were
unanimously sustained.
	Intermission for one hour, during which
time about one hundred and fifty persons
sat down to tables bountifully spread with
picnic which was very tastefully arrang-
ed by a committee previously appointed.
The evening exercises were of the same
character as those of the afternoon. Bish-
op Snell, in connection with other brethren,
blessed and set apart the officers of the so-
ciety after which each officer was called up-
on to express their feelings and they all
expressed their willingness to perform the
various duties assigned them to the best of
their ability.
	The Treasurer read the financial report for
the two past years which showed that the
sum of fifty-seven dollars and forty cents
had been collected, and a disbursement of
forty dollars and fifteen cents, leaving a
balance in hand of seventeen dollars and
twenty-five cents. A five cent Temple
fund, donations received weekly, is in suc-
cessful operation in the association to which
the members contribute. A library has al-
so been started to which books are added
by donation and purchase.
	The second anniversary of the Society
was a time of real pleasure, and ended with
expressions of mutual good feeling and a
determination in the future to be more
zealous of good works.
				HANNAH CORNABY,
							Cor. Sec'y.

