		WAMSUSIE.
May, 1873.


[For the EXPONENT.
OUR DUTIES AS DAUGHTERS
OF ZION.
"Let us then be up and doing
With a heart for any fate."
 The above are the words of a poet, and
let us put them into practice, and see if we
cannot accomplish more good than we are
now doing.
 Every little while, my dear sisters, we
hear of missionaries being called to go to
different parts of the world to preach the
gospel, others to make new settlements;
and many other duties to perform that
would not be advisable for us to step for-
ward and do.  But for all this we can do
thousands of things that we are not very
diligent in performing, where we would
not be counted stepping over the thresh-
hold of modesty and propriety.  If we can-
not go to foreign countries and preach to
the heathens, if we cannot go and make
new settlements, and help to widen the
borders of Zion, if we cannot quarry, polish
and lay up rock for the temple, we need
not be idle, God never designed that we
should work in this way; but He has given
us our portion of work, and it is for us to
step forward as brave sisters and do it;
we can encourage the brethren in being
faithful to the principles of their religion
and help to build up the kingdom of God.
 We can learn to raise silk, make our own
dresses, ribbons, hats, bonnets, flowers,
trimmings, laces, gloves, and many other
things too numerous to mention, that would
save a great expense and what we save, give
as a donation to a temple, or for some other
noble work that will bless the people of
God.
 By hard study, diligence and persever-
ance, we may qualify ourselves as school-
teachers, clerks, cashiers, telegraphs opera-
tors and fill positions of honor and trust.
Then let us be faithful and let it not be
said that men are kept from other duties
to fill positions that we might occupy to our
credit.
 Let us step forward as brave volunteers
in this great work and take upon ourselves
the responsibilites of accepting situations
in our schools, our stores and telegraph offi-
ces, etc.  Let us be straightforward and
firm in our dealings, gentle and loving in
our governing, courteous and polite in our
manners, lively interesting and instructive
in our conversation ,constant and confiding
in our friendships, and love all that is good,
noble and exalting, ever striving to help
one another, and keep the commandments
of God our heavenly Father.
 We should learn to be our own doctors,
by having faith in the power of the Priest-
hood, and have power to heal the sick by
the laying on of hands.
 We should set an example that will be
worthy of following, and let our every act
be our recommendation into good society.
Encourage the brethren in their works, and
strengthen them in the faith by our pray-
ers.
					MAY B. EUNO.
Fairfield, April 25.


