	FAIRFIELD, SEVIER Co., Apr. 5, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will endeavor to give some information
concerning the progress of our society; we
assure you the sisters of Fairfield are not
altogether dead, although so long unheard
from. We read with surprise the instruc-
tions when first given through the EXPO-
NENT for the Relief Societies to store up
Grain, and our hearts were filled with a
true desire to obey the call from the vener-
able leader of our church; it is a proof of
his confidence in the sisters, and we ought
to rise up in our might, yet with all humil-
ity to engage in this noble enterprise re-
membering that thereby we shall be able to
make restitution for past wrongs, for had
we as a general thing been obedient and
wise, much more could have been accom-
plished towards the building up of Zion.
The sisters here felt almost disheartened at
first, our ready means in the society was
very limited, our husbands had no grain,
they work faithfully in the United Order
for which we are thankful, yet we were not
satisfied, for here was another call; so we
concluded we would make an effort, trust-
ing in God for its success, and He has in-
deed heard our prayers and blessed our la-
bors, and we have now stored up about two
hundred bushels of wheat, and five hun-
dred pounds of flour and we keep adding
to it; at first we bought the wheat with
what little cash we had at seventy five cents
per bushel, and exchanged with oats, and
so on; some of the sisters donated of their
gleanings, or solicited their husbands for
donations of what little they had raised,
and in various ways added to our store.
Then we petitioned the Board of Directors
of the United Order, as our Society had
credit there to the amount of one hundred
and forty-one dollars, which was counten-
anced by our Bishop who acted very nobly
and kindly and used his influence in be-
half of the sisters; our petition was granted,
and the amount paid out to us in wheat, at
their own price. We feel very thankful
and trust in the Lord for continued success.
	Desiring the welfare of Zion, we are your
sisters in the Covenant.
	M. C. PETERSEN. Prest.
