WISHES AND SUGGESTIONS.

	While sauntering about the lot this morn-
ing, I was led to wish that bee keepers would
have the good taste and good judgment, not to
try the experiment of domesticating their bees
in so close proximity to neighbors that orch-
ards, gardens, and houses must be infested
with them.
	Few persons are more fond of honey than

[Column 2]

myself; but I would prefer to have it extracted
from fields of buckwheat raised for put-
pose, rather than from my pears, peaches, ap-
ples, &c., while they are in blossom.
	I know that honey bees are always held up
as patterns of industry; but as for politeness
and honesty, they are imbued with these about
as much as a cross cow might be, when left
to walk through the street and pick her living
where she can find it.
	One day last summer when we were sitting
down to dinner, several of these useful little
plagues entered the open window; and with-
out waiting to see whether we would offer
them an invitation to dine with us or not, they
seated themselves comfortably upon the edge
of a dish of honey in the middle of the table.
When they began sipping daintily from my
favorite dish, I raised an objection and tried to
make them understand that their company
was not desired in our house. They refused to
comprehend, or at least to comply with my
wish for them to leave. So my husband inter-
feared, and finally succeeded in driving the
little marauders out through the same window
they had entered; but not until he had receiv-
ed a slight wound from one of their weapons
of defense, and broken a pane of glass. That
meal was by no means the only one which
was made uncomfortable for us, by the inva-
sions of our neighbors' saucy bees.
	It seems to me that a very good plan would
be to have an apiary conducted far enough
away from town to warrant security from mo-
lestation by the bees, to the inhabitants in
general of the city; and extensive enough to
supply this honey-loving community with the
delicate sweet.
	The roses will soon be blooming in abund-
ance. I wish that mothers would teach their
children that although it is not so dishonest to
beg as to steal, it is almost as contemptible.
It is trying to get something without earning
it or paying for it, and is a practice that child-
ren should be taught to abhor. What woman
could be willing to leave her work twenty
times a day to answer the summons from some-
body's child that she knows nothing about,
"Please ma'am will you give me a rose?" And
if without going to wait upon them, you ans-
wer, "you may take one," almost any of these
little rose beggers will fill hats, aprons or what-
ever will carry them, with the most choice
roses and buds they can find on your bushes.
	Children should be taught, that people who
have fine roses and flower gardens have to
work hard to take care of them, or pay garden-
ers for doing so. And that if they have flow-
ers to give away, they most likely have dear
friends to whom they prefer giving them.
	Watching and listening to the happy birds
that came with the joyous spring, reminds me
of a chapter I once read from a book written
by an old and wise man. I never think of it
without also thinking, it is a chapter which
very many young men would do well to read
and heed. A portion of it is as follows:
	"Husbands and fathers do stop your drive,
drive, hurry, hurry; long enough to do your
duty to your wives and children! Pattern af-
ter those dear little birds. They have built
themselves a pretty home, and the female is
filling it with eggs. How many charming lit-
tle attentions her consort lavishes upon her!
How completely devoted and exquisitely ten-
der! Thereby he renders her all happiness,
and sweetness, and this stamps the impress of
loveliness upon her embryo eggs. How sweet-
ly he warbles in surrounding branches; thus
charming away her tedious hours, and making
her happy by notes of love."
	If the lesson given in these few words, could

[Column 3]

only be learned and its importance realized by
all our young husbands and fathers, what a no-
ble generation might be reared up by the sons
and daughters of Israel!
