WAYS OF PLEASANTNESS.

	Spring has come again with its buds and
blossoms speaking to the heart in hopeful
promise, and revealing as it were, truthful les-
sons of the Infinite. The glad waters have
burst their ice-bound fetters, and as they flow
freely along, one fancies they babble of the
prison-lfe in which cold stern winter had en-
thralled them. The glorious sunshine regener-
ates everything which it rests upon; not only
producing vegetable life and bringing forth in 
profusion everywhere, grasses and flowers, leaf
and shrubbery, but the human body receiving
a portion of its penetrating and invigorating
rays, is imbued with freshness, elasticity and
vigor. The birds returning again from their
southern tour are caroling sweet melodies, as
if their anthems of praise were uttered for all
animate creation. Thoughts and anticipations
come with the spring-time in rich profusion
too. Many writers have indulged in ridiculing
the various odes, poems, compositions and es-
says upon Spring; but the mind bubbles over
with its effusions at this season of the year be-
cause of its kinship to all animate nature; and
feeling that the season is one propitious in the
effervescing of ideas congenial and conducive to
their rhythm, it is but natural to dedicate to 
this Goddess of Spring suitable tributes in hon-
or of her life-giving power and strength.
	She is also the herald of Summer with its
wealth of beauty and ways of pleasantness; its
long bright days, its gorgeous sunsets draping
the mountain-slopes with their reflection in 
pale purple and blue, shimmering leaf and
flower and tree top with blended golden green.
Must not all this beauty have its effect upon
the senses? Bringing always its own peculiar
train of pleasant associations in the mind, dif-
fused with light and warmth and vigor, im-
parted by the outward presence of the truly
natural and beautiful, acting upon the suscep-
tible imagination. Plans for useful labor for
pastime and out-door enjoyments begin to
be formed, and contrast with similar scenes
and episodes in the past. Involuntarily mem-
ory calls up what last season afforded of pleas-
ure and joy, and the experience it brought, of 
how best to economize all things to make cap-
ital out of the smallest resources for enjoy-
ment.
	To us the Spring brings many pleasing re-
membrances, many happy remnisicences of
days gushing over with the enthusiasm of love
for nature's wildest haunts, its dreamiest
nooks, its most enchanting imagery. All these
are ways of pleasantness, and if the spirit of
content be strong in one, the way to be good is
so plain and old-fashioned that everybody
knows it, therefore it is not entertaining. If

[Column 2]

all that the cleverest geniuses have written
against the world in general were combined,
the volume would be too massive and ponderous
for use, but there is a vast amount of beauty
in the world, even in nature's world, and no-
ble hearts and noble actions and youth and
hope are all around us. Youth is fleeting but
hope is a permanent and reliable characteristic
and one which leads us always in pleasant
ways, lights up the darkness of the mind, cast-
ing back the shadows that have fallen in one's
path and helping one to rise supreme over
trifles and doubts on the journey of life. Hope
is the companion and twin sister of faith, that
faith which is rich in wisdom and help to all
weary toilers in this “work-a-day world."
There is no person so perfect but they need
strength from all available sources, and if one
can drink in true inspiration from without, it
may help to solve doubtful questions, and en-
courage to lives of usefulness by opening new
avenues of thought and feeling. One very im-
portant requisite on all occasions is good na-
ture; it is good for holidays and it is good to 
have a large stock for every-day use. Good
nature pays, and it costs something too, for it
needs constant cultivation of the soil of the
heart, and if all persons are not capable of 
great achievements they may possess them-
selves of this attribute which will yield them
happiness in bountiful proportion to the seed
sown. Good nature is a virtue, for it is the
best nurturer of kind feelings. Constant brav-
ery in all little trials and crosses, thankfulness
for all favors, and such culture of heart as can
endure the hardest lessons of life without mur-
muring are worth the attention of all who as-
pire to genuine goodness.
	If to good nature one adds the desire to please
others and do good to those who need help or
kind attention, then indeed will it lead to ways
of pleasantness; and whatever changes come,
like to Mrs. Hannah More's "Shepherd of Sal-
isbury Plain," sunshine will bring beauty, and
clouds the fatness of the earth." Every day
will be a holiday then and all seasons will pro-
duce their relative pleasures. This would
make true philosophers of men and women and
add materially to human happiness in the ag-
gregate.
	One cannot but feel impressed with the idea
that this beautiful world, so full of everything
to gladden the eye and give zest to earth-life,
was not formed and created with so much care
and wisdom and manifest forethought, for poor
mortals to grumble at as they partake of its
life giving elements and bask in the sunlight
of the countenance of heaven.
	E. B. Wells


