SYMPATHIES WITH CHILDREN

	Do you want to learn how to make the
children love you? Do you want the key
that will unlock the innermost recesses of
their nature? Then sympathaze with
them always. Never allow yourself to ridi-
cule any of their little secrets. Never say,
"Oh, pshaw!" when they come to show you
a new kite or marvelous top, and "I can't
be troubled!" when the hard knot won't be
untied, and two and two obstinately refuse to
make four on their little slates. Kites and
knots are only the precursors of older
thoughts and deeper trails, which the pa-
rents may one day plead to share.
	Don't laugh at any of a child's ideas, how-
ever odd or absurd they may seem to you;
let them find your sympathy ready in all
their wonderments and aspirations. The
little folks are too much crowded out in this
world; people generally seem to think they
can be put anywhere, or made to eat any-
thing, or crammed into any out-of-the-way
corner, to amuse themselves anyhow. We
don't agree with these cross-grained wise-
acres. It don't take much to make a child
love you and trust in you; and the benefits
to him are absolutely incalculable.
	Oh, how much better it is for children to
bring all their cares and troubles and temp-
tations under the gentle eye of a kind par-
ent! What a safeguard it is for them to
feel that there is always a kind ear to listen
to their doubts and griefs, and a gentle
shoulder for their little heads to nestle
against! Respect their rights; never think
you can say bitter things, in their presence,
or do unjust actions. They are the finest
discriminators of fair and unfair in the
world. Somebody says: "When you are
inclined to be cross with children for being
slow to learn, just try a moment to write with
the left hand. See how awkward it proves,
and then remember that with children it is
all left hand." Above all, do not be ashamed
to let them know that you love them. Re-
member they will be men and women some
day, and the slightest word which may in-
fluence their future lives should become a
thing of moment in our eyes.—Selected.


POPULAR prescription for a sick lady—A
new bonnet, a Cashmere shawl and a silk
dress.


