			FAIRVIEW, SANPETE Co.,
						April 15, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having been edified and encouraged in
the performance of our labors through read-
ing correspondence from Relief Societies
published in your valuable paper, and hav-
ing, as we hope, a laudable desire to be
known as co-laborers in the good work
which the women of Utah are accomplish-
ing, allow us to state that our society hold
their meetings semi-monthly, with general
good attendance and a lively spirit of faith
and works, at which times we receive much
valuable instruction from our worthy presi-
dent, Mrs. Mary A. Prichett and others,
exhorting us to practice in our daily lives
the counsel given for the temporal and 
spiritual salvation of the saints; and al-
though we would not presume to compete
with the older and numericaly stronger so-
cieties, yet we feel justified in being some-
what proud of our labors; some of which at
the present time are as follows: The Sunday
Eggs, the general term applied in this sec-
tion, are reserved as a fund for the benefit
of the proposed Temple in Sanpete, in ad-
dition we are also making quilts to assist in
the same purpose. We have secured and 
safely deposited, for a beginning, some-
thing near a hundred bushels of wheat and
subscribed liberally for the publishing of
the book "Women of Mormondom," and
still our labors go on unremittingly. We
are also happy to inform you that the Re-
trenchment Association of this place is in
a prosperous condition, holding weekly
meetings with a firm resolve for improve-
ment; and while the self-righteous, the
prejudiced and wicked are unnecessarily
exercising their minds upon the Mormon
Question; still we go plodding along,
knowing in whom we trust, with the Mor-
mon creed "Mind your own business," free-
quently occurring to our minds. Accept
kindest regards. 
				Yours etc. 
				MARY J. HOWELL
						Ass't Sec'y.

				RICHMOND April 14, 1875.
EDITOR'S EXPONENT:
	We have not been heard through the col-
umns of your valuable paper before, yet we
feel pleased to be able to say that our wor-
thy President has ever been ready to watch
for a profit by instructions from those in
authority, and has striven to lead us in the
wake of our fellow-laborers in the cause of
truth. We have endeavored to look after,
and help the poor, whether in sickness or
health, during the past, and hope not to for-
get them in the future. We are also sav-
ing up grain and over one hundred bush-
els is stored carefully away in the Tithing Of-
fice, where our honorable Bishop M. W.
Merrill has loaned us a substantial bin for
the present. We have not had many work-
ing meetings during the winter, but as de-
lightful spring is now here, we will try to
work in the hive of Deseret with the rest
of the busy bees. Our sisters have done
nobly this winter in helping and waiting
on the helpless and we know that God will
bless them for it. Our farmers are busy
plowing and planting and may God give
them an increase, despite the grasshoppers
expectant. We have had a great deal of sick-
ness among us this winter and many souls
have gone to meet their Father in heaven.
   We love to read your excellent paper,

[Column 2]
and feel sorry to say there are not many
subscribers in Richmond, but we look for-
ward to better times, and hope to improve
in this as well as many other small duties
in our lives. Our esteemed president and
counselor Mrs. Pond, and Mrs. Hendricks,
desire to be remembered to you all.
