		A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	One hundred years have passed away
since our grandsires fought and bled, and
suffered almost every privation to assist in
establishing a Constitution which guaran-
teed unto all, "Liberty and Equal Rights"
—that all who wished might come and wor-
ship God according to the dictates of their
own consciences, and rest secure under
the Nation's broad escutcheon: Our fore-
fathers were filled with a heaven-born hope
that their children from generation to gen-
eration would appreciate and sustain these
inalienable rights bequeathed to them by
their Veteran Fathers.
	It was the spirit of God which inspired
Columbus to search out this contintent,—and
by the same spirit and power our forefath-
ers, although they may not have realized it,
fought and gained the victory, that a Free
Republic might be established and a land
and people prepared that God might again
reveal Himself to His children, and set up
His kingdom never more to be thrown
down.
 What has transpired in this short vista of
time. For a few years the people were
blessed and happy, although there were a few
wars and schisms, yet those who held the
reigns of government, and those who ad-
ministered the same with many others,
stood nobly and firmly for right regardless
of party or sect, and America was free and
blessed above all other nations.
	About the middle of the century the
Lord began to reveal the Gospel and to re-
store His Holy Priesthood again to man.
Then Satan began to stir up the people to
persecute those who believed in direct rev-
elation from God revealed through Joseph
Smith, the prophet whom God raised up in
this the last dispensation to restore the Gos-
pel taught by Jesus and the Apostles, and
also by the ancient prophets; these prophets
when speaking of the corruption of Baby-
lon in the last days, said, "Come out of her,
Oh! my people that ye partake not of her
plagues," and that a people should gather
from every nation under heaven to a land
prepared for them.  When these things be-
gan to come to pass, prejudice sprung up 
among those who administered the laws of 
the land and they disregarded the claims of 
justice; and it was not long before mobs
combined here at home, in our boasted land
of liberty to destroy the Saints of God.
The thought makes the blood of old '76,
that runs through my veins, boil with in-
dignation and shame, that I, a child of the 
Republic with many others whose grand-
sires had fought and died to bequeath to 
their children rights and a law to protect
them in their religious views and the exer-
cise of religious liberty, were compelled at
the point of the bayonet to walk barefooted
through the crusted snow, cruelly cutting
our feet, so much so, that the path made by
us was a trail of blood.  Ah! methinks if 
the fathers of our glorious Republic and 
framers of the Constitution could have
viewed the scene, their very ashes which
have lain mouldering for years must have
been stirred in their graves.  Not only did 
this great wrong exist among the minor
officers and administrators of the laws
of the land, but those who stood at 
the head of the nation were embittered
with the same prejudices.  When the saints
appealed for justice and redress, to Presi-
dent Van Buren--his reply was "Gentle-
men your cause is just but I can do nothing
for you."  Well might liberty blush and re-
tire to the mountains, and justice hang its
head in shame, because there was no Exec-
utor; and thus were the Saints driven from
city to city and from state, to state and in-
to the Great Americcan Desert which has 
indeed been made "to blossom as the rose."
Still have our enemies continued to send
their shafts of venom after us.  They think
themselves better provided with a pretext
than our former persecutors were, for they
have now a great HOBBY HORSE on which to 
ride called "polygamy," and one after an-
other of their immaculate politicians ride
to Congress with a bill to be passed against
the Mormons.  But strange to say ever
one who has gone with this HOBBY HORSE
gets worsted and are politically killed.  This 
is in fulfilment of a portion of Scripture.
The Lord says in speaking of the enemies
of His people that He will "put a hook in 
their jaws."
They do not realize the hand of God but 
walk in darkness, the blind leading the 
blind, and corruption and bribery prevail in 
high places, seeking to deprive people of 
the rights guaranteed by our beloved Con-
stitution.
Oh! how my soul is pained when I see
the rights and privileges of citizenship
trampled upon, and changed to suit the ca-
price of men who would sell themselves
and the liberties of their fellow-beings for 
money and for office.  Stooping to become
partizans regardless of the oaths they have
taken pledging themselves before high
heaven and all men to maintain inviolate
the Constitution and its relations to the 
rights of the people, whose cause they re-
resent.
In their zeal to do away with the system
of polygamy they seem confused in their 
plans some proposing one plan and some
another.  I would say to you gentlemen
this is because you do not understand what 
you are dealing with; hundreds and thou-
sands of your predecessors have been in the 
same sad dilemma; because as phyicians are
sometimes puzzled so are you to understand
the nature of the object you are contend-
ing against.  Grant, in his version of it, calls
it a twin relic of barbarism, or a loathsome
ulcer and like a quack Doctor, has been ex-
perimenting during his presidential career,
but has neither killed or checked its growth.
To be continued.


