	BLOOMINGTON, BEAR LAKE CO.,
						March 20, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	I take this opportunity of communicat-
ing a few of my thoughts to you and in-
form the sisters how we are getting along
in this little branch of the Lord's Vineyard.
The Relief and Retrenchment Societies
are doing well; the former meets twice a 
month and are abundantly blessed; we en-
gage in singing and prayer and conversing 
upon the pure principles of the Gospel that 
are calculated to exalt all those who are
humble and obedient enough to receive
them. We read the EXPONENT in our 
meetings which is truly interesting and ed-
ifying; we have not done a great deal in
the Grain Movement because the grain was
not plentiful last year on account of the
early frosts, but the sisters of our Society
feel to respond to all the requirements of 
those in authority over them and to carry
out the counsel of President Young in
storing grain and in the building of Tem-
ples; and feel to do all they can in their
humble way to build up the kingdom of
God upon the earth. The young ladies in
their Association are doing well, and they
ever manifest a willingness to assist in the
good cause. There is also a Young Men's 
Mutual Improvement Association which is
prospering, and they have the earnest pray-
er of every thinking mother, that they may
awaken our youth to a sense of the impor-
tance of their work in these the last days.

[Column 2]
	We were called to mourn the death of
Mrs. Margery Bateman on the 17 of Feb., of
child birth. Deceased was born Nov. 20,
1855; came to this country in 1874. She
lived and died a full believer in the Gospel 
of Jesus Christ; she attended to all the or-
dinances which will ensure her eternal life;
and in the morning of the resurrection we
hope to meet our beloved and enjoy her so-
ciety through an endless eternity. "She is
not dead but sleepeth."
							M. A. J.

				GOSHEN, April 3rd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	I thank you very much for your kindness 
in taking an interest in the young ladies in
this place, and for your good advice and 
counsel, and I hope that I will profit by it.
I did not desire to hold the position of 
President of the Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association, for I felt I was not capa-
ble of magnifying the office; but the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society and others, tried
to encourage and assist all in their power,
and were very diligent in trying to get
the young ladies organized, and they helped
us in every way possible after we were or-
ganized. We are not very many in num-
ber in our society, for our settlement is but
a small place and we have not many young
ladies here, but the majority of them have
joined the association and try to do all they
can to assist in rolling on the great and
glorious work we are engaged in. We
meet together twice a month, also take the 
EXPONENT and find it a great benefit to us;
it is always laden with good counsel which 
we read along with selections from the 
Church books in our meetings. We also 
converse with one another and strive to 
make the meetings as interesting as possi-
ble. The sisters of the Relief Society visit
us occasionally to instruct us. We edit a 
paper to read in our meetings and have
some very good compositions in it.
	I hope you will be blest in your undertak-
ing, for it is a noble one and will result in
good. The EXPONENT is a great credit to
the editors, and a great blessing to the wo-
men of Utah.
	That the Lord may bless all who are try-
ing to build up the kingdom of God is the
earnest prayer of your sister in the Gospel,
