HOME AFFAIRS.

	DIED: In Centerville, Davis County, Jan.
21,1877, of dropsy, Eliza, wife of Joseph Hon- 
css.
 Deceased was born in the year 1803, in the
Parish of Newington, County of Kent, Eng-
land. Received the Gospel in 1842, and re-
mained in full faith until her death. During
her lingering illness she manifested that pa-
tience, and implicit faith in a Divine Power, 
which characterized her whole life. She leaves
a husband and family of children, and a large
circle of friends to mourn her loss.

	DIED: At Harrisville, of small pox, Ja. 17,
1877; Sarah Jane, daughter of John M., and
Louisa A. Brown, and wife of S. F. Wilson;
born in Ogden City Utah; May 26, 1855. De-
ceased was born in the church of Jesus Christ
of Latter day Saints; was baptized when eight
years old; she was married to S. F. Wilson 
Dec. 12, 1870, and was appointed teacher of the 
Relief Society in the summer of 1871, which
position she filled in a praiseworthy manner.
She was esteemed by all who knew her; was
kind and benevolent to the sick arid poor and
friendly to all.
	She leaves her husband, three children,
mother, brothers and sisters to mourn her de-
parture, and who feel the loss of an affection-
ate daughter, wife, mother and sister. She
lived a virtuous and honest life, and died in
peace as if going to sleep, and in the faith
and hope of a glorious resurrecteon. For she
had a testimony that Joseph Smith was a true
prophet, for herself and not doubling, for she
saw him in a vision.
							COM.

	DIED: In Farmington, April 20, 1877, after
a short illness, Mrs. Lucy Robinson, wife of
Oliver L. Robinson, (now on a mission to the
States,) and daughter of Henry W. and Elvira
Miller of St. George.
	Mrs. Robinson was forty years of age and
the mother of eleven children, nine of whom
are now living; she had filled with dignity the
office of teacher in the Relief Society for a
number of years; and had proved herself
worthy of example in polygamy. We know
she is now better off, yet cannot but feel the
loss of her society.
	In Farmington, March 24, 1877, Lemira Mc-
Bride also departed this life, after having lived
to a good old age, nearly completing her eighty-
fourth year. Her friends felt more like rejoic-
ing than mourning at her death as she had
filled up her days in usefulness and with honor,
and for some time she had prayed that the
change might lake place. She was one of the
first settlers of Farmington. and died as she
had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
							COM.
	IN CONSEQUENCE of the two-days meeting
held May 12th and 13th, the General Retrench-
ment Meeting in the Fourteenth Ward which
would have convened on the 12th was post-
poned until the next regular meeting day, Sat-
urday, May 23th, when it is hoped the sisters
will assemble with renewed ardor and spiritual
strength. 

	THIS PRESENT number completes the fifth
volume of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. We fully
intended making some change in the size and
appearance of the paper which we most hearti-
ly desire to do, but are entirely unable at pres-
ent, unless subscriptions come in more quickly
than we have any reason to anticipate, judging
from the delinquencies of the past year. The
women of Utah certainly should sustain
their own paper, and if they do not, they de-
serve to be misrepresented by their enemies
abroad. The power is in their own hands to
represent themselves in a way that cannot be
misunderstood. The paper is now having a
wide circulation and the world already begin
to see that Mormon women have an opportu-
nity to express their views on all subjects of
universal interest.

	[The following paragraph is part of a letter
written from Logan to one of our sisters.]

	*It perhaps will be of interest to you to
hear from our Society which was reorganized
in Dec. last, by yourself and others. I am
happy to state that there has been a disposition
manifested among the young ladies to seek
more after the things pertaining to the
kingdom of God since than befere. We now
have enrolled the names of one hundred and
eleven members. 	Our desires are to be
more energetic in the future than we have
been in the past, and assist in the great work


which is before us. * Praying God to bless
all who are interested in Zion etc.
	Such reports as this and similar ones coming
from all parts of the Territory are significant
of the future which is just unfolding, when
woman will be qualified through her own faith-
fulness and good works to do her share and do
it well, in the great events which are about to
transpire in the last days.
	THIS IS the season for all those interested
in the silk culture to commence, if they have
not already, making preparations to carry out
the vote of the conference on that speciality.
It is very generally believed that silk manufac-
ture will yet be a source of wealth to this com-
munity. If the sisters will only take hold of
this branch of business as they are capable of
doing it will be sure to succeed. Industry and
perseverance, with the skill Utah is competent
to furnish, having ingenious workmen from
foreign countries thoroughly trained in many
of these departments of labor, will accomplish
in a few years that which may now seem to
many utterly impossible. Who would have
anticipated a silk dress pattern being made
here without machinery, beside silk laces cost-
ly and magnificent, fit to add to the ward-
robe of a queen. Yet these things have been
done and many more. It has been prophesied
and this people profess to believe it, that in
Zion there should be the finest productions of
workmanship, and the nations should come up
to learn of these fine arts. There must be a
beginning, and it is surely time now for the
commencement if we expect to fulfill it.
	SERICULTURE.—The Deseret Silk Associa-
tion met pursuant to adjournment, Friday,
May 4th, at the Fireman’s Hall, Mrs. Horne
presiding.
	Mrs. Horne said she was well satisfied with
the success of the Association. Was pleased to
see so many present, a proof that we were pro-
gressing, and we had no need to doubt any
longer that silk could be raised and manufac-
tured here, as the evidence was before us. She
referred to the silk dress which had been
raised, reeled, and twisted by Sister Nancy A.
Clark, of Farmington, and woven by Mr. Jo-
seph Hatfield, of the same place. The people
used to laugh and make sport at the idea of
raising and manufacturing silk in Utah, but
that time was past.
	Mrs. Barney said she was well repaid for all
she had done; was pleased to see the interest
that was being manifested to make the enter-
prise a success, which at the present time had
a good foundation. It only needed a building
to make this one of the greatest sources of
wealth to this community.
	Mr. George Pyper said that he had been
very successful in raising silk worms, and
thought it best not to change the f[-]ed by giv-
ing them wet leaves one day and dry the next,
but to adopt one plan or the other and keep
to it.
	The meeting was also addressed by Mrs.
Snyder, Mrs. Hardy and others.
	Adjourned until the first Friday in June.
		R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


