	MALINDA COOK, Sec'y.


Mother
			____
"Hush my babe, lie still and slumber.
	Holy angels guard they bed:
Heavenly blessings, without number,
	Gently falling on they head." 
			____
 It is the cry of the infant just from the
cradle; it is the only balm that will heal the
Wounded heart in  youthful days.  "Mother,
I'm hurt!"  "Mother, I'm tired!"  "Mother,
sing to me!  Rock me - tell me stories."  It
is always "mother" with the child and lad;
no one like mother; no hand that falls on
the fevered brow as softly as hers; no words
so soothing as those that pass her lips; the
house would be a grave without her; life
would be a dreary, thorny road without her
warning voice and ever guiding hand.  A
father may be kind, may love not less,
but the wearied child wants the mother's
arms, her soft lullaby songs, the caresses of
her gentle hand.
 All childhood is a mixture of sunshine
and shadow.  A kind word brings a smile,
a harsh word a sigh.  The first footsteps,
weak and trembling, grow stronger by the
guidance of a mother's love.  The little
wounds, the torn clothes, the headaches and
heartaches, the trials all vanish at the
words of a mother; and there is a built up in
the heart of every man an edifice of love
and respect that no crime of his can over-
throw-no prison wall affect.
 And a lad grows to be a man only to find
that "mother" is the same.  If he errs, she
weeps; if he is good and manly, she re-
joices.  Hers is the only love that lasts--en-
dures forever.  The wolf of starvation may
enter the door, but her love is only tried to
shine the brighter.  All the world may call
her son a criminal, but the mother believes
it not.  Trials may beset you, storms gath-
er over you, vexations come, rum drag you
down; but there is one who ever stands
firm in your cause, who will never leave
you.  The criminal on the scaffold has suf-
fered in feeling because his bad deeds
would cause a pang in mother's heart. The
low and wretched, dying in some dark
abode of sin, have died with that dear and 
never to be forgotten name on their lips.
There is no praise like her praise, there are
no sad tears that pain us as much as
her.
 Thank God, then, reader, that we have
kind, loving, and affectionate mothers.
How pleasant it is in after life, to recall
those fond recollections when we used to
sit on her knee and hear her sing those
sweet, dear old songs so familiar to us all.
 Earthly things may pass away and be for-
gotten, but the good, all-embracing love of
mother will never be forgotten on earth or
in heaven.
				Frank Berry
Waverly Magazine.


