[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | February | Issue: 18 | Title: ELLEN LUNT, Sec'y. | Author: Unknown]

		ELLEN LUNT, Sec'y.

	HYRUM, CACHE Co., Jan. 31st, 1876
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The young ladies of the Retrenchment
Association held their 4th anniversary at
10, a. m. Friday, Jan. 20th. On the stand
were Elders Hans E. Neilson, and John G.
Wilson, Counselors to Bishop Lilgenquest.
In the absence of sister Hansen our Presi-
dent (through sickness) Sister Christina Lil-
genquest President of the Relief Society
presided.
	We had an excellent time and much val-
uable instruction was given to the young
ladies.
	The name of our Association was chang-
ed to the Hyrum Young Ladies' Mutual
Improvement Society and the following of-
ficers were elected for the ensuing year:
Mrs. Caroline C. Hansen, President; Mrs.
Ann M. Hansen, Mrs. Mina Unsworth, Mrs.
Henrietta Lilg[-]nquest, Misses Cecilia D.
Wilson, Eliza Benson, Phinetta Williams,
Harriet Osborn, and Sarah Osborn Counsel-
ors; Mrs. Rebecca Allen Secretary, Miss
Cynthia E. Nelson Assistant Secretary Mrs.
Josephine Johnson Treasurer.
	At 2 p. m. a ball was held in the Public
hall under the sole management of the la-
dies and right well did they discharge their
duties, Mrs. Corbit showed such spirit and
activity as floor manager, that we are satis-
fied she will be called upon to discharge this
duty again. Refreshments were served at
5 o'clock, and at 10 p. m. the dance closed,
and a very pleasant and cheerful time end-
ed with the good feelings of all.
	There was no round dancing, in fact we
have abolished it altogether, and not only
ladies but the gentlemen have taken the
wise counsel of President Young and cheer-
fully close their parties at 10 o'clock. We
are pleased to say that we are endeavoring

[COLUMN 3]

to improve ourselves and trying to prepare
for those responsibilities that ere long must
rest upon the daughters of Zion. Let us
follow in that path which has been marked
out by the principles of the Gospel.
	Ever praying for the prosperity of the 
EXPONENT which should be read by every
woman in the church, and hoping you will
excuse this my first attempt, I remain your
Sister,
	REBECCA ALLEN Secretary.

	GUNNISON, Feb. 1st, 1876.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I have been thinking about writing for
some time, but have neglected it, not being
accustomed to write for a paper. The 28th
of last June the sisters of this place had a
pleasant visit from Sisters Eliza R. Snow,
M. I. Horne, E. Howard, and E. S. Barney.
They organized a society called: The Young
Ladies's Retrenchment Association of Gun-
nison. We meet every two weeks; open
with prayer and singing, and have select
reading and essays; we try to improve in
every thing which is good and commenda-
ble.
	The officers were elected as follows:
	Mrs. Helena Madson, President,
	Nettie Sorenson,
	Trene Caldwell,
	Frederica Fellstead
	Jane Caldwell,			Counselors.
	Jane Gribble,
	Christina Christenson,
	Miss Sarah Capsson, Secretary,
	Miss Jane Caldwell, Assistant Secretary.

