[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: A FIRESIDE TALK WITH MY | Author: J. P. M. FARNSWORTH]

A FIRESIDE TALK WITH MY
	SISTERS.
	SURROUNDING circumstances, every
day occurrences and present conditions in
society have called forth, and aroused dor-
mant sentiments which have for the past
number of years remained expressionless
in my own home circle, but which ever
since I have been old enough to think and
reflect for myself, I have most strongly
supported which as wife and mother, I can
plainly see the necessity for adoption and
advocacy in our communities, as Latter-day
Saints, as true women, and refined modest
sisters of humanity.
	Why is it that among our intelligent
gentlewomen, so many employ and prefer
men, as Physicians, instead of those of
our own sex? Not only in contagious
diseases but obstetrics and as doctors for
their babies in all infantile troubles, every
trivial ailment, children are subjects for
medical treatment and advise. Well says
one lady "men are so much more thorough,
they have so much more time to study and
practice than women,” (we do not believe
all this.)  Yet, allowing part as true, let us
review—some of the many disadvantages,
and hindrances placed against her in this
field.
	In the first place there always has been a
strong prejudice against women in medical
colleges of the past; many not allowing her
to enter as a student, and even to day,
she is prevented, debared from many
privileges that justly belong to her.
	Next she is not paid near as large a
salary as man, and she is expected to do a
great deal more work.  I feel that this is a
gross partiality a cruel wrong.  Conserva-
tism, custom still holds an influence in
civilization; yet,we must not worry over it,
for time, intelligence and woman’s own
ability will eventually right these condi-
tions, and that which will aid and bring
about a reform the most speedy will be the
firm, united support of women by women.
	We read in history that the Mohammedan

[Column 2]
wives and mothers held that inherent
modesty sacred: they would not allow men
doctors to wait upon them in their most
trying sicknesses.  I have in the past year
when reading of the fearful atrocities per-
petrated by men of the profession, felt to
exclaim, would to Heaven our women of
the Nineteenth Century were more like the
Moslem women of far off ancient Arabia
in some respects!  We are taught that true
modesty is one of the most lovely orna-
ments a woman can possess, I hold it next
to virtue as the most necessary: and al-
though a woman may have beauty of form
and face, intelligence, wealth and all other
attainments combined, without pure
unadulterated modesty she falls far short of
what God intended her to be.
	I do not desire you to misunderstand me.
I have great respect and esteem for compe-
tent men practitioneers, yet, I wish to say
words of encouragement and faith in
those of our own organization, (I write-
from personal experience,) who can so fully
comprehend our needs and wants as they,
who so truly feel and sense our suffering as
refined, educated gentle womanhood? Who
so readily tell and judge every feeling of the
heart, the mind the working’s of natures
laws as those of a similar constitution?
Therefore, let us sustain them, not only in
words but deeds, prove our loyalty and
friendship, respect and approval of their
undertakings. Patronize and love them,
use our influence, strengthen them by our
confidence and defence on every occasion
possible.
	Ignorance is a strong factor where its
power is acknowledged and allowed to grow,
yet numbers nor force cannot long with-
stand the light of intelligence, the rays of
superior knowledge of brain qualities,
where principles of sound judgment and
true wisdom are arrayed. Just as soon as
women are themselves fully awakened to
the realization of their own qualifications,
their real value as doctors and nurses, just
so soon will every one else, men included
acknowledge them as such.
	We wish our doctors (our lady doctors)
every success. We desire them to be
highly educated in all branches of scientific
study, to improve every opportunity to
grasp every advanced idea that presents
itself, to keep pace with the glorious age
we live in, to be thorough, accurate,
systematic and capable; to have dignity
and gentleness combined, modesty, purity,
neatness, order and love pervade their every
walk in life and thereby, prove that they
are just what we would wish them to be,
ministering angels on earth.
	J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
Salt Lake City, July 3rd, 1894.


