[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: singing, “For the strength of the hills]

LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall
June 2, 2894. President M. I. Horne pre-
siding.  Meeting opened by singing,
“Glorious things are sung of zion.”
Prayer by Sister M. A. Hazon. Continued
by singing, “For the strength of the hills 
we bless thee.’  Minutes of previous 
meeting read and approved.
  President M. I. Horne said “Our Secre-
tary is still not permitted to meet with us
Her sister was buried from her house
yesterday.  Let us pray that she may yet
come and meet with us.”  President Horne
spoke of a Circular from Sister Lizzie Shipp,
concerning the opening of a class to study
Obstetrics, which was read by Sister Lydia
D. Alder.  President Horne also spoke of a
lady in our midst who had made a study of
children and mothers, said Professor Stew-
art thought a great deal of the lectures on
this subject, said it would be beneficial for
the daughters and young mothers to attend
them.  Counselor Stevenson spoke at some
length on the calamities that were being
poured out on the nations, and of the up- 
rising of the unemployed element in our
own land. “They do not know what they
are going to do, yet their way seems marked
for them" Counselor Stevenson also gave
many good instructions to the sisters re-
garding the raising of children, urged the
sisters to understand their duties, as wives
and mothers, and so live that God can bless
them.  Sister Holland urged the sisters to
acknowledge the blessings of our Heavenly
Father, and be faithful, for He would cut
his work short in righteousness.  Sister E.
Barrus also bore testimony, and spoke of
many things in her experience.
  Sisters sang “Come, come ye saints,”
Sisters Aird and Jedpeila bore testimony
and desired to be faithful. Sisters Raw-
lings and Kiddle also testified of many
glorious truths, and desired to ever be true.
  Sister Sarah Kimball said," I am thankful
to be here, and I feel to rejoice before the
Lord.  My mind went back to other days
as I came into the meeting this afternoon,
years ago when these meetings were first
organized.  President Horne had six
counselors seven to preside, myself and

[Column 2]
Sister Horne, are all that are present
and only four of the original number re-
main, soon all will have passed away.
Sister Howard, was a pioneer in woman’s
work,I feel to bless you all, and desire that
we may live near to the Lord.   We all have
our individual lives to live.  The scriptures
teach us that Jesus trod the winepress
alone, so our troubles are not known to
our friends, only to us and God.  We have
our individual sorrows and joys.  In our
hearts we feel a compensation for our
sorrows, and this brings a blessing, to help
us to a higher life.  In sorrow we draw
nearer to God, He knows us best and
understands our life works.  Sister Kimball
closed by giving her blessing to her sisters.
  Sister L. D. Alder felt to encourage the
sisters in their great life work, pictured out
the necessity of living near to the Lord
that we might enjoy the communion of the
Holy Ghost, which leads into all truth and
light, desired that we might all be faithful,
that in the end we might enter into His
presence.
  President Horne added a few closing re-
marks.  Desired to see fathers and mothers
take note and be wise in cultivating their
children, and restrain them all in their
power, gather them around their knees and
teach them, of God, His requirements, and
his laws, and read them the stories of old
in the Bible.  President Horne also warned
the parents to pay strict attention to the
genealogies of their families. The meeting
was adjourned for four weeks, on account
of the conference.  President Horne an-
nounced the Stake Conference to meet in
the Assembly Hall, June 15, 1894.  De-
sired all the sisters to attend.
	Sang, “We thank thee O, God for a
prophet.”  Benediction, Sister J. C. Howe.
			LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


