[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | March | Issue: 8 | Title: MINUTES OF FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY. | Author: Unknown]

MINUTES OF FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY.
		Masonic Hall, Nauvoo, Illinois:
			Lodge Room, March 17, 1842.
	Minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society as prepared by Miss Eliza R
Snow, from the original minutes taken at
the meeting. A preliminary meeting was
held at the residence of Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, (recently deceased,) at which meeting
Miss Eliza R. Snow was present, and it was
decided at that time to consult President
Joseph Smith about an organization. Ac-
cordingly, the meeting was called by his
appointment.
	Elder John Taylor was called to the chair
and Elder Willard Richards appointed sec-
retary. Meeting commenced by singing,
“The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning,”
Prayer offered by Elder John Taylor.
	It was then moved by President Joseph
Smith and seconded by Mrs. Cleveland, that
a vote be taken to know if all present were
satisfied with each person present and will-
ing to acknowledge them in full fellowship
and admit them to the full privileges of the
institution about to be formed. Vote was
unanimous.
	President Joseph Smith addressed the
meeting to illustrate the objects of the so-
ciety; that the society might provoke the
brethren to good works in looking to the
wants of the poor, searching after objects of
charity, etc.; to assist, by correcting the
morals and strengthening tne virtues of the
community, and save the Elders the trouble
of rebuking, etc. He proposed that the
sisters elect a presiding officer to preside
over them and let that presiding officer
choose two counselors; that he would ordain
them and let them preside over the society
just as the presidency preside over the
Church, and if they needed his instruction,
ask him—he would give it from time to
time. “If any other officers are needed to
carry out the designs of the institution let
them be appointed and set apart. The
minutes of your meetings will be precedents
for you to act upon.” He then suggested
the propriety of electing a presidency to
continue in office during good behavior, or
so long as they should fill the office with
dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney and seconded by Mrs. Sophia Packard,
that Mrs. Emma Smith be chosen President:
passed unanimously.
	On suggestion of President Joseph Smith
the President-elect made choice of Mrs.
Sarah M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney for counselors.
	The ceremony of ordination was then per-
formed, when President Joseph Smith re-
sumed his remarks, giving instruction how
to govern themselves in their meetings,what
order to observe, how to regulate discussions,
etc., etc., and concluded by saying, “Do
not injure the character of any one; if mem-
bers of the society shall conduct themselves
improperly, deal with them and keep all
your doings within your own bosoms, and
hold all characters sacred.”
	It was then proposed that president Tay-
lor vacate the chair. President Emma
Smith took the chair with her counselors.

[Column 2]
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith, that the society go into
an investigation respecting what name it
should be called. Motion carried unani-
mously.
	President Joseph Smith and Eders John
Taylor and Willard Richards favored the
name Benevolent Society; Mrs. Cleveland
moved that it be Relief Society; and Mrs.
Emma Smith and Miss Eliza R. Snow ar-
gued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice.
	The discussion was lengthy and interest-
ing, but the decision of the majority was in
favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice, and the
name selected and voted upon was Female
Relief Society. (The prefix Female was
many years ago discarded by popular vote
throughout the entire organization.)
	By unanimous vote Miss Eliza R. Snow
was elected Secretary and Miss Phebe M.
Wheeler, Assistant Secretary, and Miss El-
vira A. Cowles, Treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith said, “I now de-
clare this society organized with President
and Counselors according to Parliamentary
usages, and all who shall hereafter be ad-
mitted into the Society must be free from
censure and received by vote.”
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting say-
ing he was much gratified in seeing a meet-
ing of this kind in Nauvoo; his heart re-
joiced when he saw the most distinguished
characters stepping forth in a cause which
was calculated to bring into exercise every
virtue and give scope to the benevolent feel-
ings of the female heart. He rejoiced to see
this institution according to the laws of
heaven; his prayer was that the blessings of
God and the peace of heaven might rest up-
on this institution henceforth.
	President Joseph Smith gave a five dollar
gold piece to commence a Relief Society
Fund and said, “Whatever I do hereafter
for charity. I shall do through this society.”
	Sarah M. Kimball gave $1.00, Elizabeth
Ann Whitney, 50 cts., Emma Smith, $1.00
Sarah M. Cleveland, 12 1/2 cts., Willard Rich-
ards, $1.00, Elder John Taylor $2.00.
	The names of the sisters present at this
meeting were: Emma Smith, Martha
Knight, Elvira A. Cowles, Sarah M. Cleve-
land, Phebe Ann Hawkes, Margaret A.
Cook, Desdemona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth
Jones, Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow,
Sophia Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith,
Sophia Robinson, Phelanda Herrick, Phebe
M. Wheeler, and Sophia R. Marks.
	After singing, “Now, Let us Rejoice in
the Day of Salvation” prayer was offered
and meeting adjourned for one week.


[Column 1]
