[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | May | Issue: 8 | Title: AN IMPORTANT GATHERING OF WOMEN. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

AN IMPORTANT GATHERING OF WOMEN.
		Millennial Star, April 29, 1909.
	During the present week an important
congress has been holding daily sessions at
St. James’ Hall, Gt. Portland Street, Lon-
don. Two hundred delegates from twenty-
one different countries are gathered in the
quinquennial council of the International
Woman Suffrage Alliance. This is not to
be confounded with the movement popularly
known as the cause of the Suffragettes. That
is an independent organization of a militant
character, being neither a part of nor en-
dorsed or opposed by the International or-
ganization which has been holding its ses-
sions this week in London. The ladies in
charge of the meetings of the Alliance are
highly educated, earnest, devoted, well train-
ed in parliamentary usages and able to set
forth their views in a logical and interesting
manner. They do not resort to extremes,
nor fall into the ways of the militant women
who have made such a stir in the country
by violating police regulations and exposing
themselves to the penalties of the law.
	The Alliance moves upon legitimate and
lawful lines, and its influence is therefore
spreading throughout the civilized world. It
is presided over by Mrs. Carrie Chapman-
Catt, who on Monday last delivered a most
remarkable address, speaking extemporane-
ously and without notes for an hour, mak-
ing herself distinctly heard in clear, musical
tones which reached to every part of the
great building. The chair was occupied by
Mrs. Henry Fawcett, LL.D., and a number
of distinguished women took prominent
parts in the business meetings and in the
great demonstration held iu the Royal Albert
Hall. The four States in the American Union
in which woman suffrage has been estab-
lished, viz., Wyoming, Utah, Idaho and Co-
lorado, also Australia, New Zealand, Fin-
land and Norway were represented, and the
Isle of Man came in for its share of represen-
tation, the speaker for that rock in the sea
being Mr. Armitage Rigby.
	Utah’s delegates received recognition in
all the courtesies of the occasion, Dr. Roma-
nia B. Penrose being appointed by the Wo-
man’s National Relief Society, of which Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith is president; Mrs. Nel-
lie C. Taylor by the Young Ladies National
M. I. Association, of which Mrs. Martha H.
Tingey is president; and the editor of the
Star representing the Utah Woman Suffrage
Association, of which Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards is president. The proceedings have
been conducted with the best of order, yet
with enthusiasm and vigor.
	The speakers have evinced a determina-


[Column 1]
tion and zeal which show that their hearts
are in the work which they have undertaken
to perform. They ask only for what they
deem to be simple justice. They demand
for women the same rights to vote as are ac-
corded to men; equal pay for equal work re-
gardless of sex, representation to go with
taxation, a voice in the enactment of laws
which they are required to obey. They point
to the great progress that has been made
towards the uplifting of women through the
efforts of the promoters of the Woman Suf-
frage cause, such as the removal of many
disabilities under which women labored not
many years ago. Since that movement be-
gan, the right to hold property once denied
to married women had been obtained, pro-
fessions once entirely closed to women have
been opened to them. These opportunities
for female labor and independence are in-
creasing, and the conviction is fast taking
hold of the minds of thinking people that
the ballot should be an equal right to women
[-]s to men. 
	The peculiar reasoning that opponents of
woman suffrage use when they put women
forward to solicit votes and to employ all
the tactics and methods peculiar to political
movements, was exposed in a striking man-
ner by speakers at the congress, and it does
seem rather singular that political leaders
and applicants for popular favor are willing
to put women forward as political wire-pul-
lers and canvassers, doing the same work in
election schemes and tactics as men do, and
yet vehemently decry their right or privilege
to vote themselves while engaged in getting
votes for others. The so-called arguments
against woman suffrage that have been used
for many decades are still put forth as
though they were of some weight, when they
have been met and exploded with such force
that it would seem they would never be re-
vived again; such as that women cannot
serve as soldiers therefore they should not
be allowed to vote; the man is the head of
the family therefore the woman does not
need the vote, the family is the unit of the
state and the head represents the family,
etc., etc. 
	The same reasoning would shut out the
majority of men from the ballot. There are
millions of men not suitable for soldiers or
for policemen, or for other offices or posi-
tions. If the head of the family is sufficient
to represent the family, then the unmarried
sons, as well as the daughters and the moth-
er, need not and ought not to have the suf-
frage. The truth is that in a representative
government the individual is the unit of the
state, and the same principle by which the
male when of age is entitled to the ballot
would bestow it also upon the female when
of age or having any other similar qualifica-
tions as a citizen. These are among the
arguments used by women of brains and
culture in the great gathering of the Inter-
national Alliance, and they are set forth
calmly, rationally, without violent attacks
upon the male sex, and yet with force com-
ing from settled conviction and a determina-
tion to succeed. 
	The right of women to equal remuneration
for labor with that given to men when it is
as well performed is also maintained with a
logic that carries conviction to an unbiased
mind, and the need for the alleviation of
distressed and oppressed female laborers in
various capacities forms one of the reasons
advanced why woman should have the bal-
lot. With it she becomes a person of con-
sequence to the office-seeker and office-holder
and can exercise a force in the direction of

[Column 2]
legislation to relieve her from the disabili-
ties which oppress her sex and drive many
of them into ways of living that bring dis-
aster to the commonwealth, as well as ruin
to herself. There is no argument used
against giving the suffrage to women that
cannot be turned to act with squal force
upon a large number of men. 
	The equality of the sexes before the law
and in matters of religion has been recogn-
ized in theory and in practice by the Latter-
day Saints, or “Mormons” as they are gener-
ally called. In the Church both sexes stand
on an equality in voting upon all measures
relating to ecclesiastical affairs. This has
been part of the discipline of the Church
from its very beginning. As early as 1870,
the ballot was given to women in the Terri-
tory of Utah. When Utah became a State
in the American Union, her constitution
provided for equal political rights to women
with men. In this Utah has been a pattern
to surrounding States and has afforded a
most complete refutation of the fallacy so
generally accepted that in Utah women were
in bondage to men. 
	The march of civilization cannot be turned
backward. It is moving with steady strides. 
Proofs that the predicted evils to follow
woman suffrage are fallacious are afforded
by actual facts in the countries and states
where equal suffrage has prevailed for many
years, but prejudice dies hard and none are
so blind as those who will not see. Yet, all
error must eventually give way to mighty
truth, and the principle of justice will gradu-
ally bring forth the right and woman will
stand by the side of man, his companion in
all things, sharing with him every right and
privilege and honor and dignity which he
can lawfully hold and use, for the common
good and the uplifting of enlightened human-
ity.							C. W. P.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
