[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 651 | Special Feature | Because They Care Zelma | R. West]
r them all. I have a room some of them could use. It gives me a lift to be thinking of doing something for somebody else, instead of going along in my old routine. The visiting teachers will always be welcome in my home. I wonder what the message is for next month. [ll have to read it so we can havea good discussion. Visiting Teaching. It is an integral part of the Lord's program for his daughters. It blesses those who direct it, those who give, and those who receive. ©, aM oe ote ote ote ote ote ote ore om 13 O50 O20 O20 060 0,0 0,0 0,9 0,0 0,0 0 6%, 0%, 29, % 4 ore "ee "f. Ore ee,.9.. E. 10. © 0..@. ©. 00. 0. © © © © © © © © © © © © © 6 © O50 Oe O50 O50 O50 O50 0,0 050 O20 00 020 O50 O10 O00 050 O10 OL 0 Ole OLO O50 CLO eLe tO Ore ere —Annie C. Esplin O, 0% 2. 00. 10. 00. O>. @ of ote 050 oroore He ece 00 Oo 9,9 0,8 O10 050 OL 0 OF 0 0,0 0,8 0,0 09 Oe e © ot 0° Pe" ©, Mo te ate cto ote ote ete e" 2°, 2°,, %e o%e 0% 0% °, %. O%a ake ors ote ote ote ote ote ete cvceteeteee The Red Cross and Phoenix and Mesa Stakes (Arizona) Relief Societies Conduct Home Nurse Training Classes Myrtle R. Olson Member, General Board of Relief Society h Group instruction on how to make a-back rest from a cardboard box. AWhat a satisfaction when a project succeeds far beyond what has been anticipated! This was the case of the combined efforts of the Relief Societies and the Red Cross in the Phoenix, Arizona, area in giving the Red Cross Home Nursing course. This was not only a great satisfaction but also a blessing to thousands of sisters. This project, great in deed as well as in its numbers, came through a truly dedicated Relief Society sister, who is also a registered nurse, Sister Shirley Larson. The past summer while she was taking a First Aid Course for Nurses, the director of Nursing Services at the Red Cross gave her a wonderful new Home Nursing Programmed Manual. The book passed through several hands and reached the Scottsdale Stake Relief Society presidency. Sister Rosemary Choules, the 651 Seated, left to right: Shirley Larson, L. D. S. Home Nursin g Chairman; President Stan Turley of Mesa South Stake; Helen Gaborek, Red Cross Nursing Director. Standing: Rosemary Choules, Chairman; President Maurice R. Tanner, Scottsdale Stake. Stake Chairmen not pictured: Mildred B. Jarvis, Maricopa Stake; Verna Naylor, Scottsdale Stake; Dorothy Terry, Phoenix Stake; Ruth Brinton, East Mesa; Marion B. Perry, East Phoenix; Ora Taylor, Phoenix (Co-Chairman); Julia Kerby, Mesa; Rose Tenny, Mesa South; Ida Steele and Carol L. Thornton, Phoenix North; Joan Hanks, Phoenix West. Counselor in charge of homemaking, and Sister Larson "put their heads together" and thought this course would be wonderful for the sisters of their stake. They also recruited the services of another registered nurse and Relief Society sister in their stake to help them, Sister Verna Naylor. It seemed to them to be a vital part of the Family Preparedness program.

[Because They Care Zelma R. West]

Through this effort they would be able to increase their abilities to render compassionate service to the sick under the direction of the Relief Society president, and also strengthen the community by being pre- 652 pared. Other stake Relief Societies heard of the Scottsdale Stake's plan and wanted the same thing for their sisters. Before taking any steps to put their idea into effect, they consulted with the General Relief Society Presidency and received their support. They also talked with their priesthood advisors and received their blessings, encouragement, and support. Nine stakes in this area became involved: East Mesa, East Phoenix, Maricopa, Mesa, Mesa South, Phoenix, Phoenix North, Phoenix West, and Scottsdale. They set up a very good organi- Learning how to use a thermometer. Seated at the left: Leona Biakeddy; child seated on the table: Rebecca Edmonds, four years old. Standing, left to right: Leona Edmonds; Janet Little; Delores Johnson, instructor. Zational structure. There were hurdles to overcome, but through the cooperation of everyone, their enthusiasm, and _ organization, their efforts were highly successful. The director of nursing for Red Cross in Phoenix, Helen Gaborek, stated that this opportunity to work with the Latterday Saint Relief Society sisters is perhaps the most challenging opportunity she has had and that she was most grateful to be involved with such a vital program. The Relief Society agreed to assume the responsibility for the recruitment of instructors, for providing classrooms, and for the organization of classes. The Red Cross agreed to assume the responsibility for the training of the instructors, for supplying films, equipment, etc. For the teaching of the _ instructors' classes, and for continued supervisory assistance for the instructors. The instructors' classes consisted of five, four-hour classes, a total of twenty hours of training. The instructors then, in turn, taught classes for the women who enrolled in the home nursing course. Each course consisted of twelve hours of instruction. It was anticipated that, perhaps, fifty instructors would be recruited to take the twentyhour instructor course. The sisters responded, however, with enthusiasm and, consequently, one hundred and _ninety-four 

653 September 1968

 women have received the Red Cross Instructor Authorization Cards and are now in the process of teaching this course. Those taking the course from the instructors will receive the Home Nursing Certificate. Four thousand women have now completed the course, and, by the end of the teaching program, approximately ten thousand will have responded. Such a course surely makes better homemakers. What an accomplishment—ten thousand better trained wives and mothers, and, therefore, ten thousand better homes! Many of the sisters testify that the course has helped them greatly already and they have had the opportunity to use the skills they have learned. Two sisters drove one hundred and eight miles each way in order to take the instructor course. This is the kind of dedication these sisters demonstrated. These sisters came from an area where did not supplant the there are many Lamanite sisters, and they will have the opportunity for teaching them. There were seven Lamanite sisters and thirteen Spanish-speaking sisters who became instructors. What a great blessing they can bring their sisters. This course was in no way mandatory, but carried out on an entirely voluntary basis. It Relief Society summer discussions on nursing. On May 2d, 1968, a luncheon in recognition of the instructors was held at the Red Cross building. Tribute was paid to these sisters for their contribution in making this program succeed. A plaque was also presented to Mrs. Helen Gaborek of the Red Cross. She was given a standing ovation from the instructors and all those present. This she richly deserved. Relief Society presidents and several stake presidents were in attendance.