THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE _ Mrs. Christine Stacey I'm going to speak a word or two, 'Though volumes could be told, About a little magazine That's worth its weight in gold. It comes to me and never fails, Each month I find it here. A little messenger it is That brings a world of cheer. J turn the cover, then, perhaps, A picture first I see. And next my eager eyes behold A gem of poetry. And stories, too, biographies Of sisters who have gone; And sisters who are with us still To help the work along. And other stories, too, I find, Of love and joy and pain; Of happiness that slips away And then comes back again. Then lastly come the solemn truths The words that God hath said. My eager mind is satisfied; My hungry soul is fed. And then I sit and ponder on The things my eyes have seen. And thank the Lord that I can read The R. S. Magazine. Summer|Menus Jeannette A. Hyde The most natural thing in work is for us to work along the line of least resistance. We are all hunting for the best thing in the easiest way. As soon as the hot days begin, you hear the house wife ask, ""What can we have to eat today?" We all desire something appetizing, something easy to get, something to keep the body cool and something nourishing as well. All wise house wives know that to make sudden changes upsets the digestive organs and creates all kinds of disturbances. So we begin planning our meals with the thought in mind of keeping the family well, giving them cooling things with the least effort and with the least disturbance to the general outline of home work. If we would live simply during the summer months, eliminating rich pastry, such as pie, cake, puddings; eating but little meat and especially fat meats preparing our heavy meal in the morning before the heat of the day, serving only one hot vegetable or beverage at the dinner hour, eliminating stewing and fretting over meals, we would find ourselves much cooler and more comfortable. We must eat plenty of vegetables and fresh fruits, bread and butter, milk, eggs, and cheese, cottage cheese especially. These things are available to most families in city and country. Plenty of greens combined with fruits, vegetables, fish, cottage cheese and other cheese, cold meats, chicken and so forth should be a part of our variety served during the week, but not too great a variety for each meal. Fe will furnish a few suggestive menus for hot days: Menu No. I BREAKFAST Raspberries or currants, strawberries, stewed gooseberries, dewberries, stewed black currants, sliced apricots, sliced peaches, cooked pears or any seasonable fruits. Cooked cereal with cream. Toast, French, buttered, or dry. Postum, hot mifk or cocoa. LUNCHEON Veal cutlet and brown sauce. Buttered beets. Os Head lettuce with French dressing, mayonnaise or thousand island. Wafers with cream cheese or cottage-cheese. Any kind of jelly or jam.