God Bless My Stupid Soul "In the presence of human stupidity even the gods stand helpless."? Carlyle. Mary Foster Gibbs Dear Lord, please help me love the stupid folks, Dull, heavy-brained, with thoughts that skip - Upon the surface of their talk like milkweed Blown by summer gales. Indeed they do not think?they only feel A sense of fellowship and a funny sort of pride Which makes them full of swift resentment, If you fail to do them honor. Is not this America? Are we not all the members of Christ's Church? The stupid folks, who tell their silly, stupid jokes,? Who comment in their stupid fashion on the news? Who criticize with bitter glee the men who climb Out, of slothfulness and crass stupidity Into. The surer heights of intellect. And art: They are so stupid, Lord, so like a chattering magpie; Or worse, just like a silent, ignorant fish. Dear Lord, please help the stupid folk to feel kindly unto me, For I have penetrated neath the surface of some low-moving wits, And have found a wealth of love and sympathy for all God's children. They take the time to be affectionate and kind to all who will respond., Quick help they sometimes offer, even if their tongues are silent with stupidity. And are they stapid? Or is it I, who am so slow to wit? I cannot understand, ' Or will not always take the time to fathom The deeps of strong emotion which often Le Beneath the lumbering speech and slow-moving thought, or thought-barrenness. How dost Thou measure stupid folk, Thou Perfect One? By rule of wit or tongue, by education bought in schools? Or by the schooling of the heart which leaps in sure response To god-like impulse for the right and truth! Dear Lord, Thou must have loved the stupid people, Thou hast made so many of them. And I am glad to know, that I myself am stupid, And therefore loved of Thee. Help Thou my great stupidity! The Utah State National Bank The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. Officers Heber J. Grant, President. Antuony W. Ivins, Vice-President. Cuartes W. Nistey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Atvin C. Strona, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. Mention Relief Society Magazine WHY COOK OVER A HOT RANGE? Cook with electricity?clean, cool, safe, convenient, economical. Utah Power & Light Co. "Efficient Public Service" Mention Relief Society Magazine Lillian Wirth Maternity Home 1820 South 5th East Salt Lake City, Utah A most desirable place for maternity cases. All comforts of home, and most conscientious work guaranteed, plus reasonable rates Call Hyland 606 for information THE FLOWER SHOP ELIZABETH HUTH, Prop. Telephone 73 ECCLES BLDG., OGDEN AT McINTYRE'S Engraved Wedding Announcements You will find that wedding invitations which attract you at once by their unusual beauty and style are from? The House of Pembroke Samples sent on request. Mail orders promptly cared for. Reasonable Prices Start Where You Are If you are ever to succeed, you must do it by starting from where you are. Success is won a step at a time. Each day must show progress. Promotion comes because you have made yourself more valuable? have proved that you are able to handle large responsibilities. The record of our graduates proves that our training is practical, that it fits you for a desirable place in business, that it gives you knowledge and sharpens your ability in a manner that not only enables you to take advantage of opportunities but to create them. Join us next Monday. L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City, Utah All the Year. Day and Evening 22 East 3rd South Salt Lake City To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for your Expiration Ice Cream: Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE WAS. 3223 - P.0. B80X% 17/3 - SALT LAKE CY Service Press Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044 Badpnaneeneetaanonnancencnacenass, APage for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?recipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes Che Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine 228 West Broadway Salt Lake City Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock  GLASSES IN EACH TRA' RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used. In Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "J am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in' good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Western Scout Shoes Made of solid leather throughout. Comfortable to wear?have a good appearance?guaranteed to give satisfaction FOR THE MINER FOR THE LABORER FOR THE FARMER FOR THE MECHANIC Or any other man whose work demands strong, serviceable shoes We make them in three grades of elk leather, and also in a split leather, with and without chrome soles?in chocolate, pearl, black. Temple Block Salt Lake City ?pure foods are home products of the finest quality. Why not patron. [>? 7 Pie tCe ize home industry and have the best fer foods too. Pierce's food products FOOD PRODUCTS have been the pride of Utah people - ie Nas for 34 years. Everybody likes Pierce's. Ee Buy them by the case for economy. Tomato Soup Hominy UTAH CANPINGG | cur | Daddy of 'Em All ?? Osden Sins 1588 Time 'Temperature NOW A PART OF ALL RECIPES With a Lorain Oven Heat Regulator you tell the oven just what you want. No guess work. A Gas Range With Loran Regulator Gives You Better Food to Eat?Less Trouble to Cook Utah Gas & Coke Co. 351 So. Main Phone Was. 705 Mention Relief Society Magazine Sanatoruy Packed ?fveriasiingly Backed by Tomato Catsup aa 2. Saw Ct SUne#xand ((? ANOD T D Uhh oh Ral OH KUL ZT Was. 912 eae "Fy | Was. 912 Y. Oe A Spirit of a Sympathy Marks, Every Feature of Our Service s. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Mention Relief Society Magazine ' "8. M. TAYLOR, President Was. 912 A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. 251-257 East First South Street. | Was. 912