[Vol47 | June 1960 | Sequence: 19 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes]
Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF THE LESSONS MARIA Johnson, author of the Work Meeting Lessons, "Caring for the Sick in the Home," was born in Springville, Utah, a daughter of Mont and Amelia Thorn Johnson, both of whom were born within five years after their parents made the pioneer trek to Utah. She is a granddaughter of Bishop Aaron Johnson, leader of the company of pioneers who settled Springville. Sister Johnson received her early education in Springville, and, after graduating from high school, studied at the Brigham Young University and the University of Utah to qualify for teaching. After a successful career of eight years, she obeyed a long-cherished desire to enter the held of nursing. Here she has found challenging and satisfying opportunities for service. She was eraduated from Dr. Groves Latterday Saints Hospital in Salt Lake City. For a few years she served as a school nurse, then enrolled at Teachers' College, Columbia University, where she received a Bachelor of Science Degree in public health nursing. She spent the next four years as a field representative and one year as assistant to the Director of Nursing Service in the Pacific Branch area of the American Red Cross. Her subsequent experiences have been broad and varied, including public health nursing, visiting nursing, teaching, and administration. She soon found a correlation between her training in two careers, teaching and nursing. She took postgraduate courses in nursing education at the University of Utah, the University of California, and Colorado Aand M. She returned to Dr. Groves Latter-day Saint Hospital as 421 HAWAII June 1960 MEXICAN TOURS June 1960 Also student tour in June 1960. Visit Book of Mormon places. NORTHWEST TOUR June 20, 1960 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY July 2nd through 9th, 1960 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 22, 1960 Twenty-three days, including Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top broadway show will be seen. Church historical places will also be visited such as Nauvoo and Adam-OndiAhman. GUATEMALA Mormon Archeological Tour leaving August 20, Book of Sites. 1960. ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460-7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phone: EM 3-5229 Superintendent of Nurses and Director of the School of Nursing where she served sixteen years. Among her many activities she has held the office of board member and president of State nursing organizations, Chairman of the Advisory Committee for the Nursing Program of the University of Utah, and has also served as a national committee member. She has been a member of the State Board of Nurse Examiners during three administrations and is at present a member.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 407 Left to right: Dorothy Titus, stake work meeting leader; Arla Beck; Opal Burch, stake Magazine representative; Dovie Goalsey; Edleweis Arrington; Rita Jane Holland; Joan Elaine Gunn; Debbie Wallace, Marsha Knight; Evelyn Wallace; Phyllis Ann Gilchrest; Janice Purcell; Flossie Rousseau; Jeanene Johnson; Althera C. Mulkey, Second Counselor; Emily Louise Gurley, First Counselor; Myrl B. Whiting, President. Sister Whiting reports: "' "Home sewing — Creative, Attractive, and Economical' was the theme for the fashion show presented by the Dallas Stake Relief Society at the March leadership meeting. The fashion show was under the direction of Althera C. Mulkey, Stake Work Director Counselor, and Dorothy Titus, stake work meeting leader, and the clothing was made by Relief Society sisters for themselves or their children. 'Twenty-six models represented nine wards. Not all of the models are shown in the picture. Also displayed were articles made in the work meeting department during the year. We are attempting to put more emphasis on sewing and learning to sew at our work meetings. This is our second annual fashion show. "At noon the Relief Society presidency and board members served a lovely luncheon celebrating the 118th Relief Society birthday. A beautiful birthday cake in our blue and gold colors was decorated by Arla Beck, Fort Worth Ward Relief Society Secretary-Treasurer. The cake was used as the centerpiece." Sister Whiting has recently been released, and Sister Mona Watson is the new president of Dallas Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Helen H. Hawkins SPANISH FORK STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR NUMEROUS OCCASIONS Seated in the front row: Emma Jex, conductor, at the right; Blanche Nielson, accompanist, second from the right; Helen H. Hawkins, President, Spanish Fork Stake Relief Society, third from the right. Sister Hawkins reports: "Our Singing Mothers group has sung for many occasions. They presented music for our Visiting Teachers Convention and closing social in May, and also our Relief Society Convention the same month. We presented Six numbers for our Stake Quarterly Conference in August. One of the numbers was 'Still, Still, With Thee," composed by our beloved sister, Florence Jepperson Madsen. We were especially pleased and honored to have Sister Madsen present at that conference to hear us sing. Each ward Singing Mothers group sings at their November and March Relief Society services. They also sing at least once each year at our monthly leadership meetings, and are always very willing to respond when asked to sing at funerals. We are grateful for our Singing Mothers groups throughout the stake. They give unselfishly of their time and talents and lift us spiritually with their voices in song.' 408 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Photograph submitted by Elnora R. Loveland WEST BOISE STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS DRAMATIZATION "LEGACY" March 17, 1960 Left to right: Barbara Tenny; Laurel Hegstrom; Thomas Daniels; Barbara Clarke; Delpha Mathewson; Mildred Perkins; Beverly Merrill; Irene Neilson; Elaine Daniels; Alene Hendren. Elnora T. Loveland, President, West Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "This dramatization was directed by Elna Johnson, stake literature class leader (inset). The Singing Mothers furnished the music for the occasion, fifty-seven participating, under the direction of LaRue Campbell, with Barbara Ossmen at the organ. Wendell Stout painted the backdrop." ences See Seb. Sais Photograph submitted by Ruth R. Reeder FRENCH POLYNESIAN MISSION, PAEA, PAPENOO, PAPEETE, AND FRENCH BRANCHES OBSERVE THE ANNIVERSARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY AT PAPEETE, TAHITI, March 17, 1960 Ruth R. Reeder, President, French Polynesian Mission Relief Society, ls seated in the center on the second row; Edna Poroi, President, French Branch Relief Society, who conducted the anniversary observance, is seated in chair at the right. 410 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 = 4 SEse. \ RY. Et 3 ' '. *e 3 "Z y =: ae a ee RE aN; Re P Ree 4 tS a a Ry ae "3: % fi SES: i g. Et 2 eee & SBN bat SS f oe Photograph submitted by Bertrude S. Mitchell PAROWAN STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS LITERATURE DRAMATIZATION "LEGACY," March 17, 1960 Left to nght: Anna Dalley; Evelyn Davenport; Elaine Adams; Cleora Bayles; Nina Robb; Constance Halterman; Maryetta Orton; Gaytha Benson; Florence Sherrett; Oscar J. Hulet, narrator; Howard D. Knight, President, Parowan Stake. Bertrude S. Mitchell, President, Parowan Stake Relief Society, reports: "This program was presented on the Relief Society anniversary for all adult members of our stake. All six wards are represented in the picture, and all willingly helped with the making of the colonial costumes. It was a very beautiful and colorful presentation, and many said that it was one of the nicest affairs we have had in our community in a long time. Our Singing Mothers did an excellent job with the background music. "Taking part in a theology dramatization 'Instructions and Promises,' presented on the same day, were Jane Bentley, theology class leader; Elder Hulet, President Knight, and other members of the Priesthood." Give Ne the Mlesa Maude Rubin Often the way divided... One way climbed Toward the clouded mountains, mystery of distance. My ears were tuned to hear a music timed To the beat of eagle wings, whose loud insistence Would drown this pulsing note of a meadow lark, Bright bubble of sound that floated toward the sky Across my heart's horizon! Gone those stark White peaks, too cold for breath. Where eagles fly Is not my earthborn climate. I need wind, This sea of grass, wild crocuses in May; I need this prairie earth, where winter-thinned, New tides of life flow green, let summer stay Serene and reticent on mesa loam Where meadow larks and I have found our home. Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1960-61 Elder Roy W. Doxcy HE eight lessons for study during this year, the fourth series on The Doctrine and Covenants, come from five sections of this wonderful book of scripture. All of these revelations were received by the Prophet Joseph Smith during the months of February and March of 1831. This was an eventful penod for the Prophet, for the Lord had commanded that he go to Ohio where further instruction would be received for the continued growth of the Church. The background for the movement of the headquarters of the Church into Ohio was studied last year. With the rapid growth of the kingdom of God in that area, as a direct result of the missionary labors among the settlers by those who were assigned to the Lamanite mission, the time had come for the Lord to reveal many of his purposes for the welfare of the saints and more detailed information concerning important future events. Although the Prophet resided in Kirtland, Ohio, where a_ thriving branch of the Church was raised up, and the revelations making up this year's lessons were received, he also continued farther west into Missour during the year. Returning to Ohio, the Prophet received many revelations now contained in 'The Doctrine and Covenants. One of the most important revelations given in this dispensation is to be studied this year. 'The material in Section 42 contributes to five lessons in this series. 'This revelation, known as the law of the Lord to the Church, has many direct applications to daily life. 'These teachings arc eternal. Some of the moral commandments given in the beginning and reiterated by Moses on Mount Sinai are emphasized in this revelation. They form the basis of orderly government in society and the foundation for entrance into the celestial kingdom. In addition, the solution to a number of problems confronting the Church at the time and for the edification of those in the ministry were made known. The background for understanding the first lesson is the fact that at this early period elders called to preach the gospel had to be instructed in the way they should teach. The instructions of the Lord relative to an authorized ministry and Page 411} 412 the need for divine guidance were not known clearly by many. It was necessary, therefore, that these members of the Priesthood should understand the spirit in which they should function as missionaries and of their true calling before the world. In the next two lessons the members of the Church are given a better understanding of their responsibilities in being a light to the world. 'There follows a lesson on the principles of a socio-economic order which is yet to be lived by Latter-day Saints as a part of the celestial law. The final lesson from the law of the Lord to the Church provides an opportunity to learn many principles pertaining to the important practice of admunistration to the sick. A lesson last vear gave gencral consideration to some events of the future. 'Two of these subjects are discussed in detail this year. 'The final lesson for the year comes from an important revelation setting forth special blessings for the faithful members of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In general, this year's course covers many important lessons to be applied to life situations. The 1960-61 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 25—A Promise Fulfilled (D & C, Sections 41; 42:1-17) Objective: To understand that the law of the Lord is to be taught with faith and by the Spirit. Lesson 26—The Law of Moral Conduct (D & CG, Section 42:18-20, 79, 84°85) Objective: To realize that the comRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 mandments "Thou shalt not kill" and "Thou shalt not steal' forbid acts which are an offense against God and society. Lesson 27—The Law of Moral Conduct (Continued) (D & C, Section 42:21-26, 80-83, 86) Objective: To learn the consequences of lying and unchaste practices. Lesson 28—The Law of Consecration (D & CG, Section 42:30-42, 53- 55> 70-73) Objective: "And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me " (D&C 42:31). Lesson 29—The Law of Administration to the Sick (D & C, Section 42:43-52) Objective: To learn some principles of the law of administration to the sick. Lesson 30—The Past, Present, and Future (D & C, Section 45:1-42) Objective: To learn some reasons why obedience to the Lord's will is necessary, and of the need of being aware of the signs in preparation for the Lord's second coming. Lesson 31—The Second Coming of Christ (D & C, Sections 43:8-35; 45:43-75 ) Objective: To learn of events associated with the second coming of Christ. Lesson 32—The Gifts of the Holy Ghost (D & C, Section 46) Objective: To understand what the gifts of the Holy Ghost are and why they are given. (siting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1960-61 Christine H. Robinson TRHE "Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants" which constitute the visiting teacher messages for 1960-61, form a pattern of principles and guides which, if followed, will lead us to happier, more purposeful living. 'hese messages emphasize the importance of keeping all of the Lord's commandments and not just those which appeal to us. We are reminded that if we would enjoy fully the blessings of the Lord, we must have thankful and grateful hearts. We are further instructed to develop our God-given gifts and talents for the good of all. 'Ihe messages admonish us to grow in grace and in the knowledge of the truth. They advise us to guard against speaking evil of another and to avoid the futility of idleness. These truths from modern day scripture are interrelated and interdependent. For example, when we serve the Lord we are, in reality, serving ourselves and others, and through unselfish service we develop our God-given gifts and talents and also can avoid the evil and futility of idleness. Furthermore, when we keep all of the Lord's commandments, we build our knowledge of the truth, and we establish safeguards which assure us that the Lord and his influence will be in our midst to comfort and guide us. When we are occupied constructively in keeping the Lord's commandments, we should have no time nor desire to speak or think evil of others. Rather, we recognize the glorious truth that when we serve others and do good even "... Unto the least of these " (D & C 42:38) as the Savior has told us, we are actually doing good unto him. Four of these "Truths to Live By" come from one section in 'The Doctrine and Covenants. This Section, Forty-Two, deals specifically with the laws of the Church. These laws, we must remember, do not restrict or inhibit us, but rather they are the principles and_ rules without which we cannot find true happiness or peace of mind. These 1960-61 messages form a coordinated structure of truths which have been emphasized over and over again by the Lord's prophets since ancient times. 'They are so important to our happiness that the Lord has again given them to us in these latter days with the admonition that if we will observe them, they will serve as a sure foundation to joyful, abundant living. The messages and their objectives for the year 1960-61 are as follows: Message 25—"If Thou Lovest Me Thou Shalt Serve Me and Keep All My Commandments" (D & C 42:29). Objective: To emphasize the fact that we serve the Lord, others, and ourselves best only when we keep all the commandments. Page 4}3 414 Message 26—"And Ye Must Give Thanks Unto God in the Spirit for Whatsoever Blessing Ye Are Blessed With" (D & C 46:32). Objective: To enjoy fully the blessings of the Lord, we must have thankful and grateful hearts. Message 27—"... Every Man Is Given a Gift by the Spint of God... Uhat All May Be Profited Thereby" (D & C 46:11-12). Objective: We have a divine responsibility to develop our gifts and talents and to use them in the service of others. Message 28—"Thou Shalt Not Be Idle " (D & C 42:42). Objective: To avoid being idle, we must be actively engaged in a good cause. Message 29—'"Wherefore, I Am in Your Midst, and I Am the Good Shepherd " (D & C 50:44). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Objective: To persuade us that Jesus is with us and, if we live righteously and will seek him, he will guide, sustain, and comfort us. Message 30—"... Ye Must Grow in Grace and in the Knowledge of the Truth" (D & C 50:40). Objective: The gospel is a plan of salvation through progress. Only by growth in grace and truth can we move toward eternal life. Message 31—"Thou Shalt Not Speak Evil of Thy Neighbor, Nor Do Him Any Harm" (D&C 42:27). Objective: We must guard constantly against idle or evil words which might harm or undermine another's character. Message 32—"For Inasmuch As Ye Do It Unto the Least of These, Ye Do It Unto Me" (D & C 42:38). Objective: If we would do the work of the Lord, we must be actively engaged in helping others. Vork ITleeting—Caring for the Sick in the Home Preview of Lessons for 1960-61 Maria Johnson NFORTUNATELY, in. Every home, sooner or later, there is someone who needs care following an injury or during sickness. 'The wise mother will accept this fact and prepare herself to meet the situation intelligently and calmly. We hope to bring to you in the lessons this year a few basic understandings that will give you a greater sense of security in meeting illness when it comes. As we care for the sick, our goal is to help the individual regain and maintain the highest level of health that is possible for him. Health is much more than not being sick. There are degrees of health just as there are degrees of illness. We say a person is mildly ill or seriously ill. We might say he has a low level of health or a high or optimum level. Since the beginning of the century as our knowledge has increased our concept of health has widened. We passed from the era of curative