[Vol47 | June 1960 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Doxey]
[LESSON DEPARTMENT—PREVIEWS FOR 1960-61 Theology — The Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey]
406 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Photograph submitted by Della H. Teeter DENVER WEST STAKE (COLORADO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE AND RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, March 29, 1960 Front row, beginning second from the right: Venna Yeates, chorister; Gladys Hansen, organist; Millie E. Richardson, First Counselor; Della H. Teeter, President; Yvonne Nelson, Second Counselor. Sister 'I'eeter reports: '""This group has a membership of fifty sisters and they are the mothers of eighty children. This is their first presentation as a chorus of the newly created Denver West Stake. At the Stake Visiting Teachers Convention the film 'Unto the Least of These' was presented, with the Stake President 'Thomas L. Kimball giving the main address.

LESSON DEPARTMENT medicine, concerned mainly with the cure of physical diseases, to the era of preventive medicine, when sanitation and immunization made possible the prevention of many diseases, such as smallpox, diphtheria, typhoid fever, whooping cough, to name a few. Curative and preventive measures are still important, but medical and scientific research have taught us they are not enough. The new concept of health is well expressed in this definition formulated by the World Health Organization — "Health is a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity." Our health authorities, today, point out to us that emotional attitudes, our pet beliefs, our prejudices, our superstitions, and fears stand in the way of health as surely as do bacteria, improper food, or poisons that are not eliminated. In each lesson as we demonstrate and discuss various skills used at the bedside, we hope better to understand both the emotional! And physical needs of the sick patient. These lessons do not take the place of courses such as the Red Cross Home Nursing or those for the training of practical nurses. Your instructor will tell you where to get information about accredited nursing courses.