[Vol47 | June 1960 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: Social | Author: Porter]
Social Science —Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Preview of Lessons for 1960-61 Elder Blaine M. Porter HE world continues to increase in complexity, the traditions and beliefs of the past continue to be questioned with increasing intensity, and the task of finding meaning and purpose in life is as great a challenge as ever. In this scientific age the goal of living harmoniously and peacefully with our fellow men in one world has become not only desirable but necessary, if our civilization is to survive. Last year we discussed the spiritual road which we should all walk in order to travel in the direction of the abundant life as taught and lived by our Savior, Jesus Christ. We studied the nature of emotional and religious maturity and emphasized the necessity of these characteristics in order to be capable of truly living the teachings of Christianity. This year we wish to focus upon additional elements which are equally important in the religious life of man. In order to understand ourselves more fully and to enrich our lives, we will focus upon widening our religious horizons. Within this framework we will discuss concepts of God, pointing out that even though we worship the same God, we have significant differences in our concepts regarding the nature of God. The manner in which these concepts affect our lives and our relationship with God will receive major consideration. Next, we will analyze our concepts of man, once again recognizing the several approaches which we have regarding the nature of man. Since establishing harmonious and creative relationships with our fellow men is one of the cornerstones in the foundation of building a world at peace, seeking ways of improving these relationships ls extremely important. 'Therefore, man's relatedness to the world will be studied, and ways in which we can widen our religious horizons will be suggested and discussed. LESSON DEPARTMENT To achieve peace and brotherhood on any secure, permanent human basis will require all the ingenuity, understanding, and charity which we can muster. It will require that we not only implement the principles of Christian living, but that we also effectively teach them to our children in order that they will be prepared to assume the leadership of furthering this cause. If religion is to be allocated its rightful dignity and be allowed to make its potential contribution in our lives, we must dedicate our whole self to that which is highest and best in Hite. In order more fully to understand the manner in which religious qualities develop, we will explore the stages of religious development. For purposes of analysis, these will be studied under the headings of The Religion of Childhood, Religious Development in Adolescence, and The Religion of Mature Adulthood. Considering the various stages of religious development may be a new expericnce for many of us. We hope that it will contribute to our understanding and effectiveness as parents and teachers in more appropriately timing the presentation of religious concepts to our children. Since values play such a major tole in our lives, as well as in our religious philosophy, we will study the growth and meaning of values. Our main objective will be to help us carefully examine the values we have, recognize our value conflicts, and evaluate how adequately we have internalized the values which we feel are most important. How we develop and grow these values for ourselves and for our children is particularly significant, and 419 therefore, our attention will be directed toward growing religious values in the home and family. We will recognize that in order for an individual to develop permanent values with high quality, he must first have developed a value for himself and for the dignity of man. The family, of course, assumes a very significant role in the growing of values in persons of all ages. Despite all the sorrow and pessimism in the world, there seems to be an unquenchable tendency toward growth, goodness, understanding, truth, and freedom. This truth will not be found in mysteries, or in someone else taking responsibility for us, but rather through our efforts of self-realization and_preparing ourselves to live a religion of maturity, love, and understanding of God and his children. We must realize that religion is what we do, not what we profess. This second year's series, then, will focus on additional human characteristics which will help us to expand our religious horizons and increase our spirituality in an age of great challenge. May the following lessons prove to be stimulating and enriching. Lesson 8—Expanding Our Religious Horizons—Part I—Concepts of God Objective: To discover how our concepts of God influence our potentialities for spiritual living. Lesson 9—Expanding Our Religious Horizons—Part I]—Concepts of Man Objective: 'To discover how our concepts of man influence our potentialities for spiritual living. 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Lesson 10—Expanding Our Religious Horizons — Part III — Man's Relatedness to the World Recommended Music for Relief Society Objective: 'To discover how our philosophy of man's relatedness to the world influences our potentialities for spiritual living. Choruses Ladies Three Part ( ) Come Ye Blessed of My Father—Madsen...20 ( ) Forth in Thy Name, O Lord I Go—Mad- 0.20 ( ) Go Ye Forth with My Word—Madsen...25 ( ) Incline Your FEar— Wilkes 0 eee 25 ( ) In Thy Form—MadCt 20 ( ) Let the Mountains Shout for Joy— Stephens _ 0 20 ( ) Lord, We Dedicate this House to Thee— Lesson 11—Stages of Religious Development Objective: To understand more fully the manner in which religious quallities develop. Lesson 12—Values—Their Growth and Meaning Objective: To increase our understanding of what values are, how they develop, and the meaning which they have in our lives. Lesson 13—Growing Religious Values in the Home arn Marsdpa a Objective: To explore the processes ) Music—Marsden a by which religious values may be ( ) me occa a Lives 20 grown and developed within the —Gates - -..-.--. Framework of the home and family. ( ) O Lovely Land, America—Madsen.20 Lesson 14—Abundant Living for ( ) Open Our Eyes— Our Day Macfarlane _ 000 25 ( ) Send Forth Thy Objective: To review the topics of Spirit—Schuetky.20 this two-year series of lessons and emphasize the role they can and should play in helping us live abundantly today. Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Lst South Salt Lake City 11, Utah \ I! ] '! T!!! Please send the music indicated above.!! L] On Approval LJ] Charge \! I}! I} 1 I I 1 1! I —— Tlotes on the Authors of the of essons HIS year one new writer is represented among the authors of the lessons and introduced to readers of the Magazine. A biographical sketch of Maria Johnson follows: (10 Money Enclosed!: Address \ City & State U / 15 E.