[Vol47 | June 1960 | Sequence: 24 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

I just picked up the beautiful March issue of the Magazine. My husband and I both enjoy each issue and look forward to reading them together. I often read portions aloud for our Family Hour. The story "A Place for Everything" in the March issue seemed to point the finger right at me, and since reading it I have been trying to take time out to play with and enjoy our little boy.

Many times I have said I wish every mother in the Church would subscribe to and enjoy this very special and inspiring Magazine every month.
—Mrs. Millie Martindale
Bossier City, Louisiana

I am a new missionary of ten days in the Kearney Branch. The first Sunday here I was put in President of the Relief Society. I attended last Tuesday.

Three dear sisters met at a home, each with a Magazine, giving the lesson and carrying on even though few in number. It was a humble and spiritual feast when each sister gave her testimony. Thank you for the Magazine.

This branch is small and scattered.
—Estella D. Jones
Kearney, Nebraska

My fifteen-year-old daughter has discovered the Magazine at our house the last year or so, and she really could hardly wait for the next issue to come while she was reading "The New Day" by Hazel K. Todd (October 1959 to April 1960).
—Margaret H. Matthews
Boise, Idaho

I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much. I can hardly wait for it to come each month. On the morning it arrives I hurry through my busy morning schedule, and as soon as lunch is over, put my children down for their naps, and then I sit down to an enjoyable afternoon with my Relief Society Magazine.
—Mrs. Barbara De La Mare
La Miranda, California

It is a pleasure to read each issue of the Magazine, and I was happy to see the picture of a true friend, Dorothy Clapp Robinson, in the March issue, and to read her prize story "The Fishbite Story." Recently, at Saint Maries, Idaho, while staying with my orphaned grandsons, I attended Relief Society....

This rather new branch of the Church is growing quite rapidly. Saint Maries is a pretty place among evergreen trees on the hillside near a lake where the Saint Joe River comes into the lake.
—Eliza W. Buckland
Idaho Falls, Idaho

I always enjoyed my mother's Relief Society Magazine at home, but never had my own until last year. We had just recently moved to this community, and one of the sisters gave me a year's subscription to the Magazine as a gift. I shall always remember her friendliness and kindness, especially since my own family lives some distance away. I have looked forward each month to receiving the next issue of the Magazine. I enjoy all of it, and usually read it from cover to cover. The front covers and frontispieces are always beautiful.
—Mrs. Anne W. McCausland
Salina, Utah

We here in the Southern Hemisphere greatly appreciate and value very highly our fine Magazine. All the lessons are well set out and contain matter of essential value.

Most of us acknowledge that the theology lessons are the highest if we have to make a choice. For the beginner (like myself) the lessons are the groundwork of our daily living. I would like to pay a personal tribute if I may to Sister Ethel Wheeler of Fairview, Utah, through whose persuasion I joined the Relief Society here. She has also been the donor to me of The Relief Society Magazine for the last three years. I am truly grateful to her.
—Sarah E. Smith
Christchurch New Zealand