[Vol47 | June 1960 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Fiction | Title: Fiddlers | Author: Walker]
Fiddlers 'Three Lula Walker USAN Eldon tossed _restlessly S in her big walnut bed. Sleep was slow in coming tonight. The arthritis in her hands was bothering her. 'The sliver of light she could see from the living room meant that Myra, her daughter-inlaw, was still at her mending. Susan always felt guilty when Myra was mending. 'hat had been her own task before this trouble with her hands. It was hard to bear this awful feeling of uselessness that weighed upon her. She heard the outside door open and close. That would be her grandson Vance home from evening orchestra practice in town. She could hear his eager chatter about commencement which was only three weeks away. "Mr. Rogers from Midland College was at school today signing up some of the seniors for next year," he was telling his mother. "Ned and Harvey are both going." Susan caught the wistful note in his voice as he named his two closest friends. If only Vance could go, she thought. And then Myra spoke. "I wish you could go," she said, "but even with good crops we couldn't manage it with the interest due this fall. There doesn't seem to be any way." Myra's tired voice was lifeless. "There is a way," Vance burst out excitedly. "Mr. Rogers visited orchestra period. After my solo he came around and talked to me. He plays himself and knows instruments. Right off he noticed my violin. He said it was worth several hundred dollars. Just think, Mom, I could sell it and get a cheaper one for practice. 'That would give me the extra cash I need for school." Sell the violin! The words stabbed Susan like a knife. Sell the violin that his grandfather had cherished above every other possession! She was aghast at the idea. "But you couldn't!" It was Myra speaking. "What would your Grandmother say?" "It's mine, isn't it?" Vance gave back heatedly. "Grandfather gave it to me. Besides," he added more quietly, "Gran's a good sport. She wants me to go to college. Music is what Pve always wanted. Muidland has the best music department in the State. [ll work part time. I can't miss my chance. I just can't!" "Maybe — maybe — when the fryers are sold, I might." The soft closing of a door cut off Myra's words, but Susan could guess what Myra had in mind. The precious money from her fryers that was to build a new chicken house might be used for Vance's tuition. Myra must not do that. The new house was a necessity if Myra continued to raise chickens. And raising chickens made an important addition to the family income, with the returns from farming activities so uncertain. But what of the violin? 'That must not be sold. It was heartbreaking to think of such a thing. Page 395 396 But Susan didn't blame Vance. A boy of seventecn didn't see things as a woman of seventy. But some day he would see and be sorry — when the violin was gone. She remembered how William, her husband, used to play it when he had brought her to this house fifty years ago as a bride. Lilting, lively tunes he would play when he was happy, mournful ones when he was in low spits. 'he violin had been a sort of barometer of his feelings. 'Those early years had been hard, but she could not imagine William ever parting with his violin. He would probably have sold the cookstove first, if that had been necessary. O, the violin must not be sold, but Vance was demanding his chance, and he must have it. His father Phillip had missed his. She could not let that happen to Vance. Philip had worked hard here on the farm, but when it came to farming, he had been a square peg in a round hole. His imterests had been in books and music. He had hoped for college, but she and his father felt they could not afford it, and Phillip had lacked the drive to work his way through. She realized now they. Could have managed it some way. She must find a way for Vance. Involuntarily, she passed her hands across the satiny smoothness of the walnut headboard. 'The touch of the wood always seemed to bring comfort when she was troubled — like the touch of a loved one's hand. But tonight it was like a sting, a sharp reminder of how simple it would be to save the violin and provide for Vance's need. But surely, she thought, there must be some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 other w