[Vol32 | June 1945 | Sequence: 26 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes From The Field: Relief Society and Church Welfare Sewing Vera White Pohlman, Former General Secretary-Treasurer]
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field"

appeal in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CAMPAIGNS
Cottonwood Stake and oﬃcers for their eﬀort and sup-'pHIS stake has
demonstrated that port. We found them willing and success may be attained
by enthusiastic workers^ and Tm sure working steadily toward a goal. In
the satisfaction they feel in their 1942, this stake's rate of Magazine ward
and stake report repays them subscriptions was among the lowest for their
eﬀorts. As a stake we ap-in the Church—26 per cent. Stake preciate beyond
words their eﬀorts, and ward Relief Society workers, de ''Our biggest desire
now is that termined to increase the rate, made each will read and enjoy her
Maga-the greatest numerical increase in zfne and realize the spiritual and
the Church during 1943 (from 211 temporal help it gives. As a stake to 580
subscriptions) but, neverthe we express our appreciation to the less, fell
slightly short of the honor Magazine staﬀ for the splendid Mag-roll with 71
per cent of their mem azine they give us. We enjoy and bers as subscribers.
They still per appreciate the privilege of working sisted in their eﬀorts, and
now ap in the Relief Society and the associa-pear on the honor roll for 1944
with tion it gives us." a stake rate of 90 per cent, and with 6 of S wards
represented. Zion Park Stake
Merle S. Muir, stake counselor in TESSIE H. GIBSON, stake Maga-
charge of the Magazine, wrote of ^ zine representative, wrote last
this accomplishment: January commending the ward Mag-
''It is a satisfying climax to a huge azine representatives and oﬃcers
eﬀort and one of which we are for their eﬀorts which placed this
very proud. This happens to be the stake on the 1944 honor roll with a
ﬁrst time in the history of our stake rate of 91 per cent. Five of the 7
that we have been fortunate enough wards of this stake also appear on
to achieve the honor roll. We hope the honor roll with high rates,
it won't be the last. You will notice Her letter continues: "We feel

our subscription rate is 90 per cent especially proud of the record of
for the stake and that 5 wards have Delia Hardy, Magazine representa-
over 100 per cent. All credit is due tive of Springdale Ward, who has
our ward Magazine representatives placed the Magazine in every home
Page 314
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
315
in her community whether members of our Church or not. Several
Magazines were also sent to other communities as Christmas presents. She
exceeded her good 1943 rate of 86 per cent by the exceptional rate of 154
per cent for 1944. We feel that her leadership deserves a little special
mention and hope it will inspire other Magazine representatives to try a
little harder next year."
Boise Stake
pAROL R. FLAKE, president of ^ the Boise Fourth Ward Relief Society,
wrote last August:
''At the suggestion of Dorothy Clapp Robinson, counselor in the Boise
Stake Relief Society and supervisor of the Magazine representatives, I am
sending in this account of our 'Dollar Day' which launched our Magazine
campaign. Lillis Me-lander is our representative.
"A large group of our sisters met in the pleasant surroundings of Elm
Grove Park where a program was presented featuring the importance of the
Magazine to the entire family. Talks on the subject. Things I Like About
the Magazine' gave interesting and varied reasons for having it in the home.
Our stake Relief Society president, Josephine Anderson, and Counselor
Dorothy Clapp Robinson, commended us for our achievement of 104 per
cent in the 1943 campaign and urged us to include at least 6 subscriptions
this year to be sent to our Church missionaries. Accordingly, our members
deposited voluntary contributions in an attractive dish which was
afterwards awarded as prize to the one guessing nearest to the correct total

of $8.14 which was received.
"The program was interspersed with the singing of several original
Magazine pep songs composed by various members, including the
following:
HERE IS OUR MAGAZINE
Irene Read
Tune "Idaho" (State song)
You've heard of the wonders of our
Magazine And all of the good it can do. It educates, stimulates, brings out
the best But not half has been told to you.
Chorus
So here is our Magazine,
Winning its way to the top.
Once you've subscribed it will always
come, You never will let it stop.
You will read it, morn, noon, and night. Keep it in sight—'twill make your
life
bright. You will love it, its praises you'll sing, Sing of our Magazine.
Our agent will take your subscription today.
And beneﬁts soon you will glean.
When your family looks forward each
month for the day When the postman brings their Magazine/
I'LL SUBSCRIBE FOR ANOTHER YEAR
Edith Mathews

Tune "Auld Lang Syne"
Is my subscription up to date? I surely want to know. I cannot miss a single
book Because I need it so.
Our Magazine, our Magazine, Its pages I hold dear, I need its inﬂuence in
our home— I'll subscribe for another year!"
As indicated by the foregoing re-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1945
port, the Boise Stake Relief Society oﬃcers suggested that each ward
contribute 6 gift subscriptions for women in foreign missions, and some of
the wards exceeded this assignment. The stake board itself set the example,
sending in seven gift subscriptions, one in the name of each ward of the
stake. This is another stake which exceeded its good 1943 rate of 80 per
cent by a 1944 rate of 95 per cent for the stake as a whole. Five of the 7
wards appear on the honor roll, all of them with rates well above those of
last year, four of them over 100 per cent.
Western States Mission T UCEAL R. CURTIS, recently released Relief
Society president of this mission, wrote in September 1944:
''Since March 17 our mission has had as one of its projects the binding of
Relid Society Magazines. One Relief Society now has a complete set of the
Magazines bound and in its library. Two other Societies have 7 bound
volumes and a great number have 3. These Magazines were bound to
celebrate my three years in the mission. When they had them bound they
sent, on July 15, a birthday card stating that they now had in their libraries
bound volumes of the Magazine for 1941-42-43."
For the third successive year this mission has achieved a place on the honor
roll, this year with a higher rate of 81 per cent, and with nineteen of thirty-
ﬁve branches represented, thirteen of them with rates of 100 per cent or
over, including Sheridan Branch with the exceptional rate of 157 per cent.
'EaEF Society
AGAXINTE