[Vol32 | June 1945 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Remember Crawford]

President Heber J. Grant, 89th Annual General Conference, June 1919. REMEMBER THIS Vesta Pierce Crawford The hands lose all they ever held, Each thing they grasped is lost, But the heart keeps all it gained Against the fire and frost. The 115th Annual General Conference Elder Joseph J. Cannon First Assistant General Superintendent, Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association THE one hundred fifteenth anniversary of the Church was celebrated with the smallest conference but most potent Priesthood representation since the saints came to the Valley nearly a century ago. If President Heber J. Grant, sitting in his nearby home with a special wire carrying the proceedings to him, could be reckoned as being there, and every man in the conference felt very close to him, then the general authorities could be counted as being all present. The weather was favorable.
Spring gave three beautiful days and relapsed into winter only after the conference was over.
This gathering represented the largest membership the Church has had.
Nearly a million persons (954,004) are on its books. The rapid growth is understood when we take into account the conversions (5,493) and the astonishing ratio of births to deaths (5.65 to 1). During 1944, the Church distributed in missionary work, allowances to stakes and wards, welfare, education, maintenance and renovation of buildings, genealogical and other work ($8,270,653). To fill the vacancies in the Council of the Seventy caused by the deaths of Samuel O.
Bennion and Rufus K. Hardy, Seymour Dilworth Young and Milton R.
Hunter were sustained. Brother Young is a grandson of President Seymour B. Young, who for many years was senior president of the Council, and a great-grandson of President Brigham Young.
Both of the new presidents have spent their mature lives in guiding youth. To the readers of this Magazine a most interesting event was the change in the presidency of the Relief Society, treated fully in the May issue. Sister Amy Brown Lyman, eighth president, completes her faithful service, and Sister Belle S. Spafford, the ninth, takes over.
What beautiful examples of womanhood the heads of this great institution have been. The outstanding event of the proceedings was unquestionably the message of President Grant. It was characteristic in language and content, and in the intensity of his admonition to faith and righteousness. As always his heart is tender for the young and their problems. He said: I wish to impress upon the workers in all the organizations of the Church, the need for laboring prayerfully, untiringly, and diligently at this time to persuade the youth of Zion to be more faithful, more diligent in all their obligations and responsibilities, in safeguarding their virtue, and in observing what is known as the Word of Wisdom.
Especially is the President solicitous for those in the armed service: Page 
  JUNE 1945
Our hearts, our thoughts, and our prayers go out to those who are in the armed forces. It would appear from all the figures we can gather, that more than one hundred thousand of our young men arc in the service of their country, in uniform. We pray for them continually. We pray for the preservation of their lives and for their faithfulness to those things which are dearer than life....
Young men of Zion, when you return to your homes, return with clean hands and clean hearts and great will be your happiness, your faith, and your testimony.
Your brethren and your loved ones cherish you, pray for you, and await the day of your coming. And I pray with all my heart that if there are those who have made mistakes, that they will repent; and by this we may know that they have repented that they will confess their sins and depart from them.
What the President called his keynote, and it has certainly been the keynote of his life, is given in the following stirring plea: There is but one path of safety to the Latter-day Saints, and that is the path of duty. It is not a testimony only; it is not marvelous manifestations; it is not knowing that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true, that it is the plan of salvation it is not actually knowing that the Savior is the Redeemer, and that Joseph Smith was his prophet that will save you and me; but it is the keeping of the commandments of God, living the life of a Latter-day Saint. I pray constantly for all the officers of this Church, whether in the priesthood or in the auxiliary associations. I am sure, in my secret prayers particularly, that I never forget, morning or night, those that have been called to preside, to direct the affairs in the priesthood quorums and in the auxiliary associations. My prayer is that each of you holding a place of responsibility shall so order your lives that they shall be examples of diligence and energy and of the Spirit of the Living God, that can be followed in every part by those over whom you preside. If we do this, what a wonderful power we shall have with the Lord in the furtherance of his mighty purposes in the earth. If we keep his commandments, our influence will be not only with the world, but with our own young people.
Their strength and power will be multiplied if we shall succeed in having them feel the necessity of observing the commandments of God, particularly concerning the principles of clean and righteous living. I say to all Latter-day Saints: Keep the commandments of God.
That is my keynote just these few words: Keep the Commandments of God/ President Clark conducted the conference, and his brief and sound commentaries on the proceedings at a number of the sessions were impressive and timely. Foreseeing, as lie does, the time when food will be needed by the people, he spoke earnestly of a matter that is dear to his heart: The Welfare Plan, which I once more repeat is not the United Order, but is motivated by the same lofty and divine principles and purposes that underlay the Order, has now been in operation nine years.
Through the blessings of the Lord and the faithfulness of the people, it has steadily grown and expanded its activities during the whole period, and it stands today stronger than ever before in its operation. Its opponents have not destroyed and cannot destroy it, so long as the Lord blesses it and faithful members support it... However, if you refuse to aid, if you refuse to receive the blessings of joy and satisfaction which come from treading along the ways the Lord points out, we should point out to you that the Welfare Plan has lived and we feel certain it m\\ live so long as the Lord continues to give his blessings to the Plan, and so long as the loyal, faithful members of the Church support it. But for your sakes we should rejoice beyond measure in your assistance. In one of his discourses. President McKay turned the attention of the people to the serious increase of divorce that is occurring in the world and from which the Latter-day Saints are not free. THE 115TH ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE 329 It is, however, encouraging to know that, as President McKay explained, the divorce rate among this people is only a third as high as that in the nation. He also called attention to the fact that marriages, among our people, performed in the temple and by the officers of the Church, are much more stable than those performed by civil officers. He stated: In the light of scripture, we are justified in concluding that Christ's ideal pertaining to marriage is the unbroken home, and conditions that cause divorce are violations of his divine teachings.
There may be circumstances which make the continuance of the marriage state a greater evil than divorce. But these are extreme cases they are the mistakes, the calamities in the realm of marriage....
Marriage is a sacred relationship entered into for purposes that are well recognized  primarily for the rearing of a family. It is claimed by some careful observers that our present modern life tends to frustrate these purposes.... The marriage ceremony, when sealed by the authority of the holy priesthood, endures as do family relationships, throughout time and all eternity. THE Church of the Air over the Columbia Broadcasting System had as its speaker President George Albert Smith, of the Council of the Twelve. His plea, made in great earnestness, was for repentance, individual and national. In this program and the regular broadcast that preceded it, sweet and impressive music of the Tabernacle Choir and organ was heard.
Following are thoughts expressed during the conference by the speakers: Heaven's morning is bursting upon men's lives and they are feeling the hope that is beyond the grave. You mothers and sweethearts, take these men when they return wounded in spirit, and heal them. God is so good we can hardly conceive the extent of his goodness. God is so just we can hardly understand the depth of his justice. A non-member can have the blessings that come through honesty and the clean life, but no one can speak in the name of the Lord or hold Priesthood except he have membership in the Church. The saints have three most important obligations missionary work, building up the stakes and wards of Zion, and doing work in the temple. We are not landlords; we do not possess any part of this earth; we are tenants upon it.
When the boys come home, the Mutual Improvement Association will have a greater responsibility than it has ever had before. No one should be idle at any age but industrious in spiritual as well as in temporal things, never burying his talent. Let nothing be laid at your door that would start anyone on the path of desecrating the Sabbath day.
What peace would come to the earth if men would seek to know and do the will of God. The word "must" is not in our vocabulary. We are to persuade. I have never found a greater asset than the gospel of Jesus Christ. The boys who have stayed clean are the ones who have had correspondence with their Priesthood quorums. The gospel is not a substitution of something else for the lofty principles of Christianity, but a refinement of them and new vitality in them. Let us build our stakes as a refuge from the storms of adversity the Lord has said would come to the earth. May God be with those who meet at San Francisco, may they be humble, that human destiny on this good earth may be safe and beautiful. One of the best ways to drive out fear is to work hard in God's service.