[Vol32 | June 1945 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: And For Eternity Chapter Burt]
Just tired." Her mother went out, closing the door softly.
Delsa closed her eyes against the darkening room. A March wind blew fiercely about the house, shaking the trees outside Delsa's window, shaking the walls that needed repairing, rattling the windows, loose in their frames. So much still needed to be done about the place, Delsa thought wearily; her small checks helped only a little with the ever-recurring bills. She heard her father come into the kitchen below her, stamping his feet on the porch, wiping the mud of the March thaw from his shoes before he stepped onto the clean kitchen floor. She could almost see the pails, foaming to the brim with the fresh, warm milk, and her mother, holding the strainer while her father poured the milk into the pan. Her mother was talking, and though Delsa couldn't hear the words, she knew she was telling her father about Hugh's letter and how it had worried Delsa because he was so far away and in danger.
AND FOR ETERNITY 343
Delsa thought, What if she were tellng him the truth, now?
What would Dad say?
What would he do? He wouldn't believe it Why do I believe it all at once like this? Why do I know without the slightest doubt that it is true? It wasn't only her father who would be incredulous.
There were all her friends, the girls she had grown up with her crowd and Hugh's. She might meet Millie Lewis on the street and say, "Hello, Millie.
Have you heard the news? Hugh's marrying an Australian girl  some one he's met down there." THERE was a soft knock on her door and her mother came in very quietly so as not to awaken her if she was sleeping.
Delsa said, "What is it. Mother?" "Hugh's mother is downstairs.
Gibson told her you got a letter from Hugh, and she wondered what he said. She didn't get one today, and she's worried."
Delsa said, forcing her voice to sound firm and bright, "Come on up. Aunt Martha. I'm just resting  had a horrible day exams and all." Hugh's mother came into the darkened room and Delsa explained lightly, "My head aches from correcting papers. I can't bear the light. Aunt Martha. But Hugh's all right., He said he was feeling fine and he expects to be right there in the same place for some time. He's not in danger right now You know Hugh. He won't say anything the censor could object to, but he sounded safe and and happy." Why was she such a coward? She had to tell them sometime unless, unless she could go away, somewhere, and never see them or Hugh again. Mrs.
Temple sat down beside Delsa's bed. "You work too hard with those kids, Delsa. Heavens, they never had a teacher before that put in so much time with them. Even Jeff Holden, good as he is as a principal, doesn't kill himself, you'll notice. But you've told me what I wanted to know, Delsa, that Hugh's all right. I give thanks every day that it's you he writes to, so I can get a crumb now and then when my own letters don't come. Not that Hugh doesn't write to me often you know he does but he can't always write to both of us, now can he? So it's a good thing we're so close and can share and share alike. He's not been sick?" "No, he didn't say anything about being sick. Aunt Martha. He sounded right well."
Share and share alike! Aunt Martha wouldn't like a strange, Australian daughter-in-law. But she would have to, if Hugh brought one home. Aunt Martha went on, "Guess what I did today, Delsa? I finished piecing that quilt for you the double bridal ring, you know and is it pretty! I guess I'll have to have a quilting bee to get it quilted. But I reckon it won't be difficult to get folks to help with a quilt for your hope chest." She patted the coverlet and rose. "You get a good night's sleep, Delsa. You take things easier. I don't want Hugh coming home and blaming us for letting you work yourself to a shadow.
