[Vol32 | June 1945 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Testimony of President Heber J. Grant]
president.
Some inexperienced people, too, think they could guide the Church.
While not accountable for things we cannot know, we are held for ignorance which but for sloth might have been dispelled.. Oh, that people had a fraction of the faith in the prophets that they have in the doctors.
Whoever receives or rejects the living servants of the Lord receives or rejects the Lord. It is in adversity and sorrow the spirit grows strongest. The gospel teaches me that I am a son of God and a brother of Jesus Christ and therefore of most noble ancestry. And For Eternity {Continued horn page 343) bit of my mind. I daresay he puts more than half the work on you because you're young and willing. Don't you let him do it, Delsa. You stick up for your rights." She went slowly out of the room, leaving the door ajar, and Delsa thought. It doesn't matter. I can't sleep anyway. All I can do is lie here and think of Hugh and of what I can never have." She turned her head on the pillow and the tears came softly and silently from under her closed lids and drenched the white case. And Delsa didn't know when sleep came and dried her tears and stopped the endless, futile questioning of her heart. (To he continued)  We'll Live Those Days Again (Continued from page 337) as they were held and just where they were held, in 1847.
Nearby residents in all sections will be invited to participate. Then, too, there will be the arrival, at the mouth of Emigration canyon. Salt Lake City, of this momentous caravan, on the exact day ?100 years later ?when the original pioneers arrived.
There will be other events, too, but, like the rest, plans for them must be held in abeyance?or in reserve.
They may be used only if they are possible under war conditions. But a program is being worked out.
What it will be is not yet known. It will be appropriate, however, for the glory of the occasion. It will live up to the traditions of Utah, as far as is possible, and will direct national attention to the State's most important event?the Centennial of its discovery and settlement by Brigham Young and the original pioneers.
Among the plans tentatively made are: Issuance by the U. S.
Government of a Utah Centennial stamp for nation-wide distribution.
Approval and issuance by the U. S.
Government for permits for a Utah Centennial cachet.
Approval by the U. S.
Government of a cancellation stamp telling of the Utah Centennial.
Recital of incidents in Utah history through national magazines and newspaper syndicates.
Development of Utah's cultural activities; such as dramas, pageants, and other enterprises.
Development of Utah's scenic, recreational, vacation and sports possibilities through the promotion of events to attract national publicity.
Development of national publicity for the State.
Depending upon conditions, some of these plans may be fully realized, and others developed to a lesser degree; but as war conditions permit, the Utah Centennial will be celebrated to its fullest possible extent.