7) IUD B > @ SI - & P SOCIETY. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - President Marianne Cc. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - ~ _ Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - ~ - Secretary-Treasure, Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay Mary G. Judd Blanche B_ Stoddard Lillie C Adams Alta J, Vance a B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Edith Ss. Elliott Leone ©, Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Florence J, Madsen Aleine mM. Young RELIEP SOCIETY AGAZINE Editor. - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Ssociate Editor _ - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford enera] Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford JANUARY, 1949 No. 1 Ce lents SPECIAL FEATURES Vol. 36 New Year Greetings Sea cr i j Society 3 The Modern Family = h - Paxman 4 Award eect ig ea Co ah to 6 Profile of Joseph—Fir Roberts 7 Walton urnett 1] President Belle vans 20 elief Tee ip lB Th 22 Quick and Easy Dinners a Mills 39 Ow to Make q apok Quilt ulson 38 The Onductor and = adsen 49 All in q Day's Pleas Helen Martin 59 Joanna—Chapter Ho wart 23 The Dress—Pgr} 1 aFay Tarlock 32 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years toe AD FEATURES Senne Sphere or 5 he Transfiguration"' der Don B. Colton 51 Visiting Teachers' Messages: "T Will H. Wayne Driggs 55 Vork Meeting—Sewing. Use s Jean Ridges Jennings 56 Literature: Literary Sidelights How Driggs 57 cial Science: (S emporary omer Durham 62 Optional Lessons in Odruff. Miia ee, Edgar Lyon 66 Atian'Y S80W—Frontispiece Eva Willes Wangsgaard ] ee en omolo 2] Ive Love ___ Gertrude T. Koven 22 Snowfall] oe, nce Remember; d The ep i berlain Carroll 59 7Christie Lund Coles 50 rom a Hospital Win —— velyn Fjeldsted 6] oaS§S ing-EYe ——Tvin Jones 6] Be Still g now eatrice K. Man 65 olor Guard % © Hearts Grow?. Yric of Being | PUBLISHED MON THE ERAL BOARD oF RELIEF SOCIETY t and Business Office Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: SubScriptions 246; Editoria] Dept. 245, Subscription Price; $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; Dayable in advance, Single copy, 15¢, The Magazine is not Sent after subscription expires. No ack numbers ean be supplied, old ang omPtly so that no Copies wil] be missed, Report change i a ew address, ephine J. Arvey 7] a 2 Section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorizeq June 29, 1918, unless return Postage js enclosed. Ejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only, The Magazine is not responsible for Unsolicited manuscripts, JANUARY SNOW Eva Willes Wangspaard eneral Presidency Examining a Beautiful Needlepoint Chair Covering Presented by Anna Schrade of Vienna, Swiss-Austrian Mission, for Use in the Proposed Relief Society Building. Ford; Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. The Relief Society G Left to right: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spaf: New Year Greetings to Relief Society | Women Everywhere NCE again the cycle of time brings to us a new year with its promise " of new opportunities and experiences and with its rebirth of hope. It is good to face a new year filled with hope, faith, and dreams, to look forward to new opportunities and responsibilities, to anticipate untried undertakings and unexperienced events. It is good to face the new year with the composure and security that come from a firm, unwavering testimony of the gospel. It is good to face the new year fortified by the love, strength, and power that come from membership in a great and divinely inspired sisterhood which reaches out to the far corners of the earth and binds together in closest bonds of fellowship women of many lands. This new year the general board extends its sincere love to the more than 100,000 women throughout the world who comprise the Relief Society sisterhood. May the new year bring to each one the opportunities, privileges, and responsibilities that go into making a good life. We extend to you our deep appreciation for the contribution that each has made to the work of Relief Society during the past year. Your responsibilities have been heavy and unusual in nature and many of your tasks arduous. But with a diligence born of faith in the divinity of the work and with the spirit of loving devotion you have magnificently met each assignment, engraving on the history of Relief Society an enviable record of achievement for the year 1948. As we go forward into another year, may the accomplishments of the past year sustain us. May we realize that each duty we have successfully performed and each task we have mastered have left us better qualified to meet whatever lies ahead. As we go forward into another year may we continue strong in faith and in good works. May there emanate from Relief Society women everywhere a love for mankind. May there be a renewed determination to love the Lord and keep his commandments, for in this we most appropriately speak our gratitude for his manifold blessings unto us and we best equip ourselves to enjoy a happy and successful new year. Affectionately, BELLE S. SPAFFORD MarIANNE C. SHARP Veuma N. SIMONSEN - General Presidency Page 3 The Modern Family and Spirituality Achsa E, Paxman Member, Relief Society General Board OME is the first and most important school in life, and religion should be the foundation of its education. Everything we want our Church and community to be, we must begin to teach in the home, our first aim being manhood and womanhood. 'The most powerful and sustaining force in helping us to meet the realities of life is religion. It helps us to face danger, disappointments, and sorrow. Religious faith helps us to put our trust in the Lord and must be acquired early in life and exercised throughout life. It is a great influence and blessing in every Latterday Saint home. A mother is responsible for the atmosphere of the home. If our children are to do their part we must do ours. One of our leaders has said, "I am not afraid of the youth of this Church. What are you parents doing? Are you doing your part in every way?" Unless we are more capable wives and wiser mothers who teach by example the principles of honesty, dependability, and _ righteousness, we have fallen short of our goal in spite of all our accomplishments. As mothers, it doesn't matter, when we die, whether we have scrubbed our floors every day or not, but it does matter whether we have taught our children the Word of Wisdom, Page 4 and family prayers, and whether or not our children have a testimony of the gospel. A few years ago the following suggestions were given by Dr. Wayne B. Hales as helps in family life: 1. Always be an example to your child. 2. Establish confidence among your boys and girls. 3. Establish traditions for your home so strong that nothing can come to break it. Have various days stand out as events in the home. 4. Use the agencies that are available for building character. Morality can be taught as well as arithmetic. The parents who can plant devotion and faith in God in their children have already laid a good foundation for a fine and happy life. 'The value of the blessing on the food and family prayers gives spiritual joy and gratitude in the home. People who pray together do not get very far apart. In our modern Latter-day Saint homes we must teach by example the principles of honesty, dependability, and righteousness. It is the responsibility of the home to teach the three R's: righteous living; reverence; and responsibility. How do we teach righteousness? By righteous living. Reverence? By devotion to prayer and to Church principles and teachings. Responsibility? Each member should be given responsibility. Home work SPIRITUALITY should shared that Parents of God, we will be blessed with joy and young People can Spend some and power in our homes Of their leisure time together, Cach children that €veryone js to obey laws, Give child com Wr a pi advantage the Lat. Mendation and praise for tight ac er-day Saint People have a, 2 the Church; Provides Progra | d through — Dr. P Openoe expressed at 4 child ms iat Welfare Convention -: 4 gteat blessin It is to the fami] whe he parents The Primary factor j "ducation is 7 y Pi "xample of the hild's own Parents. Chi] vantage of the auxiliary ang Priest ents use. Children ~™ intuitively to 00d work Provided for the amily, absorb Prejudices, Whims, etc. Of and when the father can sq "This $8 rere ae ona 7a ee de... P Ip ing. Tet _ we esthood meet € parent. The Steatest Part of the? &¢ther, education your children The Mother who an inspire con Tom y fidence that G Is and Courage, her old est son Said of his mother: Oo] in life, and reljSion should be the Oundation of Its foundation for educatig "sthood — work A fluence e Latter-day Saint home is will be just as ercat with her daugh- "Te Our boys and girls learn wha fers in 'their devotion to Church + © Teally is, what it means to know work, Od the Father and his Son Jesus A idowed mother with four Mist. Thro gh our } Mes our children S suddenly bereft of her children Tespond to the only adult kin, her mother. Of the d Tals and f, I think it wa Said as vledge unfold themselves. The standar oF very figs t hure | he souls of those about her h ¢ Chur h 4 beautify] p are clearer; life js in €. This gentle, quiet, suf. Finitely hap er ',; ering litte mother of 'mine lived into May we believe with Oliver my life the feeling that heaven was near Wendel] Holme chat apa pe faith and that Go Was 800d to her and all of jin Something which makes life worth Jesus be leved that the way ¢ Into a eligious Tesponse to life Set faith out f men jg to show Which wil] take us up from the ley. That you have faith In the > and el] o Compulsion either of Jay Or from 'th great Punciple of €xecuof Conscience, to that higher Ive mang "ment he never wavered, Stound of an e€nthusias Pitituality the mos important | of all. [gf i O might, mind, and strength andments neighbor as and the chi dren are taking _ad his children €ven in our Sorrows, "en learn life from the Pattern their par living " An May that fa; h lead u SAbbant Wanner Eliza R. Snow Poem Contes: 'THE Relief Society &neral board Publication by others except upon Is pleased to 'announce the Written Permission from the gen names of the three prize winners in era] board. 'TP € general board the 1948 Eliza R. Snow Poem Conalso Teserves the light to Publish test. This contest was announced in Paying for them at the time of Pubthe June 1948 issue of the Mag - lication at the Tegular Magazine zine, and closed September 15, Tate. A writer Who has TeCelved the 1948. First Prize for two Consecutive years The first Prize o twenty-five do]. Must Walt two years before she s lars is awar ded to orothy J. Rob. Again eligible to enter the Contest erts, 35 <p» Street, Salt Lak; ss Te Were seven -two Utah, ee Poem "Profite of 'Submitted this year's Contest, as oseph," COmpared with 4 entered ast year. Many of the poems ubmitted The S€cond prize of twenty dol. Lars js awarded to Miranda Snow tion, and Nearly all of the entries =f Were based Upon an interesting and The thirg Prize of fifteen dollars Significant id lS awarded tee Ns umett, of th 948 prize winners have 1128 East Elm Street, Lima, Ohio, mcctved previous awards in th Or her poem "Infant Daughter iza R Poem Contest Th OF 5 ae general d Congratulates the This poem Contest has been con. Ptize winn 8, and expresses a ucted annual] Y the Relief SoPreciation Il entrants for their ciety genera] ard since 1932, in interest jn th Contest, honor of Eliza > Second gen The S€neral board Wishes, also era] President o Clief § lety, to than hree Judges for their Sifted poet a d beloved leader, Care and diligence selecting the € contest js Open to al] Latter. Pnze-winning Poems. The S€rvices day Saint women, and jg designed of the Poetry Committee of the gen. To €ncourage Poetry Writing, and to eral board are very much apprecia- | t T1ZeoO of Poetry, ether with Photographs and bio. Prize-winning Poems are the Prop- 8taphical sketches of the Plize-wincity of the Relief Society general ning Contestants, are published board, ang May not be used for herewith. For hj Page 7 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 What gentle heritage of hope could steer His vision through a labyrinth, untried? What courage, rooted deep within, denied The hooded serpent of a whispering fear? A manna from his forebears tinged his blood; Their priestly trumpets quivered in his veins. Their solemn altars marked the templed mind Of the quiet Israelite who braved the flood Of jeers that rumbled through Judean lanes; Who talked with angels and whose way was kind. His trail, wind-writhen on Egyptian sand, Has under rimpled silver found its grave, For desert is fluid as a breaking wave And less than sea, is servile to the hand. A veil is spun before the mystic strand Of sphinx and pyramid. Luke cannot pave The way with knowing, nor the Gospels save; The Flight remains a phantom on the land. But once, in Matthew, can his lathe be heard, Faint as the first cicada's violin. And once we watch him seek, with anxious brow, An adolescent son.... Yet with no word To point his personality, how thin The cloth of centuries that shrouds him now. More beautiful than bronze, his profile glows, Faith on its Ararat among the snows. Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, is the wife of L. Paul Roberts, who is a member of the Deseret News staff. Mrs. Roberts, a gifted poet of fine accomplishment and great promise, is a member of the ''Sonneteers," a group of Utah poets, and is represented with them in a recent anthology Of Stone and Star. She is also a member of the League of Utah Writers. Her poetry has appeared in Church and local publications for several years and is particularly familiar to readers of The Relief Society Magazine who very much enjoyed her artistic poem "Your Heritage" which won first prize in the 1942 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Mrs. Roberts has won many other poetry prizes and her frontispieces and other poems in The Relief Society Magazine have been recognized as outstanding contributions to the literature of the Latter-day Saints. Mrs. Roberts summarizes her life thus briefly: "Born on a large ranch in a tiny house on stilts, born to nature and have loved it ever since. I never feel more at home than where weeds grow along a fence, and fruit lines the cellar shelves, and apples, carrots, and potatoes are piled in a pit. I love mountains near and far. I attended the University of Utah and have been a schoolteacher. My hobbies are sewing, cooking, music, and writing. I love poetry and all forms of literature for their inward and outward contours of beauty, and have taught the literature lessons in Relief Society for many years. I have two daughters whom I mention (not by name) in my book of poems, "Blue Arrows,' as yet unpublished." PRIZE-WINNING POEMS MIRANDA SNOW WALTON Second Prize Poem Another lary Miranda Snow Walton Within the gates of Bethlehem Another Mary stands; Her suffering children, scourged and shamed, Cry out from alien lands. Fain would she gather them again To David's white-walled spires, But heathen hordes have overrun The city of their sires. Pagan kings have mocked the throne, Their evil flag unfurled, While the children: of the covenant Are outcasts of the world. Within bereaved Jerusalem Another Mary knows The two-fold pain of motherhood— Her own, her children's woes. She gave them life, to be destroyed, Despised, reviled, and slain; It is a bitter thing to birth A child foredoomed to pain. 10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 -The voice of ancient prophecy Is filled in her despair: "Woe be to those in latter days Who would a man child bear." Upon the hills of Calvary Another Mary kneels, She sees white crosses, row on row; Fach onea son! Man feels The agony of death but once; She pays the double price, For man's intolerance to man Has crucified her twice. Miranda Snow Walton was born in the Bear River country of Wyoming, a daughter of Henry Brooks Snow and Anna Danielson Forbes. Writing poetry has, for many years, been a great joy to Mrs. Walton. In addition to the Latter-day Saint Church publications, her work has appeared in Railroad Magazine, the Utah Magazine, Our Army, The Vet, some thirty poetry magazines, and in many newspapers and anthologies, including Utah Sings. Mrs. Walton is the mother of a daughter Vivian (Mrs. Delbert Owens) and two sons, Jack and Claude Walton, who were of the fourth generation of one line and the fifth of another, to serve their country in the armed forces. Mrs. Walton, now a resident of Salt Lake City, visits the Bear River country frequently and is interested in writing about this picturesque region. The Relief Society Magazine readers will recall with pleasure Mrs. Walton's poem "Centennial Conversation" which was awarded the third prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1946 and which was published in the Magazine in January 1947. Also in 1947 a poem of Mrs. Walton's received third honorable mention in the contest of the Poetry Society of Colorado. Alice M. Burnett, Lima, Ohio, was awarded first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1929 for her poem "My Neighbor." At that time Mrs, Burnett was Miss Walker and she lived in Redmesa, Colorado, where she was very active in Church work and held many executive positions in the auxiliary organizations. Her poems have appeared for many years in the L. D. S. Church magazines, in poetry publications, and in anthologies. In commenting upon herself and het family, Mrs. Burnett writes: "My literary career began in Colorado before I was of school age, and while still in my teens I was selling both poetry and prose. Before coming to Ohio I was active in Church work and held many stake and ward offices. Recently a small branch has been organized here in Lima and my little granddaughter was the first child ever to be named and blessed under the Priesthood authority in this city. I have two sons living in Colorado, a daughter in Hawaii, and three grandchildren." PRIZE-WINNING POEMS ALICE M. BURNETT Third Prize Poem Gnfant Daughter of a Alice M. Burnett If only they had waked me from that deep And dreamless sleep, And brought my baby daughter to my side, If only I had held her once before she died, And felt her precious head So warm, and gently pressed Against my breast. But no, they made me sleep, And so I did not know Until she had been buried deep Beneath the snow. They said that it was best, That I was weak and needed rest Before I learned that she was dead. Today, when spring has bared the ground, I slipped away, and came Out to the family plot, alone, And here I found The small, white stone Which bears no name. The tiny, purple iris bloom around— [ think she sent them to me as a sign— And so, dear God above, When all the children gather at your knee, Will you please call this little girl of mine, And kiss her once for me, And name her "Iris," with her mother's love. Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest THE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the names of the award winners in the short story contest which was announced in the June 1948 issue of the Magazine, and which closed September 15, 1948. The first prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Estelle Webb Thomas, Shiprock, New Mexico, for her story "The Hurrah's Nest." The second prize of forty dollars is awarded to Myrtle M. Dean, 410 North 7th East, Provo, Utah, for her story "They Die in the Harness." The third prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Mildred R. Stutz, Ephraim, Utah, for her story "Compromise." This contest, first conducted by the Relief Society general board in 1941, as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of the Magazine for 1949. Thirty-five manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1948. Only one of the prize winners for this year had previously placed in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. Most of the stories entered in this contest were well written, many of them revealing professional quality in organization and technique. This contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The general board feels that the response to this opportunity will continue to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. The Relief Society Magazine now has a circulation of nearly 80,000. There are subscribers in every state of the Union, and in many foreign countries, thus providing a varied and interested group of readers. Writers, recognizing this large and appreciative audience, realize the importance of entering in the contest their very best work. The general board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the three judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. The general board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. 12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 Hirst Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest The Hurrah's Nest Estelle Webb Thomas ESTELLE WEBB THOMAS 66 OW don't get to thinking we're rich, dear!" Dad warned, but Mother only gave her disarming little laugh and said, mildly, "It's all a matter of attitude. I can be rich with the same amount of money you can be poor with!" "Another dangling preposition, Mother!" Linda pointed out. Linda is majoring in English and watches for grammatical errors like Towser watches for rats. It's not what we say, that matters to her, but how we say it. "T told you, dear, I'm not saying 'with which,' "" Mother stated, firmly, "it's stilted!" But Dad was not to be deflected by Linda's red herring, for that's what it was. She was trying to change the subject because, to us children, the very foundations of the home seem to rock when Dad and Mother don't agree. Now, don't get me wrong—my parents are tops, and lovely to each other. They practically never disagree except when their complexes conflict and, of course, they can't help that, for though both the poor dears have a complex, unfortunately, neither knows it, or would admit it if he did. Luckily, I understand all about such things since I started taking psychology under Dr. Ewing and can be a lot more tolerant than I once was. Dad, you see, is not at all to blame for his. He inherited it from his New England ancestors, who, due to the hard country and conditions of those early days, grew to be what Mother delicately calls "close" about money. Dad's a darling, but honestly, his fear of poverty and dependence in his old age amounts to an obsession and makes things pretty complicated at times, though at heart he's the soul of generosity. He asked now, sternly, "Don't you ever think of trying to leave the children anything?" "Certainly, I do," Mother replied, airily, "memories!" Page 13 "You'll find they can't eat memories, or wear them, either!" "But happy memories feed the soul," Mother persisted perversely. "The way these kids wear out shoes, I have to think more of sol-e-s than of s-o-tul-s,' Dad growled, "and you'd better do the same!" "What a low thought, Dad!" Maitland laughed, and got a withering glance in reply. If there's anything Dad hates worse than extravagance, it's puns. OTHER'S complex, by the way, is cleanliness. She wages an endless war with dirt, which wouldn't be so bad, except that we're all recruits in her army, sometimes unwilling ones, especially Maitland who, being a normal boy of fourteen, is really in the enemy's camp. But, to get back to the present argument, which concerned Mother's pet plan to adopt a European family. Since Dad finally convinced her that at present he was able to support only one family, and if it was to be a European one, they'd have to put us children in an orphan asylum, Mother narrowed down her project to providing our foreign friends with a beautiful Christmas. It was unfortunate that the time for sending the boxes overseas should also be the date for the Youth Convention, because Linda had set her heart on going and that made two big expenses at the same time. We were all languishing in the poor house at the mercy of heartless strangers before she had Dad talked over. But I noticed he had as much fun as any of us filling the Christmas boxes with good things to eat and wear that we knew would be real luxuries over there. But after they were posted and Linda gone, Mother seemed to sort of droop. I found her in our room one day when I came from school, half-heartedly straightening the closet. "Why, Mother," "Tl do our room." But she shook her head. "It was Linda left it looking like a Hurrah's nest. I thought I'd just pick up a bit before you got home." A disordered room always looks like a Hurrah's nest to Mother. Dad says it's the silliest expression in the language and tries to break her of using it, but Mother declares it describes just what she means and won't give it up. I was really worried when she found the zipper of Linda's formal bag open and a cricket inside. She didn't even scold, just wrapped the cricket in a paper handkerchief and dropped it in the wastebasket and quietly zipped up the bag. "What's the matter?" I burst out finally, "you look like three rainy days!" "Tt's Christmas," Mother confessed dolefully, sitting down beside me on my bed. "No one to plan for but ourselves. But, of course, after sending all those boxes...." "You mean nobody's coming, not even Aunt Mary?" "Well, dear, it's nobody's fault but my own, after all, those boxes were expensive and Linda's trip— and I promised Daddy...." Mother looked out the window and blinked rapidly several times. "Aunt Mary will understand." I protested, 14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 THE HURRAH'S NEST Mother's Aunt Mary. Is her nearest living relative and she not only spends every Christmas with us, but we send her the round trip ticket as well. "But isn't Dad asking Cousin Sally and the children?" "No. That's why I can't have Aunt Mary. It means a lot to Daddy to have Sally's family here." AFTER Mother left I sat on doing some mental juggling with my Christmas money. But though I cut all gifts to the bone, I still couldn't manage Aunt Mary's ticket with that. I was forced to remember the cold cream jar full of coins I'd been saving for a new formal for the Christmas dance. Sadly, I kissed the dream goodby. It was to have been a black, slinky affair, and Mother wouldn't have let me wear it, anyway, and it wouldn't be Christmas to Mother without Aunt Mary. That would be my gift to her. It was hard to keep it a secret when I saw Mother listlessly cutting the fruitcake recipe in half and deciding against mince pies, since we don't care specially for them, though Sally's gang can eat a dozen. And the bluer she got about Christmas, the fussier Mother got about keeping everything spic and span. She even said it was probably a good thing we were having no one for Christmas, company made such a mess. That was the day she told Dad his den looked like a Hurrah's nest. "Now look here, my good woman," Dad protested, "that mysterious creature has nested in every room in the house, except mine, but I swear it's never been there! I 15 wouldn't know a Hurrah if I'd meet it on the street!" Mother wasn't amused. "I often wonder what you'd do if I'd die?" she said, in a martyred tone. "We'd give you the most wonderful send-off a woman ever had!" Dad gazed dreamily out the window, "Flowers banked to the ceiling— sermon by...." "You don't have to have so much fun planning it!" Mother snapped, "and I don't mean the funeral, as you well know. Id be satisfied with a few less flowers and the assurance you all had all your buttons!" "That's the girl!" Dad patted her shoulder, which she says always makes her feel like a horse. "I think you'd better decide to stay with us till we get out of the helpless stage!" "Which will be forever," Mother muttered, but she looked mollified. This was an old story to us chil dren, but we were always relieved when Dad had Mother kidded out of that particular mood. We noticed that if he joined enthusiastically in her talk about dying, the idea seemed to lose some of its charm. But Mother was not the only one lacking the Christmas spirit. Dad wasn't his usual jovial self and even Maitland said suddenly one day while we were washing dishes, "Gee, everything seems tough! Got any money, Missy?" Missy—that's me. Isn't it revolting? Maitland got rid of "Matey" by threatening to run away from home unless we called him his real name, but my real name is Artemesia, We inherited it, along with the Hurrah's nest, from Greatgrandmother Wrenn, so you see why I stick to Missy. Maitland had been wanting to do something about Aunt Mary or Sally, it seemed, but he has too many friends to ever have any money of his own. He looked relieved when I told him not to worry. Maitland has a lot of confidence in my Six teen years—the poor innocent! Linda, too, was more aloof and difficult than usual these days, though as a freshman in college, she We tried to talk Christmas situation with her, but and even did her shopping alone. RPHERE certainly was 4 different atmosphere at our house than ever before. No orgies of cooking, no family conclaves as to where we'd put the guests, no gay prepatations at all; but, in a way, I was hapbecause for the first time in my life, I was thinking of Christmas in terms of someone else rather than myself. All that seemed to matter was that Mother be happy. I decided that I must be an adult at Jast. I sent Aunt Mary a money OTder and told her I was writing as Mother was busy and not to bother to answer, and hoped she would take me literally. I was wishing, 4s 1 walked home, that I could do as much for Father. He loves having his widowed niece and her children for the holidays, we all do, but as he often tells me, l'm not rich. I was so absorbed in my thoughts I almost stumbled over old Mr. Jacobson. It was dusk and I didn't see the gnome-like little figure clomping out of the alley. He wears a built-up heel which gives him a peculiar, jerky walk and, for a moment, I was frightened, just as 1 used to be when Mother sent us to his house with a Christmas pasket or a loaf of fresh bread. He always snatched the gift and banged the door in our faces. All the children in town were afraid of him, and tonight, I suddenly realized why. He had hated them because he was afraid of them, of their thoughtless cruelty, for he must have. Known they called him Rumplestiltskin and ridiculed his queer, misshapen figure, funny face, and heavy accent. He looked so little and old and lonely, 1 must have spoken more warmly than I knew, because he fairly beamed at me and kept repeating, what I very much doubted, "Dis vill be a happy Christmas! A happy, happy Christ: mas!" <cTPHERE's a new family in town," Linda said that night at dinner, Linda is also taking sociology and spends several nights a week at the Welfare Center. When she isn't chasing down grammatical errors, she's looking up civic ones. "Sort of a pitiful case. The mother's in the hospital and the father has his hands full with five little children under ten. They haven't been able to find a house—are living in Brown's garage and it's dreadfully cold. The ten-year-old gitl's taking care of the others while the father hunts work." "A very merly bedtime story," Maitland observed. "Don't you see you've spoiled Mother's dinner?" To everyone's horror, including her own, Linda shouted, "Maybe Mother's old enough to know the world's full of such happy situations 16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 THE HURRAH'S NEST and they're not all in Europe!" Then she burst into tears and dashed blindly from the room. You can imagine the tension there was when I didn't even ask Dad about the tree. Ever since Linda was big enough to sit in the car seat beside him, Dad has made a ceremony of taking us children to the forest for the Christmas tree. It was the biggest thrill of all, I think. Last year Linda had a date and only Maitland and I went with Dad, but it was still fun. Well, it's a sign of retarded mentality to hang onto childish practices, so I tried not to care when Dad didn't mention the tree this year. We really didn't need it for our grown-up gifts. HE day before Christmas was cold and blowy and snowy, ideal weather if one had the Christmas spirit, but pretty depressing under the circumstances. Well, it couldn't help but cheer us up a little when Aunt Mary arrived. I wondered how I could sneak out the car to meet her, and if she'd ride with me when I did. Aunt Mary thinks no one under thirty should drive a car, and a woman never! It would never occur to her to take a taxi, however, so I had to try. But when I slipped out to the garage, there was Dad, just driving out. He looked startled and muttered that he had an errand downtown. "May I go, Dad, I have one, too?" I could see I wasn't welcome, but climbed in anyway. This was chummy to what it would be when he found what my errand was. Strangely enough, he drove straight to the bus station and seemed not at all astonished when Aunt Mary, tiny and frail, waved gaily from the 17 platform. Dad picked her up in a big bear hug as he always does, and carried her across the snow to the car. Aunt Mary kissed me warmly, but I thought she gave me an odd glance as we drove off. There was no chance for explanations between Dad and me, and I was a little disappointed that, though Mother was delighted to see Aunt Mary, she didn't look surprised enough. Of course she couldn't let Aunt Mary see she was not expected. It began to seem a little more festive, with the two of them chattering in the kitchen while Mother prepared the Christmas Eve supper. - "Tell me all about everybody!" I heard her say. Aunt Mary retorted, "Oh, I've got a lot of news, but first you tell me why I got three tickets? You couldn't have been that anxious to see me!" Mother didn't have to answer, for at that moment, Dad, who had slipped away again, threw open the front door, and with a lot of laughter and shouting and feet stamping, Sally and her four rowdy youngsters rushed in. If Mother was surprised, they didn't know it, for her welcome was as heart-warming as ever. I took the dishes off again, and put another leaf in the dining table, and Mother beat up another batch of biscuits and did some juggling with cans and jars. Meanwhile Dad winked at Maitland and they went out and returned, presently, with the biggest and prettiest tree we had ever had. Sometime, after Dad had sent for Sally, he and Maitland had got that tree. I felt a small pang that I had been left out, then remembered about being Tetarded, and Put it out Mustn't tel] aj People they Of my mind Weren't expected, Bu} Dad was Now it e m smelled like Christ. Opening the door t Watsons mesh "Wier a Nin and trim as if they were Visiting yalty, and It after Supper," aid, Jovially, Other 'was king to at the e we finally site; § down 'to table for sj € table wh Card a timig "Missy and acy were just finnock aitland, Ooking elaborjs Ing!" sh Said, brj Y> Whiskin ately "Concerned, de no move away our loaded pl O answer th rc t& in ere?" aitland's tone stead, and simply Couldn't believe it was belligerent, but he Tepeated, when old Mr. Jacobson hobble in, lamely, "Yes, We were," at Mother's Owin Muling ang clutching Significant fli the eyes toward an odd-shaped Package jn his arms. Rumplestiltskin b happily ad never bef, b 2 known to Tom her plac enter any Centerville home but his Well, it turned oy the gayest own. Christmas Eve of al]. Maitland and "Why, it's Rum—my;. Jacobson)" I did the MOuntaing of dishes, with I gasped and he said, beaming, Sally and the oldest Watson girl oot cfening, my dear! J trust elping dry and then we al] ttimmed 2M Not late. | Wass Preparing a he tree, After that, we Sang all the la Manner t delayeg me!" children began to d, there Was a aitland, wh S stating out the bad mo nt or ty, T. Watson Wwindo 18 to look as if. He said, half-heartedly, he'd take his Weren't th who had Invited bunch h me, but 4, who had umplestiltsk n, aid loudly, Spent her entire Christmas fund on "There's del T Just' burstin them (she Said she kney we'd u with kids." nex ent he derstand) was deter hed Said, stil] Ore loud], "W. Y It's - would Wake up ¢ he loaded tree, Stopping her s and aj Confidently tha Mother Would think of someth;; LINDA stood up uddenly and h It was Teally umplestiltskin who 4C€ Was white a 4 sheet, «py came up with the idea of puttin atsons to Spend hristmas With dren, and lly Aunt Mary, were US. It was 59 d " She Ooked Put to beg > Can you Imagine at Dad and then Mother de lantly, i the rest of S Sat before the fire, "T tho ght they Might as wel] come Popping corn Oasting apples tonight. Christmas means so much and nuts, singing and talking © aj] to children—o, should—they didn't hight long. Jf Was Maitland'; and have a thing—no¢ €Ven a tree!" She my first €xPerience of the kind, and glanced distractedly 4found the We Teally felt flashy, table, «T Ought—J didn't know" There Was never 4 dul] moment. I held my breath. She just Mr, Watson Proved to be a har- THE HURRAH's NEST 19 MONICA Virtuoso and just happened Maitland had spent his all on a red to have one in his Pocket, | never woolen Muffler Mother and Dad haq Sung duets Washed anq fed and §0t off to When they were young unti] Aunt church, and the big Christmas dinary insisted they do it again ner must be Prepared, Ay the Good, too. Lindg and J played &townups took a the two-handed Pieces we thought Was Rumplestiliskin who did the Cited, "Woodman, Spare ee fae It seemed that once in his checkTree!'' € even rolled back the ered Career, he had been a Chef. Tugs and danced on Mother's highyy Was early dusk of Christmas Y Polisheg floor, the st Per night wh N we told him, the last ormer Rump estiltskin He 8uest, goodbye Mary, who told the m t f; Scinating stories Of was not le ving, had gone to bed, tstma €nmark and Is worn Out with €XCitem early life the € and hj travels ang After Plestiltskin had boweg €xPETiences since, ving an aphimself o > Still thankin al] PTeciative dience we t to the Dad put his arm 4tound Mother Onely old CHow's heq and his "Well, h Christmas Stories got better and better after al]! Satistieq?" © were al] Surprised when the Mother sighed, happily, "Oh, it &lay winter dawn broke up the Party was wonderful]! But I'm afraid jt and the children trooped in tO see was Pretty CXPENSive," she added, in the tree and get their gifts. In the 4 small voice ensuing hubbub, n that none of us Teceived anything ef OMas writes. "« Is my children," President Belle S. Spafford Elected to Office in the National Council of Women Priscilla L. Evans Former Relief Society General Board Member and former Corresponding Secretary, National Council of Women—1938-1948. ITH the election of PresiW dent Belle S. Spafford to the office of third vicepresident of the National Council of Women of the United States, at the biennial meeting of the Council held in New York City on November 10th, 1948, recognition has again come to the women of the Church and to the great Relief Society Organization over which Sister Spafford now presides. She will assume this added responsibility with capacity and with dignity. Wise in counsel, frank and sincere, friendly, tolerant, and with rich organizational experience, Sister Spafford will be warmly welcomed into the deliberations of the Council's board of directors. It is an interesting experience, and one greatly to be desired, to meet intimately with the strong leadership of the women's organizations from all parts of the United States—women of integrity, of high ideals, and great moral strength, all with the common purpose of improving the status of women the world over. From the time of President Zina D. H. Young, under whose administration the Relief Society joined the National Council of Women, to the present day, women representing the membership of the Relief Society have been active in Council affairs, serving as officers Page 20 and as members of the executive committee of the board of directors and also as members of the standing committees of the Council. Their influence has been salutary and many Close friendships have been developed. Today the Relief Society and its officers and representatives are held in the highest esteem. On behalf of the women of the Relief Society in all lands we extend congratulations to President Spafford and wish for her success and satisfaction in this assignment. The National Council of Women is a voluntary association of selfgoverning national organizations through which is made possible an interchange of ideas, experiences, and factual information on a nation-wide scale. It was founded in the year 1888 and at this first meeting, the Relief Society was repre-. Sented by Emily S. Richards. Three years later, at the first triennial meeting of the Council, with the advice of President Wilford Woodruff, the Relief Society became a charter member, and still continues as a member, and through membership in the National Council, enjoys participation in the affairs of the International Council of Women which is composed of National Councils from many countries. The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association is also a charter member of the' Council. € time of its "reanization, and one would expect wh n basis of the pro. Every creed, Nationality ouncil and from every walk of Jj women of the United States, gether with a Common Purpose, Jt leving that the best good of is indeed g sistethood and nation will be advanced SO referred to by the Speake? Or of workers committed tg the f all forms of ignorance and Urselves together In a con. Women durin the ast d to the application of the men Golden Rule in Society, Custom and law, As a citizen of her nation Place js Marked today beside Convention, € words of » WOman's a her brothers » +. She has to a With the fragiley beautiful art of the Frost. African Ukuau Bran: Hawaiian Halaulg Branch, Hawaiian Kukuihaele Branch, Hawaiian amstead Branch, Centra] Atlantic Lahaina Branch, Hawaiian tates Nai Branch, Hawaiian Hana Branch, Hawaiian Lihue Branch, Hawaiian anapepe Branch, Hawaiian Maukukona Branch, Hawaiian arttord B ) England Owbray Bran h, South African Onokaa anch, Hawaiian lulii Bra h aWalian Onokohua B anch, Hawaiian Orthwesterp nch South African onomakay nch, Hawaiian aia Bran > Hawaiian Onom anch, Hawaiian eahi Br. H, aWalian Oolehua B Nch, Hawaiian Ort Elizab th Branch, South African ulela Bra ch, Hawaiian Tetoria B anch, uth African @ului Bran h Hawaiian ulehu Br » Hawaiian ailua Bra » Ha allan Wuanahuly Branc; Hawaiian Inalu Branch aWalian anford Branc »>N ngland 4laoa Bran h, Hawaiian Point Nnch, South African appa Bran » Hawaiian Springs Branch South A Tican Keanage Bran h, Hawaiian Waiamey nch aWalian €aukaha anch, Hawaiian Waiehy Branéh aWaiian €el Bran h, Hawaiian Waihee Bra ch, aWaiian €kaha Bra. Hawaiian Waikapu B anch, aWalian thalanj Branch Hawaiian Wailuky Branch Hawaiian €1 Bra » Hawaiian Waimea Branc » Hawaiian Mberly Bra h, Wester Canadian Waiohiny Bran hh, Hawaiian nn Give hope to those whose hopes are dead, Give Peace where Peace has never dwelt, Give bread to those Who have no bread; And knee] With those Who have not knelt: Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 1 VERYONE left at last, the relatives, the neighbors, the acquaintances. 'hey came to Joanna and kissed her and pressed her hand, murmuring over and over, "Be sure to let us know if we can help. Be sure, now." Joanna nodded her bent head and repeated clumsily, "It was right nice of you to come... Right nice of you. Pil let you know. We'll get along.... We'll get along some way." The friends from Brigham City were the last to go. 'They had known her all her life. "You better come back," they said. "We can help you there.... Big city like this is no place for a widow with a family...." Joanna lifted her swollen face to them. She looked past the sunbrowned faces of the men and saw again the hills of her home, the - pleasant orchards of her childhood, the ordered fields, the roads, the little rivers that had known her bare, quick feet. She looked at the women's faces and saw the pity there. She saw her history in their compassionate eyes.... Joanna, young and impetuous, not willing to stay like other girls in the small, peaceful town, but running off to the city, to nothing better than waiting on table jobs and to marrying a man her folks had never met.... Of whom no one approved. Too gay and quick talking, Joanna's man, David, too many dreams for making money, but not enough money from any of his jobs to pay for doctor bills when his and Joanna's four babies came along. Joanna's folks had paid for them. Joanna's folks had mortgaged their little house and their farm to pay for this and that which Joanna and her small brood had needed, until death had folded their stubborn, toil-hard hands and they could help no more. The relatives would talk about David, Joanna knew, on the swift tide back to Brigham City. They would comment on his death. Typical of him, they would say, speeding down a mountain road in a car that should have been in a junk yard long ago... Typical to have left no insurance, no paid house that a widow might use as a fortress. Joanna went with the Brigham City people to the door. Their disapproval made no difference in their love for her. They wept over her, kissed her again and again. They bent and hugged the children, standing mute and big-eyed upon the battered porch. "You come up to the farm," they said to Penelope. "We'll fatten you up." ENNY stood stiffly in their arms, a thin, tall child, with long, black hair and her father's beautiful, winging brows. David, no taller than Penny though two years older, endured their caresses with the stoic dignity of ten. Joanna saw how bleak his brown eyes looked without the laughter that always lived in them. Page 23 Sally, four, and Michael, two, bare Tug, and the Straight back took hugs and kisses as a matter of chairs as if she were taking inyep.. Course, more interested In the tory. There wete two Pictures on Cy waved cheerfully to the de "The ngelus," had cut jt Parting guests Y turned to Out of a Magazine and put it in an their mother Sally held uP her olg fram € other was also a and, "Biter" magazine Print, "Sun Owers'"' and could not swallow it Her dazedly, remembering how she had throat Was dry and swollen, and fear always loved the fierce, wild beauty was a lump she could not dislodge, of the sunflowers, She had Imagstream on the small, discouraged Violently into the squat vase. Tolawn, Joanna knelt and lifted' jt day they seemeq gansh. She went and drank. She rose and dusted Past the picture into the kitchen off the he f her one 800d dress The table Was loaded wit Cakes Navy blue Crepe, with a white lace and pies and Covered dishes from Jabot. She went slowly down the hands of kind neighbors, The Cracked Cement walk to he street itchen Tange sent oyt hee € street was not paved, on] warmth € Opened the lid and gtaveled, W the grave] was alpoured ™MOre coal from the bucket most hidden under the golden drift that stood Newspaper, She Porches long in need of paint and chairs stood Neatly against the green with Sagging, broken Steps. Painted walls, Sally's battered doll. The Others, The door, behind the broidered dish towels on their rack. Battered ScTeen, was flanked by two She went swiftly through the chilSquare windows. € window on dren's bedroom, There were only the right Was cracked, brown stick. The two beds, Covered with the ing paper following its course quilts she ha de from Scraps against the ©PPosite wall. Her treadle sewing machine Stood under GHE touched the Wooden foot. The Starched lace of the Curtains, board, her hands dragging, She mending Spilled ont of the reed smoothed the Crocheted spread. She basket, She looked at the thread. Sat for a moment in the small rock. beautify] square teeth. Laughter shone in him Jike candles Joanna Whispered. She looked down at her hands, Palm up SE was lying OPEN on the € rose e them, | kes yo Outh so sweet to look Upon? Love Or me, Joanna?" I am thirty-two, Joanna thought and I look forty, Ay my life Pye Town women Who have looked ike I do today, J Never knew why, She bent Over her bag, finding the Coin purse, emptying its Content on the Tesser, One dollar ang nineteen cents. She had declined ely Offer of elp, declined It fiercely, frighteneg by it, the stern scorn of her father for shiftless folk Who "took charity" ging in her ears. And pri Te pitiful barriers against the ing days, Panic TOse in her. He went swiftly to the vont door and ¢ Hed Oung David. "Go, borrow 4 MOrming Paper from Iss Smith Tell her PI seng it almost Snatched the Paper [ his Teturn, She took and sat In Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, January }; and January 15, 1889 ' "For THE RicHTs OF THE WOMEN or ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" The Old Year had its work to do; No New Yeat miracles are wrought. Always a night from old to new! Night and the healing balm of sleep! Each mom is New Year's mor come true Morn of a festival to keep. —H. H. SEVENTIETH ANNIVERSARY: On the 29th of December last, 1888, Sister Sarah M. Kimball reached the seventieth anniversary of her birth. Sister Kimball has vn many respects been a remarkable woman, and at the present writing ls as brilliant sn mind, and as capable of mental activity as she was at forty. Sister Kimball has the honor of being the first woman to lay the cornerstone of the first Relief Society building erected in this dispensation. She thus describes it:— November 13, 1368 a silver trowel and mallet, were furnished me, and, assisted by a Master Mason, and surrounded by an assemblage of people, f had the honot of laying the comer-stone of the first Relief Society building erected in this dispensation. —E. B. W. SALT LAKE STAKE: The Relief Society conference of Salt Lake Stake was held in the Assembly Rooms in the Fourteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, Dec. 20th, 1888, commencing at 10 4. M. Sister Helen Mar Whitney: "We have more reason to be thankful to God than any people on the earth; we have not much of this world's goods, but we should be grateful that we are here and not among those who are promoting dissension and war. We are enjoying comparative peaces let us read the words of the Prophet, and increase OUT interest in the youth of Zion; it ls the wayward we shou pray for; let us be charitable and merciful one to another. We are nearing the day of famine, and let us be prepared for it.' Elizabeth Howard, Secretary NOTES AND NEWS: There are more than 2,700,000 women in Belgium engaged in sndustrial pursuits, mostly very poorly paid. But when one woman asks to be a lawyer—a profession in which ability commands honot and profit—her application is refused by the court, and she is told that a woman's sphere ls to marry, not to labor for her own support. There are about 79,009 Jace makers in Normandy, and in all France there are neatly 200,000 women engaged in this industry. BY-AND-BY Be quict, restless heart! The long light lies In gleams of lingering sunshine on the hill; Page 26 evan e JENSEN = by, ee' Bre <4 = Ey group of Relief Society women' from Essex County, New Jersey, with true Latter-day Saint thrift in their bones, saved vegetable crops from being plowed under by going out to farms and picking the vegetables for canning purposes. Pauline 'Thomander, President of the East Orange Relief Society, read in a newspaper that the crops would be plowed under, as a protest against low market prices, and immediately went into action. A local newspaper carried a picture of Mrs. Thomander and Mrs, (Constance) Hyde, a class leader in the same organization, happily at work. Other Latter-day Saint women from Montclair and the Oranges, continued the work the following day. BOARD President Truman's train, during his recent campaigning tour, was a handsome young woman from Copenhagen, Adelheid Nielson, who was reporting for a Danish newspaper. AZEL BRANNON of Mississippi, at thirty-four, is publisher, owner, and editor of two newspapers in her State. She has won national press prizes. LL of Finland's libraries will be directed by a woman, Elia S. Wirla, who has been studying and traveling in the United States. Mrs. £3) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Wirla says many libraries were destroyed during the war. She expressed Finland's gratitude to the United States for gifts to her country to help rebuild its stock. She was amazed at the library facilities in this country. "TAKING part in plays presented by the Mutual Improvement Associations helped Marilyn Robinson of Ogden, Utah, to scale the talent ladder which was_instrumental in her winning out in one of the talent contests held in Atlantic City in August. "Miss Utah" of 1947, Miss Robinson was one of the finalists for the crown of "Miss America,' and won a first place in dramatics in the talent contests. The young lady sings, dances, is an expert swimmer and diver, and has won unusual acclaim for playing leading roles in University of Utah dramatic presentations. Besides all this, her scholastic rating is exceptionally high. Interested as she is in dramatics—and_ talented—she expects to marry and hopes to have a family. CENSUS officials believe that by 1950 there will be sixty per cent more women between the ages of forty-five and sixty-four employed than there were in 1940—an increase of one and one-half million. The best assets for job hunters in this age bracket are courage and good health. Page 27 Do not Suppose because It has been; Spoken Concerning Testoration, that A review Of the Sorrows, disapShall be Testored from sin to righteous. Pointments, and failings of a Passness te Testoration is to bring back ing year inspires a fervent Prayer for again evil for evil, or Carnal for Carnal, oy al ~;: gteater strength to Overcome and P aluet achieve in the oncoming year, righteous, Just for thar Which is just. Woman May quickly Judge for "Metrcify] for that Which jg Merciful, | - herself the SUCCEss she has attaineq (A "0, 23). In Keeping her home clean and at. To live each day of the comin tractive, but it may be difficult for Year so that 800dness, righteousness "T to judge her Success in enriching Justice, and Mercy will be Testored obedience © certain definite omeschewing "mptation nowy and liy. Mandments— he p Yment Of tithes ing in tighteousn > any Lat. And offer; 88, observance of the ter-day Sai May begin to build Ord of Wisdom © ess sure. Through th ming year, a Celestia] S during 1048, let a re. Of a Character, Casier to forego cer. Juvenation of faith and hope surge tain foods than heed the call of fe the heart, and aq Tesolution be €Spairing, taken to live in the year 1949 so And ye 's life ere foreshad- 4S to tise far above the Valleys of OWs one's life the hereaf er atdoubt 4 darkness his present , S suggested that Relief €sdays present the Februa arch 22 and the March 20, OF combine th 22 social Science 22 lesson on the fifth Tuesday, March e F ebruary ang March Social science lessons and them together on March 23° Present Ist Presidency for "esestive plans for thi [ € being Prepared by the 'Tange for this f le nts confer with their Meeting Nding jis $1.75, Includg is Preferred th COst Js Olumes are Fequested and the I Not supplied by the Pers [ ing the 4gazines wil] be binding, us | gle copies of the Map. Temoved at will, §eneral bog L n bulletin form, Oclety preside Quick and Easy Dinners Sara Mills HERE was a time when a person could say, "Come have bread and milk with us," and mean it. In the year 1949, however, entertaining is a little more complicated. And it isn't your fault or mine. As a substitute for bread and milk, I have a number of simple menus. They leave a maximum of visiting time, and what is more important, they also leave the cook with enough energy. To want to talk. If they need further recommendation, they are nutritious, an important virtue these days. Either of the two meals listed below can be prepared in an hour—if the cook is nimble. Dinner No. 1 Canned consomme with crackers or croutons *Baked sweet potatoes with crushed pineapple Fried ham Peas, frozen or canned Tossed green salad Dinner rolls Fruit Dinner No. 2 *Bean, tomato, and sausage casserole *Green salad or cabbage chop suey French bread toasted in oven with garlic butter *Pineapple cream RECIPES BAKED SWEET POTATOES WITH CRUSHED PINEAPPLE Sweet potatoes (1 good-sized one for each guest) Can of crushed pineapple (1 small can for each four guests) Butter and salt Page 30 Work for menu No. 1 begins with sweet potatoes. Bake in a hot oven enough potatoes for each guest and one or two extras. Let the potatoes cool enough to handle, then split them down the center and empty the insides into a large bowl, leaving the skins intact. Add the crushed pineapple, juice and all, then season with salt and butter. Go easy on the salt and be generous with the butter, which may be part margarine, and beat well. Now return the pineapple mixture to the shells, topping each potato with a little butter. Return to the oven and brown slightly. Serve immediately. While the potatoes are baking, open your can or cans of consomme, bring to a boil, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Serve each cup with a scattering of finely chopped parsley and a thin slice of lemon. While the consomme is heating, fry your ham gently, timing its finish with the browning of the potatoes. While the potatoes are browning, cook your frozen peas. Cook them in a very little water until they are barely tender. For that extra flavor add a few sprigs of parsley and a sprig of fresh mint or fresh thyme and season with cream. If you don't keep French dressing on hand, mix it right after your potatoes are popped into the oven. Spare a minute somewhere to place your salad greens into a garlic-rubbed bowl, and cover them with a damp cloth and place them in the refrigerator. Don't bring them to the table until the last minute. Heat your dinner rolls and there you are. For dessert have fresh or canned fruit, chilled. BEAN, TOMATO, AND SAUSAGE CASSEROLE 1 can of red kidney beans or pre-cooked dried beans 1 can of solid pack tomatoes % medium-sized onion sliced and sauteed in butter % green pepper sliced and sauteed with onion in butter QUICK AND EASY DINNERS 1 can of Vienna sausage (small) or 1 can of pork sausage Seasonings: salt, pepper, % tsp. Wor- ~ cestershire sauce, paprika, dash of Tabasco sauce Coarse bread crumbs and butter (serves 4-6) Sautee the sliced onions and green pepper in butter until a delicate brown, then add the canned kidney beans or pre-cooked dried beans, the can of solid pack tomatoes, the sliced sausages, and the seasonings. Bring to a boil and place in a casserole. Top with bread crumbs and dot with butter. Bake in a 375° oven from one half to three quarters of an hour. CABBAGE CHOP SUEY 1 tbs. Bacon fat 4 cups shredded cabbage 1% cups thinly sliced celery « 1 green pepper (bell) sliced thin 1 medium-sized onion sliced thin This is a four-star vegetable dish, crammed with vitamins. Start shredding your cabbage the second the casserole dish is in the oven. When the vegetables are prepared, melt the tablespoon of bacon fat in a heavy aluminum dish. Add the vegetables and seasonings and cover tightly. Steam from eight to twelve minutes. Twice during the cooking, you may stir the vegetables lightly. The vegetables should be firm, barely cooked through. And serve at once. The recipe gives enough for six. 31 PINEAPPLE CREAM 2 cups milk 2/3 cups sugar 2 tbs. Cornstarch 2 eggs separated % tsp. Salt 1 small can of pineapple from which juice has been drained This dish can be prepared beforehand, but if necessary, it can be made after the beans are in the oven and before the cabbage dish is started. Heat the milk in a double boiler. Mix the dry ingredients and add gradually to the milk, stirring constantly while the milk thickens. Cook twelve minutes, then add the beaten egg yolks to which a little of the milk mixture has been added. Stir and cook for three more minutes. Remove from heat and add. Pineapple and whites of eggs beaten stiff. Cool and serve with pineapple sauce. PINEAPPLE SAUCE Juice from crushed pineapple and enough water to make a cup 1 tbs. Lemon juice 1 tbs. Flour 1/3 cup sugar 1 tbs. Butter Heat the liquid. Mix the flour and sugar and add to the hot liquid. Cook until clear. Add lemon juice and butter and cool. Serve this dinner with a basket of French bread and garlic seasoned butter, hot from the oven. Hot chocolate may be served with it also. —- A SNOWFALL Julene J. Cushing Let me keep the white peace of this day, When glistening sno w banks the garden wall, And lines the lilac trees, each mounded spray Majestic as a frozen waterfall. Let me hold cool shadows from the space Where honeysuckle points a silver wand, And crusted patterns fringed in icy lace, Now frame an etching on the lily pond. Fay Tarlock Parr J ANIE Carlson lived with h Walked Jat, Into her English it Patents g five y unger brothclass, 8s Ardma as readin ets and Sisters in a Paint-worn 48 Janie sliq quietly into a T€ar seat house with 7 Sagging front Porch Janie Opened her Ook he sec and a lean-to in ba Was one tion of Victorian Poetry and quiet] of the Ouses built jn Onsville after ound the right P. For a teacher though she was n adept In either field. Anle ya Nearly eighteen ang a € mother of months in meadows or senior in Zh schoo] She was g 4, Plain Slender git] With fair b hair Fills the hadow, nd windy Places ltions Set aj away' from Abruptly Janie brought her gaze Onsville, Prefer, bly in a Office. Bac to the clas TO Iss Ard she stayed In Ronsville, she would man and the others were looking at Mar Betge =) 2 Wer Giz felt the Color swee. Ww. 800d-looking boy, Willing to Work up her neck and Onto her Cheeks. At odd jobs in town when he could With lowered fyes she found the not find Outside employment. He Poem, THE DRESS rupted us so many times I feel justified." Janie did not raise her eyes. "Ts it,' Miss Ardman went on with controlled patience, "because you have work to do, or is it just because it is too hard to get up in time?" I wonder if she has ever waked up with the light just strong enough to show the stained wallpaper and felt like there was a cold hand in her stomach, Janie thought resentfully. She hasn't wondered what was going to happen after high school. She hasn't stared at the torn place in the paper and known there was nothing ahead. ISS Ardman had a way of lifting up her face as if she knew exactly what she was going to say. She knew where she was going and how. When the silence grew too awkward, Janie said, without lifting her eyes, "It's because I hate to get up." Miss Ardman sighed, a gentle sigh. 'Then her face lighted as if she had a sudden idea. "That," she said, "is a fault common to us all. Have you ever heard of Marcus Aurelius, Janie?" Janie shook her head and some members of the class snickered. "Marcus Aurelius lived way back in the second century," Miss Ardman said, placing her hands in front of her and looking directly at Janie. "He was both a ruler and a philosopher. He was also a warrior and quite prominent in his day. Yet he had the same trouble you have. He hated to get up in the morning. Would you like to hear how he overcame his difficulty?" 33 The class was very still. Janie could hear their breathing while they looked at her. "I guess so," she said diffidently, returning their gaze. Opening a little brown book on her desk, Miss Ardman read: In the morning, when thou risest unwillingly, let this thought be present— I am nising to the work of a human being. Why then am I dissatisfied if I am going to do the things for which I exist and for which I was brought into this world? Or have I been made for this, to lie in the bedclothes and keep myself warm? She closed the little book and took off her glasses. It was very quiet in the room. "Perhaps," she said, smiling into Janie's sullen hazel eyes, "if you regard this class as part of your work in the world, you could have a little more enthusiasm for it. Do you think you could?" Maybe this was the end of the scolding. "Sure, [ll try," Janie answered affably. She waited for the teacher to resume reading. Before she picked up her glasses, Miss Ardman looked out of the window. Then she pulled her top drawer open and took out a notebook. "I have permission from Mr. Symes to take up some class matters. Since we do not seem to be in the mood for poetry, we will discuss your problems." There was a pleasant stir in the class. "I sure got us out of some old poetry," Janie thought, pleased with herself. "Tt is about the senior class play," Miss Ardman was saying. Janie's elation passed. She knew about the old play, had even gone to a reading of it. Janie had not even bothered to write her part 34 preference. A fat chance she had of getting a part! "Last night I cast the play," Miss Ardman pronounced. "I took into consideration your choices; for the most part they coincided with my judgment. Here is the list. If for any reason any one of you is not satisfied, see me privately after class." She opened the notebook and began to read. Janie doodled with her pencil, interested in a detached way. The parts were just about as she would have cast them. John Rons had the lead, naturally. John was studentbody president, star of football and track, and he was going to be a lawyer. Life had made Janie into q realist. She did not often waste time thinking of John Rons, but if chance had given her a fur coat, a convertible car, a diamond ring, her home painted inside and out, a trip to Florida, and a year's supply of frozen foods, along with a complete wardrobe, she would have traded everything straight over for a date with John Rons. The girls' parts, except for the lead and the maid and the cook, were about equal. Doreen and Janice, the two most popular girls in school, were right for the college girls, Now all the parts, except that of Marjorie, John's girl friend in the play, were read. When Miss Ardman came to the last name, there was an expectant hush. Janie told herself that she didn't care who got it. "Marjorie," Miss Ardman read, "Janie Carlson." Then she closed the notebook. JANIE'S mouth flew open as if some one had pressed a button. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 She couldn't believe what she had heard. It must be true for all the class members were staring at her. And John Rons wasn't controlling his displeasure. Miss Ardman ignored the stares. "I wish every one of you could have a part in the play," she told them, opening the notebook again. "And there is a place for everyone in the production of the play." She went on to read the names of those who would assume the work of production. Everyone in the class of twenty-five had a job. Rehearsal, she said, would be in the afternoon, beginning today. 'The play would be ready in a little over a month's time. When the electric bell rang the seniors filed out, talking excitedly. No one came to congratulate Janie except Amy Huff, the homeliest girl in the class and an excellent student. "I know you can do it, Janie," she said in her kind, low voice. "Gee, I don't see why she picked on me," said Janie scornfully as she gathered up her books and papers, "Tye never been in a play before." "Don't you want to be ina play?" Janie almost jumped. Miss Ardman was standing in the aisle oposite her. "Why yes," she admitted, twisting her handkerchief and chewing the forbidden gum in her embarrassment, "only some of the others would be better, I guess." "I think you'll do very well." Then the teacher placed her slender long fingers on the sleeve of Janie's rusty brown coat and said in a lowered voice, "I want you to do the part well, and you can—if you are willing to work. After rehearsal, THE DREss 35 will you let me help you with your her books and Started to sep the voice and Posture? There até a few table. "Why, Bosh, Miss Ardman, you from Miss Ardman, Could you?" bet T'll stay." anie put down 'her "r mother ask d hopefully, S dresses, bright and fluffy, like the he di tdman answered Ptimly, dress to be her Own Janie felt herself blushing again,. What are the other "T Il make It to Class ear] 8itls wear Y, I prom. Ig?" Her mother ventured, not »: ' looking at Janie, behind Mise aed ou and Aimy a Sas @ New green chiffon warm, [} a true 6 Norma has yellowish taffeta with 4 white jacket. Miss Atdman saiq (WHEN she came hom mene could ash a ain," Proached her. 'T told Mrs. Marsh ] couldn't Ith take care of her children while | not a kid Staduation dress." was tehearsing, She hasn't anyTs. Carlson stooped to Open the thing to beef about." Janie's voice ll j €w her books Slie picked up her American history other hour with Miss Ardman. The 0ok and balanced it on h A a," she said, stopping an some of jt by the door to t ' [ | EN 1 a watched slight Mrs, Carlson looked Squarely at her daughter, « ce you've asked "P it," she said in a flat voice, "TIL tel] tricks that wil] help a lot." 0oks and in her enthusiasm Pressed head Soaring, her limbs jj he q "You couldn't borrow a dress The on Y evening dress | ve seen Oreen has a pink, lacy One, and 36 you. I liked him for some of the things you like in Don." Janie was shocked into sudden understanding. "You mean that he was like Don, good fun at a dance or at a party?" "He was, but he was more, too. He was a good boy." Janice could feel her mother's eyes on her. "He was always a good worker," Mrs. Carlson emphasized. "And he didn't have the bad habits Don has. I can tell you now," she ended, looking searchingly at Janie, "I've had a lot more out of life than you') ever get if you marry Don Betger." "Oh, [m not going to marty Don," Janie retorted lightly as she resumed her posture walking. But she felt cold inside. When she contemplated marriage, it was to have far more than she saw at home. And I'm going to have more, she promised herself harshly. She heard the rattle of her father's car outside and put down the book. No matter what, she decided, I'll have the right dress for the play. HE rehearsal period was nearly over; still Janie had not mentioned the dress again to her mother. One late afternoon she lagged behind the others, waiting for Miss Ardman, humiliation and_resentment within her for what had just happened. It began in the love scene with John Rons. Miss Ardman told him to kiss Marjorie now and hereafter in rehearsal. "Oh, gee, Miss Ardman, do I have to do it every time?" John had pleaded, distaste in his voice. "If youll let me off in rehearsals, I'll do it big the night of the play. I promise I will." The others had laughed cruelly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 and John had retreated, leaving Janie alone on the stage in her humiliation. It took self-control to keep Janie in the auditorium. Only the thought of more laughter when ~ she walked out had held her. "There's no need for further private instructions, as I've told you before, Janie," Miss Ardman said, a slight note of exasperation in her voice. "You've shown marvelous improvement. 'The twang is all but gone. Just keep up the work at home," she ended kindly. Janie knew the teacher was tired, dead tired. She wished there was no need to bother her. "I'll keep trying, right up to the last," she promised meekly. "But can I— may I walk home with you?" She knew her face was red. "Of course," Miss Ardman_replied. "Just hold these while I gather my papers to be graded." She placed her books in Janie's hands. Outside it was early twilight. 'The trees with their swollen buds were sweet with the promise of spring. The mountains towered dark and quiet beyond the town. Janie and the teacher walked in_ silence, breathing the soft air. "All you need," Miss Ardman said suddenly, "is to have a little more confidence, a little more spontaneity." Janie's smile was forced. "All I need is to change everything, I guess." "You're feeling sorry for yourself!" Miss Ardman said it sharply. "You saw John this afternoon." Janie's voice was bitter and it came from deep inside her. "John Rons is a conceited young THE DRESS "? Man." Miss Ardman spoke too quickly. "Don't worry about it." "Oh, I've got along without any special attention from him." Janie tried to give her words a light touch. "T can worry along. But," she said with deep conviction, "he wouldn't hate me that night if I had a pretty dress to wear." She felt as if a ton had dropped from her. It was good to have Miss Ardman know. Miss Ardman stopped so suddenly that she almost stumbled into a pool of still brown water. "You're going to be able to get the dress, aren't you Janie?" Her voice was rising. "I told you about it the first day and you promised." "Oh, Ma will make me a dress all right, but I'll still be Janie Carlson and the others will be the characters in the play." "T let you into this," Miss Ardman deliberated, looking ahead, "Tl have to see you through." Hot tears stung Janie's cheeks. They walked together to the big red brick house where Miss Ardman boarded and into her room. It was, Janie thought, a lovely room, with its white ruffled curtains and matching spread. There was a desk with a shelf of books above it. Miss Ardman silently placed her books on the desk and opened the closet door. Slowly she removed a large zippered bag and opened the zipper -and removed a dress from inside. ANIE'S mouth snapped open again. In all her dreams she had never thought of such a dress. It was made of yards and yards of frosty white organdy embroidered in red dots the color of a cluster of shining cherries caught in the red velvet of the tiny waist band. The 37 bodice was close fitting and cut from the shoulders. And there was a filmy plaited bertha to frame the face. Out of the bottom of the bag, Miss Ardman extracted a pair of red satin pumps. For all her naivete, Janie knew this dress would make the others look commonplace. She sat on the floor, tears welling to her eyes. Her face was luminous with rapture as she asked, "I may wear it?" Miss Ardman held the dress out, admiring its swirling folds. "I suppose I'm a fool to let you wear it," she said more to herself than to Janie. Her slender fingers cartessed the folds of the skirt. "It's a special dress. I've never worn it. Mother sent it to me because all through college I didn't have a really pretty dress. Lack of money and lack of materials, but now the beautiful materials are back. I was saving it for the May Ball." Janie knew what she meant. The May Ball was the biggest dance of the year in Ronsville. "My fiance, he was a naval officer and now he is a medical student in his last year at the University, is coming," Miss Ardman said in a sudden burst of confidence. "I wanted him to see me in it first. Janie nodded her head solemnly. She also knew that she was the first student to know about the fiance. Miss Ardman smiled down at her serious face. "It will be your Cinderella dress, but midnight will come for you when the curtain falls. Don't forget it!" She placed the dress reverently back into the zippered bag. Janie got to her feet, her face rapt and serious. "I promise," she said. (To be concluded) How to Make a Kapok Quilt Ilean H. Poulson NE of the most attractive 8) and useful gifts I have ever received was a kapok-filled baby quilt. It was given to me by my husband's mother when our first baby arrived nearly six years ago. Since then we have made three additional quilts of this type. They are favorites with our children because they combine attractiveness with unusual softness, warmth, and little weight. | Because of the scarcity of kapok during the war years we were able to made only small quilts. Adults who have used quilts filled with kapok claim that the insulating properties of this material make it equally useful for filling light summer quilts. The following directions indicate the steps necessary to make the quilt. The same procedure can be used for a down-filled quilt if you are fortunate enough to possess enough down for the purpose. Secure enough medium weight unbleached muslin or ordinary flour sacks to make a bag as wide as you wish the quilt to be made and twice the desired length. Fold across the center and join the ends, but do not join the sides of the quilt. Machine stitch through the center, lengthwise. Then begin at one end and sew across the quilt at intervals of about eight inches to form two sets of deep pockets. The pockets are then filled with kapok. I use one pound for a large Page 38 crib quilt, less for smaller ones. Divide the kapok evenly among the pockets and sew the sides to prevent the escape of the down-like kapok. The kapok is then distributed evenly throughout each pocket and a row or two of loose basting stitches lengthwise through each pocket will aid in keeping it in place, preventing bunching. Machine stitching, especially if it is very close, reduces the softness of the finished quilt. APOK quilts should not be washed. (Experience was my teacher, and a good one.) They do seem to enjoy frequent outings on the clotheslines to air and sun. Since it is essential that the cover be washed when used for infants, we made outside coverings that were removable and washable. My favorite covering is a colorful patchwork top made of soft, bright percale scraps pieced together with flour sacks that were dyed bright yellow. The lining for this cover was also made from the same bright yellow material. Care must be taken to select only very soft materials for this purpose if the fluffy kapok is to show off to best advantage. The cover and lining are placed with the right sides together and seamed along both sides and one end. Make sure that the quilt and the covering will fit perfectly by using the same measurements for HOW TO MAKE A KAPOK QUILT each. Then turn to the right side and slip the completed covering over the kapok-filled bag. To complete the quilt, after the inner bag is properly fitted within the cover, close the open end of the cover, with small invisible stitches. The quilt is then tied with yarn in the same way that grandmother used to tie the heavy woolen quilts of her day. Quilting or tying this type of quilt too close- 39 ly tends to pack the kapok. Therefore, it should be tied only where necessary to hold the inside bag and the cover in place. It then takes but a moment to snip the ties and remove the cover to launder it. If, after use, the kapok becomes somewhat lumpy it can be fluffed by lightly pulling the lumps apart with the hands. This can easily be done without removing the cover. Joanna (Continued from page 25) HE noticed suddenly that the room had grown dark and that she had not heard the children for some time. She rose hastily and went in search of them. They were at the far end of the block, watching a neighbor rake autumn leaves into a burning pile for the delight of his children. There were two of them. They raced around their father, shouting with delight when sparks showered around them. The man caught them and held them wnder each arm, laughing over them, pride in his face. Joanna's children stood _ shyly back from the blaze, spectators only, taking the new role humbly. "Children," Joanna cried, unaware of the tears scattering from her eyes. "It's time for supper. Did you forget? Let's have a race home." They leaped around her like puppies. "Race! Race! Should we give Sally and Mike a head start?" "Oh, yes. David, you and Penny get way back here. Farther, much farther." Her voice had a queer catch in it, but they didn't seem to notice. "Now, run!" They sped away from her; leaves whirled up from their feet. She watched their fleeing forms. Penny ran like a doe, fleet and wild, her dark hair streamed behind her. David ran with his head down, his arms close at his sides. Michael laughed when he ran, spurts of laughter, pushed out of his fat body. Sally only pretended to run, not really interested in such a boisterous business. Penny reached the porch first. She straddled the railing, waiting for Joanna. "Look, Mom, the street is pretty now. It gets pretty at night when the houses are hidden." Joanna followed her daughter's 40 eyes. It was true. The houses were hidden by shadows, their windows were cheerful with the bright golden light streaming out of them. The dark night seemed caught in the black, stripped branches of the cottonwoods. Suddenly Joanna shivered. Winter was not far off, almost she could hear it, baying on the hills like a gaunt white wolf. She herded the children into the house, sent them to the bathroom to be washed by Penny. She warmed a casserole dish of stewed chicken and noodles, cleared the table and set it with her own preserves, with thick slices of homemade bread and with fresh country butter that one of the women had brought from Brigham. The children sat in their accustomed places. 'They stared silently at the chair where their father had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 sat. 'Their small faces grew sharp. Joanna sat hastily in the vacant chair. She bowed her head. "David, you ask the blessing." They ate hungrily, with the intense enjoyment of healthy children. Joanna watched them, her hands folded in her lap. Love and fear and loss shook her in turn. Suddenly she could bear it no longer, the smell of hot chicken, the singing of the kettle on the range, the children's lamplit faces. She rose and went to her room. She knelt beside the rocker, her face leaning against the knuckles of her hands. Her breast seemed torn with the whispered cry " eel haven't anyone but thee. I know I have made mistakes, done foolish things Forgive me and help me now, I humbly pray...." (To be continued ) ONCE REMEMBERED Wanda Greene Nielson I tried to ease my aching heart, And turned from love away; ~ I never once remembered you The first monotonous day! I schooled m So very well! Y heart and trained my thoughts At length I took a stroll down memory's lane, Just to test my strength. Weighted to a burden, Sharpened to a pain, Love with its hurting Is in my heart again. Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents, See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for Apnl 1948, page 274. HANDICRAFT, SEWING, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Elna P, Haymond. NORTHERN STATES MISSION, NORTH INDIANA DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS PREPARE CLOTHING DISPLAY Left to right: Second Counselor Hattie Prim, Peru Branch; First Counselor Rowena Steele, Fort Wayne; President Lenora Moody, Lafayette; District President Ruby Blombach; First Counselor (in district) Edna Terry; President Martha Hakes, In reporting on the children's dress project in her mission, President Elna P. Haymond writes: "The entire project (mission wide) has been completed.,. Many letters of appreciation for being asked to help with the Project have come from the mission. The sisters have expressed joy and satisfaction in being able to give this service to the children in Europe. We received and sent to Germany 1020 dresses, forty Ps, and some other articles, all of them new, and, for the most part, made by the Sisters."" Page 4] 42 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 Photograph submitted by Maude F. Hanks SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH), FIVE PRESIDENTS WHO HAVE RENDERED LONG AND FAITHFUL SERVICE Seated, left to nght: Elizabeth C. Williams, seventh president (1927-1940); Nettie D. Bradford, fifth president (1917-1925); Hattie C. Jensen, fourth president (1915- 1917); Sister Jensen passed away in April, soon after the photograph was taken. Standing, Maude F. Hanks, present president, Salt Lake Stake Relief Society (1940- Other notable women who have ably directed the Relief Society of this pioneer stake are: M. Isabella Horne, Clarissa S. Williams, Harriet B. Harker, and Vilate N. Bennion. HITT "ee eee eee tetee IN Mae! PRS! C fin £0 | Me MP * OS, i x fy -. '3 F 4 me Photograph submitted by Dora Thompson POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, September 9, 1948 Lucille Denkers is stake chorister and Vena Hess, stake organist, at the pipe organ and Melba Richardson at the piano. Helga Pugmire is president of Pocatello Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 43 Photograph submitted by Rula W. Choules SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, MYRTLE BEACH BRANCH (SOU LINA) RELIEF SOCIETY. » WHICH HAS RECENTLY TREBLED ITS IP Front Tow, left to rig Jt.; Betty Jean Jennings; Hilmer Bair; Pauline Owens; E. Owens; Virginia Stalvey; Lucy An-; Doucille Smith; Elder Leland O. Nderson, ight: Delores Anderson; Inez Stalvey; Secretary Elma Bone; Second Counselor Vera Stalvey; President Alberta Bone; First Counselor Cordelia Jennings; Clare Bone; Ava Owens On June 6, 1948, this soci increased to eighteen, 4 ~ Photograph submitted by Jennie Bylund SANTAQUIN-TINTIC STAKE (UTAH) SANTAQUIN FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS NT; Th € service of these eight former Relief Soc; dent dates from 1 925. At the present time they are all active in Society work, 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 Photographs submitted by Ethel E. Bloomquist SWEDISH MISSION, RUG WEAVING IN MALMO AND GOTEBORG Sister Anderson of Malmo and Sister Wanja Nelson of Goteborg are shown weaving rugs for the Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Ermadene Olsen CENTRAL STATES MISSION, JUNCTION CITY (KANSAS) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS AND ELDERS Front row, left to right: First Counselor Rose Hildebrand; President Etna Smith; Second Counselor Gerva Lichtliter; Joann Hoover. Back row, left to right: Bird Corcoran; Lucy Ellis; Carrie Snyder; Elders Gailey, Ethington, and Jenkins. The faithful sisters of this small branch are seen displaying a patchwork quilt which they made. This branch exceeded its building fund quota and the workers are devoted to all Relief Society activities. Martha W. Brown is president of the Central States Mission Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 45 Photograph submitted by Vera Walker YOUNG STAKE (NEW MEXICO), FARMINGTON WARD, EIGHT RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS, April 1, 1948 Left to right: Mae Cardon; Iretta Lee; Mae Schofield; Lydia Wade; Harriet Foutz, stake president; Lucy Burnham; Bessie McGee; Georgana Lillywhite, present president. A social honoring these presidents was held in the newly completed Relief Society room. Each president was given a corsage of gold-colored flowers, tied with blue ribbon, the official colors of Relief Society. A tribute was paid to each president by First Counselor Lucy Foutz, and Stake President Harriet D. Foutz gave an instructive talk. Photograph submitted by Belle Hadlock NORTH WEBER STAKE (UTAH), RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND FASHION SHOW MODELS, April 25, 1948 Front row, left to right: Louis Dunn; Alice Barrett; Nancy Ann Price; Evelyn Hunter; Allen Barrett; Mabel Checketts; Beth Checketts; Ines Penrod, work meeting leader; Patsy Heslop; Anna Price; Delliah Larsen, work meeting leader; Linda Wright, Dora Knight, work meeting leader; Katherine Knight; Janice Stratford; Lynn Burrows. Back row, left to right, work meeting leaders: Vera Stratford; Aleine Stratford; Elizabeth Gibson; Dorthea Shutts. Models Beth Gibson and Charollette Green; Leila Heslop; First Counselor Mary Russell; President Melva Stratford; Second Counselor Amanda Hancock; stake work mecting leader, Belle Hadlock; ward work meeting leaders, Rose Hadley and Ethel Williams, Mary Wiggens; Edna Stewart. Melva O. Stratford is president of North Weber Stake Relief Society. 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 — ocean LE mee Photograph submitted by Ruby S. Hunn SHARON STAKE (UTAH), EDGEMONT WARD PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 1948 Left to right: Eva G. Gillespie (1926-1928); Margaret G. Pulsipher _(1928- 1929); Elizabeth B. Ferguson (1929-1932)> Loia W. Wiscombe (1932-1935)3 Racheal H. Mecham (1938-1941); Joella L. Baum (1941-1945); Bernice L. Faulkner (1945- 1947); Almira T. Johnson (1947- » LaVern D. Jone, who served from 1935 to 1938, is deceased. Ruby S. Hunn is president of Sharon Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mabel A. Price CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, GOLDSBORO (NORTH CAROLINA) RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Seated, front row, left to right: First Counselor Roberta Buck; Second Counselor Mattie Cuddington; President Henrietta Cogdell. Second row, seated left to right: Eula Cogdell; Bertie Epps; Alice Cogdell; Billy Aycock; Henrietta Ham; Everette Carr. Back row, standing, left to right: Nancy Sholar; Bertha Carr; Mildred Malfass. Note the display of beautiful handwork, the beautifully made quilts, the rugs, and the aprons. This branch is devoted to the work of Relief Society, and they are united and happy in their activities., Mabel A. Price is president of the Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD NI TION I 27 1948 cond yr W, standing, left to right: MaRee Nelson, sewing instructor, Hannah Sanderson, Assistant Secretary; Nora Austin, organist; Maurine Nichols, NUISery Class eader; Edna Thomas Orister; Eye} Rawlings, theology class leader; Rely Beck. Stead, stake Ounselor; Sta © President Dora B. Callicott; Ward President Victorig R. Yon; First © UNselor Ejf Reid; Seco d Counselor Crysta Woodland: Lovantha Gar ett, Visiting hers' leader; Florence Jenkins, assistant to work director; Blanche eid, literaty € class leader, Ma Ra 'Y, SOcia] SCience leader; Ruth acques; Willadeen Ouseholder Cated in the fron 48: > May Farnsworth. € Cameron. Lia Jensen, econd Tow, left t annah Gottiker, Medan: Orpe; Dorothy Fife, Katy Camer. Relief Society, E. Groscogt TOOELE STAKE ( UTAH) TOOELF FIFTY PRESIDENTS HONORED A D ELIEF SOCIETy T ANNIV RSAR PARTY. Arch 15, y 8 Front Tow, left to ght: Nellie Gordon (1934 36); Mary Eckman (1936 39); *943°45)3 Jennie ty 1941- Ba TOW, left to Nght: Sadie 7923-34); Addie Vowles (1919-23), Effie Lindberg, €Presenting Mother, Susanna Dunn ( 1912-1916). Alice McLaws, Tepre. Azel Smith ( 1945-47), mma R 5 18 president of Tooele Stake Society, + Barbara Price; s; Leona B senting } Mother, Sara Each of the ten Presidents ang ents, were Presented €; Fayette Sorenson; Counselo, Helen Jo Stoddard; President Ali 1939); Florence Johnson (1939-1 4°); Lucille Orme ( 4°-41 and asden (, 16-19); Margaret Wright, Present President; © (wo women Presenting the deceased Presi Corsages an €ach responded with 4 toas The Conductor and the Accompanist Florence Jepperson Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board HE conductor is primarily a teacher. To be a successful teacher one must be progressive and to be progressive one must constantly study. 'This study should be directed toward the acquisition of added knowledge pertaining to the leadership intended. Such knowledge may be gained from various sources. To be properly and fully effective these sources must be reliable. They may be in the form of music teachers, lecturers, books, records, radios, etc. One of the very best means of gaining musical knowledge is through the study of the piano and the organ. Even in remote places a school music teacher or supervisor may be found who can be induced to teach the fundamentals of music either privately or to a group. The library in any sizable community should have on its shelves a few good music textbooks for study. If such books are not immediately available they can often be secured through a request to the librarian. A music magazine such as The Etude is most helpful. It contains very valuable information in the various branches of musical education. Some of the necessary qualities a conductor should possess are: musicianship, dynamic and inspiring personality, congeniality, patience, humor, quick discernment, self-control, tactfulness, appreciaability. Impartiality, The position of the accompanist: is of parallel importance with that of the conductor. In order to successfully fulfill the requirements of this position the accompanist should have adequate musical training, with special emphasis on piano or organ or both. 'This training should include ample technique and sufficient skill to read and play at sight compositions of, at least, moderate difficulty. Like the conductor, the accompanist should continually study and practice toward greater efficiency in musical performance. This broader training should also include a knowledge of conducting and singing. The major responsibilities and qualifications of the accompanist may be summed up as follows: 1. To assist the conductor in the performance of her duties and even function as a-conductor when needed. 2. To furnish the necessary accompaniment. 3. To help establish and maintain the appropriate rhythmical background of a composition. 4. To play accurately and support adequately the various vocal parts as needed in a rehearsal. 5. To assist in effecting the correct tempos, attacks, dynamics, releases, and to help in bringing about suitable word, chord, and phrase nuances. 6. Finally in order to be of maximum service in the interpretation of a song, Page 49 tion, and administrative 50 the accompanist should be thoroughly familiar with the text of the composition. It should be remembered that often the accompanist has had more musical training than the conductor and can, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 therefore, if given opportunity, make vital contributions to the success of the organization. Thus it is seen that the responsibilities and qualifications of the conductor and the accompanist are extensive and very closely interwoven. [Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussion in the choristers' and organists' department at union meeting.] <> All in a Day's Pleasure Helen Martin I always throw the crumbs from the table in front of my kitchen window. When I am washing my dishes the birds keep me company. They do love my crumbs and I love their chatter. I always have flocks of my feathered friends waiting in the lilac bushes for my morning offering. Cookies! Don't you love them, but don't you hate to roll them out? I don't roll cookies any more. I just drop them by teaspoonfuls onto the baking sheet. Then I put a clean cloth over a glass tumbler, wet the cloth (not too wet) and gently press down the dough. It makes lovely round cookies. If I keep the cloth just wet enough My youngest son never hangs anything up! So when I find his school pants gone from his favorite chair, or his shirt hung up, I investigate. There it is—a tear in the knee of his best school pants! When I ask him about it, it is always the other fellow who pushed him down. He is the fellow, though, who has to pay for the damage by doing an extra job around the house every night and morning for two weeks. This same youngster can never keep his shirt tail in nor his hair combed. There never was a "doings" of any kind that I didn't have to go up the last minute and straighten him up. THE VIGIL Elsie Chamberlain Carroll The walls are looped with cobwebs; Each window shade's awry; The fire-grate is broken; The shrubs outside are dry. A smell of musty dankness Pervades the lonesome air, But I feel a something precious That still is lingering there. This was a home—a sanctum— Where a spirit came to be, Composed of part of each of us Who were a family. And so, tonight, returning, Alone, reluctantly, I find that spirit waiting And bless its permanency. NEW YEAR Christie Lund Coles Now as the old year dies Let us forget The aching bitterness, The sharp regret; The moment when it seemed The heart must break, The emptiness of loss, The lonely ache. Now as the old year dies Let us pretend The past has really come To this swift end. And let us hold the faith Till it is true That this hour is the start Of a year... New! It never sticks. ' Sheology— The Life and Ministry Of the Savior Lesson 15~"The Transfiguration Note: Al] quotations Which are not followeq by Teferences are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. BOUT 4 Week after the 4Postles ne festation, which is Probably without 4 Parallel in histo nesses to th Christ, The In a glory they had Not seen before. With him Were S scene. Men who had Once lived upon the earth but had since Passed from earthly Scenes, were back now in a State of "glorified Tadiance," talkin to the Being they had TV Oncerning "h cease which he should 4Ccomplish at Jerusalem," doubtedly € three 4postles were ewildered ° would not be? Thee, and 0 or Elias: nop knowing What he said," This re tk, made by Peter, THE GOOD SHEPHERD From a Painting by Plockhorst LESSON DEPARTMENT This permitted each worshiper to have some little privacy. Peter probably wanted to delay the departure of these two great characters. Moses has always been held in the highest esteem by the Jews. But even as Peter spoke, "... Behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved 'Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him." It was the Eternal Father speaking. When they heard the voice from the Majesty on high, the apostles "... Fell on their face, and were sore afraid. And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, and be not afraid." How can we read this account and not recognize that both Father and Son exist as separate entities? In effect, the same things had been spoken at the time John baptized Jesus. Here again the voice of Elohim proclaims to other witnesses, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him" (Matt. 17: 5-7). After the two prophets had departed, Jesus told the three apostles that they were not to speak to anyone about the manifestation until after he had arisen from the dead. It was this reference to his rising from the dead that puzzled and sorely grieved them. It was difficult for them to grasp the full significance of the statement. Reluctantly, they were beginning to realize that their beloved Master was to ",.. Suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders, and of the chief priests, and scribes and be killed, and after three days rise again" (Mark 8:31). The peculiar wording used in describing the exalted conversa- 53 tion between the three glorified personages is somewhat hard to understand. The decease mentioned evidently referred to what the Lord would accomplish rather than the death he would suffer. "The Greek word of which 'decease' appears as the English equivalent in many of the manuscripts of the gospels, is one connoting 'exodus' or 'departure." In some versions it also signifies glory. "So also the Greek original of 'accomplish,' in the account of the Transfiguration, connotes the successful filling out or completion of a specific undertaking, and not distinctively the act of dying." The "decease" that the Savior was then so soon to accomplish was the voluntary surrender of his life in fulfilment of a purpose at once exalted and foreordained, not a death by which He would passively die through conditions beyond His control.... He died a willing sacrifice for sin. Even after the glorious experience of the transfiguration, it was difficult for the apostles to grasp the significance of the statement, "Jesus would rise again." The idea of the resurrection seemed vague in their minds. "And they kept that saying with themselves, questioning one with another what the rising from the dead should mean" (Mark o: 10). We learn largely by comparison. Nothing had happened in the entire history of the Jewish people, and certainly not in the lives of the apostles, with which they could compare the startling doctrine of the resurrection. 'They could tell no man of their experiences on the Mount, if they followed the instructions of the Master. This kept the others of the Twelve from knowing anything concerning the experience until after the death of the Lord. After the Lord had_ been resurrected and ascended to his Father and "... Sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high" (Heb. 1:3), Peter told the Church of the wondrous experience: For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty. For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy mount (II Peter 1:16-18). All of the reasons for the transfiguration may not be comprehended by the human mind. Of course, the divine purpose was known to Jesus. The splendor and glory of the manifestation were encouraging and strengthening to him. He needed strength for the ordeal ahead of him. He was now on the verge of the "valley of the shadow of death." He needed succor and strength. The Prophet Joseph said, "The Savior, Moses, and Elias gave the keys to Peter, James, and John, on the mount, when they were transfigured before him" (D. H. C. III, page 387). The following verse (D. & C. 63:21) is of interest in this connection "when the earth shall be transfigured, even according to the pattern which was shown unto mine apostles upon the mount; of which account the fulness ye have not yet received." Jesus had again heard the voice of his Father. He had received the supreme assurance that his Father was well pleased with him. This must have been upbuilding and have given him courage for the future. "A new dispensation had been established, that of the gospel, for which the law and the prophets had been but preparatory." As the four walked down the mountain side, after the transfiguration, the apostles asked Jesus, "... Why then say the scribes that Elias must first come?" Jesus explained to them that Elias would come first before the advent of the Lord in his glory. He added, "But I say unto you, That Elias is come already, and they knew him not, but have done unto him whatsoever they listed. Likewise shall also the Son of man suffer of them. Then the disciples understood that he spake unto them of John the Baptist" (Matt. 17:10-13). From the reading of the scriptures it is plain that John did officiate in the spirit and power of Elias in the work he did as the forerunner of Christ. The angel Gabriel had announced this to Zacharias. (Read Luke 1:17.) However, John the Baptist and Elias and Elijah were not the same individuals. _If we remember, there is no attempt by the writers of the New Testament to distinguish between Elijah the Tishbite—the man who was taken into heaven without tasting death —and any other man named Elias, it may help to remove the difficulty of understanding the scriptures on this point. It is still more clear if we remember that the name Elias is both a personal name and a title. The name Elijah is the Hebrew form; in Greek it is written Elias, where Ehjah is mentioned, so that in the Old Testament we have the one form and in the New the other. 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT Both Elias and Elijah appeared to Joseph Smith in the Kirtland Temple in 1836 (See D. & C. Section 110). 'They each conferred separate keys and authority. It was Elijah who conferred the authority to "turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers," as Malachi predicted (Mal. 4:5-6). John the Baptist acted only as a forerunner and held the Aaronic Priesthood. Elijah held the Melchizedek Priesthood =) and committed to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the power to fulfill the prophecy of Malachi. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1, Why was the transfiguration of the Savior one of the greatest heavenly manifestations of all time? 2. Describe the events and name the characters present on the occasion. 3. Tell of the visit of Moses, Elias, and —- in the Kirtland Temple in 1836. Visiting Seachers 'isc Savior Speaks Lesson 7—"I Will Not Leave You Comfortless" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, April 5, 1949 Objective: To point out that we are not left comfortless because of our sure knowledge, through Christ's teachings and the Holy Ghost, of the resurrection. UR Savior knew the sorrows of _— life, and especially was he aware of the void and the anguish men must know when death parts them from a loved one. Prior to his crucifixion, in his last discourse with his apostles, he softened the trial of parting which faced them all, with words of comfort. "Let not your heart be troubled," he said, "ye believe in God, believe also in me" (John 14:1). Here lies the key to solace in earthly grief. Christ preached over and over of the surety of the resurrection, and by believing in him we know that he spoke the truth. How near to us he seems when he says: "In my Father's house are many mansions... I go to prepare a place for you... That where I am there ye may be also" (John 14:2-3). It is hard for even the unbeliever to accept death as final. The desire to meet his loved ones again is there, but the absolute knowledge that he will do so is lacking. This is be cause the unbeliever knows not the Comforter whom Christ promised his apostles, would be sent. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter ».. Whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you (John 14:16-17). To them he also said: Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid (John 14:27). "I will not leave you comfortless" (John 14:18). 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 Work TTleeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7—Use Your Odds and Ends Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, April 12, 1949 "HE small, seemingly inconsequential things can add up toa staggering total when taken all together. Minor savings effected here and there with regularity may mean a very substantial total saving for the family budget. So get the habit of never throwing anything away that can be used. After a dress is worn out, cut off snaps, zippers, buttons, etc., and save them with the possibility of using them again. 'The snaps can be snapped onto a card or paper so they won't get separated or lost. Have a separate button box for used buttons, because in a family there is always need for odd buttons for shirts, underclothing, and dresses. Ornamental buttons are very expensive and often the button box will yield just the thing that is needed, thereby saving extra expenditure of money. Zippers, too, can be re-used and should always be saved. Buckles and other trimming need not be thrown away just because a dress is worn out. Many elaborate and expensive effects have been achieved with the passementerie or braid from grandmother's gowns. With a little originality, clever and attractive buttons and trimmings can be fashioned from odd bits of felt, leather, old beads, etc. Some of the cleverest buttons are those made from cord or tubing of material twisted into odd shapes and pattems. Vari-colored pieces of felt, embroidered or trimmed with beads, may also serve as buttons. Odd beads and old buttons can easily be fashioned into earrings by buying the base in a notions department and fastening the bead or button to it with good household cement. Old gloves can be made into clever trimmings for dresses in the form of lapel gadgets. Cut out an awkward horse or a sly fox, stuff him, fasten to a pin, and wear on the lapel of a coat. Household linens can be carefully guarded and salvaged for further use after they have ceased to function in their original capacity. Bed sheets wear out in the center while they are still strong around the outside. Good pillow cases can be made fom these portions or they may be used for crib sheets. The better parts of old tablecloths can be hemmed or fringed and used for napkins and place mats. If they are not usable as napkins, remember that linen is very absorbent and makes ideal dish cloths. Then, after they are too far gone for anything else, they are perfect as cleaning cloths, especially for washing windows. So learn to make all of your clothing and household linens lead a double life. Get the make-over, use over habit! all afford inte aterials + NSS were €ver 10us that + IT "Ng one nearey €veloping loved Ones might "em, ace the New years of hurch €n these Ovenant," Pret Joseph ey Tt is wit Celings of €P interest fo, Tom such Well-writt 4Ccounts, the welfa f ma kind w h fill my mind historians, authors Others May on the teflection that all were Ormed 5 et a truer Picture of the 'ver-changthe ha wn0 will call the same Ing events and characters who to give an Manes Ccount of ae P DentPortant roles in the eee a an. Attites dress a Ae atter-day Sai ts, under divine qj. Ough tect, lines tO you for your Tection, hay been, € whole Perusal Onscientioys 'ecord keepers. Not Seeing that the Lord has never given 'stand, by anything here. Tofore Tevealed, that he had Ceased for. And "Ver to speak to his Creatures, when Sought Ba te Proper man faithfully Tecorded, byt USSIONaries be thought a thing incredible that he ave Consistently kept thei; diaries, should be pleased to Peak again in these Further, members have been €ncourast days fo, their Salvation? -~. I may believe that Enoch Walked With aged to Keep their Own Pp €rsonal God, and by faith was translated. I may be. T t h was | 0 rOMe a treasury "trove of vital value | ay believe that Abraham communed for seekers after truth. With God, and conversed With angels, | etters, saved by 4PPreciative fa e to Ones, are also a Tich source of what direct voice of the Lord, 7 may believe may be called living literature. Bethat Jacob Conversed with holy angels, and fore the telegraph telephone and heard the word of his Maker, that he tadio, the main means ai commun). Wrestled with the ange] until he Prevailed, a ined a essing. By | cation was through Wag. Apondence. This purch °€ a0 assurance for me, and Often the E9spel was "Preached waft me to the Tegions of eternal day, LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 with my garments spotless, pure, and white? Or, must I not rather obtain for myself, by my own faith and diligence in keeping the commandments of the Lord, an assurance of salvation for myself? And have I not an equal privilege with the ancient saints? And will not the Lord hear my prayers, and listen to my cries as soon as he ever did theirs, if I come to him in the manner they did? Or, is he a respecter of persons? I must now close this subject for the want of time.... We would be pleased to see you in Kirtland; and more pleased to have you embrace the New Covenant. I remain, yours affectionately, Joseph Smith, Jun. (History Of Joseph Smith By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith, chap. 44, pp. 232-237). Some of our pioneers cultivated the art of letter writing to a high degree of excellence. Happily, they also took pride in their penmanship, and the paper they used was generally of lasting quality. Many a letter, or a packet of them, has been the source of invaluable help to historians and to literary writers. Through these various means of preserving the past in its verities, one may more truly relive stirring scenes in the story of our Church. We have already done so in our lessons on the beginnings of the divine work. Let us carry forward now by getting closer to what may be called the Ohio-Missouri period. A time of intense activity—of stress and distress, it was, for the Latter-day Saints. First of all there was the double transplanting of the new Church— one part to Kirtland, Ohio; the other to Independence, Missouri.. This was no light task, as we are shown vividly through the story Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet, has left for us. While the menfolk of the family had gone ahead overland to prepare the way, she was entrusted with a major responsibility of bringing mothers and children by way of the Erie Canal, by boat over Lake Erie, to Ohio. Her fervor for the restored gospel, her undaunted spirit and courage to meet emergencies, her leadership where men failed —all vibrate through her sincere story—and impress us with those same qualities possessed by her eminent son. A reading of chapter 38 of the lit tle volume History Of Joseph Smith By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith will serve to help make the story, and the character of Mother Smith live again. Outstanding among the newly made converts in this Ohio center was Sidney Rigdon. Through the years this man was to perform a helpful part in forwarding, under the leadership of the Prophet, the work of the Lord. Indeed so close was their relationship during the developing days of the Church, that critics began to link Rigdon's name with the creating of the Book of Mormon. John, a son of Sidney Rigdon, ran into this story when he was out West in 1863. This tale disturbed the son so much that he determined to learn from his father the truth; so he returned to his old home, and happily found both of his parents still hale and clear of mind.- "You have been charged," said the earnest son to his aged father, "with writing the Book of Mormon, and giving it to Joseph Smith to introduce to the world. You have always told me the story that you never saw the book until it was presented to you by Parley P. Pratt and Oliver Cowdery; and all you ever knew of the origin of that book was what they told you, and what Joseph Smith and the witnesses who claimed to have seen the plates told you. 58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT SOON pass awa » and I wish My father, after I had finished saying what I have "peated above, looked at me | hand above his head, and slowly said, with tears glistening in his eyes: "My son, I can Swear before I now repeat to you." | believed im, and now believe him, that Mormonism Was true; that Joseph Smith was a Prophet, and that the world Would find it out some day. Assacre, Among other things she telates: In our utter desolation, what could we women do but Pray? Prayer Was our only Source of comfort; our Heavenly Father None but he could Save that night of the massacre. T could bear it no longer. 59 hear once more my own Voice in Petition to my Heavenly Father, € com a voice spoke to me, Jt WaS a Voice as Plain as | ever heard one. It was no silent, strong impression of the spirit, but a Voice, re. Peating a verse of the saint's hymn: I cannot, I wil] not desert to Its foes; ] should endeavor to shake, T'll never, no never, no never forsake] From that moment I had no more fear, I felt that nothing coyld hurt me. Omen of Mormondom, chap. XV, pp. Connected with the testing, tragic years of the Ohio-Missoyr; Period might be mulOne such stirring event js conversation, young beaux and their Sweethearts, the quiet song of the Whippoorwill, mingled 60 lence of the evening, and were occasionally interrupted by the clatter of hoofs, as a few of the citizens were retiring from the enjoyments of a public day to their own peaceful homes in the country. These, and the beatings of their anxious and almost bursting hearts, were the only sounds which fell upon their ear, till suddenly they heard a rumbling and confused noise, as of footsteps rushing down the stairs of a prison, then a shrill cry of alarm from Mrs. Diffidence, the giantess, and soon followed by the shouts and rush of men, dogs, horses and prisoners towards the spot where they were located. They then sprang forward to the edge of the fields and ran back again to the horses, and again returned, as if the using of their own limbs would serve to add nimbleness to those of the prisoners, and to quicken their speed. (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt—Escape from a Missouri Jail—chap. XXXII, pp. 276-277). The Prophet was in jail with Parley P. Pratt. The memory of that experience prompted him to write this lovely expression: Those who have not been enclosed within the walls of prison without cause or provocation, can have but little idea how sweet the voice of a friend is! One token of friendship from any source whatever, awakens and calls into action every sympathetic feeling; it brings up in an instant everything that is past; it seizes the present with the avidity of lightning; it grasps after the future with the fierceness of a tiger; it moves the mind backward and forward, from one thing to another, until finally all enmity, malice, hatred, and past differences, misunderstandings and mismanagements, are slain victorious at the feet of hope (Rich, Ben E., Scrapbook of Mormon Literature, II, page 28). Any of the following incidents of this period may be read with profit: Brigham Young's First Meeting with the Prophet—and his after bold stand for this great leader before disloyal ones plotting to depose Joseph Smith (See Brigham Young, the Man and His Work, Preston Nibley, pp. 10-11, 18-19). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 Dedication of the Kirtland Temple— Heavenly manifestations—Singing of the "Hosanna Hymn" created by W. W. Phelps for the occasion (See Comprehensive History of the Church, B. H. Roberts I, pp. 389-391). Beginning of the Land of Zion of the Last Days—Foundation of first house laid with ceremony—Temple site dedicated— impressive instructions (See Comprehensive History of the Church, B. H. Roberts, I, pp. 255-258). Heroism in Face of Mob Violence— Bishop Edward Partridge and Charles Allen, refusing to renounce faith, tortured— Others offer lives as ransom (See Comprehensive History of the Church, B. H. Roberts, I, pp. 332-333 and 337-339). Through the years of tragedy and testing, the Prophet—God-inspired and protected—came with heroic stature. 'Trusted friends at times failed him, yet others stood the searching test and became stalwarts for the carrying forward of the work of the Lord. And some eminent ones who strayed away returned humbly to the fold. Among the treasured memories of William M. Frampton, father of Eva Frampton Driggs, wife of the writer, is the following story, written as this brother told i When I was seventeen years of age living with my mother, Laura Farnsworth Frampton, near old Kanesville, Iowa, J went one Sabbath with her to the old meeting house in that frontier town. Apostle Orson Hyde was presiding. A stranger was on the stand with him. After the opening exercises and the administering of the Sacrament, Apostle Hyde arose, and gave us all a spiritual thrill, by introducing the stranger—one who had played a most helpful part in the restoring of the Gospel of these latterdays—his friend and associate through earlier years, Oliver Cowdery. "Yes, I am Oliver Cowdery," the speaker began. "I was close to the Prophet through the time when he, under the di- LESSON DEPARTMENT rection of God and His Son Jesus Christ, and with the help of Angels, brought back the Gospel of our Savior to the earth. "With this nght hand, holding it up, I wrote most of the Book of Mormon as it fell from the lips of the inspired Prophet, Joseph Smith. I was shown the Gold Plates by the Angel Moroni. That book is divinely true. "Some say I apostatized. I never did apostatize. I simply stopped. I am here today to ask humbly to be taken back into the fold. I seek no office in this Church. I want to be with my brethren and to do all I can to help in this great work." Dramatic incidents are what help bring the mighty meaning of the gospel to life. They are materials 61 out of which literature, of the true and lasting kind may be created. Not all such living stories have yet found their way into our history, nor into worthy fiction, poetry, and drama. Years ahead will doubtless see such rich material woven into worthy literature. Studies and Activities 1. What help to historians and writers of literature may often be found in diaries, letters, minutes of meetings and other first-hand records? 2. Be prepared to read some brief incidents you have found in an old letter or other source material, that help bring history to life. FROM A HOSPITAL WINDOW Evelyn Fjeldsted I think that I could love that little path That climbs the hillside like a sunlit stair More than all the highways stretching far, If only my two feet could take me there. I could challenge all the storms of life If I could walk along with you once more— If we could go with buoyant rhythmic step Across the fields where we have walked before. If someday, I could walk again, my feet As light and winged as once they seemed to be, If I could claim the promise, "They shall run And not be weary,"—then would I be free. TO A SEEING-EYE DOG Marvin Jones You leave the sun-blanched beauty of your day That breaks cleanly on time's white sand, To walk with me along the pain-starred way Of night—eyes in my hand.... 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 6—Contemporary Domestic Problems Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, April 26, 1949 problems. Evan JENSEN THE modern State is a national State. There are two aspects to modern political problems: (1) the relationships men bear to the national State in internal affairs, and (2) the relations between national States (international relations) and their effects on men. The two aspects are inseparable in that both relationships affect people. Thus, American internal policy may favor the family; but if the United States comes into conflict with another State, war may result, and the family be disrupted. Thus, adequate political theory must offer guidance to men in both areas. Internal (domestic) problems will be discussed first. Objective: to recognize the limitations of the State in its ability to solve Note: State in this lesson refers to a nation. Government, Social, and Economic Life In the development of society, most governments have been forced to recognize the existence of other social institutions: the family, the church, fraternal associations, guilds, unions, corporations, and so forth. Under the doctrine of limited, constitutional government, it has been an ideal that government was not the only but another institution, characterized, however, by law and the function of adjudicating between groups, citizens, and itself. More and more, however, the modern State* has come to dominate the affairs of most of these other groups. For example, in most American states it is illegal to marry without medical certification. Such regulations have been self-imposed by the community on its members in the interests of the community. But if the state can impose medical certification, can it not prescribe that male red-heads under six feet in height can only marry female bru- "Referring to a nation and not a state of the United States. LESSON DEPARTMENT nettes weighing at least 128 pounds? Where is the line to be drawn? This is where the ancient concept of constitutional-legal limitations, of "limited government," comes in to guide the democratic process. Although the community is free to impose restrictions, it should also be conscious of its liberty to do so, and recognize the necessity of legal, orderly processes in approaching such problems. Only thus can the best welfare of the majority, as in the case of the pre-marital examination, be served and arbitrary mischief avoided. Even so, the task of government is always to strike the delicate balance between liberty, authority, and public welfare. This demonstrates the importance of political theory in evaluating contemporary policies! For when govemment is limited and responsible there is a tendency for all other groups to emulate the government. What is happening in the modern world is that men everywhere look to the State for security, for "salvation" from all of their enemies, domestic and foreign. Let us look at this attitude somewhat more closely. What do most of the people you know look toward to solve the housing problem? The liquor problem? (Utah, in its department of Public Welfare, established an alcoholics board in 1947.) Public health? Wool and sugar prices? Strikes? Care of the aged? Unemployment? Can the State alone save a man from the effects of liquor, unemployment, old age, poor health? We should recognize that, although the State can assist in solving these problems, and that it may 63 provide the primary solution for many of them, the fact remains that there are certain fundamental limits to the scope of everything. For example, men, history shows, can and will resist the State. As discussed in earlier pages, we have seen that God recognizes the liberty or free agency of men and will "force no man to heaven." So, a sound political doctrine, even if it deifies the State (as certain modem political doctrines do), should recognize that the State as State or the State even as "god," has limitations! Any scientific observation known to man recognizes that any principle of science operates within limits. But some men, rejecting a rational God who respects men's own personalities, and wanting to substitute therefor "'a sure thing," rush pellmell into the arms of not only the State but other equally misleading panaceas. As one having some experience with a_ well-established State function, public education, I know that the State cannot of itself force education! It can provide the best of schools, classrooms, books, and teachers. Some who attend will use their "liberty" to gain educational advantage. Others will show little more than the effects of exposure to all the resources the State may mobilize, educationally, on the student's behalf—including teachers who will collectively exhaust the tricks of the trade, known and unknown, to "reach" and stir up desire for self-action on the part of the student. Nearly all students can eventually be "reached" and motivated. But all State action does not typify the patience of a public school teacher. 64 The Communist—Socialist Attack Notwithstanding these well-established facts of experience, certain political philosophies assume that materialism and environment wholely determine, rather than influence human behavior. Some therefore seek to establish the totalitarian State as the means of solving all human problems. Paraphrasing the scripture, they seem to say, "Cast thy burdens upon the State and it will sustain thee!" Usually their cause is advanced by the argument that until the State is all-powerful and can control and distribute all materials, mankind cannot really be free! This is like saying that people should never have come to Utah until the ditches were dug, the streets paved, the flowers planted, the lights turned on, and the tables set for ready-cooked feasts, piled high thereon! Some socialists, a few have recognized and are willing to abide by the scientific doctrine of limited government, but the communists accept the doctrine of the necessity of total State dictatorship as the way to man's temporal salvation. In return, it is evident that the men in those systems find they have all too often received slavery under the guise of promises of wellbeing. The Values of Constitutional Government The values of constitutional government have already been well marked out in this series. In summary, they may be expressed as follows: 1. Liberty for the maturing individual to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness— including his home and property. 2. Liberty of real association in groups, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 including religious as well as diverse political parties and various economic groups which share the responsibilities of governing men and each other. 3. Freedom, with tolerance, to "proselyte," whether it be a corporation selling soap; a union selling memberships; a religion, or various colleges competing for students—with corresponding liberty of each individual to choose for himself or reject them all. This freedom embraces those of speech, press, person, religion, political and social association. And as a result—we have: 4. Freedom to choose and retire officers of government without fear or restraint. 5. Freedom to inquire and discover, in human experience and the media of inspiration, constant means of improving ourselves, our community, and our government. Finally: 6. The rule of law results from all these, imposing restraints and responsibilities on the individual, all groups, and the government, and setting up orderly procedures (jury trial, elections, the right of assembly and petition, judicial determination in open court) whereby rights may be secured. Govemment thus limited by law may become constitutional government. Thus, in a constitutional system, "governments have a right to enact such laws as... Are best calculated to secure the public interest" (D. & C. 134:5). Best calculated by whom? The people! And _ thus, constitutional or limited government, while never static nor confined to single objects, is always defined. And whatever is defined is under limitation and cannot be arbitrary without public notice. Thus human liberty is served. All this is guatanteed and made possible under constitutional government. The Defense of Constitutional Government The doctrine of human liberty and the necessity for organized human society combine and are reconciled in the concept of constitution- LESSON DEPARTMENT al limitations. No constitution is static or rigid, nor is its meaning found in cant or form. The defense of constitutional government therefore lies (1) in the theoretical front, in men's minds and beliefs; (2) in practical politics; and (3) in governmental administration. The theoretical front is listed first so that it can be kept foremost, and so, in turn, permeate and guide the minds of men in regard to practical politics and the administration of government. Men who are dominated by and confronted with the doctrines of human liberty are bound, at some point, to give more than lip service to the same. There is a germ of truth in the socialist-communist analysis which recognizes economic self-interest as a human motive. Many men too dimly understand the institutional forces which influence and condition human behavior. Yet the supreme doctrine of individual responsibility helps a man (1) get the best, and (2) resist the worst, in his environment. And 65 although environment is of signal importance, no doctrine of "group will" has yet proved as successful as a group will based on_ individual freedom. It is as a group doctrine that individualism has its greatest significance, for no man stands alone. American, including Latter-day Saint, utterance is filled with helps with which to defend, maintain, and (most important) live the principles of constitutional government. Helps and Problems 1. President Joseph F. Smith's views on war, peace, and other problems are found in Gospel Doctrine, chapter 23. 2. "Religion and Constutional Liberty" is the title of chapter 14, Discourses of Wilford Woodruff (1946). 3. President John Taylor said, "God expects us to... Maintain the principle of human rights" (The Gospel Kingdom, page 307). Why? 4. What is the political significance of the doctrine of free agency? (For a good discussion of free agency as a religious principle see The Discourses of Brigham Young, chapter 5). BE STILL AND KNOW Beatrice Knowlton Ekman When I have gone reluctantly to earth And dust has shut away the flaming west, The moon and stars beyond the mountain crest And all loved things familiar from my youth, Then, loosed from grief, I shall be mute to mirth. No anguish of regret shall mar my rest; No tears beneath my eyelids will be pressed. What then will all my earthly dreams be worth? It is enough that spirit never goes Beneath the counterpane of dust, for man Is born of God. Unlike the fading rose, He lives beyond the dream of mortal plan. My dust may help the seeds of spring to grow But deathless spirit cries, Be still and know. Optional oessons in Lieu of Social Science—The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) Lesson 6—The Presidency of Wilford Woodruff Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, April 26, 1949 Tue Prestipency A UNIT—THE THREE ARE ONE George Q. Cannon Wilford Woodruff ILFORD Woodruff, the fourth President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, descended from sturdy New England ancestors whose love of independence in religion had brought them to America in the seventeenth century. Although he was deeply religious he never formally affiliated himself with any of the existing churches as he found them to be lacking in the teachings and organization of the Church as described in the New Testament. Born in Farmington, Connecticut, March 1, 1807, he learned the trade of a flour miller at his father's mill and later Wilford Woodruff Joseph F. Smith became an independent operator. In 1832 he moved to New York State. The following year two missionaries preaching the restored gospel held a meeting in the schoolhouse in his vicinity and he attended. The spirit of revelation rested upon him and at the conclusion of the service he bore testimony to the assembly that the missionaries had brought them a true message. Two days later, December 31, 1833, he was baptized. He moved to Kirtland the following year and during the ensuing sixtyfive years labored as one of the stalwart builders of the kingdom of God on earth. One of the great accomplishments 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT of Wilford Woodruff Was in the field of Missionary activity, He filled any missions both in e States and fore; Potal, and Teligious 4Spects of life _ they were all inseparably JOined to. Gether in his thoughts. In Jackson and Caldwel} Counties, 67 "aTlous aspects of Pioneer develo ment and he p ver lost Contact with he soil d the People who tilled tie €s that Br; enjoyed &teat physica] John Taylor in Woodruff, who of the Twelve Apostles since assumed the direction of the Church affairs by virtue of this calling, The Council of the Tection, Continued to function as the Presiding Council of the Ch - He was eighty-two years of age at the time he became Presjdent. The Church was €ngaged in a Struggle for Its Very existence. I, 15 / the Church Properties ang had dis- 531 Hold Thou My Hand NCOrporated he Church, and sigoe IS leaders had chosen to go into hidin On sentences for adhering to the oe 16 | Principle of plural Marriage, t was at this Critica] time that 1776 King of Glory 7 i Tesident Woodruf¢ issued the Man- | ifesto based on 4 Tevelation Which he 2010 Leave 7 With Him Tecelved, in September o — a Which made Officig] declaration of Allitsen ee 0 ae At the follo Ng general con 1365] nis Angelicus €Tence of € Church held in O a the Manifesto Was accepted } ame "Slomeecttet= 8 La ter-day Saints by unanimous z b n ester Pianos, ban and orchestra instruments, Tecords, and MUsiciang Supplies, D FIRST of AL — REUABH Ty 45-47 SOurn j 4 MAIN Streey LO 5 SALT Laks City 7, Ulan a 1560 In ae Garden 1759 Lord Is My Light 1941 oyg Rugged Cross lg | in Preference to Teceiving Severe pristhe fact th € the Church had discon. Mued the Plactice of 'Plural mar LESSON DEPARTMENT: but new enter at day ore ts may in either Phone 3-2765 City GO ELECTRIC ALL THE WAY Electricity does all the household tasks better and at lower cost than any other method. UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 1882-1949 67 years ago on January 16, 1882 (His 27th birthday) Joseph Wm. Taylor, eldest son of Joseph E. Taylor, started in the mortuary profession under his own name, after his return from a mission to the British Isles. Prior to that he had been associated with his father who was the Intermountain West's first mortician, appointed by President Brigham Young. Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 No. Main Salt Lake City those dependent on her, he drove a team of oxen in a pioneer company to the Salt Lake Valley before he was ten. His mother died when he was thirteen and at the age of fifteen he went on a mission to Hawail which lasted three years. He later filled other missions to both Great Britain and Hawaii. In 1866 he was ordained to the apostleship and became a member of the Council of the Twelve in 1867. Between his various missions, he served as a member of the City Council of Salt Lake. It was largely due to his efforts that Salt Lake City acquired both Liberty and Pioneer Parks, which survive as lasting memorials to his foresight. Because of his strong testimony, sound judgment, and devotion to the cause of the Lord, President Taylor called him to be his second Counselor in 1880 and soon after, because of persecution, President Smith chose to retire from public life with other members of the Presidency. President Taylor sent him to Hawaii where he remained for some time. It was while there that he learned of and procured for publication the manuscript of Solomon Spaulding which had for more than a half century been proclaimed by enemies of theChurch as the original of the Book of Mormon. The subsequent publication and its later deposition in Oberlin College Library, exploded the myth of the Spaulding origin of the Book of Mormon. Returning to Utah, he was with President Taylor when he died. President Woodruff, hoping that something could be done to influence the federal government in its treatment of the Church, sent President Smith to Washington, D. C. 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT He spent much of 1888 and 1889 in the East, regulating Church financial and immigration affairs as well as interceding on behalf of the Church with government officials. He was unusually successful in these activities, which contributed to the ultimate amicable settlement of the difficulties with the government. The life of Joseph F. Smith will be further treated in the lesson dealing with his presidency. Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. How do you account for the fact that Wilford Woodruff was so sensitive to the promptings of the Spirit? 2. Review the section in Vol. VI, pp. 354-355 of Robert's Comprehensive History of the Church, entitled '""The Place of President Woodruff's Journals in the Church." 3. During President Woodruff's administration the Fast Day was changed from the first Thursday to the first Sunday of the month. Why do you suppose this change was made? References Cow tey, Marttuias F., Wilford Woodruff (biography). Cowtey, Mattuias F., Prophets and Patriarchs, pp. 69-85. Roserts, B. H., Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 200-241; 346- aD Sarr, Josern Fre. Pine, Essentials in Church History, pp. 603-613. Situ, Joseru Friexpine, Life of Joseph F. Smith, pp. 252-301. Wooprurr, WILForD, Leaves From My Journal. COLOR GUARD Gladys I. Hamilton The whitest things are mountain peaks, All ermine-dressed in snow; The reddest things are berry balls Where the valley haw trees grow. Then up above, the bluest thing Is clearness of blue sky; A color guard reminding me 'That hope must never die! 71 S06 S600 >0c 00S 0E Professional P| Social Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Dom OTM OTDM OOM OCOD OC DOL OE DO HEARTS GROW? Josephine J. Harvey They told me when I was small That growing pains were part Of growing tall. I wonder how they would explain This love I feel inside Like a still, deep pain? Could it be this is part Of the growth Of my heart? A> LYRIC OF BEING Ruth Harwood Each day I try to write The poem of my being A little clearer And a little higher. Each day I ask for light, To consecrate my seeing A little nearer To the holy firel monthly Magazine that Comes into € feel wel] NOurished with its My sincere latitude 80€s to tewart for her Story "Season. Ovember 1948), ilhood, &tatitude ang sincere apPreciation for others' Kindness to me S Messages and very much Tesemble the at- ™MOsphere and environment of our heayenly home and parents. —Mrs. Rhoda Ww. Thurston, Hyde Park, Utah The lesson helps are invaluable, enabling the teacher and Others to Present the ial j est possible Way. The €ssons are a distinct aid In this lM portant work, J appreciate heir contents. The lief § agazine was my first Contact with the Church and he} a e. N: ay God bless you abundantly and guide you daily in your work, and help you to him, —Genevieye G. Scott, Baltimore, Maryland You are doing g Wonderful work With the Magazine. To me; think the lessons have never been so Wonderful gs now. They are Sure] divinely Inspired. —Ewa B. Barlow, Santa Monica, Cali. Fornia Page 72 elle and | believe the Grain Field," (July Poem) by Eva Willes IS one of the finest Poems the Magazine I am Sending yoy the ] are using to help sel] the like it and thought &€t your "life-eternal™ —Susie v. Beutler, Homestead Ward, Sacramento ( California ) Stake It has been g joy getting subscriptions for The Relief Society Magazine. Our has grown, Any 800d _ materia] to read needs the Magazine, giving agazine € articles always Just at is needed and the 5 ONES are so very nteresting OF course the Poetry is cher. Ished by eve ne in our home, We all Consider the aZazine an lmpPortant, much-needed, well-balance erlodical, d —Jo Adelaide Stock, Salt Lake City, Utah ae! For a Sense of ACHIEVEMENT Own and READ "SHARING THE GOSPEL WITH OTHERS" oe52.50 Gems from President George Albert Smith's addresses. Selected by Preston Nibley "PROGRESS OF MAN"52.90 The history of the Lord's dealings with man. By Joseph Fielding Smith "GOSPEL STANDARDS" _2.29 Gems from President Heber J. Grant's addresses. Selected by G. Homer Durham "PRESIDENTS OF THE CHURCH" _____.53.00 Eight, great men—spiritual leaders of the Latter-day Saints. By Preston Nibley "JESUS THE CHRIST"52.00 A classical account of the Savior's life and ministry. By James E. Talmage DESERET BOOK COMPANY Our Books are available through local book dealers throughout the Intermountain West and wherever Latter-day Saints live. Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City 10, Utah U. 5. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 — 1949 A, aA hew Year commences Lt US roenernees coe IT IS BETTER TO LOOK AHEAD and PROVIDE, THAN TO LOOK BACK and REGRET. BENEFICIAL FEBRUARY 1949 VOL 36 NO. 2 Lessons for May THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 36 FEBRUARY, 1949 No. 2 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES A Memorial to the Relief Society Sist Bi i Relief Society Building News hoa shop LeGrand e e The Symbol of a Dream Verda Mae Fuller 88 From the Shadow of a Dream to the Sunlight of Promise -...-......::: s: ssssssVesta P. Crawford 92 Wearing a Face Into a Mother's' Caroline Eyring Miner 97 Women Against Polio Elaine Whitelaw 102 The Sane View Caroline Eyring Miner 128 FICTION They Die in the Harness—Second Prize Story........ Myrtle M. Dean 80 Joanna—Chapter 2 Margery S. Stewart 104 The Dress—Part II Fay Tarlock 109 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 98 Woman s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 99 Editorial: Remembrance for February Vesta P. Crawford 100 Congratulations to President Amy Brown Lyman on Her Birthday 0... 101 Notes From the Field: Visiting Teachers Activities, New Organizations, and Anniversary Socials General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 115 From Near and Far 144 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: ''From Sunshine to Shadow": Elder Don B. Colton 123 Map of Palestine at the Time of Christ 126 Visiting Teachers Messages: '"''Ye Are the Light of the World'... Elder H. Wayne Driggs 129 Literature: 'Literature of the Prophet's Closing Years 0.0... Elder Howard R. Driggs 130 Social Science: International Strife and the Quest for Peace.......... Elder G. Homer Durham 134 Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science: The Presidency of Lorenzo Smow... Ncc-. Cccccse-ce = Elder T. Edgar Lyon 138 POETRY Unwritten Song—Frontispiece Anna Prince Redd 73 Petia icy in Winter Eva Willes Wangsgaard 79 CITC © een. Susa Gould Walker 86 Remuneration Take What You Gan".. Alice Whitson Norton 87 wi...... Christie Lund Coles 101 ¥ inter Pear _. Ae...... Dorothy J. Roberts 103 rs =. - heen ee eeeC. Cameron Johns 108 ae: seeesee ses tat ereceseneosaee or ssnsovsenasoesesceene thBeatrice K. Ekman 108 efeat........ =o. I. Ccsukvelyn Fjeldsted 128 Communion at Midmight oo... CcccccccsssssvssssnessssveessnecsssnessssvesesvovessvesessvasssevaseseveseenusesnusseseseenoneesLizabeth Wall 129 Little Books.......,.... —_ i. A aeAnna S. W. Gould 144 —— PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY itorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; —— in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No ack numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. —— as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in — 1108. Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned bm ess_return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 36, NO. 2 FEBRUARY 1949 Unwritten Song. Anna Prince Redd I have not written a hymn-to the flag Nor an essay on liberty, But I've seen an eagle surmount a crag, And waves, lashing in from the sea, Drive at a granite ledge And retreat in futility. I've lain at rest On a sunlit crest And the stag companioned me. I have not written a chorus To the Lincolns of history, But the freedoms ransomed for us Are my integrity. Their voices are heard in the mechanized din And wherever the word of freedom has been: The cadence of creature and crag is strong, As sunlight, and heartthrob— And unwritten song. ~ The Cover: The Grand Tetons, photograph by Hal Rumel. Warren Lee "TREE TRACERIES AT ALTA, UTAH" A Memorial to the Relief Society Sisters Bishop LeGrand Richards Presiding Bishop of the Church (Address delivered at the morning session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 30, 1948). Think you are wonderful. I believe the Lord thinks you are wonderful. I know what Sister Spafford and her counselors think of you because we have talked and visited together a good many times about what you have done. When you launched your Building program a year ago, I did not have any misgivings. I knew you would do it. You are the only one hundred per centers we have in the Church, in fact, I think you might call yourselves the One Hundred Per Cent Club or organization, if you would like to, and it would always be that because, well, having been a bishop of three different wards and president of a stake, and now for ten years having served as adviser to the General Relief Society Presidency, I have paraphrased the old statement that if you want anything done give it to the busy man, and I say, "If you want anything done give it to the Relief Society." They never fail. I do not know how many of you have heard Brother Thomas E. McKay's little story about when he was at a stake welfare meeting recently. They were just going to close the meeting when he said, "Oh, president, we have not heard from the Relief Society and we sure ought to have a word from them." And so the stake president called the president of the Relief Society of the stake and she stood up and said: "Brother McKay, the Relief Society is behind the Priesthood one hundred per cent," and the president of the stake stood up and said: "Yes, President McKay, and the Priesthood is behind the Relief Society one hundred years." Now, if there ever comes a da when we can call the Priesthood of this Church the One Hundred Per Cent Club, it will be a great day for the Church I can assure you. When this program was first Jaunched I think the sisters had some little misgivings because there were rumblings went out over the Church and there were some who had adverse criticisms to offer. When the sisters told me just now that I would have more than three minutes, I picked up the Bible and thought of the little experience when Jesus went into the home of Simon the leper at Bethany, and you will remember the criticism there. There were some of the same kind of disciples in our midst in our day, who said: "Why do you not take that money and build an old folks' home? Or why do you not take it and give it to the poor instead of building a home like that for the Relief Society? I think this is apropos enough that I would like to read from the Page 75 twenty-sixth chapter of Matthew the experience the Savior had along this same line with the disciples of his day. Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head as he sat at meat. Sister Spafford just told you how some of this money was acquired to make these contributions to this great Relief Society fund, and I imagine that it probably cost this woman who had this alabaster box of special ointment a large sum, too, and who knows how much knitting she did in order to acquire it, but, nevertheless, we are told here that she poured it on the Savior's head as he sat at meat. But when his disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste? For this ointment might have been sold for much, and given to the poor. When Jesus understood it, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? For she hath wrought a good work upon me. For ye have the poor always with you; but me ye have not always. For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial. Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done, be told for a memorial of her (Mt. 26:8-13). OU see it is over two thousand years but the story is still being told, but if the ointment had been sold to feed the poor, or care for the poor, there would have been no story to tell, but she poured it upon his head as he sat at meat, and I would like to say to you sisters who have made contributions to make this building possible, that wherever this gospel shall go, throughout all the world, and until the final winding up scene, this shall stand, the thing that you have done, as a memorial to you, and it shall never be forgotten. Probably none of us can underestimate the value of the parable Jesus taught about the man who traveled in a far country, and left his talents with his servants. When he returned and held an accounting with them, the one who had received the five talents and had won another five, to him the Master said:.. » Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou has been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. And if the Master were here today to speak, he would tell you that in this assignment that was made to you that you have been faithful. You have measured up a hundred per cent. We could not have asked more. Sister Sharp has told you of some of the incidental contributions, some of them of magnitude that have come, that are more than what has actually been asked for. Now, I know that the sisters had some concern because one day they brought me a letter from one stake president who said they had decided they had to take care of their welfare building first and then they would think about the other later, and so I wrote that stake president, because the Relief Society Presidency were just a little concerned, and when we received a reply from the stake president saying: "Don't worry, our contribution will be there," we did not worry any more. I happened to be in Idaho Falls attending a stake conference of the South Idaho Falls Stake, and I feel 76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 A MEMORIAL TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS that stake is entitled to credit here today, for those sisters had all of their contributions in and theirs was the first stake in the Church to go over the top, and we were so eager we even called Sister Spafford up from Idaho Falls to tell her, and you know, I could not see Sister Spafford, but I almost thought she had fainted because it took so long to get her answer back. It actually took her breath away, when she found that it could be done. There is something about it that whenever one does it, then you know that all can if they will, and from that day on they just kept coming in, check after check, from stake. After stake, until as you have had announced to you here today, not one stake is being omitted from the roll of a hundred per cent contribution to this great building. Now, the Lord does a marvelous thing among his children. He provides the ways and the means and he gives us the ideas and the inspiration, but even the Lord has to have people, his children, to work out his designs here in the earth. To illustrate what I mean, you have all heard the story about the man who was driving up the highway and he drove past a beautiful farm. Everything just looked grand, and there was a lovely farmhouse. And the farmer was standing out in front, and his gardens were nice and his fence was all painted, and this man stopped and said to the farmer, "You and the Lord have surely made a fine looking farm out of this." ) And the farmer spoke up and said: "Yes, but you ought to have seen it when the Lord had it alone." 77 "THE point I want to make here is that Sister Spafford and her counselors could not have done it alone, the Lord could not have done it alone, unless he followed a miraculous manner, not his usual way of doing. He gave the ideas. He made it possible. And I tell you my confidence and faith is that if we could go all over this Church and know just how much the Lord did, do in putting the inspiration into the hearts of the individual women and the local organizations to make it possible, we would know that the Lord has been in this program in a very substantial manner, but nevertheless, the Lord has to have someone to help it out, so you good Relief Society sisters and the Lord have done a magnificent work out of this assignment that was made to you. Along that line, I want to read from the Sunshine Magazine, entitled "If My Hands Slacken:" The smallest roadside pool has its water from the skies and its gleam from the sun and can hold the stars in its bosom. Even so the humblest person can live splendidly and have a valued share in the economy of the universe. That is the royal trath that we need to believe, we who think we have no mission and no great sphere in which to move. The universe is not complete without our work well done. Let us not forget the lesson of Antonius Stradivarius whose violins, two hundred years old, are worth their weight in gold. Says Stradivarius, in Mary Ann Evans' immortal poem of that name: "If my hands slacken, I should rob God—since He is fullest good—leaving a blank instead of violins. He could not make Antonius Stradivarius violins without Antonius." Now, I like that thinking. Even though the Lord provides all the facilities, he has to have someone through whom he can work. I do not know whether or not you know how much a violin like this is worth, but about a year and a half ago, we had one here in Salt Lake. It was brought out of Poland during the war by a refugee, and when he crossed the border line to get past the Germans he had to play some ragtime or swing, or whatever you call it, so that he would mislead the guards and not attach any particular importance to the violin, but when the Germans found that it had been permitted to get out of Poland, they put to death the man who had had the custody and ownership of the violin. I said to the man who played it: "That must be a very valuable instrument. What is it really worth?" "Oh, I do not know," he said. "I am carrying fifty thousand dollars insurance on it." Now, even the Lord could not make Antonius Stradivarius violins without Antonius, and you will have this monument standing to your credit, as the Savior said, that will be a memorial just as long as this Church shall stand. Now, I think that it is proper that we should build well. Some of you think that it might be a little extravagant. Sister Evans read some of the statements of Ruskin on building. I would like to pick it up from there, and read another statement he made about building. When we build, let us think that we build forever. Let it not be for present delight, nor for present peace alone, let it be such work as our descendants will thank us for, and let us think as we lay stone on stone, that a time is to come when those stones will be held sacred because our hands have touched them, and that men will say, as they look upon the labor and wrought substance of them, see, this our fathers (our mothers) did for us. And you remember the story they tell about. When President Brigham Young made the contract for laying the foundation of this temple, which is sixteen feet wide. He came here one day and found the contractor throwing in chipped granite instead of those huge blocks, and he made him tear them all out and put in the blocks, with the statement: "We are building this temple to stand through the millennium." WE were riding down First Avenue some few years ago with the First Presidency, and President Grant said: "Bishop, stop your car here a minute," and I did, and he said: "I never look at that temple from this point but what I think of the pioneers who undertook to build a building of that magnitude when they were a thousand miles away from transportation and had nothing but their hands to build with. What faith and courage." They were not building for today. They were building, as President Brigham Young said, that it might stand through the millennium. And that is the type of building that the Relief Society has planned to build, one that will stand as long as this earth continues in its present form and for its present purposes until we will have a new heaven and a new earth, and with all my heart I congratulate them and you in this great achievement. I have told this story about an English lord who came here some few years ago. He was shown through the Church Office Building by one of our good brethren, and you know the upper strata in- 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 England have not heard such good reports of the Mormons. They have always been more or less critical. And when he looked around and saw those marble pillars and marble walls he said: "Well, well, this is a going concern." Now, sisters, the Relief Society is a going concern. You have come through all the days of pioneering, all the dreams that the Prophet Joseph could have had for you when this organization was established, it seems to me, have been realized, and it is one of the great institutions, not only of the Church, but of the entire world. And I have said upon many occasions if we did not have anything in this Church but the Relief Society organization, we would have a great Church, and it would be much greater than some other churches in this world today. In closing, I would like to leave the thought with you that not only should we build our buildings of granite and materials that will stand and weather every storm, stand as long as this earth shall endure in its present state, but we ought to continue to build into the hearts of those who labor in our organizations the kind of faith that the pioneers had, the faith that our early leaders had, where no sacrifice was too great, and I pray that the Lord will give you that inspiration, that it will continue to be with you. We have had the great privilege and honor for over ten years to sit as advisers with your presidency. We know their ambitions and their objectives. We know many of the things they are achieving, that you do not see out in your own wards and stakes, in their social work here, in the placement of little children into good Latter-day Saint homes, and we know that their service is so broad and extensive, surely God is pleased with the great organization founded under the divine inspiration and leadership of the Prophet of this dispensation, and may God grant that that same spirit and power and inspitation may penetrate into the remotest corners of the earth, whereever this organization touches, and may' God bless these good sisters who preside over you, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ~— Heart-deep in Winter Eva Willes Wangsgaard With you so lately gone it seemed untrue That winter had relaxed and spring was near. Half-heartedly the northern ranks withdrew Relinquishing to spring the infant year; And spring came blithely, undisturbed by death. The soil had quickened; I could feel it stir, Perfumed by hyacinths; the morning's breath Was stroking cheek and throat like rabbit fur. The autumn bulbs erupted wells of gold; The lilacs leafed, for day was April warm; But night kept lagging back with icy cold And threatened lily fringe with frost and storm. Heart-deep in winter, unprepared, alone, The night and I and newly lettered stonel A MEMORIAL TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS 79 Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest They Die in the Harness Myrtle M. Dean MYRTLE M. DEAN HIS same thing had been hapT pening several times the last few months, Doctor John waking in the middle of the night from fragmentary dreams, starting from his bed. "It's the telephone, Mary," he said, waking his wife. "Hurry, Mary, see who it is while I get my bag. Someone needs me; someone is sick." He had nsen to sitting position on the side of the bed, his feet resting on the rug beside it. "Sh—shh—, John, you are dreaming again. Lie down and go to sleep. The phone isn't ringing." 'There was deep concern in Mary's voice. "Oh, I thought—I thought the Page 80 phone was ringing; someone wanting me." Dr. John rubbed his eyes and shook his head confusedly as he spoke. "You've got to stop this waking with a start and climbing out of bed; you know it is bad for you, John." Mary took him by the shoulders and gently pushed him back on his pillow. "Now, go to sleep," she said, as though she were speaking to a child. He lay quietly, but he did not sleep for a long time, and he knew Mary was awake, too, but she lay quite still, saying nothing. There was that same empty feeling sweeping through him, leaving him trembling and weak. Doctor John Boyd, retired; retired at sixty, he thought. No telephones © ringing for you tonight, nor tomorrow, nor anytime at all. Just lie back and take it easy. Let the phones ring for Matthews and Brown and Carson and all the others. You let them tell you you were too tired, too sick, he said derisively to himself. He had known it would be difficult, but he wondered now why he had thought he could make his retirement a resigned sort of thing instead of this nagging discontent which followed him day and night, this sense of falling to pieces like rotten timber and being discarded. It was Dr. Matthews whom his THEY DIE IN THE HARNESS nurse had called when he had collapsed suddenly down at the office last June, and they had sent for Mary. "You've got to stop this," Matthews had said firmly. "This going day and night all during the war has been too much for you. The doctor shortage is over now, John; plenty of them back, now let them take over." Dr. John still remembered how bone-weary he had felt, and with Mary there looking so frightened and Matthews shaking the finger of death grimly in his face, he had given in to them. Matthews had said, "Let your son Philip take over; carry on the Boyd tradition. He has made quite a name for himself, I hear, and has done some fine work in army hospitals." HE Boyds had been doctors for four generations. Dr. John remembered when he was just a little boy, how his grandfather, Alex Boyd's little black satchel had held such a fascination for him. "Would you like to be a doctor, Johnnie?" his grandfather had asked. "T'm going to be one, just like you, Grandpa," he had answered seriously. Dr. Alex' little satchel had contained not much more than a bottle of chloroform, a pair of umbilical scissors and a bit of cord, and some pink pills in little bottles. Instead of a stethoscope, he tapped with his fingers and listened for sounds with his ear over the chest. Dr. John's own father, Dr. David, was considered a great surgeon in his day. Then Dr. John had come along through horse and buggy days, 81 riding over dusty, winding country roads, then up through the period of rapid advancement in medicine and surgery, and the use of the new miracle drugs. Day or night, Dr. John had always been on the job. He had been very happy when Philip, his only son, had chosen to be a doctor, too. "Guess it's in the blood, Dad," Philip had said. "That little black bag holds a magnetism we can't get away from." "Tt is hard work, son," Dr. John had warned. "T still want it," Philip had answered seriously. Philip had seemed so young when he had graduated from medical school, and John and Mary had been so proud of him. He had just finished his internship when he went with the army, working in army hospitals in London and Paris. The ultimate climax of Dr. John's life was to have been reached on Philip's homecoming, when' they were to enter the new Boyd Hospital at Alton, with father and son working together in this impeccably equipped place. The hospital was the result of a shining dream, of am- _ bitions and work winging to heights of splendor. Philip had written from overseas, giving minute details of the latest in instruments, the finest in equipment and structure that should go into it. "Tt will be wonderful, Dad, the two of us working together," Philip had written enthusiastically. Dr. John had hovered about like a mother hen over her brood of chicks, meticulously attending to its building. He had explained to Dr. Matthews when he had told him to stop work, "The new hospital, Matthews, that is for us, Philip and me, working together." There had been a note of pleading in his voice, Matthew's next words had been a near command. "You can't go into that hospital, Boyd. If you do, it will be as a patient." Dr. John had forbidden Mary to tell Philip why he was retiring. "I won't have my son probing me, examining me, putting me to bed," he had said vehemently. "Just tell him you are retiring like anyone has a right to do at your age if one has the means to live adequately. Dozens of men here, no older than you, are retired and enjoying life." Mary had spoken so calmly casual that John had burst forth almost fiercely, "Doctors don't retire if they have any guts. They die in the harness.": Mary had checked him before he could continue. "Yes, they keep on until they die like your father. He died at sixty-three. "He died in the harness. Your mother was a widow for twelve years. I don't want that, John." Mary's eyes had grown dark with fear, and she looked delicate and defenseless as she stood there. Dr. John thought, she has stood by me through all my struggles, but she cannot quite understand that being a doctor is more than a job. It makes one part of life itself, living with people in their happiness and their sorrows, in life and in death. A baby born into the world, a life going out, this had all become a part of him. HILIP had come home and gone into the new hospital with young doctors Martin and Alder, to assist him. He had seemed puzzled and a little hurt at his father's sudden unexplained decision to retire. Dr. John and Mary had gone away for two months for a test, but he had grown restless and had returned, thinking perhaps it would seem bet. Ter at home with people he knew and loved. Now as he lay sleepless, deep in the night, memories tushing upon him, he thought, it gets harder as time goes on, not easier. Matthews has my office and equipment, while I stay twiddling my thumbs." John had been firm on one point. He wouldn't give up his little black bag and its contents. "Just as well cut off my right arm," he had said. He had placed it on his closet shelf and sometimes when Mary wasn't around he would take it out and finger its contents lovingly. After a restless night, Dr. John always looked tired and pale. Mary eyed him anxiously, but in silence. "Guess I'll walk down town for a bit of exercise," he said as he finished his breakfast. He tried to sound cheerful. "Better wear your overcoat, It's cold out this morning," Mary said. "Yes, pretty nippy for the first of November," he answered, while he thought, June and now November. One marks off the days on the calendar, but nothing makes the days go faster. Only work and liying can do that. He met old friends on the street, heard bits of news. He stopped at a newsstand and bought a mornin paper, then went into the hotel lob. By that was nearby, to rest awhile and read. He chose a big chair off in one end of the long room. There 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 THEY DIE IN THE HARNESS were two, well-dressed men who sat Dr. John wal.. | Then a warm glow of satisfaction filled his heart as his eyes fell on a news note in the paper. "Miracle of Surgery Saves Life of Son of Wealthy Banker," was the caption. Then he read on: Car accident causes serious brain concussion and_ critical internal injuries to young Tony Barton, son of Thomas Batton, prominent citizen and President of the First National Bank of Alton. Credit for the saving of the young man's life is given to the marvelous skill and swift precision of the operation performed by Dr. Philip Boyd at the Boyd Hospital. Young Barton is reported as being in good condition at Boyd Hospital today. My happiness must come, now, through my son's success, Dr. John said to himself. 'Then he heard the two men near him talking. "A town the size of Alton ls lucky getting such a skilled doctor as young Boyd, and having. Such a fine hospital," one of them Ie marked. "Yes, his father, Dr. John, had the hospital built at Alton." "They say the son isn't a bit like his father. Philip is a big doctor all right. He has a big hospital, wealthy patients, pretty nurses, everything he needs, but he hasn't the big heart like Dr. John." "He's an only child, they tell me. Maybe that's it," the first speaker said with a sarcastic chuckle. Dr. John's hands clenched tightly. His first impulse was to con front these strangers. Such talk would be damaging to Philip. Then, with perturbed thoughtfulness, he 83 sank back heavily into his chair. I must face facts squarely. Philip is our only son. Have we done too much for him? D*: John slipped, unobserved, through a side door and moved slowly toward home. As he went in he moved near the fire that burned on the grate, and rubbed his hands together to warm them. He cheerful note in his voice as he told Mary little bits of news he had heard in the town, but what he had heard about Philip at the hotel. He He handed her the paper, pointing to the article about Philip. "You'll be proud of your son," he said, smiling tenderly. "T knew he would be a great doctor," she said, maternal pride shining in her eyes. "T think [ll drive overt to Alton, offer my congratulations to Philip and take a look at the hospital," he said then, quite unexpectedly." may not be back until late. See that Martha takes good care of you." Martha was their housekeeper who had been with them for fifteen years. John knew that Mary would like to go along and see Philip. They usually went together, but he wanted to see Philip alone today. "Tell Philip how proud I am of him, too," Mary said, "and give Janie my love. I had hoped Philip would marty before now. He needs a good wife." "Every man needs a good wife. What would I have done without my good wife? It is you who have given me courage to do everything 1 have done, Marty." "Every woman loves to hear her husband say such things, John, even if they are a bit farfetched." They had both secretly hoped Janie and Philip would marry, and had suspected that Janie had been in love with Philip ever since she was a girl sixteen. Her parents had both been killed in an accident when she was twelve, and Mary and John had been like a mother and father to her since then. She had become a nurse, and now worked with Philip in the Boyd Hospital. Alton seemed wrapped in a quiescent hush. The great smokestacks of the smelter and mills looked cold and foreboding in the absence of the gray smoke that usually belched from their tops. Picket lines marched in front of the mill gates. The Boyd Hospital stood like a clean white monument on the far side of the town, etched against a background of burnished, autumnal hills; a monument to the name of Boyd. Philip would be busy most of the afternoon in the examining office. Dr. John decided to look about the hospital before he tried to see him. The sun was shining, trying to temper the cold wind that swept up fallen leaves from the lawn and piled them in little heaps against the wide marble steps. [NSIDE the front hall, Dr. John took off his topcoat and hung it on the rack. He stood for a moment, almost breathless from the force of the cold wind.. He saw that the outer waiting room was already full of people waiting their turn to be taken in. They were mostly well-dressed, the sort of folk one would expect to see in such a setting as this hospital made. Incongruously, among the others, he noted a woman who looked to be a foreigner. She was poorly dressed. Her coat was shapeless and frayed. A boy of about ten leaned wearily against her gaunt side. His face was pale, but a vivid spot burned on either cheek. His breath came in uneven panting jerks. 'The mother's face was filled with anxiety. That child needs immediate at- 'tention, Dr. John said to himself, and instinctively he thought of his black bag he had surreptitiously taken from his closet shelf and placed in his car while Mary had gone to bring his muffler. Then he saw Elise Boulton emérging from the examining room. She was wrapped snugly in her sable furs. Her voice was lilting as she spoke to the nurse. "It will be wonderful to have a nice rest in such a nice room. Dr. Philip says I may have room 16, my same, darling, sunny room." "Yes, you are lucky. The hospital is crowded full," Jane said, and then, "your turn next please," she said to another patient. Still the sick child waited. Dr. John felt in no mood to meet Elise. As she went out, he went through a side door and took an elevator to the top floor, thinking to himself, I guess Elise has had another disagreement with Jim Boulton, so is running away, pretending sick, to get his sympathy, and Philip is humoring her whims. Sure, she can pay for the best room in the hospital. He went about the hospital reveling in its perfection. Finally, he glanced at his watch, and knew he must go down if he wanted to see Philip. Time had passed so quick- 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 THEY DIE IN THE HARNESS ly in this Utopian world in which Philip worked. There were only a few persons left in the waiting room. The woman_and her child had gone in. Dr. John moved to a front window in an alcove of the room. Then, he stood in shocked silence, for he saw the woman and her boy coming out again from the examining room, and he heard Jane's voice saying, "I'm sorry, but Dr. Boyd says every room is taken, and your son will require hospitalization for some time." Then, making her own observation, she continued, "Your child is very ill. You should call your family doctor at once or go to some other hospital. Goodbye," she said kindly. A woman who was still waiting her turn to go in, sensing the child's urgent need asked, "Didn't you have an appointment here? Your child needs attention immediately." "No, I have none. I just come. My boy, he so very seck. I come here. Doctor Boyd so good a doctor. Everyone say that. The paper this morning, it say so too. So I just come. I be here in Alton not so long. I don't know doctors. The strikes, my husband, he have no work now. I come to this good hos-. Pital. My boy so seck, so seck." She went out murmuring brokenly. OR a brief moment, Dr. John stood unbelieving and _bewildered, his fists clenched tightly. His first impulse was to go in to Philip, but he heard Philip saying to Jane, "T have an engagement now, so must leave. Call Morton down to finish here," and he left by a side door to take his car. The woman and child were mov- 85 ing slowly down the front walk. Their battered old car stood by the curb. Without a formulated plan, Dr. John hurried to the door. "Come on back," he called, his voice drifting out to them on the sharp, cold air. The woman turned hesitantly, as though she would brook no further delay. The wind whipped her coat tantalizingly against her thin legs. "Bring the child back. We will take care of him here," he said as he moved out toward her. Her eyes turned up to his, at first_ questioning doubtfully, but she saw the kindness in his face, and turned back murmuring gratefully, "Oh, thank you. My boy, he so seck." Dr. John called Jane and two other nurses to assist him. It was all over in a few hours. 'The child was resting in room sixteen, finest room in the hospital, the room Elise Boulton had expected to occupy at ten the next morning. Dr. John gave quick, concise orders to the head nurse on the floor. "Keep a special nurse on the case for a few days. Administer oxygen continually until further directed. Watch those drain tubes. There was a lot of pus in that right lung." He turned, then, to the boy's mother. "You must go now. The child needs rest. You may come tomorrow and see him," he said kindly. Tears of gratitude welled in her eyes as she started to go, then hesitating a moment, she asked anxiously, "He will get well?" He nodded affirmatively, he will be all nght now." "Oh, thank you, Doctor—Doctor —I don't know your name." "Yes, "T'm Dr. Boyd," he answered unrevealingly. "Oh, I find wrong doctor then. That is it. I find wrong doctor first time." She went out, nodding her head and smiling. Then he turned to Jane. "Don't forget to notify Elise Boulton that an emergency case came in, and has to occupy room sixteen. We'll need it for at least ten days." There was a cryptic satisfaction in his smile as he spoke. Then his face became somber as he studied Jane's face. "How are things with you, Janie?" he asked. "With you and Philip, I mean?" For a moment her dark eyes grew serious, and wavered beneath his gaze as she answered a bit hesitantly. "Sometimes I think I am only a part of the impeccable equipment of this place, like the elevator, the X-ray machine, moving like an automaton through his days." Then a slow smile lighted her, face and there was an eager, shining look in her eyes. "Then other times—" she said, leaving the sentence unfinished. "Philip needs-you, Janie," he said earnestly as he turned to leave. "But, Dr. John, what about you, you here doing this?" she questioned, as she motioned toward the child's bed. "That child would have died. You know that, Janie, but I came here because I had a feeling Philip needed me today, and I needed him, too." Jane gave him an understanding smile, and. Pressed his hand gently as she said, "Philip needs you every day, Dr. John." He turned and drew himself up a little straighter and taller as though a sudden resolve had been bom within him. And he said, "I'll be back again tomorrow, Janie, and each day thereafter." A satisfied smile curved his lips, and a peaceful light stole over his face. Have five children," eight boys. Is a junior at B. Y. U. This year. Provo." Myrtle M. Dean, Provo, Utah, is the wife of Charles E. Dean. Mrs. Dean writes, "four daughters and one son. Four oldest are married and we have nine grandchildren, one little girl and Our children have all attended college, three of them having graduated from Brigham Young University, and our youngest daughter, Marie, "As to literary accomplishments, I am afraid I haven't many, but having received prizes in the Relief Society Short Story Contest the last two years gives me encouragement, and I hope I shall be able to spend more time in wniting. I am a member of the wnter's section of the Women's Council of Mrs. Dean's story "Our Children's Children" received the third prize in last year's Relief Society Short Story Contest. "We Our Variance Susa Gould Walker My friend heard the wind, rancorous, harsh, Buffeting a tall spruce tree. I saw a maestro, myriad-armed, Conducting a symphony. 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 Reliof Society Building Tews HE names of the following stakes, wards, missions, and mission branches have not previously been published in The Relief Society Magazine as having completed their building fund quotas: Moroni Stake - Woodruff Stake French Mission - Argentine Mission Adelaide Branch, Australian Mission Bankstown Branch, Australian Mission Brisbane Branch, Australian Mission Chester Ward, Moroni Stake Enmore Branch, Australian Mission Fountain Green Ward, Moroni Stake Glen Huon Branch, Australian Mission. Hobart Branch, Australian Mission Hurtsville Branch, Australian Mission Kemmerer Ward, Woodruff Stake Melbourne Branch, Australian Mission Nambour Branch, Australian Mission Perth Branch, Australian Mission Randolph Ward, Woodruff Stake Toowomba Branch, Australian Mission Woodruff Ward, Woodruff Stake eenaicon Alice Whitson Norton I would not mind the loneliness, Nor pain of broken wings, That cause the utter weariness Of ordinary things, If I could only write one song, As lovely as the glow Of moonlight on a silent lake, Hedged in with drifted snow. Page 87 The Symbol of a Dream Verda Mae Fuller Continuity Writer, KSL, Salt Lake City, Utah (Prepared under the direction of Mary G. Judd, Member, Relief Society General Board) [Continuity from a recording presented at the annual general Relief Society conference in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Thursday morning, September 30, 1948, at the special session in recognition of the Building Fund achievement. In making the record the parts of living characters were voiced by themselves. ] Narrator: The greatest art of all time will forever be of people, not of things. It was a teacher who phrased it thus, and a student who te. Membered those words.... "of people, not of things." Yet we talk of a building. A building that is structure—stone on stone —wood on wood—marble on marble. It is, itself, a thing. Until, we talk of it not alone as a building, but as a dream. Then the building becomes a part of all the people who have dreamed and planned and worked for it. Ee Ke & A part of Zina D. H. Young, who stood, as the third president of our organization, in a Relief Society conference in the Assembly Hall, over half a century ago.... (FApE) ZINA: The Relief Society needs a house of its own. The women of the Church have done so much to help build other public buildings and temples that they have no means to build one for the Relief Society. Narrator: It is a part of Sarah M. Kimball, who was the general secretary of the Relief Society and who spoke at that same conference, that day in 1896.... SARAH: I feel it's a humiliation to be without a place of our own. We've contributed to all public places. Now we want to have a house, and we want land to build it on and it should be in the shadow of the temple. It should be a place to Teceive strangers in when they come, a place where letters can be written from, and information given. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the sisters in Nauvoo a lot belonging to the Church and a house on it which could be repaired and made useful. We need a house of our own here. Now I want to ask you sisters if you want such a buildmg as I have described, (SOUND: VOICES IN APPROVAL. ) Narrator: They wanted it, of course. The voting was unanimous. But it takes more than votes to build a building. It took, among other things, the Sunday eggs. LITTLE GIRL: Oh goody, Mammal F orty-eight of 'em today. MOTHER: That's just gtand, Betsy. Put 'em in the case. LITTLE GIRL: The Relief Society Case, Mamma? MOTHER: Yes, Dear. Page 88 THE SYMBOL OF A DREAM 89 FATHER: Hmmm! Forty-eight! Looks to me like you've got those hens on your side, Emmy. I swear they never lay like that any other day of the week. (FADE) Narrator: Yes, it took the Sunday eggs. And it took the wool from the wire fences and posts and bushes after the flocks had left the enclosure. (FADE) MOTHER: There's some more down by that post, Betsy. BETSY: Oh, Mamma! Haven't we got enough now? MOTHER: Run down and get it. The exercise'll do you good. BETSY: You mean it'll do the Relief Society good! Narrator: Yes, it took the wool. And it took the wheat— wheat gleaned from the fields after the harvesters had gone—Relief Society wheat—a story in itself. To build that building took the co-operative help of the Mutual and Primary Associations. President Lorenzo Snow spoke of the joint project in the pages of the Woman's Exponent in July of 1901: PRESIDENT SNOW: We commend the undertaking and have contributed a valuable building site opposite the temple, valued at $18,000. The women must have $20,000 before commencing the house. NARRATOR: $20,000! That was a lot of money for those days. But Sister Zina was not discouraged. Before a year passed, though, both she and President Lorenzo Snow had been called to the other side. Joseph F. Smith was the next Church President; Bathsheba W. Smith the next Relief Society President. Under her leadership funds continued to be collected for the women's building. But in 1908, the plans were changed; and it was decided that they should include quarters for the Presiding Bishopric. Thus the dream of a woman's building, as such, had to be abandoned temporarily. We contributed $8,000 towards the construction of the Bishop's Building, as it came to be called, and moved into our offices there in December 1909. We've appreciated the offices, yes. But you know how you feel when you've been living with relatives and then get a chance to move into a home of your own. And sometimes, the relatives are a little anxious, too. Elder Marvin O. Ashton had a colorful way of expressing it, when in our Relief Society conference three years ago, he said in his own humorous way: BISHOP ASHTON: If we are perfectly honest with you, and sometimes we are, we should say something like this to President Spafford, 'Success to you in this building." And as the host said to his guests, ""Here's your hat, but what's your hurry?" Our building over there is crowded. You need a new building and so do we need more elbow room. Success to you! I hope I have the privilege of contributing to it. And I'm sure I won't be denied. Narrator: Today, we talk of our building as a dream about to be fulfilled. We talk of it as Sister Spafford did in October conference, three years ago: 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 SISTER SPAFFORD: We want our building to belong to the women of the Church, and to have every Relief Society woman feel the pride of ownership in it. We want it to do more than house the general offices. We want it to be of service to all of you. We expect to include in it a comfortable lounge, where you may come and rest, write a letter, or meet a friend; check-rooms where you may leave your bundles; a relic room where choice articles of historic value may be preserved and displayed; an auditorium; well-equipped work and exhibition kitchens where homemaking demonstrations and lectures may be given. And we would like at this time to know your attitude towards the proposed building program. Therefore, just as our sisters of long ago called for a vote on this identical proposition, so today, forty-nine years later, we too are calling for a vote of this great congregation. (SOUND: VOICES IN APPROVAL.) Narrator: Again the voting was unanimous. Yes, we talk of a building. And talk of it was high that conference day in 1945. President George Albert Smith said: PRESIDENT SMITH: It's appropriate that you women of the Church of Jesus Christ, the only Church that bears his name by divine authority, should have a home of your own into which you can invite the spirit of the Lord when you hold your meetings. I realize you have been disappointed in the past; you thought you had a house of your own once before, but it turned out to be the Presiding Bishop's office also. But now your prospect seems better, and as you think about it and plan for it, you will be very happy. I don't care how fine it is, it will not be better than you deserve. There isn't anything too good for you as long as you keep the commandments of the Lord. You may be sure that if you do your part, the Lord will do his. Narrator: "If you do your part, the Lord will do his." It is good to know as we dream our building that our sisters of the past have done their part—just as you, in a large measure, have done yours. It is symbolic that the library of the building we dream will carry many precious documents and words—the words, for example, of Sister Lucy Mack Smith, the mother of the Prophet Joseph, who, in the second meeting the Relief Society organization ever held, said: LUCY SMITH: This institution is a good one. We must cherish one another; watch over one another and gain instruction, that we may all sit down in heaven together. Narrator: And we have cherished one another. As Sister Marianne Sharp put it: SISTER SHARP: Ever since Sister Lyman appointed Sister Spafford and me to help prepare the book, A Centenary of Relief Society, to commemorate the hundredth birthday of the society, I have felt very near to the Relief Society leaders of the past and the faithful members who are the mothers, the grandmothers, and even greatgrandmothers of the members today. They have stepped out alive to me from the pages of the Woman's Exponent, and from the minutes of the general board. Their testimonies have increased my testimony. I have shared in their joys and sorrows. Narrator: And when you look at the portraits of our Relief Society leaders of the past, you know what Sister Sharp means. You see a solidarity of purpose shining in their eyes. You sense their courage and their faith. And it is a thrill to know that in the building of which we THE SYMBOL OF A DREAM 91 speak, they, too, will be personalities. We do not leave them behind; we take them with us; and we are greater because of them. They dreamed this building along with us, and it will be theirs, too—a building great because its purposes are great—because it will bear the name of a society whose putpose it is to serve the people, to comfort the sorrowful, to minister to the sick and the dying, to clothe the naked, and to soothe the distressed; to serve human need wherever it exists, as it will ever exist. And in this we can do no better than to beseech the Father that he give us charity and the pure love of Christ. VOICE (Echoing... Resonant) Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock (Matt. 7:24-2 5). Narrator: Our building has not yet been erected, but our prayer is that we, and the sisters who have gone before us, have succeeded in laying for it, the foundation our Lord would have us lay—a foundation of true charity unto his people. [Lighting of foundation of building.] Charity never faileth! RECOGNITION MEETING STAKES AND MISSIONS HONORED FOR BUILDING FUND ACHIEVEMENT Salt Lake Tabernacle, September 30, 1948 Representatives of stakes and missions are seen standing below and to the sides of the pulpits, directly in front of the audience. The Singing Mothers are seated in the choir seats. The replica of the building may be seen in front of the organ pipes. From the Shadow of a Dream to the Sunlight of Promise Vesta P. Crawford (Prepared under the direction of Priscilla L. Evans, Member, Relief Society General Board) [Continuity read by Sister Evans at the annual general Relief Society conference in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Thursday morning, September 30, 1948, at the general session held in recognition of the Building Fund achievement.] You, as the women of this day and year, come not as builders of that which is new, but you come as interpreters of a dream, as heirs of a high destiny. You are of the house and of the lineage of eternal builders. You add your illumination of ideals and the practical strength of your hands to build the sunlit walls of an edifice for women who love light and truth— women who have demonstrated the strength and beauty of their sisterhood. You stand in the brief, bright moment of the present, looking with love and appreciation upon the brave builders of the past—looking with hope and steadfast vision to the future. You are that golden link in time, binding the historic days which have been to the widening years to come. (REPRESENTATIVES OF First SEVENTEEN STAKES STAND AS NaMES ARE CALLED) South Idaho Falls Teton Mesa Seattle Idaho Falls Granite Rexburg South Los Angeles San Diego North Idaho Falls = Uvada Juarez Wells Emigration Utah Florida Temple View (THE First Winpow Is LicHTEp As THE Last Woman Stanps. Ati ReEMAIN STANDING. ) Inheritors of truth and faith Who keep the precious dream Shall build the house of beauty And see the windows gleam. The work of God's dominion Is given to your hand, And, from your home of service, Shall reach to every land. (Fmsr Group Srrs Down. Tae Winnow Remains LIGHTED.) (REPRESENTATIVES OF SECOND Group STAND. As Last WoMAN STANDS THE SECOND Window Is LicHrep. Women REMAIN STANDING.) Bear River Smithfield Oneida Grant Parowan Sugar House Tooele East Provo Cedar Salt Lake San Juan American Falls Liberty San Luis Sevier Oquirrh Page 92 East Rigby FROM THE SHADOW OF A DREAM TO THE SUNLIGHT OF PROMISE 93 The vision that your mothers knew Is like a mantle spread, And their prophetic blessings Shine glorious on your head. As daughters of the promise Your stately house shall be A lasting symbol of your dream— The home of charity! (Szconp Group Sirs Down. Two Winpows REMAIN LIGHTED. ) (Tumrp Group STANDS.) San Bernardino Oahu Long Beach West Utah Maricopa West Pocatello Nampa Inglewood San Francisco Taylor Ben Lomond Palo Alto Weiser Wayne East Mill Creek Lehi Ogden (Timep Winpow LicuTep as Last WoMAN STANDS. ) As Latter-day Saints we know that a spiritual creation precedes our coming to this earth, and in keeping with this lofty concept, the hopes and the dreams for our future accomplishments rise within our spirits before they find expression in temporal form upon the earth, and in turn our efforts as builders beautify and develop our personalities for an everlasting purpose. There is no stone so strong As the light in the builder's eyes And far beyond the walls of earth The towers of the spirit rise! (Tump Group Strs Down. THREE Winpows Remain LIcHTED.) (FourtH Group STANDS.) San Fernando North Rexburg Grantsville Davis Hillside 'Mount Ogden Blackfoot East Cache South Ogden Cassia Bonneville Highland Timpanogos Palmyra Burley Hyrum Morgan (Fourta Winvow Licutep as Last Woman STANDS.) "This society shall rejoice." So spoke our Prophet and founder. We do rejoice. This is a day of heartfelt gratitude, for today many blessings have been made manifest; our hopes and our plans have matured and our dreams have come to pass. Today we have passed from the shadow of a dream to the sunlight of a promise. (Fourtu Group Sirs Down. Four Winpows REMAIN LIGHTED.) 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 (Firta Group STANDS.) North Sevier South Summit Lyman Chicago Pasadena West Jordan Snowflake Portneuf Phoenix Minidoka South Carolina Reno Provo Franklin Big Cottonwood Rigby Benson (Firta Winvow Is Licurep as Lasr Woman STAnps.) This building which we in our time shall erect shall be a monument not alone of steel and stone, but it shall stand as a watch in the night, as a symbol of the standard which we have lifted before the eyes of women everywhere, and as we use this building, always let us pray: "So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom." (FirtH Group Sirs Down. Five Winpows REMAIN LIGHTED.) (S1xtH Group STANDS. ) Lethbridge Garfield Montpelier Panguitch San Joaquin Gridley Mount Jordan Saint Joseph Bear Lake Humboldt New York Young Cottonwood Kanab North Carbon Orem Star Valley (StxtH Winpow Is Licutep as Last Woman STANDS.) In years to come it shall be said that many willing hands erected this building and many generous spirits contributed to its beauty.... That this monument was not built by the few, but by the many. Your daughters and their daughters shall say: "Our mothers builded well in the pattern and in the design of a people who look forward, and well they knew that 'too low they build who build beneath the stars.' " (SrxxrH Group Sirs Down. Six Winpows Remain LIcHTED) (SEvenTH Group STANDS.) Deseret Mount Logan Sharon Pocatello Bannock North Box Elder Southern Arizona Lake View Gunnison North Sanpete Pioneer Saint Johns Logan Emery East Jordan South Sanpete Alpine (SEventH Winpow Is Licutep as Last WoMAN STANDS.) More than a hundred years ago the Prophet received a command from God: "... Organize yourselves, prepare every needful thing and establish a house.... A house of faith.... A house of learning.... A house of order." After this pattern the sisters have labored, and in this design shall our house be built. (SEventH Group Sits Down anp SEVEN Winpows REMAIN LIGHTED.) FROM THE SHADOW OF A DREAM TO THE SUNLIGHT OF PROMISE 95 (E1cHTH Group STANDs.) North Jordan Union Boise Malad Park North Davis Cache Mount Graham Ensign Alberta Idaho Portland Riverside Beaver Los Angeles Shelley South Salt Lake (Eicura Winpow Is Licurep as Lasr Woman Sranps.) When President Lorenzo Snow dedicated the Manti Temple, his words expressed the gratitude of a people who built with vision, with sacrifice, with magnificent purpose. He spoke of an edifice in all its parts.... "its terraces, its shrubbery, with all its adornments and approaches.... May they be the pathways of the just...." He said, "May it stand and endure as a monument of the obedience and love of the people.... That the recollection of their labors may be a source of pleasure to them and their children after them." These words of years ago re-echo to us now for, in very truth, the sisters do experience joy in "the recollection of their labors" in the erection of this their own home "built with vision, with sacrifice, with magnificent purpose." (Ercura Group Sirs Down anp Eicut Winvows Remain LicuTep.) (Ninru Group Sranps.) South Sevier Berkeley Nebo Kolob Uintah Saint George Denver Lost River Yellowstone Carbon Duchesne Moapa Zion Park Roosevelt Juab Moon Lake North Weber (Ninta Winpow Is Licutep as rHe Last Woman Sranns.) Well we know that earthly structures may not forever outlast the vicissitudes of time, yet this we know, too, that the dreams, the hopes, and the labors of this sisterhood shall not have been in vain. The stature of each of you as individuals has been incteased—the shadow of each has been lengthened. There is no power on the earth that can break the golden links of the united effort of this sistethood which the Prophet Joseph blessed, giving to us a precious key—a key that will, for all time, open the door to our Relief Society home in the shadow of the temple. (Ninto Group Sirs Down Anp Nine Winpows Remain Licutep.) (TENTH Group STANDS.) Nevada Summit Sacramento Oakland Raft River Wasatch Twin Falls Big Horn South Box Elder = Washington Farr West Moroni South Davis Weber Millard Woodruff Blaine Spokane Santaquin-Tintic (TENTH Winpow Is LicuTep As THE Last Woman Sranps.) 96 "RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 In generations far removed from us, our descendants will reverence this building, for it will have earned respect and will have taken on a great dignity. They will see in it the same beauty and symmetry that we see; but they will see, too, that which you and I will never see—an indescribable something age alone can impart. Ruskin calls it a "glory" and he says: "The greatest glory of a building is not in its stones or in its gold. Its glory is in its age and in that deep sense of voicefulness, of stern watching, of mysterious sympathy.... Which we feel in walls that have long been washed by the passing waves of humanity." (Tenra Group Srrs anp TEN Winvows Remain LicHTED.) (REPRESENTATIVES OF THE Missions STAND. ) Northern California Finnish South African North Central States Eastern States Western States Northwestern States Australian Samoan East Central States Central States Uruguayan Hawaiian Central Pacific Texas-Louisiana Southern States New Zealand Northem States Spanish-American Central States Palestine-Syrian California Canadian Tahitian Tongan Swedish Western Canadian New England Navajo-Zuni Mexican French Welcome to our sisters from the far-flung missions of the Church, from the distant parts of our own country, and from the remote places beyond the seas. In our ideals and in our purposes we are as one. We are as a unit in building a home from which service and inspiration shall extend to women in all parts of the earth. We are as one in seeking our Father's kingdom where the everlasting structures rise. You of the missions stand at the threshold—you open the shining door of the gospel and bid all seekers after truth to enter the spacious rooms of our Father's many mansions. It is you who have brought love and greetings and your treasures from far places to build this house. Let the door be lighted and may your devotion be to all of us forever a sign upon its threshold. (Tue Door Is Licurep.) As a lasting door to service— Now lighted by the many hands Who carry far the gospel's gleam, The shining portal stands! (Mission Group Srrs Down.) To Zion's daughters long ago A mission was foretold, And we have brought our offerings here As prophesied of old. Eternal builders, now we come, Rejoicing to this place; From out the crested mountain lands And isles beyond the sea, In joy and gratitude we come, In faith and charity. FROM THE SHADOW OF A DREAM TO THE SUNLIGHT OF PROMISE 97 For in this hallowed valley Our stately house shall rise, With strength and love uplifted Beneath the desert skies. The sun shall gild its shining walls And beauty there abide; In welcome to the sisterhood Its doors shall open wide. Then let us come rejoicing— Our treasures now appear In blessings gleaned and gathered Throughout a glorious year! (Counsetor SHarp's Appress. THe Pinnacte Is Licurep As Sue ANNOUNCES THE Goat REACHED.) "Wearing a Face Into a Mother's'' Caroline Eyring Miner ODAY as the college graduating class filed past the audience, a hand waved frantically in an attempt to attract one of the graduates. It was a mother's work-blunted hand, and as I looked at her more closely, her withered face beaming with pride and happiness, I suddenly knew what Gulbransen meant when he used in one of his books the striking phrase, "wearing a face into a mother's." How does a mother's face get the mother-look of love and pride, and forgiveness, and faith, and trust that we all know? It is worn there day by day as a great painting is made, stroke by stroke. To a fresh, young creature whose face is classicly fair and lovely, a child is born, and with its birth there comes into the fair young face faint lines of a great unselfish love that has bore pain and sorrow for another. In the years that follow there come more children, more cares, more tears, more sacrifices, and the fair young — face wears, line by line, and love-stroke by love-stroke, into the face of a mother. Not all mother faces are weathered and prematurely discolored and wrinkled; those are not the really telling marks of a mother face, but are the signs of a life of struggle on the part of an individual whether she is a mother or not. 'The lines on a mother's face that make it distinctly a mother's face are those that gather about her mouth when she says, as she has said hundreds of times, "Child, you didn't mean it, and I love you more than life in spite of all." Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and 15, 1889 "FoR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL NatTIOoNsS" ev TRUTH Thou brightest of all earthly gems, How much I think of thee; Whether in mansions of the great, In wide domain and vast estate: Or in the cottage of the poor, In workman's shop or merchant's store: Upon the land or on the sea, There is nothing ever outshines thee. —Charlotte Cruse Thorpe FAIR AT ST. JOSEPH: There was a very fine display of useful and ornamental articles on exhibition; also quilts, tidies, home-made carpets and rugs, all being worthy of praise. A fine representation of statuary, including a large bust of President Brigham Young, which attracted much attention; also a display of seri-culture, millinery, etc. We had on exhibition the finest of corn raised from the second crop after barley was harvested in July; also turnips weighing seven pounds, both raised by Bishop John Taylor, of Pima, and sweet potatoes weighing eleven pounds, raised by Bro. Frank Owens. Although too late in the season for a display of fruit, there was quite a variety of a superior quality raised in the valley this year. We have seen peaches measuring from nine to eleven inches, and bunches of grapes weighing from four to five pounds. —W. East, Prest., L. Gustafson, Sec. A PRAYER God of Thy children below, Father, Redeemer and King, Help us Thy hand e'er to know; And in all of the perils of life To cling to Thine Anchor of love, To guide through the billows of strife. —Hope TOOELE STAKE: Minutes of the Relief Society which convened in the Tooele meeting house, Dec. 8th and oth, 1888, Prest. Mary A. Hunter presiding. There were present from Salt Lake City, Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Bathsheba W. Smith. Sister Zina D. H. Young gave some very good and interesting instructions to all, and to mothers especially, and spoke by the Spirit of God. Said, "Mothers have a great work to do and a great mission to fill in raising up their children in a proper manner. Our children who are obedient to the Gospel are a great and shining light, and we should be very careful to set a good example before them, so that they may walk in our footsteps."—Ann Tate, Cor. Sec. NOTES AND NEWS: Smith College, Mass., has received a gift of $5,000 toward a gymnasium. The donor was a woman. The Queen of Sweden has given a large donation to the Dress Reform Society, to enable them to open a store in Stockholm.. The girl mail-carrier, of Oregon, whose home is near Eugene City, bears the euphonious name of Minnie Westman. Page 98 Sa a of, ale XCEPT for one Copenhagen publisher, Mrs. Alfred Knopf is the only woman in the world who is a major book publisher. She is vicepresident to her husband in the Knopf firm, and personally handles the writings of such writers as William Shirer, Robert Nathan, and Elizabeth Bowen. BLIZABETH June Barlow, who won the title "Miss Utah" last fall in the talent and beauty contest at the State Fair, is an active Latterday Saint girl, a member of the Tabernacle Choir and a ward chorister. A lovely blonde, with a winning smile, Miss Barlow feels that the training received while fulfilling her Church assignments was an important factor in her winning the crown. Singing is the talent she demonstrated. Miss GENEVIEVE RIVIER, of Lausanne, Switzerland, author and world traveler who is writing a book on America, called attention to a noteworthy situation, while visiting in Salt Lake City. A very high percentage of Swiss families shared what they had—and in many cases it was not a great deal—with one or more refugee children, sometimes over a long period, during the war. They harbored a great many French and Dutch children. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon A student on the University of Utah campus is Miss Leela Ray of Calcutta, India. A young Hindu girl, with an artistic and radiant personality, Miss Ray was sent abroad by her government to master all possible phases of physical education. She has a diploma in physical education and two degrees, bachelor of arts and bachelor of teaching, from her own country. After attending the University of Toronto, in Canada, she came to the University of Utah, where she will receive a master's degree in physical education in March. After visiting other universities, she will go to the Scandinavian countries for special study. She has been invited to represent India at the International Congress on physical education for women in Copenhagen in July. Upon her return to India she will have charge of all the physical education for women in her native province of Bengal. [N ancient India the seclusion of women was unknown. From four thousand years ago on, for centuries, Hindu women possessed property, took part in sacrifices and other religious duties, were present at important assemblies on state occasions, influenced politics, and often distinguished themselves in science and other learning of their day. Page 99 Q-—> EDITORIAL m~©O VOL. 36 FEBRUARY 1949 NO. 2 Remembrance for February "The history of the world is but the biography of great men."—Carlyle INCE earliest times the world has been enriched by men and women who have lived their earthly days so well that their words and their deeds have been treasured down the years, illumined on the pages of time. The month of February brings to us, among many others who have contributed much to the wisdom and the beauty of the world, the anniversaries of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln whose names are household words throughout the land and whose deeds are written for long remembrance. In our uncertain days, with their problems and perplexities, it is strange to think that Washington, who lived his entire life on the eastern seaboard, yet realized the destiny of his country. He never saw the Mississippi River nor the skyward peaks of the Rocky Mountains. He could not have known the far expansion of his dream either in breadth of territory or in the development of political ideals. Yet he lived a life and left a philosohpy that have immeasurably guided the direction of the Republic. "Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest may repair," George Washington advised the Constitutional Convention in the year 1787. In his Farewell Address nearly ten years later, he said: "Of Page 100 all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports." It is a deep thought to try to evaluuate even now the place which Lincoln achieved in the annals of our Nation and in the records of the world. He lived much of his adult life in the prairie country of the Middle West. During his time many pioneer trains, including the vanguard of the Latter-day Saints, began the lonely trek to the mysterious West. But Lincoln never saw the great deserts, the snow-clad Sierras, or the sea waves on the Pacific Coast. He could not have known the strength that would come to the Nation nor the problems of world leadership which would be thrust upon it, but he did know the good way of life; he understood lasting moral principles. Now his name is known to every school child in America and the echo of it has reached beyond our land. The words which the poet Edgar Lee Masters gave to Ann Rutledge might also apply to Lincoln: Bloom forever, O Republic, From the dust of my bosom.... It has been said of Lincoln that he stood erect by bending over the fallen, that he rose by lifting others. REMEMBRANCE FOR FEBRUARY He was a plain man, with plain virtues—honesty, decision, tenacity, infinite sympathy. He died more tenderly lamented than any ruler in history, but the grief was not wholly for the way he died, but rather for the way he had lived, because of the courageous achievements of his fiftysix years of life. Someone once said, at the end of a walk in spring, "I have grown taller 101 from walking with the trees." So it may be reasoned that all Americans, and people of other lands as well, may grow taller by weaving into the intricate strands of their own lives the words and the wisdom and the high example of the lives of great men, until that time when universal peace shall "lie like a shaft of light across the land." —V. P. C. Congratulations to President Amy Brown Lyman On Her Birthday—February 7th ITH thoughts of sincere appreciation, Relief Society women in all parts of the world extend to President Amy Brown Lyman congratulations on her birthday. A gifted and inspired leader, she has contributed of the richness of her personality and her varied experiences to the welfare of her Church and community. Her influence extends to many cultural and civic organizations and she is greatly loved for her kindness and her breadth of sympathy and understanding. In her life Sister Lyman has demonstrated that much may be accomplished by faithfulness and earnest effort. We wish her many pleasant returns of the day and may our love and appreciation be a source of happiness to her. Sake What You Can Christie Lund Coles Take what you can of simple things— Let each day's dreams be such That though they sometimes skim the stars, They wear the common touch. Take what life gives of every day: fhe loving glance, the friendly tone, You'll wish someday you'd treasured these And left the moon alone. Women Against Polio Elaine Whitelaw Director of Women's Activities National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis AST summer's widespread epidemics of infantile paralysis emphasized anew the importance of women in all aspects of polio work. Women always have been leaders in the fight against this disease. Naturally this would be so, since the vast majority of those hit by polio are children, and nothing comes closer to a woman's heart than the well-being of her children —indeed, of all children. But their activities today go further than sympathy and interest. Women are serving in the ranks of those caring for patients, seeking a preventive or cure, organizing communities to meet the needs of epidemic emergencies, and disseminating factual information about infantile paralysis to prevent fear itself from becoming epidemic. Nothing stood out more clearly during 1948, when at least 30,000 new cases of polio were reported for the United States, than the growing influence of women in this work.... Every successful _ volunteer movement owes a substantial part of its development to the tireless energy and enthusiasm of its unpaid women workers. And 1948 proved this to a high degree. More than 12,000 Polio Emergency Volunteers had been trained by them to assist professionals in the bedside care of polio patients in hospitals and homes.... Many went into polio wards in California, Nebraska, and Texas to help. At Camp Sutton, Page 102 Monroe, N. C., fifty PEVs did all of the non-professional work, so that physical therapists there could devote all their time to muscle training and testing. One of the most serious problems after an epidemic is the follow-up care of patients. Women will play a large part in solving this in North Carolina, for they have arranged to transport patients to hospital outpatient departments and travelling orthopedic clinics run by the State's Crippled Children's Service for regular check-ups and treatments. Many of the country's "forgotten" polio cases of years past already have been given new chances for useful lives— through the efforts of women volunteers who have systematically sought them out for check-ups. CREDIT for increased knowledge of facts about polio and a consequent decrease in panic, so noticeable in 1948, can be placed largely at the door of women's clubs and organizations which have made the public education program of the National Foundation part of the fabric of their health and welfare activities. Women have been outstanding, too, in the National Foundation's research and professional education programs. When Dr. Isabel M. Morgan of Johns Hopkins University reported last July at the First International Poliomyelitis Conference in New York on the successful immunization of monkeys WOMEN AGAINST POLIO against polio, she brought pride to women everywhere. Mrs. Morgan's work, with that of her colleagues, Drs. Howe and Bodian, has shed light on the role of antibodies in protection against the polio virus. While no preventive vaccine can be produced for trials in human beings until all types of polio viruses have been found, classified, and characterized—a project scheduled for the next year's work by several National Foundation supported laboratories— it is believed the Johns Hopkins experiments have provided necessary tools for an ultimate answer to protection of man from attacks of this disease.... Of the dozen fields in which fellowships and scholarships have been awarded with March of Dimes funds, two-thirds have included women workers.... The fight against infantile paralysis is a joint activity of both women and men.... We face three factors that make the 1949 March of Dimes a crucial undertaking: 1. There are more polio patients than ever before. Some of the increase in recent years' totals of reported cases may be due to greater knowledge of 103 polio, prompter hospitalization and better care reporting. Whatever the reason, the rise in actual cases reuiring assistance is real. 2. The cost of polio care has risen. Additional professional experts are required for modern care. Medical teams are developing, including, besides the physician and the nurse, the pediatrician, orthopedist, physical therapist, medical social worker, and phychological consultant. More complete service to patients is possible. 3. The dollar does not go as far as it used to. Hospital costs have risen 10 to 12% since 1947, while the '1948 March of Dimes drive raised less than 4% more than in 1947. March of Dimes money cannot buy as much service, food, supplies, and equipment as in the past. To do the best job of taking care of polio patients, without slowing the now promising search for a solution to the disease or interfering with the training of urgently-needed hospital specialists and research workers, men and women—together —must make the 1949 March of Dimes the most successful in twelve years. The conquest of polio, lying somewhere in the years ahead, can only be achieved by such determined and energetic partnership. _ Winter Pear Dorothy J. Roberts What loveliness was felled with this brave tree To leave returning robins fugitive; What grace crashed earthward, what lost melody From branches where a meadow lark would sieve Through a silver throat, the fountain of his song. Upon these boughs each season's beauty lay, In slumber pale, but straight of trunk and strong; Ephemeral in spring's samite array, Here summer lacked no leaf to cool her shade, And autumn bumed a riotous color chart. When, after its bright zenith, leaves were grayed, Still amber and vermilion lit the heart, Seeing the winter fruit no limb had lost, Awaiting final favor from the frost. Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 2 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to care for and support. Courageously, she takes inventory of her resources—a home, poorly furnished and not paid for, and $1.19 in cash. Front door. The children, like a covey of quail, went with her to answer it. It was the neighbor who had built the fire for his children. He was carrying a stuffed flour sack, which he swung down from his shoulders. "It's navy beans. Got a cousin who brought me down a couple of sacks of 'em. He grows 'em. Thought you could use em, maybe." Joanna smiled at his flushed, young face. "Thank you. I surely could." He went ahead of her to the kitchen. "Tell me where to put 'em. Don't want to mess your clean house. Behind the stove do?" Joanna nodded. She moved a chair to make room. He cleared his throat. He was young and ruggedly built. Color ran up into his neck. "Anything I can do, Mis' Niels?" Joanna shook her head. "You're right kind to ask, though." When he had gone the children climbed back in their places and resumed their meal. Penny stared at the sack. "I guess we'll get a thousand suppers out of it." David rubbed his stomach. "BosPage 104 A cont a knocked at the ton-baked, with molasses... That's what Daddy liked." Penny buttered her bread. "Daddy said nobody could make Bostonbaked like Mommy. Daddy said she was the best cook in the world." Joanna, standing by the stove, lifted her head. There was a sudden burning in her breast, a roaring in her ears, a breathless reaching for a spar. "Say that again, Penny... What your Daddy said... About my cooking." Penny nodded her head vigorously. "He wasn't just kidding either. Every time you make Boston-baked the whole neighborhood walks by just to smell the delicious smell. Mrs, Smith says so. She told me." Hope leaped like flame in Joanna. She opened the lid of the range and poured more coal into it. She opened the oven door and let the delicious heat surge into the kitchen. Michael's head was nodding. She went to her bedroom and brought out the rocker, sat in it, and held Michael against her. This was the hour David had loved. He had held them cradled in his laughter and his love. She searched her mind, but no story was hidden there. She reached out her arm and Sally cuddled against her. Joanna asked haltingly, "Would you... Like to hear about when I was a little girl?" They shouted their delight. She told the stories carefully, knowing she had no magic of words to make the brooks and the orchards real, to Te isn't 4ny call for ys to e've got someone Jogk. King after US good. They Stared at her und, awed SYES. "A rea] 0'clock and carried It to her bedToom, © looked at he bed and Suef rocked her nt to the - She children's *Oom and lifted the sleeping Michael from his David, She Carried him ¢ her "gsed David's e At six she Opened the Oven door and struggled to force the giant ket. Tle of beans and brown Sugar, salt 2 Voice behing her "Joanna Niels! Atever are you doing?" Joanna urned Suiltily, « Y, lello, A ls' Smith I was - Was. Just tying out an idea of mine," BIGAIL Smith was short and feather-pillow round. She had beautiful white hair that gave her an air of aristocracy, bringing to Joanna's mind the remembrance of powdered wigs and curtsies and billowing skirts. Her eyes were a bright sparkling brown, her skin was lined, but Joanna loved to look at her, finding her beautiful. Abigail Smith was puffing. "T came through the back way, leaning under that fence always gets me. But I couldn't hold back any longer. I been watching you since crack o' dawn." She eyed the oven door. "What were you puttin' in that oven?" "Beans," Joanna said, laughter a pale ghost in her voice, as she watched her visitor's astonished eyes go from covered dish to cake pan, to half-eaten pie. "It's not for us. Folks brought us enough to last the week." Abigail Smith unwrapped her hands from her apron and came to stand before the range. "Then who for? What you making a batch o' beans that size for?" Joanna measured oatmeal into the boiling water. She avoided her neighbor's eye. "I had a thought. Maybe I could sell them. Folks say they never tasted Boston-baked like mine." "You're the best cook in this ward!" Abigail averred, "Everybody's crazy about your cooking." "It's all I know," Joanna said. "It... It just has to work." Abigail opened the oven door. And sniffed appreciatively. "Well, maybe you can do it. How do you plan to go about it?" Joanna, setting the table, stumbled out her ideas. Abigail shook her head. "Maybe you can do it. But, this depression, nobody's making out. Maybe you should better have saved your beans." "T've got to try it," Joanna cried. "T just can't sit and do nothing." "You can go on relief, like the rest of us." "No." Joanna's mouth set stubbornly. "No." Abigail rolled her hands in her apron. "Well, maybe if I had children, I'd feel like you do. Children make a difference." After a moment's silence, she added: "I'm right proud of you. Leastways you'll go down fighting." Joanna smiled crookedly, "But you think I'll go down." Abigail turned to the door. "Listen, I have to go now. Henry will be getting up in a minute, but there's no call for you to drag things around in little David's wagon. I'll drive you around in that old Model T of ours. You'll be able to carry more." Joanna's face flushed in gratitude. "That's nice, right nice of you." Her hand on the door, Abigail paused. "Why don't you make up a batch of your good bread? I'll bake it in my oven. It's got heat in it going to waste. People ought to like that bread of yours." Joanna stirred the oatmeal impatiently. "T'll do that." "You just come any time... If I get done with my work I'll come over and help. What do you plan to carry the beans in?" Joanna looked wildly about the kitchen. "T never thought of that." Abigail's smile was smug. "I thought of something myself, just standing here, I thought, now why 106 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 JOANNA can't she carry them in fruit jars? I have 'em and to spare." Joanna sagged in relief. Wonderful.' "Smarter than a lot of folks give me credit for..." The kitchen door slammed on Abigail's complacent back. "You're HERE was a_ sudden stirring from the bedroom and the children stumbled out, carrying their clothes. They hunched around the warmth of the range. Their faces were. Bleak. Joanna's heart cried out, seeing them, remembering how David had made the mornings joyous. How he had tumbled them out of bed and brought them in triumph to the kitchen, as though his waking them up was something of a miracle. How he had teased Penny until she had eaten the hated hot cereal, not realizing that she did. Now they whimpered like wet kittens. "And guess what we're having for breakfast today?" Joanna pushed the cereal haughtily to the back of the stove. "What?" They looked at her through tear-filled eyes. "Hot cakes!" She trumpeted the word, forcing triumph into it. "Hotcakes and syrup!" Michael took up her cry. He jumped up and down. "Hottakes! Hottakes!"' Penny laughed to hear him and presently David laughed, too. Joanna made the bread dough while they ate, and put it in a warm place to rise. She sent David and Penny to school, standing with Michael and Sally on the front porch to wave them goodbye. Then she sent the two smallest to play in 107 the tiny, fenced back yard and went back to the kitchen. Abigail came at eleven with a basket of bottles. She helped Joanna sterilize them. She peered over her shoulder when Joanna took out the giant pan of beans. "I declare! Did you ever smell anything so delicious! Um-m-m!" Joanna found the tin cup and poured the. Steaming brown beans into the bottles. She stacked them in a row on the table and stepped back to look at them. She frowned. "But they're so.... Drab. They ought to look gay and—special." Abigail nodded. "That's what labels do to things." Joanna went to her bedroom and came back with a spool of yellow ribbon. "Bought it for Penny's hair... Always liked a bit of yellow against that dark brown. She took the scissors from their nail above the sink and cut the nbbon in lengths. She tied a bow around the neck of a bottle. "Right cute," Abigail said. Does give them a lift." "Wait a minute." Joanna ran outdoors to the maple tree by the fence and gathered a handful of flaming leaves. She took them to the sink, washed them, dried them on a dish towel and slipped the stems through the bows. The effect brought delighted smiles to Abigail. "Now! Will you look at that! Smart! They look smart as paint." Joanna was silent, putting the bottles in a laundry basket, a baby blanket between layers. Abigail went' for the car and drove back, the motor chugging and protesting. "I put the bread in the back," she shouted. "I put it in wax paper for you." "Tt OANNA Tan to the bedroom, But When at last Abigail found 4 flung off the fadeq pink gingParking place before the building ham and reached for the wavy blue, that housed the railroad Office, Jo. | | Tce self in the MurTor, Fer hair! She Abigail 48 Nervous, tog « w Tushed jt behind T ears and don't fee] f f they do 't buy, Py Orced the short "ds into a rol]. She take §00d care h Youngsters " stared at her if, T eyes looked Joanna no ded. She lifted Jars of too large ang brilliant an anxious, "ans, loaves of brow d white €T mouth was Pale, umbled breg to a picnic basket hat alOF a lipstick, applied jt hastily and teady held the Paper plates and napTushed h ° the kitchen € kins and PONS that taken The fear Within her Brew larger out fine," with every block that brought them "Tt's just five Minutes to twelve. Nearer to town. Al] night, she You'll Catch them at 4 §00d time " hought, p afraid ut I can't Joanna tossed the €walk let that 5 p can't just quit the door € prayer within her With al] the fo I've Made, 'ye had so loud » She Wondered 80t to go ahead With it. Pye §0t to the Passersby did y, t pause to hear ty. W. Re can folks do than Please help me know Say "no?" p been said "No," to, I can do hything with, ut you, Ots Of times he looked back at You know p nothing byt farm Ichael and Y Jolting jin the itl, not brough 0 do anything mex Gelt hj bbling their delight but cook and ou know Over the ride the sights They about MY children Help me now, ave NO one me. It just has Please," to g (To be Continued ) a Srontiop R Osemary G Cameron Johns Beatrice Knowlton Ekman ou - Continents Soak ie i a _ " ali ememb Tidge t¢ NIV€Is, span the skies__ p i. Ee eep for = tal daring ieee he = eed bleak December S the measy f your eyes, But the Words of love that you have e Your heart that beats against My own, Until you call m Fay Yarlock Parr J] ANIE dig not put the q °8S On scene The sense Of power made J until the others had Mished her Voice lilting, he; laughter ga their makeup ang 8M€ on She felt the exaltation of complete Stage. At the dres Tehearsa] She fulfillmen When it Was over, Yet had worn her blue rayon print; the there Was one More pleasure to girls had looked at her as jg to say, rome, a dance In SyMnasium "Just what €xpected," Omight Janie knew What she S to do She was feverish with excitement as Place the dress Carefully in the zip She slipped the ilo Organdy over Pered bag before she €Moved the er shoulders and let her hair down Stease paint. Iss A » how. I'm beautifyy)" Janie mar. Velled gs she faced nie both her hands and said, "Oh, boy, can I kiss you tonight!" called Miss Ardman, ¢ play had a fast, smooth pace. When Janie MOved or Spoke, or even, Talsed her hand, she: stole every on her lashes. Satisfied, she went towards the gymnasium. One of the side doors was open. She waited outside until the music her hand on the arm teady to dance. Tall, fair young He had Tnvoluntarily Janie stepped back. Miss Ardman' was looking directly at her. "She's angry," Janie thought as she stood there, afraid to take the little smile off her face. What happened next wasn'E real. [t was something from a story and Janie was in the story, Miss Ardman spoke to the tall man beside her. He nodded and they came across the dance floor, straight to Janie alone in the doorway. And Miss Ardman wasn't angty. -Her eyes were kind. She laid her warm hand on Janie's cold arm. HE man smiled and bowed. "If Janie will do me the honor," he said, offering his arm. In a quick rush Janie took his arm. Before they could move onto the floor, John Rons came bounding up the side. "This is our dance, isn't it Miss Ardman," he asked, giving the teach. Er a little wink. As they followed Janie to the floor he called, "The next is mine, remember," of happiness Everyone in the syMnasium was looking at her Janie was certain. She could hear the envious sighs of the girls as they passed by on the crowded floor. "How you do rate!" Janice whispered enviously as she danced by. This was only the prelude, the next dance was with John. The old Janie would have giggled. The Janie in the dress was quiet, smiling mysteriously. "It's the dress that put you out," she said slowly, lowering her beaded lashes, "No," insisted John. "That's only part of it. You're so different." He sighed audibly, The sigh was meat to Janie's new vanity. "You're so used to having all the old gitls follow you around that you've never taken the trouble to Started to whirl. Back, as she had Out of the corner could see the clouds of transparency around her. Some of the dancers left the floor to watch. She closed her eyes, too full of bliss to talk, John was sur. Rounded by girls, They closed about twittering and calling like Not for a second was Janie Betger Swaggered ahead to claim her. She knew that 110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 too flash > his haj too lon His ere S also nother Matter mouth k aybe cruel]. No aCing Janie J ns' smile d strength ame fr Mm. She shiy- ©Cn more than Warm the first Mo Cred as if 4 Cold wing d blown ay after 4 Wi t hesj mto the gy nasiu ation had Started for anie's "No, on," she told him, «p reat. Instead of ma Mg Toom for not dancing More to Ight—not him, she had slid 4CtOss the aisle to with you no anyone," Amy Huff T that sh ad care She Watched his face darken with fully avoided John, She was not quick anger and Was relieved When yet ready to meet him. He turned to another Stl. Other The Flower Ball came On the first | | h it w MeN wanted to dance with her. She Friday y. Alth g as aq Could see th Avitation in their eyes. Town dance, €xcitem Cager and Wo of them Started quickly towards Warm as SPYING itself Tan through er. Turning, sh slipped out of the school. Ame to town the same de door Nd ran in the Thursday night; Janie avoided him ted satin 5 Ppets down the drg by Spending the night with y. Corridors to the auditorium, Back in When any of the Sitls asked her if the dressing Too, she Washed her she were 80ing to the dance she said, hands and Carefully Temoved the "Oh, sure," 18s Atdman's fac dress, Wj Telief she SaW that was Sowing, a d Siveaway that there we Marks Of grease Paint Robert F] Ing Oming. OF stains. She Put on the blye Fayon After schoo] Janie Sctubbed the and the Tusty N Coat. Ltchen, « n't see Why you do a utside her ms and hands felt ¢ Ng like this U ought to M not Soing to any old dance" in her Tags on the Palace Steps. IT Janie flung the Words at her a She haven't ven a glass slipper to Te yanked out the kitchen drawers, member 48IC night, she told "Wha §0t into you he last fey, Ctself as she Pulled her Coat closer. Days? Ever Since th Play you've Wondered jf the smart thing would After the youngest children Were not have been to have hung up the Put to bed, her father and mother he dan 112; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 see the decorations and spring dresses. She waited until they were safely gone before she put on her brown coat and walked aimlesslly towards town. Stopping before the big house of red brick, she peered over the hedge into the living room. There was a side window with a lifted shade. Yes, it was Miss Ardman, still in her brown school dress. She had her hair down in a long bob, looking very young, not like a school teacher at all. She sat there, neither reading nor sewing. When Janie rang the doorbell, Miss Ardman came, her eyes red, as if she had been crying. "You didn't stay home from the dance because I spoiled things by wearing your dress?" Janie blurted out the words, her voice thick. When they were out she leaned against the door jamb, trembling with relief that she had said them. Miss Ardman pulled her inside the door. "No," she said. "That's not the reason, although when I first saw you come into the dance, I felt like doing just that." —_— began to cry. "I didn't mean to break my promise," she said between sobs. "I felt like I had to wear that dress to the dance or I would die. I guess there's no use telling you how sorry and ashamed I am." "That's the best thing you can do," Miss Ardman told her, wiping Janie's eyes and nose with her own handkerchief. She drew Janie into the living room and sat beside her on the couch. The tension of the past week cbbed from Janic. "When I looked out there and saw you," she confessed, "I knew what a low thing I had done. You could have shamed me there before everyone and made me hate myself and you. But you didn't. You acted as if you were proud I'd worn your dress." "T had a lot of confidence in you, Janie. I knew you would tell me about it." The coldness and hardness were gone from Janie's body, leaving it light and relaxed. Her tears came again, not the wrenching sobs, but easy ones. "Don't stop me," she protested. "I'm so happy." She felt clean and good. "I wanted to come to you but I didn't have the courage." "You came at the right time," her teacher told her. "I was in a low state myself. 'This afternoon when I came home to curl my hair and rest, I got a telephone call from Robert's landlady. She said he had the flu, but that he had been planning to come right up until this afternoon when she put him to bed." She smiled ruefully at Janie. "For awhile I almost thought he wasn't ill. I was so disappointed." The barrier between student and teacher was gone. "Why," Janie cried, shocked into speech, "teachers are human, just like anyone else!" She laughed with Miss Ardman. Clasping her hands over her knees, she confided, "I wanted to go to this dance so bad my skin hurt. But I wasn't going with Don Betger and no one else asked me." Avoiding Miss Ardman's surprised look, she said, "After I wore the dress I knew I could never go with him again." "Then the week of misery was worth it," Miss Ardman said gently. "You can do better things than go with Don." THE DRESS Janie's stifled yearnings and resentments stirred within her. "I want to do better things, but I don't know how." She looked down at her hands while Miss Ardman stared at the carpet. Suddenly she jumped up, facing Janie. "There's just one thing for you to do," she said with determination. Everything had been hopeless for so long, Janie felt none of her teacher's enthusiasm. "What is it?" she asked, not moving. Miss Ardman became a school teacher again. "Ordinarily," she said in her clear, precise voice, "I don't think that a college education is the sum total of life. People can be just as happy, just as useful—that is, some people. But for you, Janie, I think it is the quickest and. Best way." Janie slumped against the sofa. "T've got about as much chance of going to college as you have of being queen of England," she said. Miss Ardman's eyes were bright with zeal. She sat by Janie's side, her voice as sharp as a new blade. "Td like to know why you can't go to college. No," she commanded, lifting her hand. "Don't tell me! I know all the answers you have and there isn't one that's valid! All I want to know is, does it mean enough to you to go?" "Of course I want to go, but how can a girl like me do it?" "That's the whole trouble, a girl like you!" Miss Ardman snapped off each word and thrust it scornfully at Janie. ""What's wrong with a gitl like you? You feel sorry for yourself. It isn't because you are poor. It's because you think you are. 113 That's what's holding you back! Don't you know, Janie," she ejaculated, "poverty is no disgrace! It's just an inconvenience. All we have to do is get rid of the inconvenience." "I know," Janie acknowledged. "I ought to get away from Ronsville long enough to show people I can do something. Here I'm just Janie Carlson in an old brown coat." "That's why college is. The best way for you. It will polish those rough edges and open the way to a new life—for you and for your family." Miss Ardman was on her feet now, pulling Janie with her. "It's easy, really," she said as they went upstairs. Inside her room she pulled out a last year's blue linen dress. Obediently Janie put it on and sat in front of the mirror while Miss Ardman arranged her hair. "Now smile," Miss Ardman said, "as if you expected people to like you." "Could I be like that always?" Janie asked as the two girls watched her face in the mirror. ISS Ardman had an answer. "I have friends who would be downright glad to have you live with them. You could help with the dishes and stay with the children when necessary. On Saturdays and Sundays they would pay you extra to give you spending money. I'll write tomorrow, but I know we can call it settled." "There's tuition and books," Janie reminded her. "Let me think," Miss Ardman replied, tightening her lips. "I believe we can manage that too. There are scholarships to help girls like you. If we go about it the right way, I'm 114 sure we can get one. All you need now is money for clothes." She gave Janie's cheek a triumphant pat. "T do baby sitting, but it doesn't pay much in Ronsville. People have too many relatives." "A pretty girl like you," Miss Ardman deliberated, a critical look in her eyes, "shouldn't have trouble getting higher paid work." She gave Janie a thorough inspection from her curling bob to her pumps with the run-over heels. Her mouth still tight, she went into her closet again and emerged with a pair of saddle leather sandals, almost new and a fleecy white jacket, slightly worn at the cuffs, but personable. "Now we'll go to the drugstore," she decided. "Ernie Todd owes me something for all the money I've spent there when I've been lonely for home. He told me he was going to put a new girl at the fountain as soon as the tourist business picks up. We'll save him the trouble of looking for one." Then her eyes caught the old coat. "Let's say goodbye to 'brownie' forever," she declared rolling the coat into a tight bundle. "Qh, no," Janie protested, reaching for the bundle, "Ma can make a coat out of it for one of the kids." "Nobody's going to wear this coat again," Miss Ardman said positively. "We'll find a better one." She gave the bundle a decisive throw, landing it in the waste paper basket. Janie felt a little cool in the fleecy jacket, but light as if her feet had wings. She sniffed the air with its RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 promise of flowers. It smells just like I feel, she thought. "There will be times, Janie, lots of times when you will be all alone in this thing. Will you have the fortitude for it?" Janie threw back her head, feeling a surge of strength through her body. It was the strength of a person who suddenly understands him- ~ self. She thought of John Rons. He did not seem so important tonight. Soon she could meet him on his own grounds. There would be other boys, boys who might mean more to her than John. "You haven't answered my question, Janie?" Miss Ardman tightened her hold on Janie's arm, Janie did not slacken her pace. The strength was still there, flowing steadily. "I don't know how to tell you," she finally answered in a voice new in its maturity. "That morning you read the cast of the play—the morning I was late as usual—you made me a little angry and ashamed by reading to me. I thought you were just picking on me, but I kept remembering the words. Now maybe I understand what you were trying to tell me. From this night on I'm going to say to myself, 'I'm rising to do the work of a human being.' When I'm alone I'm going to remember those words and that you had confidence in me about the dress." Miss Ardman said nothing, but Janie could see the satisfied look on her face as they turned under the neon light and went into the drugstore. QOVe> oS Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer FRO M THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. VISITING TEACHERS ACTIVITIES, NEW ORGANIZATIONS, AND ANNIVERSARY SOCIALS Photograph submitted by Vida D. Brinton MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS VISIT PINE WARD Left to right: Joseph Farnsworth, high councilman; Vida D. Brinton, President, Maricopa Stake Relief Society; Esther Miller, Secretary; Donna Brinton, daughter of Sister Brinton; Pearl Brinton, member of stake Primary board; George Tayrien, pilot. In describing this interesting trip over the high mountains of Arizona, Sister Brinton writes: "'As you probably know the Pine Ward is located about 120 miles from Mesa. _ It isn't the distance—but the road—and what a road! We were anxious to attend the conference, but when we thought of those winding, mountainous roads, the trip didn't seem nearly so interesting. Brother Rial Randall who is "airminded" came to our aid. He said he would make arrangements for those who wanted to fly to make the trip. This was done and in the party there were eighteen.... What a delightful trip! The conference in itself was an inspiration, and at noontime there was a demonstration of Western hospitality. All the Pine Ward members met in the park for a barbecue luncheon..... Such a feast they served!" Page 115 116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 Photograph submitted by Mabel A. Price CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, CHEROKEE (NORTH CAROLINA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED Front row, left to right: Nancy Walker; Second Counselor Dorothy Moles; Geneva Sannooke; President Nettie Crow. Second row, left to right: Vera Moles; Melita Stud; Minda Kahdot; Nell Tahuette.. Back row, left to right: Jane Whiting; Lois Johnson. Mabel A. Price, President, Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society, reports the organization of this first Relief Society among the Cherokee Indians, consisting of ten members. The tribe to which these women belong has an annual fair, a state-wide attraction in North Carolina which is also attended by thousands of people from Tennessee and neighboring states. "The displays," Sister Price reports, "consist of farm -products, vegetables and fruits, both fresh and canned, as well as sewing and works of art, just as fine, and in some cases, finer than any I have seen in state fairs." Counselor Kate Arkansas was not present when this photograph was taken. Photograph submitted by Rose B. Astle SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), DOWNEY WARD VISITING TEACHERS MAKE 100% RECORD FOR 1948 Front row, left to right: Mary O. Elmer; Eillene Pearce; Second Counselor Linda McBride; President Oralie Wilkinson; First Counselor Alice Hill; Secretary-Treasurer, Lillian Bergstrom; LaVerna Skinner; Hazel Stohl; Josephine Wahlstrom; Sybl Roberts. Back row, left to right: Emma Thompson; Florence Heath; Helen McMurray; Lela Robinson; Sarah Durden; Florence Evans; Virginia Smith; Goldie Reese; Ruth Goodwin; Inez McBride... Rose B. Astle is president of South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 7 "tie Mail «<, eee, SS Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Blake HIGHLAND STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), IMPERIAL WARD ANNIVERSARY PAGEANT "OUR RELIEF SOCIETY AND ITS PRESIDENTS," March 20, 1948 Front row, left to right: Annie C. Kimball, author of the pageant; readers: Elizabeth Minson, Mildred Radler, Nora Rigby, Margaret Harris; Josephine S. Jones, President, Highland Stake Relief Society; former stake presidents, Reka H. Cummings and Zora C. Paulson; General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; former general president, Amy Brown Lyman; former stake presidents: Jennie B. Duffin and Nellie O. Parker; Lola Curtis, former president, Imperial Ward Relief Society; Grace K. Carr, President, Imperial Ward Relief Society. Back row, Singing Mothers of Imperial Ward, left to tight: Una Nelson; Lucile Hiller; Charlotte Rawson; Elma Richards; Helen Sharp; Carrie Anderson; Anita Monson; Phyllis Van Wagoner; Alice Francom; Izora Hutson; Veone Brown. This beautiful pageant summarized the accomplishments of Relief Society and honored its devoted leaders past and present. The Singing Mothers provided special music, featuring Anita Monson and Alice Francom as soloists. Photograph submitted by Goldie Singleton YELLOWSTONE STAKE (IDAHO), TWIN GROVES WARD VISITING TEACHERS MAINTAIN 100% RECORD FOR SIXTEEN YEARS Present officers and visiting teachers, front row, seated, left to right: Vera Law; Bishop Floyd Law; former Relief Society presidents: Jennie Young; Barbara Goulding; Daisy Peterson; present President Vera Young; Leah Slack. Back row, standing, left to right: Alpha Hathaway; Emma Dayton; SecretaryTreasurer Goldie Singleton; Levon Dayton; Lucretia Slack; Second Counselor Vera Gardener; Emma Brower. This high achievement goal was set by former President Barbara Goulding. Sister Slack has been a visiting teacher for thirty-five years, Elva Swensen is president of Yellowstone Stake Relief Society. 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 Photograph submitted by Fern B. Fowers LAKE VIEW STAKE (UTAH), RIVERDALE WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY HONORING PAST PRESIDENTS AND VISITING TEACHERS March 16, 1948 Left to right: present President Gladys M. Taylor; Esther McEntire; Florence Fife; Louise Brown; Harriet Cozzens; Dora Laker; Polly Allen; Annie R. Johnson (insert). The Riverdale Ward Relief Society was organized in 1872. Since that time there have been eleven presidents, eight of whom are living. Fern B. Fowers is president of Lake View Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Louesa R. McDonald NEW YORK STAKE, BROOKLYN WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS DISPLAY THEIR WELFARE WORK Front row, left to right: Maria W. Rimmash; Mathilde Bethsold; Lois Rickett; Maria Weiss; Auguste Pegelow; Wilhelmine Paetz; Annie P. Clark; Lillie D. Smith; Berta Stapperfend; Henriette Doering. Back row, left to right: Elsa Stecker; Elly Bethsold; Martha Doempke; Emma D. Braun, Secretary; June S. Young, President; Helen Fruehauf, Second Counselor; Wilma Z. Kullick, First Counselor; Zora P. Shurtleff; Dorothy N. Rothe. Louesa R. McDonald is president of New York Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 119 SHELLEY STAKE (IDAHO), JAMESTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION IN 1908 Front row, seated, left to right: Elizabeth Burke; Elnora Cox, first president, who held the office for nine years and resigned after her twelfth child was born; Amanda Christensen. Back row, standing, left to right: Ethel Fielding (deceased); Mabel Roberts; Ardella Park; Dorothy Fielding, present president. Annie R. Johnson is president of Shelley Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Chloe V. Stayner SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON), BREMERTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY AND BAZAAR, April 19, 1948 Left to right: Secretary-Treasurer, Jennie Fry; Second Counselor Ethelyn M. Lay; President Chloe V. Stayner; First Counselor Iona M. McConkie. Bremerton Ward was the first in Seattle Stake to secure its complete Relief Society building fund quota, a large amount of which was raised by the sale of quilts and personal contributions. Vera M. Leishman is president of Seattle Stake Relief Society. 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 Photograph submitted by Christie J. Smith TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, NACHITOCHES (LOUISIANA) BRANCH, RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: Clara A. Methvin, district work meeting leader; Evie N. Miller, Secretary, Nachitoches Branch; Addie M. Rogers, First Counselor; Blanche J. Smith, President. Second row, left to right: Deleanous P. Morris; Eliza J. Holt; Delia M. Clark; Gladys M. Clark. Third row, left to right: Agnes R. Clark; Effie L. Beck; Vannie J. Rogers; Vera N. Milam. Christie J. Smith is president of the Texas-Louisiana Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Martha W. Brown CENTRAL STATES MISSION, ST. LOUIS (MISSOURI) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL AND PICNIC In front, seated, left to right: Blanche Lockhead; Gertrude Eberhart; Anna Wiedmann; Emma Jean Kirkham; Ruth Phillips, Vera Oscarson; Second Counselor Lillian Linton; Secretary Audrey Salzmann. At back, standing, left to right: Bertha Ohsiek; Almeda Mae Horton; Rita Russell; Bertha Evenson; Louise Varone; Wealtha Lockhead; President Myrtle Fleckinger; Anna Ayres; First Counselor Flora Guest. Martha W. Brown is president of the Central States Mission Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 121 Photograph submitted by Alice B, Steinicke ENSIGN STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), WEST ENSIGN WARD LUNCHEON IN HONOR OF VISITING TEACHERS AND BUILDING. FUND ACHIEVEMENT, June' 9, 1948 Grant; Lucy Berry; Alice Steinicke, President, Ensign Stake Relief Society; Marjorie Second row, standing, left to right: Rachel G, Taylor; Mary G. Judd; Mina Kinnersley; Nina Stayner; Eva Baldwin; Florence Mitchell; Grace Backman; Bertha Edwards; Emma Sorenson; Claire Roberts; Frances Seeley; Amy Grover; Florence Hyde; Le Del Woodley; Mae Shuster; Naomi Y. James; Roselda Ashton; Kate Stayner. Back row, Standing, left to tight: Eleanor W. Young; Vera Chipman; Louise Christensen; Mildred Sloan; Ethel] Young; Mabel Wright; Ruth Cutler; Gwen Shurtliff; Celest Billeter; Anna Midgley; Florence Simmons; Genieve Holbrook; Mae By- ] 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 Photograph submitted by Lula P. Child WESTERN STATES MISSION, BRIDGEPORT BRANCH (NEBRASKA) RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS WEARING DRESSES WHICH THEY MADE IN THEIR SEWING PROJECT Left to right: Cecelia G. Wilcox and baby; Eva Baird; Secretary Melissa M. Smith; First Counselor Mary E. Gilbert; President Mary Sue Chase; Second Counselor Mary L. Meglemire; Vera J. Eddings; Beryle Fitzgarrold; Elsie Wilcox; Roxie M. Baird. Sister Lula P. Child, President, Western States Mission Relief Society, reports that this little group of women has raised $725.63 during the year. They are a happy and energetic group, eager and willing to carry out Relief Society projects. Photograph submitted by Alberta O. Doxey EASTERN STATES MISSION, PHILADELPHIA (PENNSYLVANIA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Front row, left to right: Counselor Edith Clark; President Elsa Graham; Counselor Lillian Nielson; Alberta O. Doxey, former President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Secretary Ila Larson; Carrie Obendorpher; Gertrude Obendorpher. Georgia R. Livingston is now president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Society. LESSON & Fy DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 16—'From Sunshine to Shadow" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 24, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, May 3, 1949 Objective: To follow the Savior in his final preparation for the supreme sacrifice and show how he prepared his apostles for their great missions. Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. HATEVER transpired during the transfiguration, it is evident that Jesus knew when he came down from the holy mountain that he must prepare for the consummation of his earthly ministry. He had received the transcendent assurance that his Father was well pleased. He had felt again the glory of heaven and had conversed with two of his own "divinely-appointed ministers." 'To his pure soul it must have been disturbing to know that he must go back for a time to unbelieving and wicked people and finally descend into the "valley of humiliation and death." With sublime courage he faced the ordeal. Healing of a Youthful Maniac At the foot of the mountain he found his other apostles and a multitude of people. One of the multitude had a sorely afflicted son. This man knelt at the feet of the Savior and said: Master, I have brought unto thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit; And wheresoever he taketh him, he teareth him: and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away: and I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him out; and they could not (Mark 9:17-18). The failure of the disciples to heal the afflicted youth had brought upon them criticism. The unbelieving scribes had ridiculed the disciples and, indeed, had cast doubt on the ~ authority of Jesus himself. However, when Jesus appeared the same scribes remained silent. Of course, this lack of faith and consequent lack of power among his chosen and ordained servants pained the Lord and he chided them:... O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him hither to me. And Jesus rebuked the devil; and he departed out of him: and the child was cured from that very hour (Matt. 17:17- 18). Page 123 » LESSON DEPARTMENT OU canst do which really implied Stated, "If th believe; al] thing: that believeth." "Lord, I believe," In the miracle just considered, the afflicted € man cried out: cy were distarbed and asked the Lord, "Why could not we cast him out?" Jesus "Because of your The Lord's Death and Resurrection Again Predicted tom the place where the last described miracle Was wrought, Jesus and the apostles started toward Cap- € chose a less frequented Toad that he might have opportunity to instruct the twelve. They had Teceived a testimony that he was the Christ, but he wanted them to know Is, they were slow to comprehend, On One occasion he said, "Let these sayings sink down into your ears -.." (Luke 9:44). En he proceeded to explain that he would be killed and third day." Luke they understood not this saying, and it was hid from them, that they perceived it not: and they feared ig ask him of that Miracle after Jesus and his followers Capernaum, a tax collector by a oon reached was felt for him. Priests and tabbis were usually ex. Cused from Paying this tax, [} Was a smal] tax, amounting to half 4 shekThe Meaning was apparent—Jesus was the Son of God, The temple was the House of God. It was inconsistent to ask the Son to Contribute to his own Father's house. Peter had already pledged Payment without consulting Jesus, the part of Peter by saying, "Not. Withstanding, lest we should offend them, go thou to the sea, and Cast * pug ° = Yi Moen DAMASCUS... CAESAREA" a Ay DPRLS. MS wk < x a PQADARA a capn x _ w ad Ly SAMARIAN O ie techy ad we zx RAMAN HAAR bd ARIATHAER °F m Whuse ay Non USALEM ©, JERIC augs 4 '4, 7s FC BET i Ve ay _- ~ Pers s wt 7 WY t > A c ) an: $ ap ag 4 a = 4 aera Evan Jensen PALESTINE AT THE TIME OF CHRIST an hook, and take up the fish that prehensible to man's finite mind. First cometh up; and when thou hast 'The miracle is without parallel. Jesus opened his mouth, thou shalt find performed no miracles for personal a piece of money: that take, and give gain. This one was wrought for unto them for me and thee" (Matt. Peter and to avoid giving offense. 17:25-27). Bible students tell us His questions to Peter clearly showed that the "piece of money" is desigthat Jesus, by reason of being a nated by the more literal translation King's Son, need not have paid the "stater," a silver coin equivalent to tax but voluntarily did so to avoid a shekel, the exact amount of the tax any seeming violation of the law for two persons. The miracle is inand for the sake of his chief apostle. Explainable, except on the assumption that Jesus made the earth, sea, As a Little Child 126 and all things therein. It is incomRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 On the way to Capernaum a dis- LESSON DEPARTMENT pute arose among the apostles as to who would be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. They believed Jesus was both the Messiah and temporal king. The apostles were arguing as to which would hold the important positions in the coming kingdom. They finally met with Jesus in a house at Capernaum and the question was submitted to him. The Lord knew the thoughts in their minds and, wanting to teach them a lesson on true greatness, took a little child tenderly in his arms and said:... Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And whoso shall receive one such little child in my name receiveth me (Matt. 18:3-5). He taught also that little children are typical of the kingdom of heaven. Jesus wanted his apostles to learn true humility. They were men of courage and force and he did not want them to become childish but childlike. Following the lesson on humility he repeated some of the precious truths given in the great Sermon on the Mount, and gave them instructions on several vital subjects. They were to avoid giving offense, to overcome evil desires and tendencies at any cost. If they committed evil, their consciences would be an unquenchable fire within them. Every human soul must be tested. We are tried in the "fiery furnace" that the dross may be removed from the gold. Amputate any member of the body which gives offense. "For every one shall be salted with fire, and every 127 sacrifice shall be salted with salt" (Mark 9:49). "The soul must receive the saving salt of the gospel." The Lord was especially solicitous of children. He said, "Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones; for I say unto you, That in heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven." The Parable of the Lost Sheep Showing his great concern that every soul should be saved, the Savior gave the parable of the lost sheep (Matt. 18:12-14 and Luke 15:1-7). Space will not permit quoting in full. Many people have misunderstood this patable. There was great rejoicing over the finding of the lost sheep as there will be whenever a lost soul is saved. However, the ninetynine had continued joy. They were safe-folded in the Master's keeping. The one was brought back to the fold the others had been enjoying. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in speaking of this parable, said: The hundred sheep represent one hundred Sadducees and Pharisees as though Jesus had said, "If you Sadducees and Pharisees are in the sheepfold, I have no mission for you; I am sent to look up sheep that are lost; and when I have found them, I will back them up and make joy in heav- >? En." This represents hunting after a few individuals, or one poor publican, which the Pharisees and Sadducees despised. (D. H. C. V: 262 and Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 277). My Brother and I Then followed a lesson on the proper method of adjusting differences between members of the Church, so necessary in all dispensations. The rule of the rabbis was that the offender must make the first advance toward an adjustment. Jesus taught, "Moreover if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother" (Matt. 18: 15). Then he gave the steps to be taken if further adjustments must be made. Extreme measures were to be taken only if a man neglected or refused to obey the decision of the Church. If the offender was finally cut off, he would be "as an heathen man and a publican." The procedure is the same in the Church today (D. & C. 42:88-93). The Lord's instructions on forgiveness should be studied (Matt. 18: 15-22). These wonderful instructions were made more memorable by giving to the disciples the parable of the unmerciful servant (Matt. 18:23-35). The text on this parable should be carefully read. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What was the first miracle that happened after the transfiguration? Why did not the apostles cast the demon out of the afflicted child? 2. Relate the experience of the Savior with the tax collector at Capernaum. How was the tax paid? 3. What lesson on humility did Jesus teach while at or near Capernaum? O-_- Defeat Evelyn Fyjeldsted Defeat is not defeat unless Our own decisions make it so— For us, defeat can make no terms, If we persistently say no. There is no lasting, real defeat, When faith illumines destiny— Defeat will prove at length to be A stepping stone to victory. The Sane View Caroline Eyring Miner Y children caught a bee and put it in a box. The poor insect buzzed frantically, throwing itself again and again against the imprisoning walls, but finding escape futile, it finally lay exhausted in a corner. Denly, it was free again. Then the children lifted the lid and, sudI have been a bee in a tight, black box and have fought frantically, madly, and futilely to escape. Exhausted, I have become calm and thoughtful and submissive to my fate and, realizing the futility of my own weak efforts, have waited for and sought divine aid which set me free. 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT. 129 Visiting Jeachers Ilessages—Our Savior - Speaks Lesson 8—"Ye Are the Light of the World" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, May 3, 1949 Objective: To emphasize that where much is given much is expected. THE Lord in blessing his saints with membership in the Church has likewise required of them obligations. He would havethem placed before the world as worthy examples. A city that is set upon a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house (Matt. 5:14-15). Who in his Church are best qualified to exemplify the Master? Does wealth or position entitle an individual a prominent place in his kingdom? Is it the learned who may be pointed out as reflecting his teachings? No, for God has so set up his laws that any man, whether of high or low degree, may serve equally well to reflect the gospel light. "Ye are the light of the world, So spoke our Savior to common folk like you and me and, in so doing, he exhibited his full confidence that his followers would measure up. A pertinent question for each of us today might well be, "Do we in our individualities justify his confidence? How may we measure up?" When Christ said: "Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven," it was a personal request. And yet, there is a great and universal appeal in this entreaty. It reaches out to everyone. And, in responding to Christ's call, -we may, each and all of us through our acts of righteous living make it possible for Christ to say of us: "Ye are the light of the world" (Matt. 5:14). >_> Communion at Midnight Lizabeth Wall For a little quiet while Let there be no one around; Let not any footstep fall, Nor a breath, nor sudden sound. Let there be no snapping twig Nor a rustling anywhere. ' White-starred moments such as this, Only God and I must share. Literature—Literature of the Latter-day Saints Literature of the Gospel Restoration Lesson 8—Literature of the Prophet's Closing Years Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, May 17, 1949 'THE time from Liberty Jail to marthe saints during that period is of somewhat different cast from Seasons, at Nauvoo, and the Millennial Star, in Liverpool, England, cared news and articles through the years. To €xpound the p ciples of the restored gospel, defend it against its enemies, and to guide From the Prophet himself came notable expressions in written form, revealing growth in Power to express himself jin masterful thought and convincing style. But with characteristic humility, the Prophet acknowledged the hand of the Lord in these accomplishments, "I am a tough stone," he said. "The sound of the hammer and chisel were neyer heard on me until the Lord took me in hand. I desire the learnin and wisdom of heaven alone" tthage—a_period (Scrapbook of Mormon Literature, Ben E. Rich, II, page 6). In a former lesson mention was made of the Prophet's skill as Tevealed ir the brief story of his life by himself, and also of the Atticles of aith. Lord." In this Personal book lovin tribute is paid to his loyal wife, Emma; to his beloved brother, HyTum, for whom he Prays, "Oh may € Eternal Jehovah crown eternal lessings "pon your head, as a te. Most perfect safety." "There are many souls faithful—to th to prove faithful, until God calls upon me to resign up my breath" (D. H. C. Vv, 107-8), 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT al, even world power and influence. Well could he radiate gladness and humble thanksgiving and praise to God. Unhappily days of trouble and tragedy were soon to follow. Mark Twain, in his characteristic style once said something which seems to apply aptly to the situation in those palmy days: "Few of us can stand prosperity; another man's I mean." Nauvoo had become the largest, most thriving city in Illinois. The Latter-day Saints held the balance of political power; and that brought jealousy and strife, both within and without the Church. Literature produced during this time naturally was not only in vigorous defense of the principles of the restored gospel, but also was often directed towards building up America with better, more righteous govermment. In other words, Joseph Smith and those who stood loyally with him, rising above petty politics, expressed themselves boldly and clearly on fundamental principles of true Americanism. Some such utterances by the Prophet are statesmanlike: The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is a heavenly banner; it is like a great tree under whose branches men from all climes can be shielded from the burning rays of an inclement sun: and Mormon as well as Presbyterian, and every other denomination have equal rights to partake of the fruits of this great tree of our national Liberty. We believe that every man should be honored in his station rulers and magistrates, as such, being placed for the protection of the innocent, and the punishment of the guilty; and that to the laws, all men owe respect and deference, as without them peace and harmony would be supplanted by anarchy and terror; human laws being instituted for the express 131 purpose of regulating our interests as individuals and nations (Scrapbook of Mormon Literature, II, pp. 6-9). The Prophet's plan for resolving the slavery problem in a peaceable way, through purchase and resettle ment of these unfortunates, is an example of his grasp and forwardthinking on national issues. Eleven years later, when Ralph Waldo Emerson proposed essentially the same procedure, he won acclaim from the Nation. And at the time Josiah Quincy wrote that this way out of a serious difficulty had been offered more than a decade before by the Mormon Prophet, Joseph Smith, and his statement was received in silence. Until the flames of war came, people were not ready to listen. Nor in those fateful days of 1843- 44, would they hearken—the Nation at large—to the inspired words of this leader. Instead, malicious ones of religious creeds, and unscrupulous politicians banded together to bring destruction to this Prophet and the Church he had founded. Aided by traitors within the membership, these evil ones finally wrought their wicked will. Literature portraying the waxing strife and the aftermath of Carthage is readily available. Joseph Smith went, as he said: "Like a lamb to the slaughter, but," said he, "I am calm as a summer's morning; I have a conscience void of offense toward God, and towards all men. I shall die innocent, and it shall yet be said of me—he was murdered in cold blood." Out of this tragedy literature of soul-lifting cast has been created. The following by Apostle Orson Hyde reaches literary heights: Twenty-seventh of' June, 1844. Eventful period in the calendar of the nineteenth century! That awful night! I re member it well: I shall never forget it!. Thousands and tens of thousands will never forget it! A solemn thnll—a melancholy awe comes o'er my spirit! The memorable scene is fresh before me! It requires no art. Of the pencil, no retrospection of history, to portray it. The impression of the Almighty Spirit on that occasion will run parallel with eternity! The scene was not portrayed by earthquake, or thunderings, and lightnings, and tempests; but the majesty and sovereignty of Jehovah was felt far more impressively in the still, small voice of that significant hour, than the roaring of many waters, or the artillery of many thunders, when the spirit of Joseph was driven back to the bosom of God, by an ungrateful and bloodthirsty world! There was an unspeakable something, a portentious significancy on the firmament and among the inhabitants of the earth. Multitudes felt the whisperings of woe and grief, and the forebodings of tribulation and sorrow that they will never forget, though the tongue of man can never utter it. The Saints of God, whether near the scene of blood, or even a thousand miles distant, felt at the very moment the Prophet lay in royal gore, that an awful deed was perpetrated. O, the repulsive chill! The melancholy vibrations of the very air, as the prince of darkness receded in hopeful triumph from the scene of slaughter! That night could not the Saints sleep, though uninformed by man of what had passed with the Seer and Patriarch, and far, far remote from the scene; yet to them sleep refused. A visitation—the eyelids refused to close—the hearts of many sighed deeply in secret, and inquired, "Why am I thus?" Shall I attempt to describe the scene at Nauvoo on that memorable evening? If I could, surely you would weep, whatever may be your faith or skepticism, if the feelings of humanity are lodged in your bosom: all prejudice and mirth would slumber, till the eye of pity had bedewed the bier, and the heart had found relief in lamentation.... But here I must pause; my pen shall touch lightly, as it must feebly, that hallowed—that solemn and ever-memorable hour! The holy and immutable principle of retribution for crime that dwells eternally in the bosom of God, insensibly impelled the right hand almost to draw the glittering sword, and feel the sharpness of the bayonet's point and its fixedness to the musket's mouth. But the well-planted principle of self-command, and also of observing the order of Heaven and the counsel of the Priesthood, soon returned the deadly steel to the scabbard; and the victorious triumph of loyalty to God, in committing. Evil-doers to Him that judgeth righteously, and who hath said, "Vengeance is mine, and I will repay" prevailed over the billows of passion. (Scrapbook of Mormon Literature, I, pp. 283-285). Among the first expressions of praise and exultation was the song, already mentioned from the pen of W. W. Phelps, a stanza of which we repeat: Hail to the Prophet, ascended to heaven Traitors and tyrants now fight him in | vain; i Mingling with Gods, he can plan for his brethren; Death cannot conquer the hero again. A wealth of songs extolling the Prophet may be found—some of them of classic quality. Naturally, also, there were other types of effective expression. From John Taylor, who was shot down, and all but killed in Carthage when Joseph and Hyrum were martyred, we have not only his vivid portrayal of that tragic day, but also his poetic tribute, "The Seer"—voicing grief triumphant. The last stanza of this poem follows: He's free! He's free! The Phophet's free! He is where he will ever be, Beyond the reach of mobs and strife, He rests unharmed in endless life. His home's in the sky, he dwells with the Gods, Far from the furious rage of mobs. He died! He died for those he loved, He reigns, he reigns in the realms above. 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT He waits with the just who have gone before, 'To welcome the saints to Zion's shore; Shout, shout, ye saints his boon is given; We'll meet our martyred Seer in heaven. The following incident also brings us close to John Taylor, who became the third President of our Church. It occurred, after his wounds had healed, in Nauvoo. Major Warren was sent there by Governor Ford, to supervise in a military way the. Affairs of Hancock County. Word had reached this officer that the Latter-day Saint leaders had determined to do their own defending of their rights—even if. Need be to resist the law. In answer, Elder Taylor said, with the ring of Patrick Henry's "Liberty or Death" speech in his words: Major Warren, I stand before you as a man who has suffered deep injury from the citizens of this state, and consequently have some feelings. You talk, sir, about 'the majesty of the law and maintaining the law.' Why, sir, the law to us is a mere farce, For years past the law has been made use of only as an engine of oppression. We have received no protection from it. I have suffered under its cruel influence., You talk about your troops being efficient, supporting law and preserving peace. This tale may do to tell some, but it fails to charm us. You talk about the majesty of the law! What has become of those murderers [i. E. Of Joseph and Hyrum Smith]? Have they been hung or shot, or in any way punished? No, sir, you know they have not. With their hands yet reeking in blood, having become hardened in their deeds of infamy, knowing they will not be punished, they are now applying the torch to the houses of those they have already so deeply injured. Major Warren tried to stop the speaker, but Apostle Taylor brushed him aside. 133 Where is the spirit of "76? Where is the fire that burned in the bosoms of those who fought and bled for liberty?.. Talk about law! Sir, I stand before you as a victim of law. I feel warm on this subject—who would not? I have seen my best friends shot down while under legal protection. What is our governor? These scene' have been enacted under his supervision.... And you will talk to us of law and order, and threaten us with. Punishment for disobeying your commands and protecting our rights! What are we? Are we beasts? I tell you for one, sit, I shall protect myself, law or no law, judge or no judge, governor or no governor, I will not stand such infernal rascality, and if I have to fight it out, I will sell my life as dearly as I can (Roberts, B. H., Life of John Taylor, pp. 163- 166). Major Warren did not serve the papers he had come to serve on the twelve apostles—and the judge who had issued them thought it wise not to press the case further. Those tragic days, we are glad, have passed. They are recalled today with less fire. Yet they are not forgotten, and lessons they call to mind still bring inspiring expres sion. Studies and Activities 1. What lyric or other expression in literature has brought more vividly to you the spiritual meaning of the martyrdom? 2. Be prepared to give a brief quotation— just a sentence or two—which shows the Prophet's practical grasp of state and national needs. 3. What, as a final word, has this course on Literature of the Latter-day Saints contributed to you? References B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church. Smith, Joseph Fielding, Church History. Jenson, Andrew, Historical Record. Taylor, John, The Gospel Kingdom. Essentials of 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 7—International Strife and the Quest for Peace Elder G. Homer Durham evan JENSEN g10ns have helped keep alive mankind's vision of Peace on earth. The of its interesting contributions to ° Politica] doctrines, is that it is now within the reach of men—and their obligation—to "bring forth and FREE agency permits men to do teligious ideal, we have seen, has good Or evil; to construct Prosbeen fortified with Practical devices. P€rous, peaceful communities, or to President John Taylor, neatly a cenwar with each other, [f "courtesy" tury ago, November 24, 1855, wrote: and spiritual forbearance are essen-;: Although the Present distracted state tial to traffic safe y (as suggested in of the wor] orld might seem to forbid the ex. Any ire," when swords shall become €rnment—moral, Teligious, and politica] Plowshares and spears be turned jn- (The Gospel Kingdom, page 303). To pruning hooks. Notwithstanding,; some of the world's bloodiest wars A few years. Later, January 17, have been the wars of religion. But 1858, the same leader stated: at the same time the world's reljThe germs of this Peace are with us; the LESSON DEPARTMENT intelligence concerming thesé matters has begun to be developed (Ibid., page 305). Section 65 of the Doctrine and Covenants, speaking of the restora. Tion of the "keys of the kingdom" to man on the earth, declares: 'Wherefore, may the kingdom of God g0 forth, that the kingdom of heaven 'May come... And the Tenth Article of Faith states simply that we believe "the earth will be Tenewed and receive its paradisiacal glory." Practical Idealism If the peoples of the world understood each other better, their geography, living habits, governmental systems, social Customs, the revolution referred President John Taylor might well "result in some kind of universal government." But the world, as also noted by Joseph Smith and many Latter-day Saint leaders since 1830, is "split up and divided into different objects., each other as so many thieves" (The Gospel Kingdom, Page 299). InStead of understanding, misundertather sharp contrast, the Latter-day Saints, since the day in 1830 when Samuel H. Smith strapped some copies of the Book of Mormon on his back, have, by means system, systematically exploited the Possibilities of lCO, Certain Pacific isles, and, more 135 recently, Argentina and Brazil. A continuous stream ISsi As a result, Stephen Duggan, for many years director of the Institute of International Education, said that Salt Lake City was the center of international under. Latter-day Saint missionaries have, by themselves, negotiated no te. The United States Army, it was a former Latter-day Saint Missionary to Germany, Dr. David White, who translated the surtender terms imposed by General Dwight D. Eisenhower on General von Rundstedt and the German High Command, May 1945; and who, moreover, by his skill, corrected several] details in the German-Allied correspondence which were of major importance, A Utah-born diplomat from a famous missionary family, Cavendish Ww. Cannon, was one of the expert consultants present at the TrumanStalin - Churchill - Attlee meeting which produced the Potsdam agreement of July 1945. A former missionary, Colonel Floyd W. Goates, was actively in charge of certain Japanese educational activities in the reconstruction of Japan. A young missionaty, Thomas W. Thorsen, was a detachment commander in the United States military government set-up in Europe, and produced an eighteen-volume memorandum on Norway's economy which rated him a decoration by the Norwegian government. Dr. Dale D. Clark of Farmington, a former. Missionary to Germany, was active throughout the war in the planning section of the SHAEF (Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Forces) and later saw active responsibility in the reconstruction of Austria and Germany. And the recent examples could be multiplied—such as the work of Dr. Llewellyn R. McKay, Paul W. Hodson, Stanley D. Rees, and Eldon J. Facer—all former missionaries to Germany, in the Strategic Bombing Survey of 1945. Even more interesting and subtle, have been the contributions of such Latter-day Saint missionary products as Reed Smoot, Elbert D. Thomas, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Edgar B. Brossard and others. Dr. John Mabry Matthews, in his volume on American Foreign Relations, states without hesitation that the nowfamous "good neighbor policy" stems from the work of J. Reuben Clark, Jr., as Undersecretary of State, citing in particular President Clark's official report, Memorandum on the Monroe Doctrine (1928), as an important basis therefor. Dr. Hubert Herring has told many a lecture audience that the real shift toward improved American relations with Latin-America dates from the ambassadorships of Dwight W. Morrow and J. Reuben Clark to Mexico. Too often overlooked in the current interest in nations to the south is the fact, also, that as an official American representative, President Clark, many years ago, as General Counsel for the United States before the American-British Claims Commission, assisted in solving some of the oldest and touchiest problems between the United States, England, and Canada; involving fishing rights in the North Atlantic and other long-standing controversies. The influence of Reed Smoot in the international financial arrangements of the twenties and the Hoover moratorium policies, is a story yet to be told. The unique oriental missionary experience of Senator Elbert D. Thomas was put to many uses before, during, and after World War I!—not to mention his many European conferences as an official American delegate. After World War II, when America was being asked for loans and credits to promote European recovery, it was interesting to observe that one of three American representatives negotiating the original post-war British loan was at one time a Latter-day Saint missionary to Scotland, Marriner S. Eccles, the chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. And one of the American delegates to the Geneva Conference of 1947 designed to establish an International Trade Organization was Dr. Edgar B. Brossard, former missionary to France, and at that time, chairman of the United States Tariff Commission. All of these persons, together with hundreds of others unnamed, may or may not have been conscious of the root doctrines of American Latter-day Saint political theory as they discharged their official duties. But none will gainsay the fact that the day-by-day living experiences they had as missionaries with the common people of Northwestern Europe, or that were their traditions as 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT Tand Ij IS possible that, in addition to these of the past, there can tional] men and woinOr for war, Oreover, many mem TS Of this young « y" will have een "ambassadors" f the Uniteg Missionary abroad! Ing save from those who voluntarily Would like to be immer. Ed in water, and who thereafte; Temain free men believing In being subject to kin s, Presidents, Tulers, an | Opportunity of Latter-day Saint Mothers derstand the 8Ospel, including its 4Pplication to the Problems Involved in socialism, Communism, and inter. Amily, with the father's el of Constitutional] govhelp Conduct the foreign Telations" of th help educate her sons ("the glory of Od is in telligence!"') and send them government an theory, but for all 138 gston jin frica, etc. ); Marquette and Joliet, the panPe" of worlg ish fathers, j the €XPansion of Europe Sovernment uld be; lized, and mM the Americas. YOu Were called Pon to he] frame jt 3. What may be the unique °pportunj at principles Should be Included ties of mj sionaries of the hurch of erein? Jesus Christ of Latter-q Y Saints? 2. Recall the fluence Missionary 4. Need any M government fear the Movements in orld affairs f the Past, Ple€sence 'of Ssionaries of the Church and have the class discuss them. "For Of Jesus Christ o¢ tter-day Saints? €xample, Pay] Of Tarsus and his com eed any Person? Panions; St Augustine's traditiona] = Fae at can a Latter-day Saint mother Sion to Britain; Vario modern Titish ° to promote the ca € of good gov Mission rements (such as the estab. Ernment? Peace and Safety in Society? Ishment artmouth College in Conomic Well-being? Lorenzo Snow George Q. Cannon Lorenzo Snow already S€rved th EN Wilford Woodruf¢ died In 18 € Church for six we Years: Bias. Snow was born in 98, he Was succeeded by antua, Ohio.; Lorenzo Snow, 4 man who had LESSON DEPARTMENT Christians, had failed to find satisfaction in any of the religious denominations of the day. He had ambitions to become a professional military leader, and enrolled in Oberlin College, a strict Presbyterian institution. From there he wrote to his sister Eliza R. Snow, "If there is nothing better than is to be found in Oberlin College, goodbye to all religions." He desired to study Hebrew and finding that it was possible to secure Hebrew instruction in nearby Kirtland, went there. He was indifferent to the religious beliefs of his colleagues, but after only a short acquaintance with the Prophet Joseph, he joined the Church in June 1836. The military career was forgotten and he became a soldier in the army of God, fighting for the establishment of the kingdom of God on earth. © He brought to the councils of leadership in the Church a great deal of practical experience, acquired in' the service of the Church. During the winter of 1846-1847, he was left in charge of the temporary camp of the saints at Mt. Pisgah, Iowa. Here he manifested great ability as an organizer, utilizing the various Capacities of the members to manufac. Ture, churns, barrels, etc., which they sold or exchanged for food. He also delegated others to labor in Missouri and take their wages in foodstuffs. So successful were these ventures that during the winter, the once destitute and starving saints were able to send gifts of food to the saints at Winter Quarters. Tt was not until 1848 that Lorenzo Snow migrated to the Salt Lake Valley. In February 1849 he was called to be one of the twelve apostles 139 JOSEPH SMITH Prophet-Statesman By Dr. G. Homer Durham A BOOK THAT SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME An Essential Reference ' for the two-year course of study in Social Science BOOKCRAFT 1186 So. Main Salt Lake City 4, Utah WE RECOMMEND That Your Complete Orders For Music Be Sent To Us For Prompt Attention SOHMER—STORY AND CLARK— AND OTHER FINE PIANOS WURLITZER ORGANS—4 MODELS ——— Write to MR. SELDON N. HEAPS Summerhays Musie Co. 17 W. First South Salt Lake City 1, Ut. Ps oe =. =a Te wee a ly LY LY AY Ay amy emer seen and also wrote a number of missionary tracts. He directed the opening of the mission in Switzerland where much success was enjoyed, and then went to the 'sland of Malta for the same purpose. From this point he arranged for the opening of missionary work in British India. Returming from these missionary endeavors he was called to take fifty families and settle Brigham City. Dial 5-665 parce | «United Order" of co-operative en terprise was sntroduced and met with a high degree of success. The city was a self-sustaining commun ity, with about forty diversified industries, producing many fine manufactured goods ranging from linen collars, broadcloth suits and silk hats, to kid gloves and dress shoes, cheese, furniture, and wagons. Lorenzo Snow was eighty-five AT THE CLICK years of age when he became President of the Church on Septembet OF A sWwiT CH 13, 1898, just eleven days after the death of President Woodruff. In joyed good health and the manner in which he attacked the problems er and at low cost. BUY FROM YOUR Lord had called one to preside DEALER whose training in practical affairs would be of great benefit to the & LIGHT Ge. Istration to be known as Lorenzo Snow s administration," he states, with. Main or State at ava south Galt Lake City. Utah Flectricity does it better, fastGO ALL-ELECTRIC UTAH POWER There he established his home and lived for forty years. It was while he resided at Brigham City that the spite of his advanced age, he en facing the Church indicates that the Church. "I do not want this admin- "but as God's in and through Lo. TenZO Snow," The m |;. Dur. Americg oS 50 to do this in the East, President Jofolk tunes. Seph F. Smith insisted jt could be Merrily We Sing __ a T-H-E-R, Peggy O'Neil, K-K-K. Amous h mns, and give the Church sufficient jp. The Everybody Sing Book 90 req] American Collection of Songs for School, home, and com. Nity, 10] Hymns of the Hour of Charm __ 00 © Tesult of q Popular demand for q Collection oj the hyning Sung. The famous all-gir] chorus. During the time of trouble with the Sovernment over the question of plural Martiage, and especially after the Confiscation of the Property of the Church, the al Stoups of al] types, Write for infor. Bers of the Chure Were neg ianos they became neglectful of du in regard to the Payment of and offerings (Life 'of Joseph Page 307), SALT LAKE city 1, UTAM 4 g Snow began 4 campaign to awaken AAddeenns, Oe LESSON DEPARTMENT SOME insisted jt Would be necessq done locally, and the entire amount come that would Tepay the bonds members of the Church Over, Tealizing that their Means turned inPresident of the Church, President 141 8 Patriotic songs hymns, ong" 176 old favorites including M-O. Collection of the World's Most We SPecialize in Music for L. D. S, Chorfi Representatives for Steinway and: 142 the saints to their responsibility in this matter. At a solemn assembly convened in the Salt Lake Temple, he said: Teach your children to pay hic sO that it may be perpetually observed. If we observe this law, no matter what our enemies may do, the Lord will preserve us... Should we continue in this dilatory way of paying tithing, we will be scattered just as the people of the Jackson County were. This is true as God is true. While speaking at the Mutual Improvement Conference that year, he appealed to them for their support in sustaining the principle of tithing. At the conclusion of his discourse the following resolution was presented to these representatives of nearly every stake in the Church, and unanimously adopted by them: Resolved: That we accept the doctrine of tithing, as now presented by President Snow, as the present word and will of the Lord unto us, and we accept it with all our hearts; we will ourselves observe it, and we will do all in our power to get the Latter-day Saints to do likewise. The remainder of the year 1899 became a year of tithe-preaching and tithe-paying throughout the stakes and missions of the Church. As a consequence, the people became "tithing-conscious" and commenced to return to the Lord his portion of their material blessings. President Snow did not live long enough to see the complete rewards that resulted from this new emphasis, but he saw the first fruits of this divinely inspired reformation. During the administration of President Snow his counselors did all in their power to spare their President's waning strength by assuming as much of. The arduous work of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 the Presidency as they could. President Cannon traveled extensively throughout the Church, visiting stake conferences, dedicating chapels and giving counsel in spiritual and temporal affairs. In 1900 he went to Hawaii to attend the golden jubilee of the opening of the missionary work in that land, of which he had been one of the originators. He received a welcome upon arrival such as had, up to that time, never been accorded any visitor to the islands. President Cannon died rather suddenly while resting in California on April 16, 1901. President Snow did not appoint another counselor then, but had President Smith take over as much of the responsibility of President Cannon as he could. President Smith also traveled extensively in the wards and stakes and in addition during these years visited the colonies of saints in Mexico, Arizona, New Mexico, and Canada, as well as a number of the mission fields. 'These visits were made to carry to these scattered saints the new emphasis upon tithing and to assist them in making plans for their future growth and the expansion of Church missionary work. At the October Conference in 1901 President Snow selected President Smith to be the first counselor in the Presidency and Rudger Clawson, one of the Council. Of Twelve, to be the second counselor. They were never set apart to these offices however, as President Snow died four days after conference, on October 10, 1901. His passing brought to a close an administration that placed the Church on a sound financial basis which has provided LESSON DEPARTMENT the necessary means for the remarkable growth in its missionary activities, temple and chapel building, educational endeavors, its hospital services and numerous charities that have characterized it in the twentieth century. Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. What caused the general non-observance of the law of tithing on the part of the Church membership prior to 1899? 2. Why is it essential that the saints be constantly reminded to pay an honest tithing? 3. What lasting benefits have come to the Church and its membership as a tresult of President Snow's stimulation of tithe-paying? 4. Relate President Snow's account of his spiritual manifestation after he joined the Church as recorded in the Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow, pp. 7 and 8. (Also reprinted in Robert's Comprehensive History of the Church, VI, pp. 383-384). 5. Read the Rev. Dr. Prentis's estimate on the character and spirituality of Lorenzo Snow, found on pages 96 and 97 of Cow tey: Prophets and Patriarchs. 6. Make a report on the view held by President Snow concerning the mission of the Twelve and the Seventy in the Church, (See Comprehensive History of the Church, VI, pp. 376-380). References Cowtry, Matruias F., Prophets and Patriarchs, pp. 86-98. Roserts, B. H., Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. V. Pp. 217, 218; Vol. VI, pp. 356-360 and 375-385. SmiTH, Exiza R. Snow, Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow. SMITH, JosEPH FiELpiNG, Essentials in Church History, pp. 614-622. SMITH, JosEPH Fieipine, Life of Joseph F, Smith, pp. 302-313. Improvement Era, Vol. 51, page 12 (Jan. 1948) ""Vaudois Revisited," by Archibald F. Bennett. 143 BUY YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MUSIC FROM US Angels Serenade—3381 Century Piano Solo Can be used as accompaniment to the chorus number. Angels Serenade # 463 Century Violin and Piano Will provide a beautiful violin obligato to the chorus number, 20c per copy plus postage GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. SALT LAKE CITY Professional age "Srcial Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND _ BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah ee I I NI a et Ne ee t very much, Somehow he Magazine agent Neglected to call on her earlier, but | hope that even at this late date, she can still be on the list. Our Sisters al] look forward to the atival of the 48azine and feel that the material printeq therein js ve —Blanche K, Richmond, President, Australian Mission Relief Society how much The fans to me, Mf husband and Were Converts to e twenty-six Y€ars ago, shortly after Id ¢ Wd. D articles Pnnt- €d in it were 4 Constant Source of inspiration to me, Miss bein subscriber to th » €ven if the Price Increase, fourfold oney could not give me he comfort assurance that th me gives to. Me Tom be t Relief to be, she sweetly busies herself about the om, by her covet. Ing little heart js Wishing you at the office Would print the Magazine; Some strict. Ly feminine anguage which Couldn't decipher. There is y, book large oy all that "8s so much fine Materia] fo everyone Who reads * aS the little Reli Society agazine. —Allie R Berry, Quemado, Texas Christie', n the Christmas issue lS beautify] 7« Christma Dream" TOntispiece, b tie Lund Coles), I For a Sense of ACHIEVEMENT Own and READ "SHARING THE GOSPEL WITH OTHERS" _52.90 Gems from President George Albert Smith's addresses. Selected by Preston Nibley "PROGRESS OF MAN"52.00 The history of the Lord's dealings with man. By Joseph Fielding Smith "GOSPEL STANDARDS" __.. Ww.2.29 Gems from President Heber J. Grant's addresses. Selected by G. Homer Durham "PRESIDENTS OF THE CHURCH"......53.00 Eight, great men—spiritual leaders of the Latter-day Saints. By Preston Nibley "JESUS THE CHRIST" 0.$2.50 A classical account of the Savior's life and ministry. By James E. Talmage DESERET BOOK COMPANY Our Books are available through local book dealers throughout the Intermountain West and wherever Latter-day Saints live. Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City 10, Utah U. S. POSTAGE CUURCH HISTOSTAR'S OFF ECE 2¢ Paid 47. 84ST SOUTH TESPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Cit. PERMIT No. 690 CHOICE GIFTS For Special Occasions — Birthdays and Wedding Anniversaries Recognition Remembrances to Relief Society Officers and Visiting Teachers "WIST YE NOT THAT | MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS?" The Visit of Jesus to the Temple at Twelve Years of Age BY President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. An invaluable reference book on temple ceremonies and sacrifices in the time of Christ. With illustrations. $1.50 postpaid. All rights and royalties assigned to Relief Society. A x x THE OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN Blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid gold front with 24 carat gold-plated back, bearing the motto and seal of Relief Society. (Postpaid) 220.2000... $1.20 x Kk x TEMPORARY BINDERS FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Substantial temporary binders, into which single copies of the Magazine for one year may be inserted or removed at will. Reduced to $1.00 postpaid. SEND ALL ORDERS TO GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen i - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay Mary G. Judd 'Blanche B. Stoddard Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawtord General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 36 MARCH, 1949 No. 3 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES The Spirit of the Gospel, the Soul of Relief Society —............. President Belle S. Spafford 148 Relief Society Building News 155 The Song of the Lark a Ivy Williams Stone 156 A Young Mother Discovers Relief Society Margaret F. Richards 164 Hawaii and the Latter-day Saints Rosannah Cannon Irvine 166 Clean-up and Beautification Program James M. Kirkham 171 FICTION Compromise—Third Prize Story $ Mildred R. Stutz 151 The House of Leaves cose Blanche Sutherland 160 We Are So Busy ws Sylvia Probst Young 178 Joanna—Chapter 3.. N..... N--. Scsccesnsoncseenseessosteereees evens a Margery S. Stewart 196 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago — 172 Woman's Sphere -.......---c-cececec-cececeeeseeeeneeeneeeoseseneneceenees Ramona W. Cannon 173 Editorial: Full Measure, Running Over..-...-..-..--:.:-c-s-scscesssesssnsseeeeeeeneeneeneenentorsMarianne C. Sharp 174 ge Organizations and Reorganizations of Mission and Stake Relief Societies 175 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Socials, Bazaars, and Other Activities FEATURES FOR THE HOME Take Care of Your Books Ezra J. Poulsen 181 How to Make a Pleated Skirt Lena DuPaix 184 They Are Not Mine: x z Caroline Eyring Miner 185 How to Make an Embroidery Floss Case......... Ae... AaaAfton N. Porter 186 That's My Towel! ———— a Ivie H. Jones 187 Antiques to Know and Cherish................ Lorene Pearson 188 Cakes Decorated and Designed at Home ~.....0...----c-cescscceeecscesesceeeecneesEva Willes Wangsgaard 192 POETRY I Have Seen Aspens—Frontispiece = Alice Morrey Bailey 147 Threads of Destiny. Elizabeth Terry Blair 159 Bly WNC) eee sansceneseoe easMarvin Jones 177 Longing.....-.--.-..---------- ceesnnneneeoes, eee ee.. Susa Gould Walker 177 I Have No Need 20.0.0... AeGrace Zenor Pratt 183 Compensation............-..-.25 aa cocceeeseenenereesee Art Teacher............-----.- ~-Igssie M. Robinson 185 Cotton Storm _ Cameron Johns 187 Leone E. McCune 191 Overtone -.... Ecee-een-. Dorothy J. Roberts 191 1 Fo Co) (ee; a - Be nance ec ecesGene Romolo 209 Spring Candlelight.......:. SsssssccssscssssssssecnsecsesenesssnestsecceneersscsenseeansssnsennssonessnaasconsennesenaesnasesesesThelma Ireland 209 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Selt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 38-2741: Subscriptions 246: Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103. Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. From Near and Far. Vocuptnssaneeennesresuotseseaseenensesscsnseacsacrenacqnscoseuastreracesssoecs ser == ++: Sots ean adept tases ae aaa216 Handmades Make Treasured Gifts TEXTILE PAINTING. » » simple, easy and a joy to learn. For yourself and gift giving, why not stencil paint luncheon sets, place mats, tea towels etc.? Come in or write for details. Send special orders to Margot Manners, ZCMI. Hand cut multiple stencils. 50c to 2.00 Paints.. 29¢ bottle Brushes.. 29c Complete kit with 12 colors.... 3,35 Solvent.... 39c ART NEEDLEWORK..... Second Floor HILLTOP ASPENS Willard Luce a OS BO we Se Naa $5 8 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 36, NO. J Have Seen Aspens Alice Morrey Bailey I have seen them brave the winds of March, Lashed to the bouldered hill with rooted twine, Or form a staunch but trembling, green-laced arch To shield their foster nurslings, seedling pine. And I have seen them gray along the banks Of autumn creek-beds when the year was old, With withered veins and death among their ranks, Standing stark above their useless gold. Today I saw the aspens, slim and still As maidens, unaware of life, and nude, Where winter edges spring upon the hill In this brief interval of pristine mood. And soon their black-eyed boles, with pearly sheen, Will glow through misted veils of tender green. The Cover: "Pinnacles," Photograph by Willard Luce. 3 MARCH 1949 The Spirit of the Gospel, the Soul of Relief Society President Belle S. Spafford General President of Relief Society (Delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 30, 1948.) ARCH 17, 1842 in the Lodge Room over the Joseph Smith store, the Phophet Joseph Smith uttered words of lasting import to Latter-day Saint women when he said: "I now declare this society organized, with president and counselors, according to parliamentary usages." Addressing the eighteen women present on that memorable occasion, Elder John Taylor said that he "rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the law of heaven... And to see all things moving forward in such a glorious manner." He prayed that "the blessings of heaven might rest upon this institution henceforth." Today, 106 years since Elder 'Taylor so spoke, tens of thousands of women rejoice that this society was organized. They see it moving forward in a glorious manner. Grateful for the heritage of the past, faithfully and devotedly meeting the assignments of the present, sagaciously planning and building for the future, they acknowledge that the blessings of heaven do indeed rest upon this society. There is within this society a great life-giving element—a spirit which reaches out to women from the eastern shores to the western shores of our own great country, into Mexico Page 148 and on south to the Latin lands of South America; it reaches into remote villages of Alaska and Canada; it extends into the continents of Europe and Asia, to South Africa and the islands of the sea, binding together women of all nationalities into a great sisterhood, unifying them in purpose and impelling them on to worthy accomplishment. This life-giving spirit is the spirit of the gospel; it is this which makes Relief Society different from other women's organizations the world over. It is this that gives to Relief Society its strength as well as its heart and soul. The spirit of the gospel, operating in the lives of Relief Society women, causes them to reach out for immortal treasures, to be not satisfied with values of passing worth; it leads them into experiences that bring real and enduring joy; it subdues selfishness within them and crowds out the spirit of criticism and faultfinding; it dissipates fear and builds confidence; it engenders within them a recognition of and a respect for an inspired Church leadership and bids them to render obedience to that leadership—not a reluctant, obligatory obedience, but a free, voluntary obedience actuated by love; it lifts them above the mean and petty things in life into the realm of that which is of good report and THE SPIRIT OF THE GOSPEL, THE SOUL OF RELIEF SOCIETY praiseworthy; it enables them to live useful, happy lives. It was the spirit of the gospel operating in the life of Eliza R. Snow that caused her to travel the weary path across the plains bearing with her the sacred book of records —the first minutes of our beloved Relief Society, containing instructions from our inspired Prophet which for more than a century have guided the society. It was the spirit of the gospel within her that decreed that she should go from door to door canvassing for students, who, according to the records, must be "possessed of nerve, energy, and ambition" to attend a school of medicine and surgery "for the instruction of females" in order that the medical and health needs of an isolated pioneering community might be met. T was the spirit of the gospel alive in the heart of Zina D. H. Young that caused her to accept, without thought of dissenting, a mission to lead the Relief Societies of the Church in a new and untried venture—the production of silk "that the sisters might do all in their power to clothe themselves and their families, and that home industry might be promoted." It was the spirit of the gospel active in the soul of Aunt Em that gave her the courage to lead the sisters in their strange mission of saving grain. To say that these missions were accepted without feelings of trepidation would be to misrepresent truth. However, fear of failure was not its cause, for these sisters had faith in the inspired leadership of the Priesthood authorities who di- 149 rected them, and a courage born of testimony. 'These feelings were but the result of an intelligent sensitiveness to the magnitude of their tasks and all that was involved in their fulfillment. Aunt Em, when eighty-four years old, addressing the sisters in general conference on the grain-saving program, expressed her feelings in these words: "I felt very timid and I was just about trembling when I went to talk the matter over with President Wells." (President Wells was counselor to President Brigham Young.) Praiseworthy success crowned the efforts of these sisters in their varied undertakings. 'Today, a symbol of this success, there rise toward the heavens great elevators filled with grain as a result of the garnering in the fields by the sisters, who sold Sunday eggs, and quilts, rag carpets, and other products of their hands to earn funds with which to buy grain; disposed to do it because the spirit of the gospel bade them accept their missions and render loving obedience to Church leadership. This same spirit is active in the hearts of Relief Society women of this day. Only one year ago a Relief Society sister, president of a small branch of Mexican sisters, sat in this great Tabernacle and heard a plan proposed whereby the sisters of this day were to raise one-half million dollars for a Relief Society home. She, too, had feelings of trepidation because of the magnitude of the undertaking. But, strong in testimony, her response came: "I don't know how we can do it. But the First Presidency has authorized it. If they authorize it, it is right. If it is right, we can do it." 150 And do it they did. The response of this sister was typical of that of sisters all over the Church—sisters imbued with the spirit of the gospel. Anxious hours have been my own lot in the planning and conduct of this great fund-raising program, but doubt has not been mine. Secure in the approval of the First Presidency, mindful of the support always given the sisters in their righteous undertakings by the Priesthood authorities, fully aware of the faithfulness and devotion of the sisters of this day, having a strong inner conviction that the undertaking was right, a deep-seated, calm assurance has been mine that success would ultimately attend our efforts. And the future will see a Relief Society home rise, a monument to the devotion of the sisters of this day—evidence that the spirit of the gospel has been with them. The spirit of the gospel will always exist within this Society in direct ratio to the strength of the testimonies of the women who make up its membership. A knowledge of the gospel, obedience to its teachings, a willingness to keep the commandments of God on the part of Relief Society women are prerequisites to their well-being as individuals and to the well-being of Relief Society as an organization. The Second Epistle of John, addressed to a woman, "unto the elect lady," may appropriately be addressed to Relief Society women today: Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.... And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 we had from the beginning, that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it... « Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward (Second Epistle of John, verses 3, 5, 6, and 8). In the gospel of St. John we read this message of the Master to his children: If ye love me, keep my commandments.... He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.... If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him (John 14:15, 21, 23). The Lord will come unto Relief Society; he will make his abode with us, and the blessings of heaven will rest upon our beloved society so that it will continue to move forward in a glorious manner if we who make up its membership will but love the Lord and keep his commandments. Our work will be accomplished with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance and we as individuals will receive the rewards of righteousness— even peace in this world and eternal life in the world to come. I know that this gospel is true. This testimony sweeps over me at times with an almost startling reality. There is a Father to whom we may go in prayer and find comfort and sustenance, inspiration, and guidance. Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, chosen to bring to earth in this dispensation the gospel of Christ, the only plan by which we may live and gain exaltation in (Continued on page 209) Third Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Compromise Mildred R. Stutz URIEL watched her daughter Connie walk up the path toward the front door. Her books were tucked under her arm, her saddle Oxfords scuffed the wet pavement slightly. Her blonde head was stiffly erect and she gave no indication that she was aware of the gitls walking down the sidewalk beLind her. Muriel sighed and turned from the rain-drenched window. There was no sense in letting Connie know that her lonesomeness was not a secret. The door opened and Connie came in. "Hello, Mother," she said, "mmmmm, something smells good—baked ham?" "Yes, orders from the boss. Is it still raining?" "Cats and dogs," Connie answered. She tossed her books on a chair and walked into the dining room with her mother. The table was set for twelve. Gleaming linen, silver, and crystal were accentuated by a centerpiece of early spring flowers. Muriel looked at the table with satisfaction. "Dinner party?" Connie asked. "Yes, prospective customers. Loads of money." Muriel felt a stab of uneasiness—almost like guilt. It had been lingering inside her all day as she had gone about preparing for the dinner party. "Don't look so worried, Mother MILDRED R. STUTZ dear," Connie said flippantly, "I promise not to drink out of my saucer. In fact, if you don't mind, I think I'll take in a movie. I don't relish spending an evening in a business conference." Muriel smiled fondly at her daughter. She was glad she had made the suggestion. "Of course I don't mind, dear. These people wouldn't be interesting to you anyway." A wave of relief washed overt Muriel, followed by the guilt again. "If there isn't anything I can do to help you, I think I'll study for awhile." Page 151 152 "Go ahead, Connie. Mrs. Keller is here to help in the kitchen and do the serving. I don't think there's anything you can do." Connie walked slowly up the stairs. Watching her go, Muriel's heart ached for her. It wasn't right that a young girl should be so alone. Why couldn't she adjust to the new town? 'True, it held little resemblance to the town she had grown up in, but Connie was sixteen, and, surely, she was old enough to realize that nothing stayed the same forever. Lakeside had been such a peaceful, quiet, little place. Looking back on it now, it seemed almost dull. Everybody knew everybody: else. They went to Church on Sunday, did their laundry on Monday, and chatted over the back fence as they hung the clothes to dry. They visited in the grocery store and compared price lists and grocery bills. Scottsville was different. There was so much to be done. The big old house had been completely redecorated. John's office had changed from empty storerooms to an attractive suite. His business was building up fast and they were meeting all the right people. N her room, Connie stared moodily at the rain sliding down the window pane. There was really no reason why she should study tonight. She was already far ahead of the rest of the class. She made a few doodles on the flyleaf of her notebook, walked to the window, back to the dressing table, and finally back to her books. She might as well study, there was nothing else to do. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Muriel moved from kitchen to dining room, giving efficient instructions to Mrs. Keller and attending to details that required her skilled touch. It was going to be a lovely party. The guests were, for the most part, strangers to her. They were people who had great influence both socially and financially. They could mean a lot to the business. Muriel had been to enough dinner parties in Scottsville to know how vastly they differed from the parties at Lakeside. They had a sophistication about them that did not come easily for Muriel. She had been born in a religious family and had grown up in a religious town. The moral values taught her from childhood had never been questioned, and she had passed the same teachings on to her daughter. It was John who had first felt the bonds of their provincialism. In his business he came in contact with many people. They were people more worldly and less hampered with moral laws than he was used to dealing with; but they had money and influence, and John's business needed both. Muriel opened the refrigerator and tried to ignore the unfamiliar bottles inside. She shifted them about and was irked that the guilty feeling still persisted. She turned to see Connie coming in the door. She was angry with herself for quickly closing the door, so she busied herself about the kitchen to conceal her annoyance. "How about a handout, Mother, I'm starved?" Connie sliced some bread and buttered it. She pulled some leaves from some lettuce, folded them between the bread, and COMPROMISE viewed the sandwich appraisingly. "Some mayonnaise and a pickle, and I'll have a piece of art," she laughed. Muriel felt a strange prickling on the back of her neck as she saw her daughter cross the room and open the refrigerator door. Connie gave a low whistle and exclaimed, puzzled, "For Pete sake, what's this? A brewery?" Muriel tried to sound nonchalant. "People around here are different than they were at Lakeside. They don't have the same—ideologies." "Yes," said Connie, her brown eyes troubled. "I've noticed a difference among the kids at school. They don't act the way I do." Muriel hurried on, uncomfortable, "The contacts your father makes here tonight are very important. These people can mean a lot to the business. We've got to make them like us—we've got to go halfway." Muriel knew her explanation sounded weak. The thought occurred to her that she was explaining to herself as much as to Connie. She wondered if the explanation was as unsatisfactory. CONNIE ate her snack in silence, and Muriel, unable to feel at ease, excused herself to go dress. It was nearly time for the first picture at the Embassy, so Connie took her raincoat and umbrella from the hall closet and, calling a quick goodbye to her mother, stepped out into the early spring evening. Raindrops splashed in the puddles along the sidewalk, making the reflected street lights dance crazily. The steady drumming of the rain on her umbrella was comforting to Connie—comforting and yet a lonesome sound, She walked slowly, counting 153 the squares in the sidewalk, watching people move about behind lightly curtained windows. A very noisy jalopy clattered down the street. Connie recognized a number of students she had seen about the campus. The movie was dull. Connie sat through one feature and then, because it was still too early to go home, stayed for a cartoon and newsreel. It was still raining as she left the theater and hurried down the sidewalk toward the drugstore. She was about to enter when a gitl's voice called, "Hey, Connie, come here." Turning slowly, she saw the old battered jalopy parked at the curb. She hesitated a moment and then approached the car. She didn't know the girl who called to her, but it was nice having someone know her name. "Climb in, Connie, we'll take you home." The driver of the car was a large, dark fellow Connie had seen at school. He had always seemed friendly even though he appeared somewhat older than most of the students. "No, thanks, I think Pll walk—it isn't far." "Aw, come on, Connie," someone said, "there's plenty of room." The car door opened and Connie saw five or six boys and girls inside. Some of them looked familiar, others were strangers, but they were all laughing and joking and urging her to join them. It was warm inside and the rain danced merrily against the tin top, and everyone seemed to be having fun. Connie smiled uncertainly, "All right," she said and stepped inside. There was a faint odor of tobacco 154 smoke and some unfamiliar smell she couldn't identify. In the back seat the boys and girls shifted about to make room for her. She felt herself pulled down onto someone's lap, and arms held her firmly. The car jerked to a start. THEY careened down the wet streets and stopped in front of Connie's home. The lights were burning brightly and strange cars were parked in the driveway. "You don't have to go in yet do you, Connie?" they kept asking, 'ft's only a little after ten-thirty." "I'm supposed to be in before eleven," she said. '""Won't your old man let you stay out later than that?" Connie tried to be as gay as they were, "Oh, I'd better check in," she said, "Look, Connie, why don't we all drive out to Traveler's Inn and have a snack or something. We'll bring you right back and you'll be in before midnight easy." They were all coaxing. They acted like they really wanted her to go. "Traveler's Inn," she asked, "where's that?" There was a slight pause. "Oh, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 it's a little place just outside the city limits—not very far." Someone giggled and the arm around Connie tightened slightly. "Tl tell you what I'll do," she said, "I'll run in and tell Mother and Dad where I'm going, and if they say it's all right, I'll be back." She ran lightly up the walk. It was fun having friends again. The uneasiness she had felt when she first entered the car was slipping away, and now the invitation to Traveler's Inn, whatever that was, sounded full of fun and excitement. If only the folks would let her go. Of course, it was late and she hardly knew the crowd she was going with, but—well—maybe they'd let her go. She followed the sound of voices down the hall to the living room. Through the glass-paneled doors she could see her parents and _ their guests. 'They were seated comfortably about the room. Connie could tell that her father was making what he called the "right contacts." Her mother was serving a drink of some kind to a big, bloated man who lolled awkwardly against the mantle. The room was clouded with smoke. Connie turned slowly and stood in the shadows of the hall. For a (Continued on page 213) biology at Snow Junior College. Between household tasks." Mildred R. Stutz, Ephraim, Utah, a comparatively new writer, tells us that she is twenty-eight years old, "and the mother of four little boys: Kent, Craig, Tommy, and Lanny. My husband, Howard C. Stutz, is professor of We are members of the Ephraim South Ward, active in Mutual, Sunday School, and other Church and civic auxiliaries. Because of my family of small children, I am unable to be an active member of Relief Society, but I enjoy the Magazine and the visiting teachers. "I have had one poem published in The Relief Society Magazine. Throughout my school years I won several contests, the most important being the Edward W. Bentley Short Story Contest at Bingham Young University. I enjoy writing, but, like most mothers, find it necessary to sandwich my hobby Besancon Branch, French Mission Bruxelles Branch, French Mission Charleroi Branch, French Mission Eua Branch, Tongan Mission Herstal Branch, French Mission Houma Branch, Tongan Mission Kolonga Branch, Tongan Mission La Chaux de Fonds Branch, French Mission Lausanne Branch, French Mission Liahona Branch, Tongan Mission Pangai Branch, Tongan Mission Ramah Branch, South African Mission Seraing Branch, French Mission Strasbourg Branch, French Mission Tokomololo Branch, Tongan Mission Tuanekivale Branch, Tongan Mission Tuanuky Branch, Tongan Mission Uiha Branch, Tongan Mission Vaini Branch, Tongan Mission Verviers Branch, French Mission Page 155 The Song of the Lark Ivy Williams Stone T was not there! I looked carefully around gallery 32 of the Chicago Art Institute, then consulted the catalog I had _purchased on my last visit, two: years earlier. It should have been there, it was so listed, "Breton's 'Song of the Lark' in gallery 32, Modern French Artists." But there was no painting of a peasant girl, with sickle, bare feet, and snooded hair. I approached a guard, pacing slowly from room to room. 'That his occupation was just a job was evident in his attitude. He was bored with his inactivity, irked at the often inane questions of tourists. "T do not find Breton's 'Song of the Lark,'" I said. "Has it been moved to some other gallery?" The guard did not slacken his measured steps, nor unfold his arms, nor even look at me. "It's out on loan tour," he answered over his shoulder, as he walked toward another room. Out on loan tour. Those four words cut into my consciousness like a whip. It couldn't be. I had brought our two children from Utah to Chicago to give them fine cultural contacts. To me this picture was the epitome of artistic achievement. We would go to New York. They would see Bonheur's "Horse Fair"; "The Hand of God," by Rodin; and Cleopatra's Needle. Crowds, elevated trains, subways, Wall Street, Ellis Island—all would provide new vistas for impressionable youth. But I wanted my son and daughter to see "The Song of Page 156 the Lark." Some critics maintain the girl's smile is more inspiring than the famed one of Mona Lisa. "Oh!" I cried out. In my disappointment I was the outspoken westerner. But there was no one to share my disappointment, for I had come alone to locate the best exhibits, while the children watched some tennis matches. "Oh!" I repeated. "Why, I brought two children fifteen hundred miles to see that picture!" I spoke to the disappearing back of the bored guard. He was methodically pacing into the next room. Pictures were just pictures to him. My quandary was not his concern. I stood baffled, staring at the spot where the picture should have been. What should I tell the children? 'Their interest was spurred and fed by my enthusiasm. Only too well I knew they would find other diversions. My daughter wanted to attend a shoe sale at Marshall Fields; my son hoped to see a spatting match between a jewfish and a shark in the Shedd Aquarium. A gentle voice at my elbow brought me back to reality. "Pardon me, Madam." The low, modulated voice was like the first trickling from thawing spring snows back home. "I heard what you said to the guard. The picture is not loaned. It is in retirement. You see, the Institute owns so many thousands of famous canvases, we rT — Institute of Chicago THE SONG OF THE LARK From a Painting by Jules Adolphe Breton Page 157 158 have to rotate them. But fifteen hundred miles is a long distance, and your children must not be disappointed. I shall personally conduct them to the storage gallery. Shall we say, tomorrow, at ten?" I looked into the smiling face of a man so delicately molded, it seemed he had stepped down from one of the decorative pieces of priceless china. His thin, transparent hands, his small figure, his disarming smile, all bespoke the connoisseur. Back in the hotel, I schooled the children all evening, so they would be appreciative of this unusual service. I borrowed a book on French art from the hotel library; we studied a good reproduction of the original we were about to see; learned the highlights of Breton's career. "The shoe sale will be over by the time we can get there," protested my daughter. "I did so want a pair of those open-toed, patent leather, French heels. There isn't a store in our State that carries the style I want. What's an old picture, anyway?" Promptly at ten the next morning we reported to the little man at his desk in gallery 32. His hands seemed more transparent when grasped by my towering son. We went along hallways, where uniformed guards touched their caps, as they unlocked gates for us. The little man explained everything. The Institute buildings were fireproof, burglarproof, even earthquake-proof. Down elevators, along more hallways. Always the guards touched their caps, always locked gates were opened to us. Finally RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 we came to the aisle marked "French: 19th century." At a signal from our guide, a guard unlocked the final gate, and we were ushered into an_ air-cooled, tomblike room, lined with rows upon rows of portable racks. "Breton," spoke our guide, and a button was pushed. A rack rolled out. Another button, and the large canvas of "The Song of the Lark" stood out alone. It was illumined. I was suddenly happy, for both children were awed. There stood the peasant girl, with her coarse garments, her huge, hardened bare feet; the strength of her sickle hand plainly revealed. The lark was soaring from its nesting place in the brown furrow; with a song on her own lips, the girl watched its ascent. Health was evident in every line of her body, as though born of the green meadow and the brown earth of the field. The sun, just rising over the distant treetops, illumined her face. From her snooded hair to her feet she revealed contentment and peace. The green meadow, the freshly plowed furrows, the azure sky, all climaxed her inexplicable smile.. "THE children studied the picture and listened to a half-hour discourse on the works of Breton, artist and poet. As they studied the picture, I studied its effect upon them. My faith was vindicated. The delicate voice of our guide recited some of Breton's poetry. Born a French peasant, Breton had lived in the deep poverty of the downtrodden poor. He had experienced the revolution of 1848. He excelled in depicting the despair of the country folk. A painter of rustic life, a THE SONG OF THE LARK man of the poor. The peasants of his day were fortunate to have sabots for Sunday wear. The school children of Chicago had voted this picture the most popular in the entire Institute. As we retraced our course, gates were locked behind us. Up elevators, along steel-barred halls, and finally out into the light of the galleries, we went. My son's demonstration of courtesy, his speech of thanks to our kindly guide, gave me added joy in being his mother. My adolescent daughter had a dreamy, faraway expression in her eyes. She looked at her trimly shod feet and whispered to me: "All she ever had were wooden clogs." Our guide gave me his card, shook hands all around, and quickly left us. We sauntered through gallery after gallery. The children, rather than I, wanted to see more. The guard was doing his paces from room 159 to room. His arms were folded, his face bored. As we stood on of the Institute, guarding lions, watch. "We still have time to get to Marshall Fields," I said to my daughter. "Perhaps you can yet find what you want in shoes. And I feel sure the Shedd Aquarium will be open this afternoon." She glanced at her sensible, durable, walking oxfords. "These are good enough," she smiled. "I guess French heels would be hard to walk in. | "What's a couple of sparring fish?" countered my son. "Heigh," he queried, "who was that little man, anyway? What's his name?" I held the card in my palm, and all three of us looked at the printing. Our guide had been an assist. Ant curator of the Chicago Art Institute. The front steps flanked by the I glanced at my Threads of Destiny Elizabeth Terry Blair We weave the threads of destiny; The warp is all our own; No matter what the filling is, We teap what we have sown. We thread the shuttle day by day, Regardless of the cost; Sometimes we gain a rich Teward, Again a soul is lost. Then let us weave the best we can, Whatever we may do, A fabric fit for God and man, A fabric firm and true. The House of Leaves Blanche Sutherland ARK Ballard turned the steerM ing wheel with a lean hand and the car jolted up onto the highway and stopped. Anne Henderson shifted a trifle in her seat and he smiled down into her clear, gray eyes. "Remind me to put in a driveway without that bump," he said, and Anne laughed. Mark eyed her small face, the wistful mouth, and there was hunger in his eyes. Annie, Annie, he thought, will it really come true this time—our marriage—Or... - As if sensing his thought, Anne held up her lips and he bent his dark head to kiss her. She moved against his shoulder. "Oh, Mark, I can't wait. Our very own house. If only it would be finished and we could move in right after we're married." Mark grinned. "One month? That would take some doing." Both turned as with one accord and looked back. "Can't you almost see the wide window and how it will bring that whole view right into the living room?" Mark gestured toward a line of blue hills against whose background maples and red oaks flamed in autumn colors. "Or," he eyed her in mock anxiety, "are you going to be the kind of wife who hangs drapes all over windows?" Anne shook her head, smiling. "Not that window at any rate." She gave a little sigh and relaxed in the seat beside him. "It's almost real, isn't it?" she asked, pointing to where careful lines of brown and red Page 160 leaves had been raked to form the outlines of a house plan. She laughed suddenly and tossed the hair from her eyes, pulling her green coat around her. "Mother and Dad would think us a little goofy if they'd seen us building a house out of leaves as children do." Mark held himself in check, straightening the slight stoop that had lately come to his shoulders. By long practice he had been able to achieve a_ Satisfactory demeanor when Anne's parents were mentioned. But how could he think of them as anything but enemies to their marriage? "We'll build our house of wood, mortar, and bricks, my sweet, like the wise little pig," he said, "and no big, bad wolf can huff and puff it down, as children say. But seriously, Anne, I'm telling Anderson tomorrow that we'll take this lot. And then I'll get Barnhoff at the plans." He flicked on the switch and stepped on the starter. Anne turned to look back again. "It will be just like the leaf-house, won't it?" she asked anxiously. "You remember how it's to be?" "Every last detail, from the big window and the view to the service porch and the clothes reel," he laughed. He took his hat from the seat back, tilting it confidently over his short, black hair. "Now let's go back." HEY rode in the silence of long friendship, back through the streets of Hanford where they'd both been reared. A haze of blue, born THE HOUSE OF LEAVES of many bonfires, hung over the streets. He breathed deeply of the spicy fragrance, remembering so many autumns. Five years, he thought, and silently cursed himself that they had not married before, regardless. He turned and looked at Anne, seeing as if for the first time the wide, gray eyes almost too large for her small face, the auburn hair curled around her ears but smoothed into a page boy at the back of her neck, the tiny mole on her chin. Anne, sweet, he thought, remembering how he'd wanted her every hour of the five years. Maybe this time, there'd be not one thing to stand in the way. Not her father and mother, not Josie. "Did you ever wonder, Anne, what it would have been like if we'd married when we first planned?" he asked suddenly. Anne shook her head. "Who knows? Anyway, we couldn't have. Mother and Dad wouldn't hear of it. I was only nineteen." "And now you're twenty-four and I'm twenty-seven. We'd have had all these years of being married, Anne." Anne turned a distressed face toward him. "I know, Mark." "Of course, the first two years, I had to get the drugstore on a paying basis again after Dad died," he said. "Tt would have made hard sledding if we'd been married then, I realize." "Then Dad broke his leg," Anne said, "and it wouldn't heal. And Mother got sick worrying about it. That was the third year." - "Yes," Mark agreed slowly, and 'his mouth went dry remembering how pinched and white Anne had looked before her mother was up 161 and about again. "Then, after that, Anne, Josie got married and your folks thought they couldn't lose both of you at once...." "But we did begin to plan then, Mark," she interrupted hurriedly. "We were going to live in the flat over the store. We would have, too, if the folks hadn't decided to take that trip West." "Yes, I know," Mark said. He wanted to add, "And you had to go as chauffeur on account of your father's lame foot. And that was the fourth year." But he didn't say it. It would sound bitter, he decided. It was all past, anyway, unless something new arose. For Anne had promised. He straightened suddenly and stopped for the red light, turning his eyes to follow a sudden gesture from Anne. "Look, Mark. In that car. It's Ellen Carson:— er — Barclay, I mean," she corrected. "I can't get used to Ellen and John being married." Mark shrugged. '"'Neither can Ellen and John, I'll wager. How many years do you suppose it was that they were going steady?" Anne shook her head. "Years and years." "I was just a kid, I know," Mark said thoughtfully. He started the car at the green light. "I remember we used to play jokes on them, tacking 'Just Married' signs on John's old Model T. Once we gave them a charivari. I don't like to remember John's face even to this day." Anne frowned. "Boys can be so mean." "And girls," Mark added. "Ellen was such a pretty girl, and some of the others didn't spare her feelings 162 much." He swerved the car to avoid an oncoming one. "And John— we called him Jack then—was the best pitcher Hanford ever had. 'That must have been twenty years ago, at the least." "You have a good memoty." "No. Jack had all of us kids organized into competing teams. | was seven or eight years old and he taught me that slow curve of iis. The one that made him famous." Mark smiled reminiscently. "We had some great teams, I tell you, for just kids." He turned the car into Maple Street. "You know how boys will idolize a young fellow like that. I remember I decided I was going to be just like Jack when I grew up." He broke off. "Funny what life does to people, huh?" "No, not funny," she answered soberly, brushing at bits of leaves on her skirt. She turned quickly toward him. "We will be married this time, Mark. We will be." Mark's smile moved over her face lovingly. "Next month, sweet. And we'll tell your Dad and Mother for sure, as soon as we get you home?" Anne's gray eyes flinched from his for a second, then she put her face against his shoulder. "The very minute," she said, with a show of courage in her voice and face. HEN Mark pulled his car to a stop under the huge maples that guarded the big old house where the Hendersons lived, Josie's car was the first thing that met their eyes. "Oh," Anne said faintly, "oh!" Mark frowned at her worriedly. "You're not going to let your sister scare you out of telling, are you?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Anne straightened decisively. "No, I'm not." She climbed out of the car and went up the walk, her green coat making a splash of color against the maples. She smiled back at him reassutingly, but her lips held a tremble in their softness. Before they reached the porch, they could hear Josie's high, light voice, her laughter. "Feature that!" she was saying as Mark and Anne came in. ""['wo of them, a boy and a girl! Can you imagine?" Josie, a small, determined, blonde woman of about thirty, was sitting on the arm of the old-fashioned settee. She turned laughingly toward them. "I suppose you've heard the news. I was just telling Dad and Mother." Anne motioned Mark to a chair, then went to hang up her coat. She stopped beside her mother's rocking chair to pat her shoulder, smiling down at the spare, helpless-looking woman. She picked up her father's cane and replaced it in reach of his hand, then turned to Josie. "What news?" she asked. Josie's face registered exasperation. "I declare, Anne, sometimes I think you're only half alive. Ellen and John Barclay have adopted two children! Two, mind you. A threeyear-old boy and a two-months-old baby girl. Can you tie that?" "Well, that's fine," Anne replied. "Tm glad. Ellen loves children." Mark spoke up. "Good old Jack. Now he'll have a boy of his own to teach that famous slow curve." Mrs. Henderson shook her head. "Adopting is a terrible responsibility," she said hopelessly. "When they're your own, you have to do the best you can by them. But some THE HOUSE OF LEAVES one else's! I don't see how they dared." She shook her head again and took up a roll of knitting from her lap and inspected it. "Annie, I've dropped a stitch." She held it out. "It's a sweater for the baby. Josie wants me to finish it." Anne gathered it up, pulled back the needle until she could pick up the stitch, then slipped the others back on. "Here you are, Mother," she said. "Where did they get the children from, Josie?" "The Home." Josie rolled her eyes. "They must have gone and applied right away after they were married. It usually takes months and months. And I hear they almost got a refusal at that, they're so old." Dad Henderson spoke up. "Hope _ they use more sense in raising them than the young folks do nowadays. Running loose like wildcats at all hours, and with no respect for their elders, either." "Ellen was a good girl and a good daughter," Mother Henderson said, knitting away. "She'll do right by them just like she did with her parents. John Barclay was dead set on him and Ellen getting married. He'd even promised they could move in with her father and mother but EIlen knew it wouldn't do. Not with that pair." She shook her head wisely. ""I'wo families in one house, you know. And if there're young ones! 'Tsk—tsk!" ARK looked at Anne. She was sitting quietly in a chair by the window. The late afternoon sunshine through the small panes of glass highlighted her hair to burnished copper. They couldn't have found a worse time to tell of their 163 wedding, he thought morosely. The atmosphere was the same as ever, sapping Anne's resolution. He sat rigid, watching her wordlessly. - She must have felt his eyes upon her for she spoke up suddenly. "Mark and I were looking at a building site this afternoon. We're to be married next month, the twentieth." The effect of her announcement was comparable to the sudden stillness that follows a clap of thunder. No one spoke. 'Then, out of the bottomless silence, Josie's words came like a whiplash of lightning. "You intend to move out and leave Dad and Mother alone?" she asked. "You, all they have left?" "We would be quite near," Anne said through white lips. "In that new subdivision over by Oak Grove. And until the house is built, we've rented an apartment only a block away—the Davis Flats." Josie's face was scarlet with anger. "You know it's always been understood that you were to stay with Dad and Mother. You know that," she expostulated. "You and I are all that are left here. I have my family. I can't take care of them." Mother Henderson dropped her knitting and began fumbling for a handkerchief. Dad's face was taking on that look of resigned patience that Mark knew was the hardest of all for Anne to bear. "Couldn't expect her to stay with us, Mother," he said. "We babied her too long, I guess. A town wouldn't have two like Ellen, staying on till she got the old folks buried. No, that'd be unreasonable, I suppose." Anne's eyes, sick, forlorn, and bewildered, flew to Mark's. Mark had (Continued on page 210) A Young Mother Discovers Relief Society Margaret F. Richards President, Stadium Village Branch Relief Society, Emigration Stake (Address delivered at the morning session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1948.) Y dear sisters, it is indeed a thrilling and an inspiring thing for me to meet with you this morning, to see you sisters from all over America gathered together. I believe that I have never felt more humble, more dependent upon the Lord, and I pray that he may help me to find the words to tell you what is in my heart this morning. Had anyone questioned my feelings about the Relief Society a little over a year ago, I would have told him that I had a great deal of respect for the organization and for the women who comprise its membership. I might have mentioned that my mother and my grandmother and my husband's mother had been active workers in the organization for as long as I could remember, and I would have said that someday when my children were grown I, too, intended to become a member of Relief Society. Then I was asked to help with Relief Society work in our newly organized branch, and now I wish that I could convert every young mother in the Church to membership and participation in this God-inspired work, for I believe that there is no organization in the world, be it civic, social, religious, educational, in which a young mother can find the opportunities and the advantages Page 164 which the Relief Society affords. The cultural and educational and social opportunities afforded by the lessons and activities are of inestimable value to the young mother, for we are taught skills and given ideas helpful in rearing our children, keeping our families properly clothed and fed, and making our homes comfortable and _ beautiful. We are introduced to the finest in music and literature and are encouraged to cultivate refinement and culture in our homes. We are given opportunities and responsibilities for leadership which contribute immeasurably to our personal growth and development, and we associate with women whose sweetness of spirit and purity of lives and devotion to duty inspire love and friendship which is unequaled in any fraternal organization that I know of. These opportunities within themselves justify membership in the Relief Society and yet there are other values which to me are of even greater worth. One of the presidents of our Church has said that the only reason for the existence of an auxiliary organization is the obtaining and building of a testimony of the gospel and the Messiahship of Jesus. I cannot remember a time in my own life when I have not believed with all my heart that this gospel was true and I am so grateful to my parents and my teachers for this testimony. 'Today I can stand before you, my dear sisters, and say that I know this gospel is true and that this organization is founded on principles the practice of which will lead every woman who earnestly and prayerfully and humbly seeks for such knowledge to a personal testimony of the gospel. In my opinion, such a testimony can do more to promote personal happiness than anything else in the world. I sincerely believe that it is important, not only to the living of one's own life, but to the successful fulfillment of woman's greatest role of wife and mother. I came to the Relief Society, my dear sisters, after three unsettled years of army life. These were not unhappy years because wherever we went we carried with us our faith in God and our desire to keep his commandments. Yet, although we never doubted the gospel, we could not help catching the feeling of unrest and anxiety for the future that was so prevalent among our associates, and although we always believed very deeply that the gospel was true, we were worried about our future. As our knowledge of the gospel has increased and as our testimonies have been so strengthened, we have come to understand the meaning of the "peace of Christ which passeth understanding." We have found that faith and hope leave no room for doubt and fear, and we know that although we cannot insure a world of peace for our children, if we can just teach them to love the Lord and to desire to obey his commandments they will have an inner security which all of the gold could not buy. HERE is another joy which comes to those who work in the Relief Society, a joy which only those who have tasted it can know and that is the sweetness of service. How better could we do this, my dear sisters, than by engaging in this great work which is devoted to feeding and clothing the hungry and needy, bringing help to the sick and comfort to those who mourn? I believe that if we could just fulfill the true objectives of this organization we could find no task which would be more Christlike; I believe we could find no greater recompense for services rendered, for God himself is waiting to reward us with the joys of heaven, not in some far-distant reaches of eternity, but here on earth, if we will but grasp this opportunity to serve him. My Relief Society membership has helped me, also, to one of the most glorious realizations in my life. Nothing has brought me greater joy than the awareness that I am living the fullness of existence by being a mother. To me motherhood is the highest and holiest service that women can render. No calling could be more glorious than that of nurturing in mind and body and spirit these most precious of God's gifts to us, his children. The cognizance that I have some responsibility for the glorification or the spiritual destruction of my husband and children invokes a sacred dedication to God to live to the best of my ability according to his teachings, and a prayer that he will bless me with the strength and love, the wisdom and understanding, that will enable me to fill to the fullest measure this sacred calling which is mine. A YOUNG MOTHER DISCOVERS RELIEF SOCIETY 165 Hawaii and the Latter-day Saints Rosannah Cannon Irvine Former Member, Relief Society General Board world, and preach the gospel to every creature" (Mark 16:15). Inspired by that sacred injunction, missionaries were sent to carry the "glad tidings" to the natives of the Sandwich Islands. 'Ten young men, who were working in the gold mines of California at the time, were chosen. 'They were not miners for personal gain, but for the benefit of their impoverished Church. 'They were called and set apart by Apostle Charles C. Rich, who was authorized to do so by President Brigham Young. The names of these men are worthy of note: Hiram Clark, president of the group; 'Thomas Whittle, Henry W. Bigler, James Keeler, John Dixon, 'Thomas Morris, William Farrer, James Hawkins, Hiram Blackwell, and George Q. Cannon. December 12, 1850, after a four weeks' tortured and terrifying sea voyage, these missionaries arrived in Honolulu, friendless, homeless, sick, half-starved, and totally exhausted. The sight of the beautiful city and the thanks to their Heavenly Father for at last finding themselves on dry land, made them forget, to some degree, their physical suffering and mental distress. Their first act was characteristic of the pioneer spirit of our early Church members. 'They climbed a nearby mountain and built an altar where they knelt in prayer, giving grateful thanks for their safe deliverance. There is an old adage that, "The Page 166 i said, "Go ye into all the saddest fortune may be turned to beauty by patience and faith." With these men it must have taken superhuman faith and patience to carry on. In beginning their work, these elders, being unable to understand the natives, their language, or customs, devoted their attention to the white people. They soon discovered, however, that the "haole" (white people) were stubbornly hidebound in their own particular religious sects. Protestant missionaries had begun their work there many years before the Latter-day Saint mission was opened and most of those people and their ministers were bitterly antagonistic to our Church. Making no progress with them, half of our delegation became discouraged and left, some for home and some for what they thought might be more fertile fields of labor. Among this last number was President Clark, who before he left, however, baptized a sixteen-year-old boy, the first Hawaiian to become a member of the Church. Those who temained where they had been called to labor were James Keeler, Henry Bigler, James Hawkins, William Farrer, and George Q. Cannon. George QO. Cannon felt strongly that they should remain among the people to whom they had been sent, and yet his mind was in a turmoil. Being obedient to authority was a vital and necessary principle of the Church, that he believed with his whole heart. And Hiram Clark was HAWAII AND THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS his president, and although he did not insist, he wanted the elders to follow him. In his distress, Elder Cannon sought the Lord in prayer, as was his custom. The earnestness of his supplication brought him the definite assurance that he should remain in Hawaii. The four others agreed with him. They also had made it a matter of fasting and prayer. BECAUSE of his determination to do his duty as it had been revealed to him, Elder Cannon was given phenomenal courage and faith, and with it the gift of tongues, the power to understand and love the natives, and a magnetic spirit to attract their love and devotion to himself. Although he was the youngest of the group he soon became their leader, and remained so until the arrival of more elders from the States, with Philip B. Lewis as mission president. 167 These first missionaries, and those who succeeded them for many years afterwards, were real pioneers, and bore many hardships, but they were stalwart and faithful. Among the names of those early missionaries, was that of Joseph F. Smith, a mere boy of sixteen at the time, but with an integrity and faith unsurpassed in Latter-day Saint history. Joseph F. Smith performed four missions in Hawaii, and was dearly beloved by those people. In 1860, a man named Walter M. Gibson, who had recently been baptized into the Church, went to Hawali, representing himself as president of the mission. 'This was when the saints on the islands had been left temporarily to themselves. On account of the Johnston Army trouble, the Utah elders had been called home. Gibson's spirit and policies were so utterly different from the real missionaries that the faithful saints became suspicious PULEHU CHAPEL AND MONUMENT This chapel and monument have been erected on the sacred ground where the first Hawaiian branch of the Church was organized. 168 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 THE L. D. S. HAWAIIAN MISSION IN) GRATEFVL REMEMBRANCE OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CHVRCH IN HAWAII. NEAR THIS SPOT THE FIRST BAPTISM (PALE) WAS PERFORMED AND THE FIRST BRANCH OF THE CHVRCH ORGANIZED IN 1851 BY. GEORGE QO. CANNON AND JAMES KEELER oe Pkt. Ote Ee OR Satie: | neti eel Estas Ladd ents Rideneee: Spae ye eS SE SEES, INSCRIPTION ON THE PULEHU MONUMENT This inscription commemorates the organization of the first Hawaiian branch of the Church. And sent word to President Young. The apostles Ezra T. Benson and Lorenzo Snow, with Elders Joseph F, Smith, William W. Cluff, and AL ma L, Smith, were sent in 1864 to the islands to investigate. Their findings proved that the fears of the natives were well-founded. Conditions were so bad that it was necessary to excommunicate Elder Gibson. He had made many followers among those whose faith in the gospel was not strong. While going from one island to another, the small boat in which Brother Snow and the other elders were traveling, was upset in a turbulent sea. Those who reached the shore safely discovered that Brother Snow was missing. He was finally found under the capsized boat. He was carried to the beach by his anxious companions who worked valiantly to restore life in him, although the doctor had pronounced him dead. For fifteen minutes he had not breathed. But his brethren still clung to hope and faith, Finally, their prayers and efforts were tewarded. To those who saw this miraculous transformation from death to life, it must have been a lasting testimony that it was truly the work of God which Lorenzo Snow had been spared to do. HEN their unpleasant _ task with Mr. Gibson was finished, Elders Snow and Benson returned to Utah, leaving Joseph F. Smith to preside over the mission. With the exception of Brother Snow's brief official work in Hawaii, Joseph F. Smith has been the only active Hawalian missionary who became President of the Church. It has been said that "A singing people is a good people." That is true of the Hawaiians. They are a singing, happy, pleasure-loving people. And their happiness is largely HAWAII AND THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS in giving joy and happiness to others. A mutual feeling of interest and warm affection is characteristic of all missionaries and their converts. That is the spirit of the gospel. It seems to be particularly true of the Hawaiians and the messengers who brought them word of the everlasting gospel. 'These good people were apparently ready and waiting to receive the glad message. In eight months after the arrival of the first missionaries there were 220 converts; and before George Q. Cannon left, three and one half years later, there were 4,000. These figures are all the more astounding when one considers the tremendous handicaps under which the first group labored. They were pioneers, friendless, lacking in experience, ignorant of the language and habits of this foreign 169 people, on an uncharted sea, so to speak. Those who followed them had half their battle won by having the way opened to them, friends to greet them on their arrival, and initiate them into their work, converts already made and waiting to greet their new Latter-day Saint friends. In accepting the gospel, the people accepted the missionaries as well. They took them into their homes, waited on them, shared their meager supply of food, often denying themselves their portion to give to their visitors. The popular native "poi" was very distasteful to the missionaries. In My First Mission, George Q. Cannon wrote: I tasted a teaspoonful of poi, but the smell of it and the calabash in which it was contained was so much like that of a book binder's old, sour paste that when I THE CITY OF HONOLULU, HAWAII This photograph, taken from Aloha Tower, shows, on the right, the famous "Punch Bowl," where, it is believed, the first Latter-day Saint missionaries went to have prayer and dedicate the land, soon after their arrival December 12, 1850. It was here that George Q. Cannon received instructions from the Lord, and was told to preach to the natives of Hawaii. 170 put it in my mouth I gagged.... But in travelling among the people I soon learned that if I did not eat poi I would put them to great inconvenience... And might interfere with my success. I therefore determined to live on their food. And that I might do so, I asked the Lord to make it sweet to me. The next time I tasted it I ate a bowlful. My prayer was answered. I positively liked it. It was sweeter to me than any food I had ever tasted. [N order to have a gathering place for the saints, a large tract of land was purchased by the Church. President Young wrote to King Kamehameha explaining the reason for the project: They will go there as religious teachers; but while this in their calling, they will not confine their labors to spiritual matters only. According to the precepts of our religion, the spiritual and temporal are so intimately blended that we view no salvation, or system of salvation, as being complete which does not provide for the welfare and preservation of the body as well as the spirit. For many years the saints labored on the plantations, but the results were somewhat disappointing. The fact that the missionaries in charge of the project were changed, as their missions ended, after about two years, added to the lack of success. Toward the end of the century, in 1885, the people were disheartened. Meeting was called to consider abandoning the project. President Joseph F, Smith was in the conference. He made a wonderful prophecy. He told the people that they should not despair. He promised them that beauty and fertility would result from their labors if they would be patient and faithful and diligent. To overcome one difficulty, the short-term supervision was abolRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 ished. Brother Samuel E. Woolley was called as permanent manager of the plantation. That proved to be a great advantage. Under his wise leadership and supervision, the prophecy of President Smith was fulfilled. The place has become beautiful and has prospered surprisingly. Besides becoming a financial asset to the Church, it has provided work and a comfortable living for many members. In 1900, on the fiftieth anniversary of the opening of the mission, President George Q. Cannon again visited Hawaii. 'There were some members still living who had known him half a century before, and there were many others who had heard of his remarkable work. He was greeted with wonderful demonstrations of love and respect. In the Hawaiian mission, the auxiliary Organizations are in a favorable condition. The Relief Society, organized in 1875, is sustaining the ideals and standards of the original plan. Women in this endeavor have been as active and efficient as in every other phase of life. The Hawaiian sisters are to be commended for their exquisite needlework. Their lovely quilts, on which the work is perfect, are especially notable. For these, there is a constant market at excellent prices. Our Hawaiian sisters have adopted American ways in their homes, giving attention to sanitation, modern comfort and convenience. Besides the hundreds of men missionaries, there have been from 1851 to 1941, two hundred twenty-six sisters from the mainland who have gone as missionaries to the islands. Thus is the mighty work of the Lord carried on by his faithful people. Clean-up and Beautification Program James M. Kirkham Secretary, Church Beautification Committee {VERY ward and branch of the Latter-day Saint Church will be asked to take part this year in a clean-up and beautification program. The plan will include all chapels, buildings, grounds, and any vacant property the Church may own. The program will be so planned that it will encourage all members to beautify their homes and surroundings. A letter has been sent out by the Presiding Bishopric suggesting that the building supervisor in each stake, working under the direction of the stake presidency, will have charge of and direct the campaign in his respective stake. Ward bishoprics and branch presidencies will organize and call to their aid the local priesthood and auxiliary groups to help put over the program, without the expenditure of Church funds. It will be the purpose to thoroughly clean every nook and corner; and clearing of every closet will be part of the plan. Removing every fire hazard from and around our buildings will be emphasized. No extensive landscaping plans will be stressed at this time, but we will be asked to plant lawns and flowers. An appeal will be made for better sanitary conditions to help safeguard the health of our people. This program is not a new idea. Our pioneers, one hundred years ago, encouraged the members then to beautify and make their homes good places in which to live. President Brigham Young said: "Study order and cleanliness—adorn your city and neighborhood—make your home lovely— make it neat, nice, and clean. Set out flowers around the doors." The objective of the campaign will be to have clean places in which to worship and to make our homes better places in which to live. >... The fulness of the earth is yours.... Yea, and the herb, and the good things which cometh of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards.... All things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart.... To strengthen the body and to enliven the soul (D. & C. 59:16-19). Page 17] Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, March 3, and March 15, 1889 "For THE Ricuyts OF THE Women OF ZION anp THE Ricuyts OF THE Women OF Arr Nations" knowledge of all other household employments; and knitting Was an indispensable Teisite j 8 girl's qualifications, It was the Work that could always be Telied Upon in case aj] other work &ave out. In fact it became Proverbial, that nO young woman Should Marry until she had a Pillowcase full of Stockings of her own knitting, and usually of her own spinning, Bed and table linen of one's own Work were also "sential. SpinPolish all brass work by the same means, every stain disappearing as if by Magic,' Were charity, the importance of woman's Position in the home and in Society, her in. Fluence for 800d and her just rights aS a citizen jn Teference to laws and &0vernment. Ishop Wallace of North Ogden made an elegant and carnest appeal in behalf of woman's Privileges, and the audience listened with rapt attention, The Pennsylvania Senate has Passed a bil] authorizing the 4Ppointment of women aS physicians in insane asylums Where women are confined. The British BOvernment of $500 |) any 'e WO noted American women were among more than two thousand delegates, _ representing fifty-two nations, at the International Congress of Mental Health, held in London last August. They were Anna W. M. Wolf, family counselor, and Mrs. George Van Trum Burgess, vice-president of the Child Study Association of America. Mrs. Burgess commented on the "sense of interdependence of sciences upon each other, and of nations and individual human beings." If only everyone in the world could understand the true importance of that interdependence, surely we would have peace instead of war! Ta meeting in Washington, October 29, called by the American General Federation of Women's Clubs, leaders of national youth organizations and producers of radio and movie programs and publishers of comic strips, discussed radio, television, and movie programs and comic books for youth. It was agreed that the makers should go much further than merely "observing the negative code—no nudity, no glamorizing of alcoholic beverages, no contempt of law, family, or respected institutions, no torture, no detailed methods of youth crimes, no obscene language." A common aim was agreed upon to give youth the best in entertainWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ment. Programs "should produce vibrant mental and social health." Parents, teachers, and children should be taught discrimination, and local distribution of available good entertainment should be assured. MPS. J. L. BLAIR BUCK, president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, on a recent trip to Japan, saw the Emperor open the Japanese Diet (legislative body), and through an interpreter she talked to five Japanese women members of the Diet. MBS. LEONARD A. ROBBINS, ninety-three, of Salina, Utah, is believed to be the longest-married wife in the state. She has been wed for seventy-two years. N the autumn graduation of medical students from the University of Utah, a young woman received. The highest scholastic rating. Gwen Gleave, of Annabella, Sevier County, Utah, was honor student in a class of twenty-six men and four women. ELEN C. PAYNE, of Ogden, Utah, is one of three women in America to hold executive positions in the United States Forest Service. She is an assistant in the department of education. She helps to educate the public regarding the needs and methods of conservation and fire prevention. Page 173 Oo EDITORIAL cD VOL. 36 MARCH 1949 NO. 3 —a Full Measure. Running Over T the 107th birthday of Relief Society on March 17, all Relief Society members may view with justifiable pride and satisfaction the accomplishments of Relief Society during the past year. Above the level of a regular year's activity rises one accomplishment which will tower with greater significance with the passing of the decades. As in every yeat there were countless acts of sisterly love and devotion tendered the less fortunate and sorrowing. Long and arduous hours were spent in making clothing and processing food for saints Tesiding in countries where living conditions continue to be meager. That charity which never faileth, the mainspring of the society, was fully made manifest. And, added to this service, a matvelous achievement was completed, one which the sisters of Relief Society have desired since the early days—to raise money for a Relief Society Building. This dream has, during the past year, seen fulfillment.. The magnitude of the task which the sisters had set for themselves seemed at times well-nigh impos sible of accomplishment. But, blessed with the approval of the First Presidency in this undertaking, Relief Society leaders throughout the world invoked the spirit of our Heavenly Father to enter into the hearts of the sisters for this great cause. Page 174 The results have shown that these prayers have been answered in a marvelous way. The lonely widow, the young mother, the mature wom an, the sister sitting in a thatched hut, the one huddling around a scant fire, the member dwelling in the warm climes of flowers, and the one living in the barren, icy wasteJands—all joined hearts and hands to fulfill this dream of their beloved Relief Society. In addition to the half million dollars asked of them. Nearly sixty additional thousand have been given by those whose hearts were inspired with love and over flowing with generosity to their cherished Relief Society. And, on this anniversary, the general board expresses its deep gratitude and appreciation to all members of Relief Society throughout the world. For yout diligence and faithfulness you have been abundantly blessed and, inasmuch as obedience is given to the instructions of the Priesthood which presides over Relief Society, and Relief Society members give unselfishly of themselves, rich blessings will continue to be poured out upon the sisters. And the women of the Church will find eternal joy. Such is the prayer of Sister Spafford and the general board from hearts filled with titude for the goodness and accomplishments of Relief Society members during the past year. M. C. S. TO THE FIELD Vo She Importance of the Visiting Seachers Message OUR attention has been called to the fact that some visiting teachers are under the impression that since a report as to the delivery of the message in the homes is no longer required it is not necessary to present the message itself in the homes. Stake and ward presidents are requested to correct this impression and to emphasize the fact to the visiting teachers that the delivery of the message in the homes is a vital part of the visiting teaching program and its importance has in no way diminished even though a monthly report of this activity is not now required. Organizations and Reorganizations of Mission and Stake Relief Societies Since the last report, printed in the December 1947 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, to and including December 1948. ORGANIZATIONS Date of Appointment Missions Formerly Part of Appointed President East Central States Mabel A. Price Mission Navajo-Zuni Mission Central Atlantic States Southwest Indian October 6, 1947 Name changed Dec. 8, 1948 Stakes American Falls Blackfoot and West Pocatello Parowan Sacramento Stake Northern California Louise H. Woolley February 25, 1948 Cedar San Joaquin Mission South Carolina Southern States Alice Voyles October 19, 1947 Mission REORGANIZATIONS ment Australian Florence T. Rees Blanche K. Richmond April 10, 1947 Eastern States Japanese New Zealand Alberta O. Doxey (Husband in charge) Luana P. Halverson Georgia R. Livingston Irene P. Clissold Virginia D. Young September 27, 1948 September 4, 1948 June 24, 1948 Page 175 Afton P. Parry Venice Ricks Missions June 7, 1948 April 25, 1948 Released President Appointed President Date of Appoint- 176 Missions ( Continued ) Northwestern States Pacific Missions Palestine-Synian Samoan South African Southern States Tongan Stakes Bear River Big Cottonwoe Big Horn Blaine Blaine Bonneville Cache Cottonwood Denver Duchesne East Millcreek East Millcreek Emigration Humboldt Humboldt Humboldt Idaho Falls Juab Lethbridge Los Angeles Lost River Lyman Mesa Moapa North Sevier North Weber Portland Provo Rigby San Juan Santaquin-Tintic Snowflake Smithfield South Sevier Spokane Star Valley Union Zion Park Released President Lenora K. Bringhurst (Husband in charge) (Reopened) Thurza Amelia T. Adams Ida G. Sharp Fifie F. Meeks Martha Elnora G Huntsman Maude O. Cook Alta J. Vance Grace E. Allphin Eva Pond Eva Adamson Aleine M. Young Annie J. Carlton Ella Mae Parker LaPrele Schumann Ella Mae Parker Loveda Petersen Chioe N. Bailey Ida S. Wood Julia T. LeCheminant Laura L. Christensen Sarah J. Slagowski (Died Oct. 27> 1948) H. Lila Newell (Died Sept. 24» 1947) Mae L. Larson Bernice Mickelsen Melva O. Stratford Gretta P. Ann W. Nielsen Ruth H. Redd Jennie Bylund Lydia S. Peterson Arvilla J. Hyer Julia H. Ecker Inez C. Burgenet REL! Appointed President Georgina F. Richards Elva T. Cowley Berta W. Piranian Francella C. Hale Jean D. Wright Rula W. Choules Evelyn H. Dunn Ruby W. Nielsen Helen W. Anderson Amelia Eva Adamson Fawn N. Dilworth Florence Cowan Inez B. Tinge y Florence N. Singleton Della H. Teeter Faye E. Merkley Carrie M. Howick Muriel R. Mallory Winniefred Manwaning LaPrele Schumann Ella Mae Parker Jenet S. Clyde Venna H. Croft Lua L. Stephenson Gertrude F. Jensen Dorothy H. Koet Elva J. Beal Opal W. Broadbent Zelma Miller O. Groesbeck Edna Bennion ellie B. Jensen Nan A. Lindsay Hilda Bringhurst H. Robertson EF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Date of Appointment a December 11, 1947 January 22, 194 October 8, 1947 June 29, 1948 October 8, 1948 April 8, 1948 July 18, 1948 August 29, 1948 June 14, 1948 May 9, 1948 May 23> 1948 October 17, 1948 Februaty 29> 1948 June 13, 1948 June 39 194 October 17> 1948 August 15) 1948 May 2, 1948 November 14, 1948 December 3}, 1947 October 19, November 30, August 1, 1948 February 4, 1948 December 21, 1947 November 17, 1948 September 28, 1947 August 29, 1948 April 25, 1948 October 9, 1948 December 5, 1948 August 25» August 15» February 22> September 19, 1948 September 15» 1947 December 12, 194 11947 November 39, 1947 October 12, 1947 Special Short Story Yssue Planned for April THE April 1949 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four authors being represented, each with an excellent story. Watch for these stories in Aptil: "The Boy There," by Christie Lund Coles "Thunderstorm," by Mary Ek Knowles "Through the Darkness," Hazel K. Todd "And all Eternity," Carol Read Flake SS i} Y WV-ttin g Marvin Jones Everyone looked up to watch white streamers Run along the thin, blue wedge of sky— There was no need for me to look so far Beyond the city's windowed walls, for I Saw heaven on the face of one who sent A song white-winging through the firmament.... Longing Susa Gould Walker March winds still blow and toss the kites on high. His kite is dusty, lying idly by; The pussy willows grow; the birds still nest; He doesn't go a-hunting with the rest. The dandelions dance in April rains; He bound my heart to his with pale green chains. I hope there are pussy willows, kites, and dandelions Up in heaven. NOTES TO THE FIELD 177 We Are So By Sylvia Probst Young fe EAD Closin xy WI ich, » 18 quite Oolish, as | dismily covered that Orning when | went it in the cae Oe 2 Ge cal] ey Were very natura] and Nephew and his wife from Indiana Nendly, no Sophisticated at all, ¢ Young man College Professor, Tom Hadfj himself SWered 'ad accepted an offer to teach 3 the door, He was a tall, thin man, Our UMIVErsity fo the summer, and with eye Slasses, and hair that Was M1ily was delighted. Definitely slippin ot exactly goog M so happy to have someone looking, Clean-looking Would fit him me tlle piace for the summer," she better, and int, lligent, he kin of told me, "T fever have liked closing man one ould have POInted out as tt up, but 7 didn't like Tenting to 4 Professor Tangers. Course, you could aj. "Come In," he sa; Warmly, «7 —' call Tan 4 stranger, | haven't believe you the reighbor Aunt seen him since he Was 4 high-schoo] mily told Us about, Mrs Crandalj> wy and I don't know anything at "Wes? Meant to ryp €r ever all about his Wife. But] hope you} SINCE You cam >" I told call on them, Kate. Salt Lake will DE ney Ten't enough Ours in the day" Mg a good neigh "How NOW that. This Or like you." morning I didn't have Class, but They wi] Probably haye plenty here Ig Correcting Papers. Lucil}e " of things ¢ and Cnough inter he turneg to t Woman sitting op ests of their Own not te eed a mid. 1¢ divan, "this is Mrs Crandall," le-aged neighbor, ] thought, But ucille Aadfield, led brightly Promised Emily that I would call "Tt wag SO Nice of You to come. Sit On thier, ®y, and I have lived side down Mrs Crandall] d visit with, -Y side for almost thir Years, and ys" during these Years we haya Come to It seemed to y € she Tadiated 2€ good neighbors, although NOhem ¢ arm, and | like stan tly Ictly Intimate friends. € wa ttractiy, ], in r really tended to + Nin on early thirties Tj d, one who be milv's tenants Tight after their ay longed to hat class f women Teoval; lint T SO busy with One ferred to "types", n beautiful hing or 'nother that 7 ant find tne distinctively stnking, Ta l, too, "T OPPortunity to do s0 UCT al. Sae an abundance of dar brows Mast two weok after they. Had come hair, which she wore jn a latge bun clt rather Suilty because | had at the Nape of her eck. Her skin MWAYS prided Mvself on being friendwas Sun-tanned and flawless, and oot] thes that they Were her eves, deep brown, froin the Fast ither Worned me. "Tt's a velv mornin rac] always ASSOCiated People fron, think we? Page 179 § isn't it? 7 ke your city, WE ARE SO BUSY We've never been here before, I mean I haven't. Tom was here once when he was a child." "Things have changed a great deal since then," I told her. "I think our biggest changes have come since the " Wal. We got started on the war then. Mr. Hadfield had been in the navy and since my Bob had been in the navy, too, we had a common interest. From the war we went to economics. It was the subject nearest his heart since he taught it. Mrs. Hadfield added her share to the conversation in a way which indicated that she, also, was educated. They asked me all about the city. Especially they were interested in Temple Square. "Your Tabernacle organ," Mrs. Hadfield asked, "would there be any chance to hear it? I play the organ a little myself, so I'm partial to organ music." I was very happy to tell her about the organ recital every day at noon. "Tll tell you what," I volunteered, "if you like, I'll go with you someday. Maybe I can show you a few things that you might not see if you went alone." "Would you? Oh, I'd love that. I'll be looking forward to it." Both of them invited me to come again soon and I assured them that I would. CROSSING the yard to our house, I decided that I would try to find a day next week to go to the organ recital with Lucille Hadfield, but I didn't. Very suddenly Margey and Brad decided to get married in July instead of waiting until September. There were so many things 179 for me to attend to, as there always are for a bride's mother no matter how simple the wedding may be 'The days slipped by. I saw my neighbor quite often during the afternoons sitting in Emily's hammock in the back yard. Always she was just sitting, not reading, not sewing, just sitting. And always I was surprised, she had impressed me as being so full of energy that I couldn't associate idleness with her. A few times I stopped by the fence and talked to her, and she seemed so interested in whatever I had to say. I apologized for not having had a chance to go to town with her. She was very understanding. "I know all about weddings," she told me. "We had three in the family last summer. Actually we were a little tired of them before it was all over." "T should think so. Well, it's over now and I won't be so busy. Why don't we plan to go to the recital this Wednesday, or maybe you've already gone." "No, I haven't. I'll be looking forward to Wednesday, then." "Good. We can go to lunch after and make a day of it, if you'd | Na But on Tuesday night Dan's sister Beth came in from St. George. It was always nice to have Beth and since she came so seldom I did like to spend the time with her while she was here. Much as I hated to disappoint Lucille Hadfield, I just couldn't go. "Of course, I understand perfectly," she answered, when I called her. "Don't worry about me, I can go just anytime." "T'm surprised Lucille hasn't become discouraged and gone by her- 180 self," I told Beth as | hung up the phone. "She probably has," Beth replied. "I wouldn't be concerned about it. She probably goes to town every day, with nothing at all to do. J don't imagine that she is too lonesome." "T guess not, but I am going to spend an afternoon in town with her before she leaves to go home since I suggested it." It was my turn to entertain my club on the first Thursday in August and I decided to ask Lucille Hadfield to come. Although I had invited her over repeatedly a special invitation would make her know that I was sincere in my efforts to be friendly. "This is Kate Crandall," I said when she answered the phone. "Oh, hello," her voice was sunny. "It's nice to hear from you. "Did you have a nice visit with your sister-in-law?" "Yes, I did. You see I was Teared in the country, too, and she brings me up to date on rural things." "I'm rural-minded, too. Most of the time I find the city rather dull." "Well, it can be. What I called for is to ask you to come to my club on Thursday afternoon if you will. It's here at my house. There are about a dozen of us. It isn't a card club, more of an art club. Sometimes we sew or have a book report. This time we are having a lesson on stencil painting. Have you ever done any?" "No-no, I haven't," "Well, it's simple to learn. I'm going to town tomorrow, and I'll get the materials you'll need for you if you'd like me to." There was a long pause then. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 When she finally answered I was prepared for her excuse. "I'm so. Sorry, Mrs. Crandall." Her voice sounded strained and so different from what it usually did. "But I just remembered that I'm meeting 'Tom tomorrow afternoon. He doesn't have a class and we're going to town." It was a very lame excuse; quite obviously she didn't want to come. I hung up the phone, feeling like I had been slapped. It sounded so unlike her. Maybe, after all, she wasn't interested in being anything but a casual acquaintance. Maybe all of her friendliness was only a charming front. Still, she 'had always shown so much interest in whatever I had talked to her about, and had seemed so enthusiastic when I had suggested taking her to an organ recital.... Maybe, after all, I should just skip the whole thing. She had never been in my house, and now she had made it plain that she didn't care to come to my club, So I forgot about it. THE August days hurried by, with autumn sneaking quietly toward us. I had seen very little of Lucille since I had called her. Sometimes. From my kitchen window, I would see her sitting out in the hammock. One time I waved to her, but she didn't wave back, so she must not have seen me. I was working out in the back one evening after dinner when Mr. Hadfield drove into his yard. | could see that he was alone and that seemed rather odd because she was always with him. Then I remembered that I hadn't seen her for days. (Continued on page 214) Take Care of Your Books Ezra J. Poulsen N the American home, a stock of ood books, accumulated and carefully selected through the years, should occupy an important and honored place. No other possessions reflect culture better than books. Besides, every member of the family, from the youngest child to the oldest adult, must turn constantly to the wisdom of the printed page in order to keep growing. But the problem of keeping books always properly displayed and conveniently accessible is a difficult one. Cluttered from one room to the other, piled in closets, and stacked on sagging, open shelves, they often detract from the appearance of the home. "I feel like getting rid of them all," many a housewife has complained during the seasonal cleaning periods. Yet she loves books and wouldn't consider parting with them. A little careful planning and the application of a few basic principles can do much to improve the home library. In the first place, it ls wise to recognize that not all books are equally attractive or of equal worth, and therefore not entitled to the same degree of display. Next, that open shelves do not protect choice books, and even the gayest volumes soon lose their luster after being wiped over a number of times and having fine particles of dirt ground into their covers. Then, there is also the matter of frequency of use, and of subject classification. We will consider the matter of reference works first. If they are housed on comparatively low shelves, near a well-lighted study table, their use will be greatly increased. It is all too easy to decide not to look up a word or a topic if one has to stand on a chair or hunt through a closet, or bring a light from another room, before he can get a glimpse of the desired page. Since such books are usually expensive, it is advisable to keep them behind glass, where they can be easily seen without being exposed unnecessarily to dust or careless handling. THEN, there are the standard sets of various kinds: literature, science, history, and kindred subjects. These often make up the bulk of a library, as well as representing the largest investment in money. They merit a combination of good display and careful preservation. Consequently, the high shelves, easily seen, are a good place for those not being currently read or studied. A variety of material may be considered in a third classification: light fiction, both adult and juvenile; old school and college books, which, though in various stages of dilapidation, are of great sentimental value. Then, there are books which are rightfully regarded as heirlooms, the family Bible, gift books from long ago, books won for merit in various activities, and other volumes, which for some reason, have become identified with the family history. In addition, there is always an accumulation of pamphlets and papers, challenging the owner to keep them, yet creating a constant problem. Page 18] BOOKS BY THE FIREPLACE ARE CONVENIENT AND ATTRACTIVE Too often the volumes in this group get jumbled together so that they detract from the appearance of the home. This condition can quickly be improved by working over this collection, disposing of all waste material, and classifying and filing in a suitable cabinet or file case all pamphlets and papers which are worthy of saving. Such a cabinet is easily made by a handy man, or it can be purchased for a few dollars. 'Then, using paste, shears, transparent tape, and binding cloth, repair all volumes which have become frayed or tor. This can be developed into an interesting hobby. Finally, important volumes should be rebound, to ensure their preservation. After these things have been done, give this group of books a wellchosen place on the shelves, and they will add greatly to the general tone of the home library. A fourth group of books offers special incentive for display. 'These books are the new ones in their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 bright jackets, and books which are constantly referred to, such as the standard works of the Church in their prim embossings. 'They challenge attention at once, and since they are currently being read anyway, they look well between bookends, or in a special place of honor on the shelves, within easy reach at all times. They may grace a table or a desk, subject, however, to frequent change. This part of the collection might be considered the priming spark of interest. Cared for along these lines, the home library becomes not merely a supply of books, but a vital, growing entity of book charm, always an important part of the home decoration, always a storehouse of knowledge and inspiration, becoming richer with the passing years. KEEP THE NEWEST BOOKS HANDY TAKE CARE OF YOUR BOOKS ) iB ae THE BREAKFRONT IS A NATURAL DEPOSITORY FOR THE BEST VOLUMES ¢ J Have To Need Grace Zenor Pratt 1 do not need a portrait of your face.... Each loved, remembered feature I can trace With tender care.... An art of memory. I do not need a record of your voice; To me, each cadence is as clear as some sweet melody Which, half-forgotten, springs to life again. I have no need for pictures to reveal the way You smile; your charm, the things you do and say.... I hold you close, so close against my heart— But sometimes I have need to speak your name.... I wait your coming when the hour grows late— And earth seems lonely as some distant star. I have no need for portraits of you, dear; I feel your presence; you are always near. I speak your name... And hear your answer, too, Remembering the long, long hours with you. How to Make a Pleated Skirt Lena DuPaix Pl*4TED skirts have been a favorite of children of all ages for many years and will undoubtedly continue to be so because they are in keeping with the jauntiness that gitls love. In making an all-around, knife-pleated skirt, the pleats may range in width from " to 1 inch, or even larger. If the materia] is equal to three times the hip measurement of 40-inch material, Place the material on the ironing board. Start at a seam and measure a pleat with the marker as in figure 2. Be sure the fold of the pleat is exactly on the lengthwise thread of the material. Pin pleat at either end and through center as figure 3 shows, is stretched tight from end to end so the pleats will lie quite flat. Then, beginning at t pleat made, measure out 1 inch, pin pleat at either end and through IRONING BOARD FIG. 3 SHOWING POSITION OF PINS IN PLEATS ON BOARD MATERIAL FIG. 4 SHOWING PLEATS PINNED ON FIG. 1 FIG. 2 IRONING BOARD READY FOR PRESSING MARKED FoR USE SHOWING HOW TO PLACE IN: PL EATING SKIRT MARKER ON MATERIAL FIG. 5 COMPLETED SKIRT FIG. 6 SHOWING PROCEEDURE FOR MAKING SKIRT WITH LESS MATERIAL UNDER Lap 4+. 1" PLEAT Page 184 HOW To MAKE A PLEATED SKIRT The pleats are then Pressed with a da sha T material, then a dam cess until al] Materia] js Pleated If you wish to have a box pleat in the Center front, knife Pleats on ther side of box pleat. To pleat a L Oard Marker m the width of pleat, by > Sut fold under only ¥%; © materia] js pleated? TemMove from the boarg db in place size of Waistband. Caroline Eyring Miner Y children até Not mine: | Want to realize the truth of this "ontradictory Provoking Statement More fy] SUCCOr me in cr, time Passes, Jt bears a Philosoph Y children are ¢ es and rathe; Oncerned, Y that wil] € pangs of birth - Not mine, these children for whose Care Ody and peace of mind?" 0, in truth, they are Not mine, nd I woul Put fro | POSS€ssive cry 5 Tthe moth h Course my ¢ dren ar, b of my 0od and flesh of Y flesh, at shel] Old When Spirit has departed, at least ungi] nature Claims €ven th ma © spirit of my child, t my table today sit three guests, nly yesterday | called them mine Today ep warm, keep Properly nourished, ke hospitable ings, €P clean, so that €m, which J must hey are With me; © guests wil] ro) "asant and the unpleasant, | will not dictate th in learning of this lang. They are mY guests, and So be lonely and I shall Weep, Perhaps, but | shall know, them again, twe 8 cloths an Press again. |. Minute or two before Temoving the Pins from ither eng of materia] edge of 5 It, and Pull bas Nounsh and cherish th body, Or it is mine Go May at an I call them God's, when their Visit is €nded, and Pressing cloth and center Tow of ins; he materia] emain on the Oard for g Repeat this pro. 0 fit the ime claim his Own again, They are in my Cate, Possessing bodies | Made for th ¥ Nave gone Home, if J How to Make an Embroidery Floss Case (Handy Hint for the Sewing Bag) Afton N. Porter y Nei are few things more annoying or more time-consuming than that tangled ball of embroidery cotton. Here is a very simple solution to the "knotty" problem. Take a piece of lightweight, white material—voile or thin muslin is very suitable—16% inches long and twice as wide as you wish the case to be (24 inches is a good width). Make a % inch hem on each end. Join sides A and B and turn right side out. Make rows of stitching from C to D about % inches apart across the entire width of the case. Cut skeins of 6-ply embroidery cotton as usual, and with a safety pin lace them through these stitched spaces. You will have one of the neatest and handiest articles for your sewing bag you have ever owned. Not only does it keep your thread clean, but it permits you to draw out one or several threads at a time without tangling the entire skein. Lee eee eee ee we we ee ee eee eee eet Le ee ee we we ee ee OS OO Le ete tee ee ee ee ee et sas mm eee ae ee ee mw eee Laem ewe ew ee eK ee 6 a aaa es caste ae "easter New awe sels ant aeo a d pe eee wm we ee bea a> ee ee we we ew ee we ee en Lee ee em owe ew ee = oe ee P) be a ee ew ee ee ees I 5 ay be cane Ste ae a ee ee ee ee en GR a aa Se 9 5 5559 3 L_ mama moe em eee = we ee eee nea eo IVA? Y A Stitching in rows 2" apart Page 186 162" 16%" That's My Towel! Ivie H. Jones pees wear out faster by washing than by wiping. No one wants to wipe on a towel someone else has used, so into the wash it goes. When towels are both colorful and plentiful, we have a different color for each member of the family. Sometimes they are just white towels with the stripes of the colors. As each child came into our home, we added a different color. Children like the feeling of ownership, and I'm sure you will find, as we did, that they will soon take delight in hanging up their own towels and in keeping them clean. I can just hear our tiny tots, pointing to the wet clothes on the line on washday, saying: "That's my towel. When will it be dry?" And I seldom put them away after washday, for willing hands were anxiously waiting to put their own towels away and hurry back to take the stacks for Mother, Father, Grandpa, or guest. There have been times when we could not buy the particular color we — so we labeled the towels and the racks, being sure that each member of the family, as well as guests, had his own towel. It doesn't take long to write the names in large letters and with a coarse boilproof silkaline thread, chain stitch over the letters using a particular color of thread for each member of the family and for the guest. Name tags for labeling the towel racks can be purchased at most any book and stationery store or they can be made of a strip of used tin can, bending both edges over a knife blade to allow the insertion of the name card. Try labeling your towels, and it will surprise you how few towels you will have in the wash each week and how long they will wear. [ LT Ut Ut Father Wolhar Gobo But Art Teacher C. Cameron Johns You taught me the clean, sweet taste Of poetry on the tongue. The slim inquiring fingers of music... And, even though you are gone, My years are still scented With the fragrance Of your laughter. Page 187 Antiques to Know and Cherish Lorene Pearson Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson HERE is much in the history of New England that approximates the history of Utah. Both regions were settled by farmers, craftsmen, and small tradesmen who came to their respective wildernesses with the idea of staying and of multiplying, that the convictions for which they suffered exile might be established solidly on a spot of earth that would forever thereafter bear the stamp of their peculiar faith. Both brought with them, or made upon arrival, furniture and household utensils that reminded them of their former homes. Ametican ingenuity, nurtured in this new land, improved upon these articles or was responsible for new inventions. Many of these objects, those so perilously brought on the first journeys, and those lovingly developed, have become dear to us; they are the things that survive all manner of other changes in out lives. Beginning with the hearth—the first consideration in any home—we have first of all the open fireplace. In our own day the stove in various guises has become more economical. But perhaps the most charming and useful heating unit of all was the cross between the two—the Franklin stove, invented by Benjamin Franklin and used for generations. The idea behind the Franklin stove was one of retaining the wasted heat of the open hearth while at the same time having the open flame. It was a cast-iron affair capable of being Page 188 moved from room to room, and of being vented in the old fireplace. So successful were these stoves that quantities of the original were produced and reproductions and variations have been manufactured down to this day. Lucky is the person who owns one or has a friend who owns one and will permit the toasting of shins at such a comfortable hearth. Next in importance to the pioneer and to the homemaker today comes the table. Fortunate is the person whose family has owned and cherished any of the Early American tables. One of the most charming, in the original and in reproduction, is the butterfly dropleaf type with canted leg, derived possibly from English pieces of the sixteenth or seventeenth century, but in the form we know it, distinctly American. It has always an oblong fixed top supported by four turned legs slanting outward with stretchers near the base, and with two wings which swing out to support two drop leaves. Now that we have a fire and a place at which to eat, we can think next of a place on which to sit, that is, to sit comfortably. At first it was enough to have benches and stools and straight-back chairs, but soon American ingenuity came into play, and the rocker was invented. Several types developed, so thoroughly did the idea take our forefathers by storm, but none was more popular than the so-called Boston rocker. HOW MANY OF THESE ANTIQUES CAN YOU IDENTIFY? (Answers on page 191) Page 189 190 The making of it was not confined to the area whose name it carried; eventually, every state in the Union had factories; and England, France, Holland, Sweden, and Germany all produced copies. Since 1840, many have been exported to all parts of the world. The rocking chair seems to have fallen somewhat into disuse in these days of overstuffed furniture, but there can be a niche for one in any household for use in mending socks, reading a good book, or nursing an infant, and in a home where quilt-making is still a joy, there can be no more satisfactory arrangement. HEN came the need for a clock to tick away the hours, to add more exactness than the sun could give. Grandfather clocks, of course, were wonderful, but required space, then as now. More practical, more truly American, less expensive, was the banjo clock to hang upon the wall. It is completely functional, and therefore beautiful as well; inside the banjo every part is as carefully planned as the genius of Simon Willard could make it; outside, the shape is lovely and appropriate for fine carving and gilding. It might almost be said that there has never been an ugly banjo clock, original or reproduction. An article not so much used these days when cooking is not done over the open flames in the fireplace, but one none the less intriguing when owned and used, is the trivet. It is a small, three-legged iron stand with a top large enough to balance a kettle and with a handle to shift it here and there among the live coals for maximum or minimum heat as the housewife may desire. These are still RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 rather widely used in England to boil a pot of water. Many small, useful articles were produced in the early years of settlement and later; these have become collectors' items. Among the glass objects for decoration and use were castors, which consisted of bottles for oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and other daily table needs nested together on a handled stand that could be carried to and from the table with minimum effort. Another little article was the penny bank, which took many beautiful forms; some may be found in tin, in wood, in glass, in pottery. It might be well to think of them as more than decorative in these days, as well as in those other days when thrift was emphasized. There were, of course, many purely decorative pieces made, particularly as the Victorian era approached. There were the quaint hands terminated at the wrist, made of glass or metal or china, attractively sculptured to catch the imagination. Another Victorian bibelot was made by placing wax flowers or small statuettes under a beautiful glass dome; it was called a glass bell. Many creations of the hours of feminine leisure in those times of fantastic redundancy found shelter under the bell. One of the most beautiful of all the small objects made in recent and ancient times was the glass paperweight. All of us are familiar with the solid half-ball of clear glass, but how many are aware of the variety of exquisite designs imprisoned within the antique ones! The production of these was a resurgence of an old art developed by the Egyptians in the twelfth century, B. C. ANTIQUES TO KNOW AND CHERISH About the time of Cleopatra the Romans revived the idea; factories later sprang up all over Europe; it is not strange to see that the Amenican craftsman was attracted to this difficult but rewarding art form. The making of paperweights spans a long period in our country; the Millville rose, one of the most attractive, was made as late as 1912. Fine paperweights were never inexpensive, and 1 as they have become collectors' items, they are one of the more costly treasures to add to one's home. For those who cannot afford to collect, or do not wish to collect, there is joy in becoming acquainted with these and other antiques and in seeing them in museums or the homes of others, for they are part of our national heritage, our way of life. IDENTIFICATION OF ANTIQUES PICTURED ON Page 189 ~. Glass paper weight Victonan Hand Victorian glass bell for wax flowers, statuettes, horsehair wreaths, etc. Boston Rocker Butterfly dropleaf table (canted leg) N ed 6. Trivet made of wrought iron 7. Penny Bank 8. Castor 9. Banjo Clock 10. Franklin Stove Cotton Storm Leone E. McCune The market must have dropped today, The price can't be so high, Go fetch my dusty sewing kit, For cotton's raining from the sky. Overtone Dorothy J. Roberts ' So faint a sound to pierce my lethargy, Only an overtone escaping from your word, Some undefinable in minox key, Beyond all meter, rather felt than heard. Small as a seed in my heart's darkened loam, Its roots have quickened in my hungering Till its stock and pedicel are phlox in bloom, More swift, more beautiful, than sudden spring. Imagination and stir desire in any homemaker, especially one with dren, ts. Larsen makes implements Out o Paper folded onal. The Tesulting Tolled into 4 funnel for holding the decorating icing. The tip may be bluebird jn sprin Naturally, she doesn't want to djvulge all her Secrets, Page 192 Ge, decorating the top. that they will be dry and firm by the time the cake is iced. She builds each little flower on a bottle cap, making one petal at a time. Fully opened roses, orange blossoms, and other flowers made full-faced, are completed with their tiny gold stamens. She always uses a homemade paper tube for forming birds. Ese figures are attached to the iced cake with icing which holds them as it sets. You may think Mrs. Larsen must be a trained expert and that what Ben Hains "MERRY-GO-ROUND CAKE" CAKES DECORATED AND DESIGNED AT HOME 193 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Benny Degn SANDRA LARSEN, LOGAN, UTAH, AND HER FIRST BIRTHDAY CAKE she can do has no relationship to what you can accomplish, but she is just a housewife like you and me who has taught herself every step of the way by the trial and error method, with only a talent for design and a great joy in creation behind her. Many women have these traits and are unaware of them. Why not get the few inexpensive pastry tubes and implements which you can buy at the five-and-dime, cut out a few paper triangles, take these basic recipes, and try your hand at the young fry's birthday cake? You may find not only joy for yourself and your children, but you may branch out, as_ several women I know have, making cakes for fees and winning prizes at the state fairs. One caution Mrs. Larsen asked me to give you is this: do keep your colors pastel. A drop or two of coloring in a batch of icing for figures is sufficient. Also, she says that she paints the eyes and beaks of the birds and tints the edges of fancy petals with a toothpick dipped in cake coloring after the figures are dry. Another tip, vegetable shortening, being white, is better to use than butter in icings which are to be tinted. BUTTER SPONGE CAKE NNER eggs, beat one at a time in batter. Cup shortening, butter and vegetable shortening half and half. Cup sugar, cream in shortening, preferably by electric mixer. Egg yolks, add one at a time and beat lightly at slower rate. 2 cups sifted cake flour, 2 tsp. Baking powder, sifted together. % tsp. Salt. 1 cup milk. Add alternately sifted dry ingredients and milk, beginning with flour and ending with flour. Beat slowly three minutes. Add flavoring, banana, tropical fruit, vanilla, or your own blend of any of these. Pour into well-greased 10-inch cake pans, 1-inch deep, lined with greased waxed paper. Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees) for 20 minutes or until firm. ICING 1 Ib. Powdered sugar canned milk, sufficient to make a creamy consistency. Add a little at a time while beating. 1 heaping tbsp. Vegetable shortening Beat at a slow rate for three minutes. Add a few grains of salt and flavor, add coloring if desired.; For figures and flowers, make the above recipe, or a portion of it, very stiff with more powdered sugar and beat smooth. A. Birthdays and Wrdding _—_—_ Remember the Women of Your Family With a Subscription to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Use this Coupon Enclosed please find $1.50 for which please send the Relief Society Magazine for one year, beginning with.......................... Ee(Street and number) penne(City and State) a (Ward or Branch) (Stake or Mission)..(Name of person sending gift subscription) Shall we send a gift card to the recipient of this subscription?..................... CAKES DECORATED AND DESIGNED AT HOME to: 195 scosouesueeseeesssesvessaanssiesisieesieisiissamanseneseaseeseeseeeeee (Name) Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 3 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married down the aisle, eyeing her basket David Niels against the wishes of her fam. Suspiciously, ily, is left a Widow with four children to. Support and care for. Courageously, she Joanna stood at their table. She takes inventory of her resources—a home, smiled Waveringly - "7 vee ed guess Poorly furnished and not paid for, and you girls get mighty tired of just make Boston-baked beans for Sale, An. ABue other neighbor, Abigail Smith, offers to.: help with ideas and transportation, her lift the lid of the basket, OANNA smiled at the elevator beans, opened it, Jet the fragrance girl. "My husband told me that steam Past their noses. She took freight accounts were on the outa Ioaf of brown bread, cut a slice ___ That's right." 'The sul slammed tion of the beans on the Paper plates, the door, They shot up. "Say, She swallowed. What you got in that basket..." "T'd like tight well to have you smells so good?" try this. My name and my tele. "Home-baked bread, BostonPhone number are on the underside baked beans. ['m aimin' to take 6¢ the plates. If you would like me orders...." to deliver an order of beans to your But the girl was opening the doors house, or even here to your office, with a great clatter and did not hear. Just phone me, | have home-made She walked down the long row of The office gitls looked at her with tables, each with its typewriter. The bright smiles that Promised nothing, gitls who brought their lunches "Thanks. We'll call you if we need Were grouped at a table against the anything." wall, €y unwrapped wax-paper = There was such emptiness in the fingers. Their hair lay sleekly to turned to go away. "Your mothers their heads in deep finger waves. Now, if you're not married, might "Y watched Joanna's Progress like an evening off, Boston-baked JOANNA and home-made bread would be a grand combination." "Wouldn't it, though?" The same flatness, yet when she turned to go down the stairway to the next floor, she was rewarded by a small shriek of delight, and looked back in time to see the small dark girl's eyes roll heavenward as she brought another spoonful to her mouth. T was a little after one when Joanna brought the empty basket to the car. She counted. There was one loaf of bread left and four jars of beans. "Now can we go home, Mommy?" Sally was tired and hungry. "Soon, darling." Joanna climbed in the front seat with Abigail, who was all breathless eagerness. "How did it go, this time? Did you get any orders?" Joanna shook her head. Said they would phone." Abigail backed noisily out of the parking. "Well, it was a right good try, Joanna. Don't you feel bad if it don't work. You did your part." "But they've got to call. There's a need. Working wives and mothers get mighty tired at times. I should think they'd like to have a hot meal brought right to their "They house.... Oh, Abigail, if you'll just help me get started.... Drive me around.... I'll see you don't lose by it." Abigail turned her lovely, silverframed face. "Help? You couldn't stop me from helpin'. I never had such a nervous morning. I wouldn't a missed it.". They passed the church on their way home. Women were wending 'their way up the wide steps. "The 197 bazaar!" Abigail gasped. "I was supposed to bring a hot dish." Joanna sat up straight. "Wait! Stop, Abigail." "What on earth for?" "Tll leave the rest of the beans and the bread. Ask them to make a sign, telling people I've.... I've gone into business." Joanna found herself bone-weary when she carried the empty basket into her kitchen. She saw that Penny and David had eaten half a pie and nothing else for their lunch. She gave Michael and Sally bread and milk, bathed their tired, dirty hands and faces and tucked them in for a nap. She went back to the kitchen, ate a bowl of bread and milk, and washed the dishes and sorted laundry. She put the clothes through the antiquated machine that was kept in the old pantry just off the kitchen. She found herself watching the phone, willing it to ring. It was mute. It did not ring the next day nor the next. Friday night, when the children were in bed, Joanna sat with her mending at the kitchen table. It hadn't taken long for the family to get down to rock bottom. There was only a little coal left in the shed. Young David's feet were almost on the ground. The cupboards were alarmingly bare. Joanna stared at the sack of beans that still stood beside the kitchen door by the range. She thought wearily, when the idea came I was sure it was an answer.... 1 thought a miracle had happened—that I was being shown a way.... Imagination, I guess. She put her head down on the table, rocked her forehead on her arms, fear and misery a nausea within her. 198 THE phone rang. Joanna lifted her head and stared at it a moment. Then she rose listlessly and went to it. "Hello?" "Mrs. Niels?" "Wes." "Mrs. Niels, this is Betty Sharp from the freight account office. Remember? You came up here last Tuesday." Joanna felt the thunder of her heart through her whole body. "Yes, I remember." "Well, the girls told me to call you back and give you this order. I forgot about it completely until tonight. Let me see...." The girl was evidently sorting lists. "Altogether there will be ten loaves of the white bread, twenty-one of the Boston-brown bread, and twentyfive quarts of the beans, oh, and Mrs. Niels?" "Yes." Joanna fought to keep the tears from her voice. "Could you make a birthday cake for me.... A special one».... I.... I want some window dressing for a young man I know...." "I.... Td love to make a cake for you," Joanna said. "Mrs. Niels? You're crying. Something wrong?" "No. No. Everything is right beautiful." Still with the tears pouring down her cheeks, Joanna slipped David's ray sweater over her shoulders and ran to tell Abigail. Abigail had been brushing her hair, preparing for the night. But when Joanna told her, she braided it swiftly and pinned it in a roll. Tears slipped down her plump cheeks. "Joanna! Isn't it simply wonderful? Oh, I'm that happy, I Is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 could just cry. Twenty loaves of brown bread!' She rose. "Well, we'd best get started." Her husband, reading the paper by the round dining-room table, raised his head. He put down the paper. "'Twont last.... Just a fad. Don't count on it none." Abigail flicked her shawl at him. "Fiddledeedee, Henry! It's going over just fine. You watch." He shook his graying head; his eyes surveyed them sadly over his steel-rimmed glasses. "You watch. Folks start out with a bang, but it never amounts to nothin'; pretty soon they'fe down with the rest of us, content to let well enough alone." "I won't give up," Joanna cried. "I won't. I'll never leave life alone until it gives me what I want for my children!" "You'll learn," he said sadly. Joanna and Abigail ran across the lawn that separated their homes, into the warm, cheerful kitchen. Abigail took off her shawl. "I declare, you are the neatest person. Your house is always pin-clean." Joanna ran to the drawer that held pencil and paper. "Thirty loaves at fifteen cents a loaf.... That's four-fifty." "But you have to consider the flour and milk...." Abigail pulled her chair closer to Joanna's. "|,. Course you could use water.... Lots o' women do." "No," said Joanna. "That's why I'm charging so much, because the ingredients are just right.... Like I'd make for my own." EVENTEEN dollars! Even when | Joanna held the money in her hands she couldn't believe it. She JOANNA had orders for another Saturday.... And could she make a casserole dish of chicken and trimmings for an anniversary supper? Joanna drifted down to the car where Abigail waited. "I can pay you for the gas and the oil." _ "Better keep it until next week. You never can tell. But I forgot, that young man down the street brought over another sack of beans." "I'm not at all surprised," said Joanna softly. The following Sunday was fast day. Joanna pressed the navy blue and mended David's trousers again and took her children to Sunday School. She watched Penny walking ahead of her, holding Sally's hand. Penny's arms and legs were thinner, and there was a new quietness about her, something protective in the way she listened to Sally's prattling. It had been hardest of all on Penny. I'm so busy I can't talk to her the way Big David did, Joanna thought, or tease her out of her quietness, keep her from brooding —so much to do, and so little time. They tiptoed inside the chapel doors. In the little hallway two men were taking offerings and tithes. Joanna opened her purse and took a dollar out of it. She put it and two dimes and a fifty-cent piece on the table. "Joanna Niels," she said. "Thank you," the man gave her the receipt. They held fast-day meeting almost directly after Sunday School. Joanna sat on one of the benches at the back. Michael and Sally sat on either side of her, holding their heads proudly. Penny smoothed her 199 starched, blue cotton dress, her thin fingers ran lightly over the patched place in the skirt. Joanna wondered why it should hurt her so to have Penny shabbily dressed. Fiercely, she hungered to give her daughter beauty of every kind. Penny lifted her face and smiled at her mother. Her eyes were darkly brown, like Big David's had been; her face was a delicate triangle, the rich dark hair hung around it like a cloud. "Aren't the flowers beautiful, angel-painted?" The fast-day services began. Humbly, Joanna and her little brood bowed their heads for the prayer and the sacrament. Wide-eyed they watched the babies brought forward and blessed, the older children confirmed. Then came the time for testimonies. Joanna kept her eyes on her clasped hands, while one after another rose, and told of their faith and their blessings. Perspiration sprang to the palms of her hands and her heart pounded furiously. She tried to push away the urging within her. She had never spoken before more than three people at once in her life. A testimony like mine, she thought, is such a small thing. Surely it won't be needed. Yet suddenly she was on her feet, supporting her shaking body by her two hands leaning hard on the varnished bench before her. ".... My dear brothers and sisters...." She swallowed, but her throat would not open.... "My dear brothers and sisters...." She was aware of the bishop smiling his encouragement, of Mrs. Anderson in a new blue hat, of Abigail's stunned face. ",... IT came today to bear my (Continued on page 214) Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Vera Y. Allen PIONEER STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), STAKE AND WARD OFFICERS WHO DIRECTED THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING FUND PROJECT Front row, seated, left to right, Pioneer Stake officers: First Counselor Julia Barg; President Vera Y. Allen; Secretary-Treasurer Evelyn C. Phelps; Second Counselor Hulda Ashby. Back row, standing, left to right: Annie Theyne, stake board member from the Twenty-fifth Ward who stood in place of Ruth Sutton, ward Relief Society president; Winona Sessions, President, Twenty-sixth Ward Relief Society; Cora Newbold, Thirtysecond Ward; Gertrude Bischoff, Cannon Ward; Thelma Drecksel, Edison Ward; Ardella Davey, Jordan Park Ward; Birdie Gibson, Poplar Grove Ward; Lavell Smith, Riverview Ward. Stake Secretary Evelyn C. Phelps reports the successful efforts of the women of this stake in collecting the Building Fund against adverse conditions: "They knew that the call to raise the funds was truly a worthwhile endeavor. This thought, along with the knowledge that each Relief Society sister of her own free will could have a part in the project, no matter how large or how small, that she might be that one part that would complete the project.... Thereby fulfilling the desire of the organization to remain independent and stand on its own feet, so to speak, spurred the members of the society to 'put their shoulders to the wheel.'... They are remembering the blessings which they know come from honest sacrifice and they are not forgetting the part the Priesthood, as well as non-members, played in this endeavor." Page 200 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 201 Photograph submitted by Marie E. DeSpain SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), SOUTHGATE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: Second Counselor Amelia Dellenback; President Cula Magnusson; First Counselor Ada Jacobson. These sisters have devotedly conducted the activities of their ward to successful completion of many fine projects, including an exceptionally high percentage of Magazine subscriptions (185% for 1947), with Marie E. DeSpain as Magazine representative. The ward officers shown in the photograph are all mothers of missionaries now in the field. President Magnusson has two sons now on missions, one in Canada and the other in Tahiti. Rose B. Astle is president of South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Marion D. Clegg WASATCH STAKE (UTAH), HEBER CITY THIRD WARD PAYS TRIBUTE TO VISITING TEACHERS, December 15, 1948 Seated, left to right: Bessie Hicken; Violet Rasband; Elizabeth Wootton; Sarah Carroll; Margaret Callister., Standing, left to right: Sarah Kendall; Sadie Clegg; Maybell Sizemore; Mae Calderwood; La Preale Winterrose; Margaret Pierce; Agnes Wallace; Theola Swain. Marion D. Clegg, Second Counselor, in Wasatch Stake Relief Society, reports an unusual record in visiting teaching: ""The Heber Third Ward Relief Society honored their visiting teachers and one of their past presidents, Elizabeth Wootton, who has served as a visiting teacher for sixty years, at a party December isth. For the past thirty years this ward has maintained the 100 per cent visiting teaching record established by Sister Wootton when she served as counselor and later as president in the 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 ward for ten years. Sister Wootton is now eighty-two years old, and was released with well-earned tributes. Her teaching has taken her into almost every home in the ward. The women in the photograph all completed a 100 per cent visiting teaching record for 1948." Violet Olpin is president of Wasatch Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by May W. Andrus NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE, IDAHO FALLS FOURTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS AND OFFICERS WHO HAVE MAINTAINED A 100 PER CENT VISITING TEACHING RECORD FOR FORTY YEARS Officers in the photograph are: Secretary Helen Hale, standing at the left in the third row; standing in the fourth row, beginning fifth from the left: teacher's topic leader, Veda Howard; First Counselor in the stake Relief Society presidency and visiting teacher Annie Nielsen; Second Counselor in the ward, Pearl Jordan; President Hazel Wright; First Counselor Ruth Hart. May W. Andrus, President, North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports an unusual record for her stake in the visiting teaching program: "The percentage of districts visited in 1946 was 82 per cent; in 1947 it was g2 per cent; and in 1948 all the districts in the stake were visited each month, excepting two districts for one month— which happened between organizations in one of the wards. Our aim this yeat—1949— is to improve our methods of teaching and to increase the attendance record at the topic and report meetings, along with a visit each month to each district." Left to right: Second Counselor Eula Ruth Angel; President Mamie Johnson; First Counselor Viola Snow. Secretary Buela Riley was absent when this photograph was taken. Under the direction of this presidency, a large portion of the new Roanoke building fund was raised by Relief Society Photograph submitted by Thomas C. Bell organizations throughout the district. CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISMabel A. Price is president of the CenSION, VIRGINIA WEST DISTRICT tral Atlantic States Mission Relief SoRELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ciety. Photograph submitted by Margaret Gibson NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, WILLOWS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY NEW ORGANIZATION SPONSORS SUCCESSFUL PROJECTS Front row, left to right: President Margaret Gibson; First Counselor Una Jensen; Second Counselor Martha Nelson; Secretary Sylpha Hofmann. Back row, left to right: Violet Jensen, missionary; Elsa Graham. President Gibson reports that immediately following the organization of this small branch the sisters began their work: "With the help of the Magazine and some of our fine books (Essentials of Church History, etc.), we did the best we could. For our work meeting we started a Relief Society hope chest. Each of us bought materials and made articles to gradually fill our chest and ready it for the bazaar. Then to our very good fortune Sister Violet Jensen, the missionary, was sent here. She really knew Relief Society work and taught us and guided us. She also made many lovely things for our hope chest. With the help of Sister Graham's husband, who acted as auctioneer, we made $155 at our bazaar. Last spring, in three and a half months, we quilted five uilts.": NORTHERN STATES MISSION, SHEBOYGAN (WISCONSIN) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY'S FIRST QUILT Seated, front: Barbara J. Hilderbrand, Secretary-Treasurer. Standing, left to right: Rosalind J. Henneman, President; Betty L. Morrell, Second Counselor; Betty B. Ruge, First Counselor. Elna P. Haymond, President, Northern States Mission Relief Society, reports that this small branch is one of the bright spots of the mission. They have conducted a full program and have met all requests made of them. They are thrilled with the fact that though they are far removed from any other branch or group they still can call themselves Relief Society sisters. The members are all young mothers who rejoice in having the spirit of the gospel in their homes. Visitors are encouraged to attend the group meetings and participate in the work of Relief Society and in its spiritual uplift and inspiraPhotograph submitted by Elna P. Haymond fon. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 7 203 Mary S. Ellsworth is president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-MARCH 1949 Photograph submitted by Gladys Johnson NORTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH), SALINA FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Left to right: Millie Martin (1945- ); Amanda Murphy (1942-45); Dey Rasmussen (1932-1942); Sarah Ann Stevens (1932), released because of illness; Roxanna Crane (1912-1932). Bernice Mickelsen is president of North Sevier Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Lula P. Child WESTERN STATES MISSION, ALBUQUERQUE (NEW MEXICO) BRANCH. EXHIBIT OF RELIEF SOCIETY SEWING WHICH WON SEVERAL PRIZES AT THE NEW MEXICO STATE FAIR Left to right: Ruby Surface; Carolyn Surface; Second Counselor Myrtle Davis; President Carrie A. Laney; Sister Hastings; First Counselor Mina Bowman. 'The Albuquerque Branch Relief Society entered 14 articles in the New Mexico State Fair and won eleven prizes: 5 first prizes, 3 second prizes, and 3 third prizes. The articles made in the sewing classes were first displayed in the window of an Albuquerque department store, then exhibited at the bazaar, and finally entered in the State Fair exhibits. Lula P. Child is president of Western States Mission Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 205 Photograph submitted by Marie Moody DESERET STAKE (UTAH), DESERET WARD, SEVEN RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Seven of the twelve presidents who have served since the organization of the ward in 1877, appear in the photograph. Front row, left to right: Grace Warnick (1917-1918); Mary A. Western (1918- 1929); Ellen Cropper (1935-1938). Back row, left to right: Myrtle B. Western (1946- ); Mollie Dewsnup (1938- 1944); Zada Dewsnup (1944-1946; Moneta Baker (1934-1935). Marie T. Moody is president of Deseret Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Venice O. Larsen WASHINGTON STAKE, GREENBELT BRANCH (MARYLAND) RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1948 Left to right: Bernele Hale; Madge Mitchell; Joan Blatter; President Venice O. Larsen; JaVenta Lewis; Irma Stuart; Second Counselor Nelda Anderson. Gwendolyn T. Gwynn is president of Washington Stake Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Photograph submitted by Beatrice Thomson NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, ANCHORAGE (ALASKA) BRANCH ASSEMBLED FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE November 14, 1948 Front row, left to right: Bonnie Miller; Alta S. Easton; Helen Dunyon; First Counselor Beatrice Thomson, President Lucille Eberhart; Second Counselor Virginia Albrecht; Secretary-Treasurer Florence Nayer; Maree McDonald; Madeline Skousen. Second row, left to right: Sue Williams; LaPreal Sands; Doris Bisel; Shani Nixon; Gerry Meyers; LaVaun Taylor. Third row, left to right: Barbara Stephens; Clara Easton, Cora McCarrey; Mary Ellen Rasmussen; Lois Reider; Lena Morrison; Edna Easton; Theresa L. Reid. Sister Thomson expresses appreciation for Relief Society in a recent letter from this northern outpost: "It is such a wonderful feeling to be able to participate in Relief Society work up here in Anchorage. It makes all of the sisters here feel much closer to each other." Georgina F. Richards is president of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society. Srs Photograph submitted by Alice De Mordaunt BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO), BLACKFOOT THIRD WARD BAZAAR November 12, 1948 Left to right: Second Counselor Christine Larson; President Celia E. Merrell; Estella Jones and Rose James, work meeting leaders. This bazaar was outstanding for the unusually large number of beautiful quilts cot Many of the patterns used were unique in design and required much fine andwork. Alice DeMordaunt is president of Blackfoot Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 207 oy We Elva Swensen YELLOWSTONE STAKE DISPLAY WELFAR Photograph submitted by per cent visitin Tecords for Many years, Romrell; First Counselor Pear] Photograph submitted by Tlene Webb WEST UTAH STAKE, RIVERGROVE WARD HANDWORK EXHIBITS ool SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR Standing, left to right: First Counselor Lela Roper; tary-Treasurer Fer, Briggs: § € building is completed, 208 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Photograph submitted by Mary Stewart AUSTRALIAN MISSION, BANKSTOWN BRANCH BAZAAR October 30, 1948 Left to tight: Second Counselor Helen C., Harker; President Mary Stewart; Secretary-Treasurer Marjorie Livingston; First Counselor Eva Orrock. The Photograph shows only and beautifully arranged booths of this bazaar. Other dis S, sweets, cakes, flowers, vegetables, and refreshm other treats were served. Blanche K. Richmond is president of the on Relief Society. Led a 3" dye es, b Es Photograph submitted by Anona C, Heaps ST. JOHNS STAKE (ARIZONA), ST. JOHNS WARD BAZAAR Spring 1948 Left to right: Second Counselor Verniece Wilkins; President Etta Heaps; First Counselor Ellen Davis; Secretary-Treasurer Ethel Mangum. Unusually beautiful crochet and embroidery work was displayed and sold at this bazaar, as well as aprons, children's clothing, and large, well-made quilts. Other activities of this ward included an entertainment called "Around the World Trip" in which a different country was represented in the different homes in the ward and food characteristic of the country was served. The sisters also held pie and ice cream sales and sold box lunches at dances. Anona C. Heaps is president of St. Johns Stake Relief Society. The Spirit of the Gospel, the Soul of Relief Society (Continued from page 150) the kingdom of God. President George Albert Smith is God's chosen prophet on earth today. Relief Society was organized according to the law of heaven. It has a work to do in the building of God's kingdom on earth. May we, the sisters of Relief Society today, so live that we may do our part nobly and well is my earnest prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Miracle Gene Romolo They who see the ebon robe of night Change to tenuous draperies of gray, And eastern hill-crests come alive with light To strew gold petals of another day, Behold a miracle. Spring Candlelight Thelma Ireland Crocuses peak through the snow Unharmed by winter's sting. They look like flaming candles Lighted by an early spring. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 209 210 SELECT MUSIC NOW FOR YOUR Faster Program Ladies' Three Part Selections 9033 An Easter Message—Hambleony.20 5064 Christ Went Up Into the Hills —Hageman 16 2803 Christ the Lord Is Risen Today—Worthing _W. Ww 10 89081 Easter Dawn—Flagler........16 103 Easter Parade—Berlin _......20 9023 Empty Tomb—Hamblen......20 6077 Hail the King—Patterson...... Ma 7394 King of Kings—Simper _....12 Our Christ Has Risen—Connor.20 6387 Open the Gates of the Temple—Knapp.20 9646 There Is a Green Hill Far Away—Gounod ww 18 EASTER CANTATAS, SSA Memories of Easter Morn—Lorenz...75 Thorn Crowned King—Holton....... 75 Easter Angels—Fearis -... W... 75 Eastertide—Protheroe Wo... 75 We specialize in music for L. D. S. Choral groups of all types. Write for information. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We also have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home and school. Representatives for Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, records, and musicians supplies. FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY = Day Woo & SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 The House of Leaves (Continued from page 163) to remind himself that neither Dad nor Mother Henderson was aged or bedridden, that they were financially able to pay for the work they had come to think of as Anne's duty. If they should get sick, he and Anne would be close by—as also would be Josie, he thought savagely. ~Coldly, he told himself, it was now or never. If they beat Anne down this time, she would never again have the courage to try while Dad and Mother lived. He could go on adding ten, fifteen, perhaps even twenty years to the five already gone by. Years of going back to lonely nights at Mrs. Nelson's where he'd roomed since his parents' death, of restaurant food ordered from a card and eaten alone; bleak, uneventful years, waiting, waiting and never artiving.. He smiled wryly. Jacob served seven years for Rachel, then seven more. But not he. He got up, put his chair carefully back into place, addressing himself to Anne. "Let me know, Anne, what you decide. Anderson has another buyer for that lot. He's holding it for me until tomorrow morning." Then, he turned to the others. "This whole town has been brought up on the Ellen and John tradition. Ever since I can remember, I've heard what a fine daughter she has proved herself, how loyal to her parents she has been, refusing to leave them and all that. And John! He's been an example of patience and steadfast love toward the girl of his choice. Well, mine is a different idea. Ellen didn't love John enough. If she had, she wouldn't have been THE HOUSE OF LEAVES willing to sacrifice him to her parents as she did." Mark's lips felt dry. He moistened them with the tip of his tongue before continuing. "T think she was just a plain coward," he said. The silence in the room was almost audible. Josie's face was an angry ted, her parents' both held shocked bewilderment. He dare not look at Anne. All the coldness of a surgeon's knife was in his voice as he went on. "Now, I'm asking what kind of parents would expect or accept such a sacrifice? The animals, the birds, do better. They prepare their young for life, then turn them loose." OSIE laughed, an unpleasant sound. She stood up, and smoothed down her skirt decisively. "He's insulted you, Anne. Are you letting him insult Dad and Mother, too?" Mark turned his head to look at Anne, then. The sunlight had gone from the window. Her face looked drawn and dull against the fading light, her eyes were turned away. Probably, he'd gone too far, probably she'd never forgive him, he thought. But he had to finish. It was important that he finish. "John Barclay was my boyhood hero. I wanted to be just like him. But that was then, not now. Now, I want to have a wife and home while we're young enough for us to enjoy each other. I want us to have our own children, not wait until we're so old we have to adopt other people's." He buttoned his coat and reached for his hat, smoothing down his short, black hair. '"You've had your chance at life," he said plead- 211 yo a F ( t SEARS Sais Money Back" You can't lose at Sears! In the first place all Sears merchandise is first quality... Tested in our laboratory, specified at the factory, then field tested under actual ''in-use"' conditions. Nothing human is infallible. So, just on the long chance that some time something might slip through, we say to you in all sincerity and good faith: "If anything you ever get from Sears doesn't make good—SEARS SSE SEARS GARDEN SUCCESS Salt Lake City Dial 5-6651 PARK FREE Is Assured with P.-W.'s Mountain Grown SEEDS, SHRUBS, TREES THE LARGEST AND MOST COMPLETE - ASSORTMENT IN THE WEST Get Free Catalog Ready in Early February It's brimful of just the information desired by every Planter. A post card request will bring it to you. PORTER-WALTON CO. P. O. BOX 1619 SALT LAKE CITY 11, UTAH 212 The NEW MODEL-21 WURLITZER ORGAN AVAILABLE NOW The prestige of the WURLITZER ORGAN will be greatly enhanced by the addition of this new model to the Wurlitzer line. @ FAST ACTION @ TRUE CHURCH TONE @ AMERICAN GUILD OF ORGANISTS SPECIFICATIONS @ SLIGHT ADDITIONAL COST @®@eeeoeeeeee8e8 'For Complete Information Write r ) MR. SELDON N. HEAPS SUMMERHAYS MUSIC (0. © 17 W. First So. Salt Lake City, Ut. @ @©e2eeeee8 00 0 =——-0c> 0 CO COC DOC Oot DOC DO The Same Personal Service to All Regardless of Lost The cost is a matter of your own desire. -— ++ "Know Your Utahns" Listen to Golden Memories every Sunday 9:45 a. M. On Station KDYL. And read about them in Sunday Deseret News. Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 No. Main Salt Lake City RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 ingly, "'all three of you. Let Anne and me have ours." He opened the door and turned back to look at Anne. She seemed not to have stirred. "Let me know, Anne," he said, and went out, off the porch and down the walk, hearing Josie's laugh, loud and confident. Well, he'd done what he could, he'd said what he had to. And now—? He stood for a moment looking about him in a dazed fashion. Josie's high, light voice was going on intermittently, but he could distinguish no words. He kicked aimlessly at the fallen leaves and laughed wryly, remembering the house of leaves that he and Anne had built. And who, he asked himself, had been the big, bad wolf who'd puffed and huffed, and huffed and puffed until the house was down before ever it was built. He'd insulted Anne, called her a coward who'd rather sacrifice him than stand up against her family. Worse, he'd insulted her parents. And that would be harder for Anne to forgive than the other. He moved to the curb, fingering the key in his pocket absently. Was it only an hour ago that he and Anne were planning so confidently? Already, the picture of what it meant was fading into the oblivion of lost things—Anne, marriage, children— but at first, only the two of them alone. A gust of wind struck him. He shivered. Cold for October, he thought. Summer was ended, as all bright things end. He looked back toward the house, at the cold, final stare of the windows, the closed door; gave a furious kick at his front tire and climbed into the car. THE HOUSE OF LEAVES He ground on the starter, waiting for the hum of the motor. His hand was on the brake when he heard her voice, "Mark, Mark," followed by a commanding, "Anne, come back here." Josie was on the porch and Anne was flying down the walk, her auburn hair tumbling in the wind. "Wait, Mark, wait!" He opened the door and _ she slipped quickly in beside him. "Drive on," she said, "back to our leaf house, Mark, won't you?" They parked the car and walked through the dusk to where the leaf house lay, its trim lines somewhat windblown, but still intact. "It isn't really blown away. See?" he gestured. "I was afraid." Anne shook her head, her lips trembling. Mark reached penitent arms toward her. "Can you forgive me, Anne?" She drew away from him, self-accusingly. "But you were right. I am a coward, I've always been one. Afraid of Josie, afraid of not measuring up to Ellen Carson, afraid of hurting Mother and Dad.... But not afraid of hurting you, Mark. Oh, no, you were patient, you'd stand for it." She pulled away sharply. "I should think you'd hate me." He looked down at the small face with its wide, gray eyes, and tenderly pushed back a lock of bright hair from her forehead. "Hate you, sweet?" he asked wonderingly. "How could I'? Suddenly, she was in his arms again, and he was speaking words in her ear. He had said them many times in the five years, but tonight there was a new assurance in them, a new conviction. 'This time, he 213 [SRB SBRE ESB EESBRBRRRERBRBEREBBSEUS Professional are Social Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah TERE RBRRERT RETR HERB eee exulted, this time it will be, knowing, at last, beyond all certainty that there were things—blessed things which might be even better for the waiting. Ie —_ Compromise (Continued from page 154) moment she watched, confused and uncertain, and then her mother's words came back to her, "They don't have the same ideologies—we've got to make them like us—we've got to go halfway." Connie walked thoughtfully down the hall. At the door she paused and looked back at the gaily lighted room. Quietly she opened the door and ran out into the spring night where her friends were waiting for her. 214 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Joanna (Continued from page 199) testimony...." The words slipped out, crippled and blurred by the paralysis of her tongue and throat ".... DT know.... That God lives.... And that he hears and answers prayers. I was alone and afraid.... And he comforted me. I had no place to tun...." Suddenly the fear went away in the terrible need to explain the miracle. "He brought a way of making a living to my very door... If I...." She stood straight and tall. "If I were to serve him all the days of my life, I could not repay in any way all that he has done for me and my family." She looked into the upturned faces. "T had to tell you. I know that he lives and that his kindness is beyond our understanding." She sat down. David and Sally stared at her through round, awed eyes, but Penny put Michael on the other side of her and sat close against her mother. She put her head on. Joanna's shoulder. "You were so beautiful, Mommy. So beautiful." Joanna caught Penny's hand in her own, her heart too full for speech. (To be continued) We Are So Busy (Continued from page 180) He greeted me in his friendly way, and I asked him about his wife. A shadow crossed his face and he looked suddenly tired and old. "Lucille went home on Monday," he said. "Her mother had an emergency operation and isn't expected to live. I hated to have her go alone. School will be out Friday. I could have gone with her then. But of course she had to go. Going in a plane isn't difficult and someone will meet her, but it is the first trip she's taken alone since— you see Lucille is blind." "Blind?" I gasped in astonishment. "But—but, I didn't dream it," I stumbled. "She doesn't look blind. She doesn't seem blind." "No, you can't tell it by her eyes, and she has a lot of pride and tries to be independent. But sometimes she gets so lonesome and it's difficult. She led such an active life before. I didn't dare ask him what had happened and he didn't say. How long I sat in the gathering darkness miserable and dumbfounded I don't know. I could understand now why she used to sit without doing anything day after day; why she hadn't come to club to learn stencil painting; why she hadn't waved to me. How many lonely hours I might have saved her if I had known, but it was too late now she had gone home. If I had just found time to have gone to the organ recital with her I would have known, but we are always so busy, so very, very busy, Auerbach's Makes It Easy For You To Knit Yourself A Dress Knitting is an easy and fascinating hobby. Auerbach's gives FREE knitting lessons with all yarn purchased. E Minerva Yarns: a MONTEREY, all wool knubby-yarn Se eee..80c ounce VELVEEN, 71% wool, 29% rayon, shiny rayon thread.......80¢ ounce @ Cost of handknit dress pictured..$21 Minerva pattern book containing a marvelous collection of dress patCe ae.25¢ Art NEEDLEWORK AUERBACH'S FOURTH FLOOR Auerbach's, State and Broadway Salt Lake City, Utah book..25c. Please send me..................-. Ounces of Minerva Velveen or Monterey Yarn. Color Name Add reSS............2. Ceeeceeeeeceee eee cee eeeeeeeenee (COG occccococceccccoccoecercecnece State oe eee Please send me.... Copies of the Minerva Pattern Sutherland, Pasadena, n specially 1 was thrilled to have my first adult story Before My marriage 1 taught sc ol and 4 missionary ™ California My life at P esent is so woven around @ esticity t little time for anything else family } quite 4 at the typewriter." Mrs. Young lives 0 Midvale, Utah eyd just like to mention that J think the poem "January Snow" (1949 Willes W angsgaard is d and appreciated M beautiful poem my story Society Magazine couragement necessary to c this "harmless pastime." _—Carol Read Flake, Boise, Idaho Page 2\6 of the ladies express theit thoughts on the i the Magazine conWe can give out a Relief Society 'we wouldn't be able to pass out a tract. The material published 1 5 to attract women 0 Mormonism. May the Lord continue to bless you in your fforts _-Elder }- William Grant, Yes, I'm married, haPPy> too. Yet Sistet erpetual obstacle to tranquility, ©8- he Relief Soing head of the family, d ethical that and browse through it, and then consign the mainder to he for reading, hoary old system runs smoothly in_ ov home except the day The Relief Soct Magazine arrives. LS terday Per Januaty nu r arrived She received the mail, place all except the R. S. M. 07 my osied herself and "froze" there. That accounts for supper being late, T hashed, and meaget. Do you suppose the general board will Yiow me 4 person al subscription for 1949 Pay ple in ninety days, OF migh be better worked throug our great Church Welfare Plan? - After reading, this letter to Sister Mitchell she has come throug" e generally does, _. She retrieves from Magazine, SO here it lS and la subscription. _-Bert C. Mitchell, Salem, Orego" 1 do appreciate the Magazine, and hope J want to tell you how glad I am to get your nice, peautiful Magazine. Now I am signed up to 195° and 1 need it to make me happy- —Hyrum w. Stevens, Moab, Utah You Are Enriched by Every Good Book You Read Sharing the Gospel with Others __........$2.90 Excerpts from addresses of President George Albert Smith This book reveals the spirit and mind of a man whose life is rich with many unusual associations, varied experiences, significant responsibilities. The Vitality of Mormonism.......................$2.50 By James E. Talmage More than 200 short, authoritative essays on themes distinctive of the restored Gospel. A Voice from the Dust...$4.00 Compiled by Janet B. Dee The Book of Mormon, illustrated and arranged in delightfully readable form for youth. Introduction to the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price $2.25 By T. Edgar Lyon An interesting, clarifying explanation of these books, their characteristics, literary features, contents—with special emphasis upon the fundamental principles of the Gospel proclaimed therein. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street, P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah We pay the postage when cash accompanies the order. All prices subject to change without notice. May we send a current price list? When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 Life Insurance is a measure of the love a man has for his wife and chifdren. Yap =: INSURANCE (=) C, >) = a | 7) 'Comoge Alet Smith, Pree Wire Lap ee a fa THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spa'ford - - - - - President Marianne C. Sacrp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Ising, - - = - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay Mary. G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - -: - -:: - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - -: - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 36 APRIL, 1949 No. 4 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Jesus—Lord of the Resurrection... -... CccccccccceccecceeecececceeceececececnorscececeseeescnenecenteneneesElder Don B. Colton 220 Relief Society Building News....... A 229 Our Political Inheritance 2.2... Ieee eee eee anElder G. Homer Durham 230 The Family Hour in Latter-day Saint Homes..................: Lucy Grant Cannon 245 Grantsville and the Desert..2.0......2.... C: cccccccccecececcusescececeenensccesnecececescssiscnecscaeeeeceseeeneceeeseeeesNorma Wrathall 248 FICTION The Boy There 2... CccecccccesesssssscessesesssceenenesseseceaesessensuecassssecenenssescesecesssecacsesesseenseesseceseessChristie Lund Coles 225 Thunderstorm......... EececcssssceceeecceseeccessatecescceecesasesescceseenascsesesssseceacsanessunasseneecesensaeaeeesncseccasanenesMary Ek Knowles 234 Through the Darkness.... A _ Hazel K. Todd 240 Ard All Etermity 2... Ccccccccesesceeececeeesesenseescesceesssssanesseaessessecesaneseaeeeeseseseseae eaeseneensCarol Read Flake 260 Joanna—Chapter 4... Margery S. Stewart 269 Sixty Yeags) AGO...0........--.-cse-cccess-oon--cortttgeer =lee = -o2 ate 2: s. R 294 Woman's Sphere one.. Ccccccececcceceeeeeseeceeeeseeeeceeenese.. Ramona W. Cannon 255 Editorial: The Women of Easter.: Vesta P. Crawford 256 Congratulations to President Smith on His Seventy-Ninth Birthday —.....0.0.0.0... 257 Instructions Regarding ''Notes From the Field" 297 Notes From the Field: Socials, Bazaars, and Other Activities FEATURES FOR THE HOME Table Settings and Flower Arrangements: Easter Table Suggestions............ Mary Grant Judd 258 An Easter Party for the Children wuee-Elizabeth Williamson 267 POETRY The Half-Believers—Frontispiece Berta H. Christensen 219 |e) (-) rr.;.... Belle W. Anderson 233 Barliest Syringes... Cesses. Etter eres eeRuth Harwood 233 Long Moment............-......... Rose Thomas Graham 233 Of April Blossoming.. Wuu--Renie H. Littlewood 239 SOWING ---...-....... Aes... Ee er, a" Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 247 'Consider the Lilies' a Jean Chalmers Donaldson 259 The Heart Grows Quiet.......... Dorothy J. Roberts 259 An Apnle@Day....... Wie... NeeGrace M. Candland 259 Annual Urge..... =... A. Maryhale Woolsey 266 Easter-Lily Bloom «0.0.0... = eeJulene J. Cushing 273 Pighty-Seventh Birthdary.........0. C cc ccecceccccscccceceseeseecoeececeeeeeeeeeecesseneeeeneeraveeseeseseneresasaeseeeesNan S. Richardson 281 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Ientered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103. Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Pat Allen COATS at (M] Exclusive in Salt Lake City withus... This fine all-wool covert cloth, with matching rayon satin lining... Plastic buttons and handbound button holes. Only yin See this new Spring "Pat Allen" coat now! Toast, Gray or Navy. Sizes 12 to 18 COATS and SUITS Downstairs Store hay, Josef Muench "CACTUS BLOSSOMS" (Trichocereus schaeferii) ¢ THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE She HalfBelievers Berta H. Christensen We were the half-believers of his word, Who felt his power and yet denied the truth. We were the quibblers, pitting line and phrase Against the written law. We asked for proof. We were the faithless seekers for a sign To evidence his claim, yet were not fed Enough by testament of Cana's feast, The leper healed, the miracle of bread. We neither smote nor came to his defense, But watched him pass; his weighted footsteps made Slow imprint on Golgotha's path, while we Stood silently aloof and half-afraid. Some vowed that he had risen, had been seen. Still by relentless pride we were deceived; _ But when we looked into the empty tomb - ee: We envied those who had believed! The Cover: Viceroy Butterfly, Photograph by Willard Luce. VOL. 36, NO. 4 APRIL 1949 Jesus—Lord of the Resurrection Elder Don B. Colton Director, Missionary Home, Salt Lake City, and Member, Sunday School General Board 66 HE first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre" (John 20:1). Jesus had risen. It has always seemed so very appropriate that the Savior would choose to rise from the tomb just before dawn of the most wonderful Sunday in history. We can easily believe that the darkness of that night was dispelled with a morning of unusual brightness, giving color to the flowers and filling all the land with beauty and brilliance without glare. How hallowed the morning of that day! Of course, it was necessary to frighten away the Roman soldiers and that an angel should roll away the stone at the door of the tomb. Comparatively few, however, knew of one of the most important events in all the history of the world. Very early in the morning—without show or ostentation—the power of the Lord was made manifest. Oh, the majesty of simplicity! The stone sealing the sepulchre was removed. The disciples who came first found the tomb empty. The linen clothes which had covered the precious body of the Lord and the napkin "that was about his head" were lying neatly folded in the silent tomb. To that small group, gathered at dawn near the sepulchre, an angel spoke some of the most thrilling Page 220 words ever to fall on mortal ears: "He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay" (Matt. 28:6). Granted that this event occurred, as Matthew describes it, nothing ever happened of more importance to the people of this world. He had said he would rise from the dead. He arose. The events of that morning affected the destiny of every person born in this world. To the soul convinced that Jesus was resurrected, it becomes the most transcendent event of all the ages. They who seek in faith and sincerity are promised that the same conviction will come to them that came to Peter: "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." To know that is eternal life. Is it not worth seeking? Let us not deceive ourselves. We are not justified in saying that we may not know until we make every effort to know the most important truth in the universe: "I know that my Redeemer liveth." The greatness of the Messiah is not usually revealed in pomp and splendor. The whirlwind or the loud peal of thunder may stir within us feelings of mystery and fear, but after these turbid elements are stilled the Lord of hosts stands revealed by the Holy Ghost which is the still voice of nature. Cowper said: "Nature is but a name for an effect whose cause is God." JESUS—LORD OF THE RESURRECTION We see in nature some astonishing things. Many see in some of them a foreshadowing of the resurrection. Something symbolic may be scen. Three examples are often used: First, when a seed falls on fertile soil, it seems to decay and rises again as a beautiful flower, plant, or tree. Second, under the warmth of a mother bird, a winged offspring comes out of the shell a uscful or beautiful creature. Third, an ugly and crceping caterpillar is transformed into a beautiful butterfly. It is true, that in all of these cases there has been no death of the physical forerunner of the new creation, but there is a foreshadowing of the passing from one life to another. Only a part of the human soul—the body—dies, as only a part of the kernel of wheat dies. The analogies are not altogether good, but the foreshadowing is there. We do rise to a newness of life. God calls our spirits out of these earthly temples for awhile and then, having made them clean, glorious, and incortuptible, he resurrects our bodies and reunites spirit and body to receive a fulness of glory. At least, he gives us that fulness which our life's work entitles us to receive. While Jesus yet lived on earth, he said: "And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me" (John 12:32). He was lifted up from the earth. He was taken down and put into the earth. That first resurrection morning, while it was yet dark, he came out of the earth. He now has the power to draw all men unto him. More than five hundred people saw him upon this earth after he was resur- 221 rected (1 Cor. 15:6). No facts in ancient history are better attested than that Jesus lived; that he was crucified and his body sealed in a tomb; that he was resurrected from the dead and ministered in his immortal body to his disciples. Those men whom he had chosen while he was yet with them on earth and dwelling in a mortal body, now saw him in his immortal body. It was a reality. Jesus, alone, of all the founders of religions, proclaimed himself "the resurrection and the life." Those who desire and believe in the continuity of individual life in a world as real as this must believe in Christ. Hé, only, promises that to the children of men. Of all the characters who cross the pages of history, Jesus is the only one who declared that he would lay his body down and take it up again. And he added: "I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it up again." He did that very thing. MORE and more men are doubting that Jesus was resurrected and that he is now the living Chnist, the only begotten Son of God in the flesh. They regard him as the greatest teacher of all time and many say he was a "manifestation of the divine in human life." Others believe that he actually took his body from the tomb and again incarnated or reincarnated himself in that body for about forty days. At the end of that period, he discarded the body and went back into the everywhereness condition in which he lived before being born of the virgin Mary. Such doctrine, however, is not scriptural, nor does it 222 Sqiiare with reason. Jesus was the exemplar—the prototype—of the human family. "He marked the path and led the way." "He was the first fruits of the resurrection." He kept his body. He has it now. He has been seen of men in our day. He has a glorified, celestialized, immortal body. The writer of this article has made a somewhat careful study of comparative religions and of the founders of sects and churches. Not one of the founders of religions ever made the claim of being a God while he lived as a mortal man, except Jesus Christ. He boldly proclaimed himself a God, even the Son of God. "All things were created by him." To an adverse group of Jews, Jesus answered and said unto them, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.... He spake of the temple of his body (John 2:19, 21). This was said under conditions which, if not true, could easily have been shown to be false. Indeed, his saying that he would take up his body in three days was remembered by his enemies after his crucifixion. The Jews requested of Pilate: Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night, and steal him away, and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead: so the last error shall be worse than the first. Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch: go your way, make it as sure as ye can. So they went, and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting a watch (Matt. 27:64-66). The action taken was, in effect, a challenge to the power and godship of Christ. The challenge was met. Jesus came out of the tomb, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 the conqueror of death, hell, and the grave. That is the very thing that he said he would do. There are many who want always to surround God's work in mystery. Let us frankly admit that the resurrection must be accepted largely upon faith. We accept myriads of things on faith. That does not mean that they are not real. Faith leads us to seek God, and revelation from him shows us how needed light and information concerning life and immortality are given. There are those who teach that our faith in Christ is built upon the "blessed mystery of the incarnation." Must our faith forever rest upon a mystery? Jesus did not so teach. His philosophy was plain and easy to understand. He said: "Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls" (Matt. 11:29). There are some things we may not fully understand, but the way of life— the pathway to Jesus—is not filled with mystery. "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself" (John 7:17). The key is given there by the Lord. Doing his will unlocks the mysteries. Following closely the path he marked brings us to the light of God. If we do not know that Jesus is the Lord, it does not mean that he cannot be known. It means we have not done his will; we have not followed where he led. Our duty is to find the pathway to the knowledge that Jesus does live. It can be found. "No man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost" JESUS—LORD OF THE RESURRECTION (1 Cor. 12:3). The plain implication is that by the Holy Ghost we may receive a testimony and say that we know Jesus is the Lord. In the gospel of our Lord the way is mapped out for us to receive the Holy Ghost. One of the sweetest joys of life is to have that great gift. It brings a knowledge of our Redeemer. We may know that he lives. Because he lives, we will live. Because he was resurrected, we will be raised from the grave. Through Jesus Christ came the redemption of man. And because of the redemption of man, which came by Jesus Christ, they are brought back into the presence of the Lord; yea, this is wherein all men are redeemed, because the death of Christ bringeth to pass the resurrection, which bringeth to pass a redemption from an endless sleep, from which sleep all men shall be awakened by the power of God when the trump shall sound; and they shall come forth, both small and _ great, and all shall stand before his bar, being redeemed and loosed from this eternal band of death, which death is a temporal death (Book of Mormon, Mormon 9:13). HE prophet Alma tells us that when the spirit leaves the body it returns to the God who gave it life, there to be assigned to the place its life's work has merited. The spirits of the righteous "are received into a state of happiness, which is called paradise" where they shall be free from cares and _ sorrows. 'Those who have been untighteous and wicked are "cast out into outer darkness" (Alma 40:12, 13). This place called paradise is not one of inactivity. To the righteous, it 223 is a state of joy, of growth and progress. Rest does not mean idleness —that is often boredom. Jesus, when he had finished his work on the cross, went to paradise and preached to spirits who were disobedient in the days of Noah (1 Peter 3:19-20). For what did he go? Just to add to their misery by telling them what they had missed? That thought does an injustice to the loving, merciful Redeemer. He took to them a message of hope. A great part of the work of the Savior lay ahead of him when he expired on the cross. It was not until he was resurrected from the tomb, not until the spirit and body had been reunited that he became a living soul and was prepared to return to his Father, that the fulness of his work had been accomplished. Then it was that it pleased the "Father that in him should al! Fulness dwell." He was then in a position to extend the saving graces of the resurrection to all of our Father's children. As Jesus became a living soul after the resurrection, so by his redeeming power will our spirits and bodies be re-united and become livying souls, to become inseperable, immortal, and eternal beings forever. Why should we reject a great and glorious event because, forsooth, we do not understand just how it was accomplished or brought about? The resurrection of Jesus was real. He was not a deceiver nor did he take up his body to later discard it. How can we doubt the actual corporeity of the resurrected Lord, if we accept the scriptures as evidence? Moreover, we are definitely promised that if we do obey the gospel of 224 Christ, we may know by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost that Jesus was resurrected and that we will be resurrected. That principle is a part of the gospel. The whole of Christianity revolves around that truth. "For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised: and if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins" (1 Cor. 15:16-17). That body he took up was real. With it he ate broiled fish and honeycomb (Luke 24:42-43). When he left his disciples an angel told them: "This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven" (Acts 1:11). Why surround the event with mystery? Often the grandest things are simple when we understand them. The Creator of heaven and earth had power to lay down his life and take his body up from the tomb. Then, surely, he has power to call all men from their graves. "For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive" (1 Cor. 15:22). During one of his last talks with his disciples before his ascension into heaven, Jesus said: "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth" (Matt. 28:18). His authority and power are supreme. He is Lord omnipotent, "who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God" (Phil 276). That he did cause others to be resurrected is shown by the following scripture: "And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose, and came RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many" (Matt. 27:52-53). This occurred after the resurrection of the Lord. He was the "first fruits" of the resurrection. There is no question about those who slept in the graves being raised from the dead. If many were resurrected, all can and will be. "And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation" (John 5:29). In another place John further states: And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were 'in them: and they were judged every man according to their works (Rev. 20:12-13). The question asked by Job: "If a man die, shall he live again?" was answered. For thousands of years men have asked that question. The answer came, after the cross, on the first Easter morning when Christ, "the first born of every creature," came out of the tomb. If man die, he shall live again. To Latter-day Saints, the resurrection is a glorious event to which they look forward. Easter is fraught with deep meaning. Faithful ones who appreciate the "author and finisher of their faith" in their hearts join in the glad cry: "Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God!" The Boy There Christie Lund Coles ENNY lifted the small dog D higher on his shoulder, slowed his step, and leaned against the barn to catch his breath. He stroked the small black and white animal saying, "Nice little feller. What's your name?" The dog whined, and, suddenly, the boy winced as he noticed a bleeding gash on one hind leg. "Gee," he murmured, gently, "we'll fix it. You'll be okay. If Pa will let me keep you, I'll name you Tip. I'll take good care of you." He leaned forward to look around the corner of the barn. His father was in from the fields for lunch. Right now he was bending his dark head under the water pump, washing for lunch. It would be a good time to ask him. He started forward, then he paused fascinated and afraid at the sight of his father's large hand lifting and lowering the pump handle. Denny felt sick with shame, remembering that it took all his strength and both hands to work it... And then the water never poured out like it was doing now. His Pa was a handsome man as he shook the water from his hair and dried his hands. He was six fect, three inches tall and was stronger than any man in towns around here. Once, he had seen him lift a wagon box with one hand. Maybe that was why he was so frightening to him... Because he was so big and so sure of himself, because he talked too loud. When he was angry his voice' was like thunder or the roar of a big flood, the kind Pa told him they used to have in the valley beneath here. Still... He loved his father with a stronger, different kind of love than that for his mother. It was a sort of reaching up, of aching for the man's regard, though he supposed he'd never really win that, for once he had heard him say to his wife, "To think that I sired that little runt." There had been laughter in his voice, but Denny hurt inside whenever he thought of it. He was a runt, and you couldn't blame Pa for wanting a big son, one who could help in the fields, and with the horses, instead of him who stood shaking here, scared to go and ask if he might keep the poor, hurt critter in his arms. It wasn't that Pa ever hurt him, or that he would now. It was likely he'd just say, "That ain't a dog, that's a contamination," or something like that. His father liked big dogs, like Shep who had been gored by a bull while trying to pasture it. Denny had loved Shep, too, but there was something about a little dog like this one that made him feel strong and good. He could pick him up, talk to him, though he had to be careful of the sore leg that was still bleeding.. Even if Pa wouldn't let him have the dog he would help fix the leg. He couldn't see any animal suffer. He had tears in his eyes the day he buried Shep, when he put his hand on Denny's shoulder and said, Page 225 226 "Don't feel bad, boy. He died doin' his job. There ain't no better way than that." ENNY watched his Pa take a long drink of water from the tin dipper hanging beside the well, saw him put the dipper in place, plant his hands on his hips, and gaze far out over the west field that was plowed and ready to be planted with the early wheat. He looked happy, maybe now was as good a time as any to ask him about the dog. He couldn't wait much longer for the little fellow was beginning to struggle against the pressure of his arm. Breathing deeply, he stepped forward, started up the path between the chicken coop and the rabbit hutch, past the woodpile, over the chips that covered the walk, up to the enormous oak tree whose lacy shade reached from here to the well and even up to the kitchen porch. His father couldn't see him, so he paused once more to catch his breath. Suddenly, Pa made a motion as though starting for the house and Denny hurried forward, almost stumbling to the ground as he did so. Pa heard him and turned. His dark eyes looked first at the boy, then at the dog in his arms. He asked briefly, "Where'd you find that?" "IT found him over by the highway. Somebody must've put him from a car. Else he's come a long ways, he's all dirty and his leg's hurt." "You don't figure to keep him?" "T kinda hoped to..." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 "Yer Ma wouldn't stand it. He'd chase the chickens and bother the horses. That's all little dogs like him is good for." "But Pa..." "Now, none of your 'buts'. Bring him over to the porch and let's have a look at him." Denny carried the dog carefully to the porch. Then his father reached over and took the animal from him and laid it on the porch while he bent on one knee to examine its hurt leg. The boy couldn't look at it. Each time the dog whimpered with quick pain, he felt a sickness in the middle of his stomach. He kept his eye on the tomato plants his mother had set out in coffee cans until time for planting. Then Pa said, "Here, boy, go fetch some water, good and hot. And a clean rag." He was glad to get away, to go into the house, to go up and kiss his mother who was standing by the hot stove pouring flour thickening into boiting carrots. He wanted, for just a moment, to feel the good sureness of her body against his. "Hello there," she greeted him, touching his hair with her roughened fingers, "you been gone a long time." Then, wiping a streak of soot from his face, she said, "Dinner's most on. Your Pa ready?" "He's fixin' a dog's leg. I found it on the highway. He said you wouldn't let me keep it. Won't you Ma? Won't you please?" She put the blue bow] of thickening on the warming oven while she stuck another piece of kindling into the stove. Then, hesitantly, she told him, "If your Pa will let you, THE BOY THERE I won't interfere. Sometimes, he puts words into a body's mouth." "Gee, Ma, you're swell. He wants some hot water and a clean rag." "Pour some from the teakettle. Pll get a cloth. Mind the dog don't chase the chickens none." "You won't need to worry. Watch it, Ma. Honest, I will." Holding the screen door open with his foot, he carried the basin of water with both hands. He saw the dog lying on its side. Pa was holding the bad leg by the foot. The dog seemed to know he was a friend for, though he would lift his head as though he wanted to bite Pa, he would lick the large, brown hand, instead. Denny glanced at the wound and saw an ugly gash that showed white sinew and quivering, bleeding flesh. He put the washbowl down swiftly. His father said, "Well, tear off a piece of cloth so's I can bathe this. And hurry. I ain't got all day." Shaking, Denny managed to get a piece of rag torn off and handed it in the general direction of his Pa. It missed his hand and the man looked up, "Watch that." His eyes came up to meet the terrified eyes of the boy. He let go of the dog and said, "For gosh sake, what ails you? A dog would die if it depended on you for doctorin'. Git in the house. Go on now, git!" Obeying, Denny started through the door, feeling not only sick, but sorry and ashamed now, too. He wanted to stay and show his father that he could be of some help, but there was no turning back now. Before he could put foot on the worn kitchen floor Pa was up and beside him, putting his hand ri 227 on top of his head, as he told his wife, ""T'ake care of this young 'un. Give him a spot of the soup you was fixing." Water rose in Denny's throat, into his mouth. He wanted to bend and kiss his father's hand as he had seen the dog lick it a moment before. While the thought was still warm and sweet in him, Pa touched his head again, ruffling his hair, saying, playfully perhaps, "He's a sissy, a,' and something seemed stricken inside the boy. When his mother tried to spoon warm soup into his mouth he pushed it away. UT the dog stayed, and spring passed with its shimmering beauty, its newness, its smell of turned earth and lilacs and blossoms in the long orchard north of the house. He loved spring, but he loved summer too, especially the purple evenings when he brought the cows home from the pasture across the creek bed where he wet his bare feet in the shiny water, and, later, felt the warm dirt cling and trickle between his toes. Ma had warned him not to get his feet wet, but he hadn't had the cough so much this summer and he was able to help. He kept telling himself that he'd show his Pa. He'd show him. Still, he was surprised when a few days later his father said to his mother, "Well, Ma, the boy there is looking right spry. Tim Jones needs someone to help thin beets. He needs him now. Think you can spare Denny?" Ma looked up sharply from peeling potatoes, hesitated, then said, 228 "Why, yes, I 'spect... If you think best." "Sure, it'll do him good. Get a few of his things ready and I'll drive him over on my way to sce Spence." Denny hadn't ever slept away from home; he couldn't imagine not sleeping in the same house, not waking to see the shadow of the apple tree on his window... Yet, maybe, this was his chance. Still, it was hard to kcep a wobbling out of his knees when he saw Ma packing his shirts and socks. He thought there were tears in her eyes—like raindrops in harebell cups—but,. When she looked up she was smiling, proud like. And he felt taller when Pa said, "Mind yerself. Do yore job, but don't let him drive you too hard." He felt like bursting, yet he didn't speak for fear it would spoil this moment, saying goodbye, climbing into the old car beside his Pa— like another man.... Yet, after three days at the Jones' place, he knew that he was more than a little homesick. No full week had ever seemed so long. The sun had been sweltering in the beet fields; the nights had been sticky hot in the small attic room where he slept with the smell of dust and heat. He kept wondering what they were doing at home. He pictured them, morning, noon, and night. He longed for the feel of Tip's moist nose nuzzled against his hand, his small, furry body pressed against his leg. He missed Ma's smile, the questions she asked, he missed Pa's booming voice, his sureness. No one here had talked to him much. Mrs. Jones was always hot and cross. But then she had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 five kids littler than he was, so he couldn't blame her. Mr. Jones tried to be jolly, but there was something forced about it and he was stingy and mean in little ways, not at all like Pa. On Tuesday, Mr. Jones said at the dinner table, "We'd best hurry up. Looks like a storm's coming," and Denny, with food still in his mouth, got up and followed the man outside, took his hoe, and went to the ficlds. By Friday the clouds overhead really began to move together in great clusters of darkness. It looked like storm, sure enough. The water in the ditch below the field was red from the clay dirt above, the sun that had been bright carlier was dulled: to gray—a_ strange, dark rayness that hung over the world like the faded shawl Ma wore gathering eggs in the wintertime. And now the clouds were moving as though giant hands were pushing them swiftly, making the sky almost black. 'The air was moist and cool even while it took your breath away with its heaviness. DENYS hand felt wet on the shovel handle; there was a strange tremor in it. He had heard tell of the floods that had come down into the valley from the hills, terrible floods that tore down houses and sent boulders crashing into everything. He had never seen one and never really feared it since their place was on a hill neatly two miles from here. The water looked red for sure now and there was a flood-smell in - the air. He had smelled it once™ when the creek back of the west (Continued on page 283) Relief Society Building Reins HE names of the following branches in missions have not previously been published in The Relief Society Magazine as having completed their Building Fund quotas: Amecameca Branch, Mexican Mission Atlixco Branch, Mexican Mission Auckland Branch, New Zealand Mission Awapuni Branch, New Zealand Mission Awarua Branch, New Zealand Mission Canal Zone Branch, Mexican Mission Guerrero Branch, Mexican Mission Hamilton Branch, New Zealand Mission Heretaunga Branch, New Zealand Mission Hiona Branch, New Zealand Mission Huria Branch, New Zealand Mission Kaikohe Branch, New Zealand Mission Kaikou Branch, New Zealand Mission Kaiuku Branch, New Zealand Mission Kiri Kirk Branch, New Zealand Mission Korongata Branch, New Zealand Mission LaCaseta Branch, Mexican Mission Mahoenui Branch, New Zealand Mission Maromaku Branch, New Zealand Mission Matokowhai Branch, New Zealand Mission Mataraua Branch, New Zealand Mission Mokau Branch, New Zealand Mission Monterey Branch, Mexican Mission Ngawha Branch, New Zealand Mission Nuhaka Branch, New Zealand Mission Opoutama Branch, New Zealand Mission Ounaruku Branch, New Zealand Mission. Rangioto Branch, New Zealand Mission Rotorua Branch, New Zealand Mission San Buenaventura Branch, Mexican Mission San Gabriel Branch, Mexican Mission San Marcos Branch, Mexican Mission San Pablo Branch, Mexican Mission San Pedro Branch, Mexican Mission Tahaenui Branch, New Zealand Mission Tamaki Branch, New Zealand Mission Taumarunui Branch, New Zealand Mission Tautoro Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Awamutu Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Hapara Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Hauke Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Horo Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Hue Hue Branch, New Zealand Mission Thames Branch, New Zealand Mission 'Uawa Branch, New Zealand Mission — Utakura Branch, New Zealand Mission Waihou Branch, New Zealand Mission Waikare Branch, New Zealand Mission Waimamaku Branch, New Zealand Mission Wairoa Branch, New Zealand Mission. Whangarei Branch, New Zealand Mission = Whangaroa Branch, New Zealand Mission -Whangaruru Branch, New Zealand Mission - Page 229 Our Political Inheritance Elder G. Homer Durham Director, Institute of Government, University of Utah HE twentieth century faces the future with a question: can free societies endure? Our cultural inheritance from the past includes the ideals of a free society. That same inheritance, however, includes absolutism, dictatorship, regimentation, slavery, and control. Freedom and control are twin aspects of any society. As modern men and women face the issue of free society in the twentieth century, it is well to be informed as to the precious nature of the inheritance we have received from the past in order to preserve freedom. Greek Ideals Regarding Government and Citizenship About six hundred years before Christ, events took a remarkable turn in the Hellenic world. Political society began to move slowly towards a situation where men could live in freedom and choose their own way of life. During the fifth century B. C., democracy flourished at Athens. From this period we derive the bulk of our ideals regarding government and citizenship today. What is this inheritance from the past? The principal name associated with the establishment of Athenian democracy (510-492 B. C.) is that of Cleisthenes. Under Cleisthenes the constitution of Athens was reformed in such a way as to provide for the development of democracy. Athenian democPage 230 racy reached its peak during the age of Pericles (463-431 B. C.). This Athenian experience has been immortalized in the writings of Thucydides, in the plays and dramas of Aristophanes, and in the great philosophical writings of Plato and Aristotle. Chief among the ideals set forth in Greek experience is that of individual political participation, It is true that Greek democracy rested on a foundation of slavery. The Greeks recognized the existence of slavery as natural. Later societies, rejecting this notion, have undertaken to extend the ideals of Greek citizenship to all their peoples. This is the effort being made in many western countries today, including the United States of America. In ancient Athens every citizen (but not the slave) was a member of the Ecclesia (the Assembly). Public service was looked upon as the highest form of individual expression. The juries of ancient Athens denote the same principle. In modern life too many citizens try to avoid jury service. In Athens, the juries were large, numbering into the hundreds. Service on juries and participation in the discussion of the assembly were eagerly awaited. Not only was the ideal of individual political participation inculcated into the Greek mind but also the ideal of individual responsibility for the welfare of society. Nowadays many people are willing OUR POLITICAL INHERITANCE to enjoy rights and privileges. Very few realistically realize that for every right and privilege there may be a great duty and responsibility. HE ideal of individual responsibility for the welfare of society is nowhere set forth more clearly and more effectively than in Plato's dialogue, The Protagoras. In this great dialogue, Plato has one of his characters explain why it is that men are able to live together in society and not destroy themselves. The dialogue dramatically sets forth the concept that man is a child of God, that man shares in the divine attributes. 'That when "the desire of self preservation gathered them into cities... They evil entreated one another and were again in process of dispersion and destruction. Zeus feared that the race would be exterminated, and so he sent Hermes to them, bearing reverence and justice to be the ordering principles of cities and the bonds of friendship and conciliation." Accordingly, to the Greek mind, characteristic in man's nature are the qualities of reverence and justice. The good citizen should live so that these principles are expressed in his life. In interesting style Plato provides a democratic basis for society in describing how these virtues were distributed by the great Greek gods. As we read further in Protagoras: Hermes asked Zeus how he should impart justice and reverence among men: should he distribute them as the arts are distributed? That is to say, to a favored few only? For one skilled individual has enough of medicine or of any other art. Shall this be the manner in which I distribute justice and reverence among men? 231 Or shall I give them to all? "To all," said Zeus, "I should like them all to have a share. For cities cannot exist if a few only share in the virtues as in the arts. And further make a law by my order, that he who has no part in reverence and justice shall be put to death as a plague of the state." In another of Plato's dialogues, The Phaedo, Plato discusses the great doctrine of the pre-existence and the immortality of the soul. The Phaedo is actually the description of the death of the great Greek teacher Socrates. Towards the conclusion of the dialogue, Plato places this great speech in the mouth of Socrates as he is about to end his earthly journey: "But then, oh my friends," he said, "if the soul is really immortal what care should be taken of her not only in respect of the portion of time which is called life, but of eternity!" This quotation indicates the great value with which the Greeks in their greatest moments, held the dignity and value of human life. The quest for justice, the stimulus towards training the mind, to be educated, to develop the ability to foresee and to anticipate the problems of the future, the ideals of checks and balances, of limited constitutionalism and government— all these are numbered with our inheritance from the Greeks. Roman Ideals Regarding Government and Law The Roman republic flourished from about 509 B. C. Down to the time of Julius Caesar, about 46 B. C. The Roman Republic was inhabited by a hearty yeomanry. The story of the Roman mother, Cor- 232 nelia, is typical. Cornelia. Was the mother of the two significant Roman reformers 'Tiberius and Gaius Gracchus. Both of the Gracchi eventually lost their lives as the result of their efforts to help their people. The story is told that one of Cornelia's neighbors called upon her, exhibiting her marvelous collection of jewelry. The noble Roman mother called in her two sons and said, simply, "These are my jewels." The Roman Republic evidences the ideals of self-government and popular participation as found also in ancient Greece. The Roman Republic developed the office of the tribune. The persons of the tribunes were inviolable. Acting on behalf of the welfare of the people, they were given power to veto the action of any public officer found harmful to the people. In turn, the tribunes were subject to popular control of the elected assembly. However, it is in the field of law and administration that we derive our greatest inheritance from Roman experience. In Rome developed the great Jus Gentium. Translated, this phrase means simply "law of peoples," or as it is sometimes called, "law of nations." The Romans had the great capacity in the evolution of their political life to adopt a legal system which provided a _ basis in _ principle for equality of treatment to all the people of the Mediterrancan world—a marvelous accomplishment. As such the Roman law spread throughout the entire European world. 'Today it provides the basis for the jurisprudence of Continental Europe. It has also influRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 enced the making and enforcement of law throughout the entire world. Under this great empire with its great Roman law, public adminis- | tration also flourished. From about 46 B. C. To the second century A. D., a period of virtually unbroken peace existed. This period of time is called the Pax Romana (Roman Peace). Jesus of Nazareth was born into this world that knew the Pax Romana. The contribution that Roman law and _ administration made toward a safe, secure world in which St. Paul, the great Christian missionary, could deliver his message has had lasting significance for all mankind. The Ideals of English Liberty England has been called the "mother of parliaments." England is the traditional home of government by consent of the governed, majority rule, civil liberty, and representative institutions. It is also the home of the rule of law as developed through an independent judicial system. The net result of our English inheritance is embodied in the phrase "fair play." On the tomb of one of the barons who forced King John at Runnymede (June 1215) to sign the Magna Charta appears the following inscription: "Magna Charta Is the Law and Let the King Look Out!" Even before Magna Charta, the line of English evolution may be said to have turned towards the development of free institutions and the ideal of liberty under law. When William the Norman conquered England in 1066, he adopted an ancient Saxon practice, expanding the same into the device called, OUR POLITICAL INHERITANCE 233 "The Creat Council of the Norman lish &0vernment The undations King" (magnum Concilium ), From 9 Modern nstitutionalism Stem this Great Council of the Norma argely fro titi experience of Ings began toe Ive, in the twelfth he seventeenth Century. Century, the great system 6 Eng. He Me€rican Tevolution was Oclish law courts, Ith the English Casioned in law Courts deye] | 1776 when George [7] attempted 4 © Tevive the Power of Jury trial, the ideq Monarchy jn °PPOsition to the conhat public thori May not take stitution gains e Preceding Private Property for Public use with century, 4Ccomplished in the Eng. Out just compensation, that life, lish Civil War 1630-49 ) and the liberty, and Property must Tecelve "GQ Orlous Revolution" f 1688-89 due PtOcess of law. Parliament hat o Wil libert today? The and 'CPresentatiye fovernment also Present statys f this Cultural jn evolved out Of the teat Counci] Critance will be SCussed in an By 1689 Par lamen Controlled Eng article to fol]. Earlioss Spring Easter Ruth Harwood Belle Wwe Anderson lie here upon this 5 W-bankeg ill, Easter js an angel of light, Very part of h, I lie so still; olling dark ones ay, And through th far, silence of the place om the 5 pulchre of night's despair €re comes Caressing rain on my face. Nto eternal q: Nd in this quiet seeming slumberin T fee] earth yearning for her lover, Spring, cLong Vt Rose Thomas Graham "T leaye her j your care," he Said She may have liveg h hree-score years John touch his flesh, then laig And ten, yes, ey, n His hand Cart-torn Ma She may have fallen leep one night Bent in an as she Prayed Ah, Many years befo Tenderly he lifted. Pethaps she found ¢ ntentment The trembling 4 dy Swayed Children Playing Tound her door. His arm across her Shoulder, With old hearts to love er, They Walked on € by side. And little fet to guide _ There js nO mote of \, ary told Wl Jesus met Since the day that Jesus died. D: Thunderstorm Mary Ek Knowles YRA reached for the paper M shopping bag that hung on the hook by the stove. She heard the kitchen door creak as it swung open and she knew, without turning around, that Bob was standing in the doorway. Her hand closed tight over the twine handle. She shut her eyes and thought, if he says, "Going somewhere, baby?" I'll scream, because he knows I go to the market at this time every morning. "Going somewhere, baby?" She wanted to swing around and say, "Skip it, Bob!" 'Three months ago she wouldn't have hesitated. But then Bob had been well. He had been section boss at Amalgamated Lumber and Construction Company. He'd been catch on the plant baseball team.... Now everything was different. When the lumber mill burned Bob had rescued five of his workers from the flames. Bob was a hero. He had a medal and a pension for life, but he had badly burned lungs, too. And he would be a semi-invalid for the rest of his life. Myra thought of the Hendersons in the frame house on the corner and more than ever held back the sharp words. For over forty years Mr. Henderson had been a semiinvalid from a back injury. The old couple quarreled a great deal and since the fire they had become to Myra the horrible example of what she and Bob could become, if she wasn't careful. Two people Page 234 chained together through duty and obligation, not love. We'll never bicker and quarrel like the Hendersons, she vowed, and she turned around, her lips tilted in a smile, her eyes very blue. She gave the same answer she had given every morning since Bob came home from the hospital two months ago, "Yes, I thought I'd run down to the market." "Bring me a magazine, will you?" Bob stood with hands on his hips. Sometimes it was difficult to remember how ill he was. He looked just the same, his face ruggedly handsome, his auburn hair curling in tight waves. He was wearing a white tee shirt with AC on the front. Once Bob had played baseball. Now he had to lie down and rest after the least exertion. She knew heartbreak all over again. She said, "Yes, darling. I'll bring you the latest magazines." She lifted her mouth for his kiss. His lips scarcely touched hers. Her mind snagged on the fact, and then she looked into the living room and onto the glassed-in front porch that had become "Bob's corner." It was a shambles again, Bob's pajamas on the big chair, a jigsaw puzzle dumped on the card table, magazines and papers tumbled onto the floor. Twice already this morning she had straightened Bob's corner! Couldn't he at least pick his things up! She saw Bob looking at her in that new, watchful way he had. THUNDERSTORM "Something wrong?" he asked, and his voice was curiously tight. "Wrong?" she said brightly. "No, of course not." "Well, hurry back." It was almost the final touch, like the final drop of a dripping tap that sends one hurtling into madness. Must he say that every time she left the house? She smiled, "Be right back." GHE walked out the back door, down the steps, and around the side of the house. And her steps took her around the block rather than pass the Hendersons. I won't hurry back! She started to cry, tears she brushed angrily away as quickly as they formed. She thought, oh, what's wrong with me. I do love you, Bob. She remembered the scene in the hospital and the doctor telling her, "If by some miracle your husband lives he will be a semi-invalid." And she could hear her words, "I don't care. If only he'll live!" "You're very young, Mrs. Forrest," the doctor had said kindly. "It's not easy...." "I love Bob, Doctor, and I want to be with him no matter what happens. I'll never complain!" And now she could hardly wait to get away. She had been braced for the big emergencies that would arise. But there hadn't been any. After the testimonial dinner for Bob, after the publicity had died down, their life had settled into a dull, quiet pattern. She thought, I'll be all right. It's just the heat and I didn't sleep last night. Bob was prowling around, opening and closing the icebox, 235 tuming on taps, leaving them dripping. She took the grocery list from her purse and studied it. From force of habit she walked fast. Have to hurry back... Take care of Bob.... The large super-market was crowded, but cool. She was walking towards the meat counter when a voice called, "Myra Forrest!" It was Peggy Linford and it was quite apparent that she was going to have a baby. "Peggy!" She and Peggy had worked in "Ruth's Book Nook" back in Habberton. Myra's hand went out to the other girl and she thought, oh, I wish I were going to have a baby, but it's impossible with the way things are. "What are you doing in Scoville, Peggy?" "Phil's company just transferred him here." "We must get together." "Let's plan to go dancing as soon as Junior is born," Peggy said. Myra's throat tightened. "Bob was injured in the lumber mill fire. He'll never dance again." "Oh, I'm terribly sorry." Peggy looked almost as if she were going to cry. "Oh, we're not so badly off," Myra said quickly. "Bob gets a pension for life. He isn't in bed or anything like that. But he can't work. He just stays home and rests a great deal." "And you take care of him?" "Oh, yes. Certainly." "You poor darling." The sympathy in Peggy's voice was very real, and all at once Myra had a picture of herself patiently caring for Bob. She had never thought of it quite that way before. 236 It was strangely comforting. She pushed her hair back and said quietly, "Oh, I love doing it. After all, I am his wife, you know. No sacrifice is too great." "Oh, yes, I know, Myra. I adore Phil, too, but...." "Remember the fun we used to have at the 'Book Nook'?" She didn't want Peggy to say anything that would disturb the picture in her mind, the. Picture of her sacrificing herself for Bob. Now, and down through the years to come. "Oh, I'll never forget. Did you know that Ruth is opening a shop here in Scoville?" Peggy asked. "She wants me to come and work for her after the baby is born, but of course I can't. But I know she would give the job to you." The job would be hers for the asking. And it would help out. Bob's pension was very modest. Her spirits soared and then flattened. "Oh, no, I couldn't. Bob...." "Even for half a day?" "T wouldn't think of leaving Bob." She was not aware that she stood very tall, that her smile was heroically brave. Peggy patted her arm. "You're an angel, Myra. A patient, good angel." Again there was that strange, new, intoxicating feeling. "Oh, no, I'm not an angel, Peggy. I'm just doing my duty, as any wife would." HEY parted soon after. Myra crossed ground beef off her list and bought steak. It would pinch her budget, but she would go without something herself so Bob could have the best. The Hendersons were quarreling again. She heard their voices as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 she turned the corner. "You can just as well sit in the lawn swing, Zach Henderson! Least until I get the porch washed off!" "Don't need to wash the porch off again, and danged if I'm going to move!" Myra was even with the Henderson's now. She could see Mr. Henderson in the rocking chair on the front porch, his feet on the railing, and Mrs. Henderson standing over him, a broom in her hand. "You'll move!"" She nodded her head so vigorously that the white bun of hair quivered. "Or I'll squirt the hose on you full force!" She marched down the steps, dropped the broom, picked up the hose and turned it on. "Okay, ''m movin' then!" Mr. Henderson swung his feet down from the railing and stomped angrily down the porch steps and across the lawn, short and bow-legged, his white hair seeming to stand on end with anger. "Plagued woman! Think we was goin' to eat off the porch!" I'll never talk to Bob like that, Myra thought. Never. Someday people would say, "Little Mrs. Forrest... So patient... Never a cross word..." The feeling she had had when she was talking to Peggy deepened until it was like warm, sweet honey. She opened the back door of her house, called gaily, "I'm home, Bob. Everything all right?" There was no answer. Something had happened. "Bob!" 'Terror jagged her voice. She hurried into the front room and stopped. Bob was sitting in the big chair in his corner teading a book. You could THUNDERSTORM have answered, she thought. Didn't have to scare me to death! "Hi!" she said, not so gaily. Bob might have been in Asia for all the attention he paid. "Darling!" He looked up then, frowned. "Yeah?" "T spoke to you twice." She saw the muscle along his jaw tighten. "Reading." "Everything okay?" His fingers plowed through his hair in the quick gesture that had always been a danger signal, but he said pleasantly, "Yeh, I'm okay." There was a silence with them Staring at each other. "I bought steak for dinner. You can go on with your reading and I'll call you when dinner is ready." She turned back to the kitchen, but Bob was behind her. Oh, no, she thought. You're not going to help me get dinner again! But Bob was already going through the shopping bag. He skinned two bananas and sliced them onto dishes of bread pudding. Myra grabbed an apron. The big goof! The bananas were for break. Fast. How did he expect to live on his pension if he didn't co-operate! She got potatoes out of the sack, plumped them into a pan, and turned the water on with a gush. "What kind of potatoes?" Bob was standing over her like an overgrown Airedale puppy. "Mashed. There's some gravy in the icebox from yesterday." The paring knife hacked into a potato. "Whoa, there, honey. Not that way. You've got a lot of waste motion. Start peeling from the top; use long, rapid strokes." Her hands were suddenly trem- 237 bling and the warm-honey feeling was gone. Oh, shut up! She wanted to cry. She said, "You peel these and put them in the pressure cooker while I set the table and heat the broiler." She set the table. The kitchenette was small and narrow. She placed the steak in the broiler pan. She reached for the salt and stumbled into Bob. He said, "Whoops!" and grinned. She grabbed the salt shaker, turned back. Her path was blocked by Bob's posterior as he peered into the oven. "Ought to be pretty good. Don't cook it too much this time," he said. "IT won't. Dear?" "Oh, sure. Sorry!" HE moved just enough to let her by, but he didn't go away. He Was everywhere she turned, his big feet in the way for her to stumble over. She picked up the longhandled fork. Bob bent over the oven again. She took a deep breath, quickly handed the fork to him. "Would you mind watching the steak." She fled to the front room. Magazines were spread over the floor in Bob's corner, all open, in some kind of crazy order. She picked them up, stacked them in a neat pile and a thought was torturing her.... I'm nota noble person. I'm mean and small inside or | wouldn't feel as I do. But if you weren't noble, you made yourself so. She strengthened the frayed fabric of her soul with good resolutions. "Steak's done, honey!" Just outside the kitchen door she stopped and she felt suddenly desWould you move, 238 perate. Dinner with Bob and her sitting across from each other not talking. After two months of each other's company twenty-four hours a day—what was there left to talk about! No reliving a ball game, deciding what Smith should have done on second base when George hit a two-bagger. No office gossip.... Dinner was an ordeal. Twice she started to mention her meeting with Peggy and then stopped. Peggy... That would make Bob remember dancing. She was relieved when Bob put his napkin down and stood up. "You go and rest while I wash the dishes." She didn't mention that she was going to iron afterwards. Maybe he would sleep until she was through. She knew some degree of peace washing the dishes alone. There was no sound from the other room. Quietly she pulled the ironing board down from the wall. It squeaked on its hinges. She heard Bob coming. Not again. Not ironing while Bob kibitzed, "Look, honey, if you'll just be a bit more scientific, that shirt's going to be a whole lot easier to iron..." Swiftly, she put the board back again. She was securing the door just as Bob walked into the kitchen. "Aren't you going to 'ron?" He looked disappointed. "No, I'm tired. Thought I'd finish that story I started last night." She walked past him into the living room. It was incredible that in the few minutes Bob had been alone he could have so wrecked his corner. But he had. Again the magazines were spread out open on the floor. She bent and picked one up, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 straightened slowly, as Bob yelled, "Leave my things alone. It took me fifteen minutes to fix them just the way I wanted!" Bob had an expression on his face like Mr. Henderson when he stomped down the porch steps. Myra bent and placed the magazine back on the floor and she had a picture of herself through the years, growing thin and frail, looking after Bob. Poor little Mrs. Forrest... A veritable angel.... It was a touching picture. She said gently, "I'r: sorry, darling. I didn't realize...." "You're not sorry! Why don't you say what you really think! It annoys you the way I mess things up!" "Why, what do you mean?" The picture of the frail, patient Myra was no longer touching. There was a tenseness in the air like the ominous quiet before a storm. Bob's fingers ruffled his hair and his words ripped through the air like forked lightning. "I'm fed up with your Florence Nightingale role. You're getting to be a martyr and you're beginning to enjoy it!" "A martyr! You've got a lot of nerve!" The anger within her ignited like gasoline, and all at once the grievances she had held back came flaming out. They stood in the center of the room shouting at each other, and their words were like claps of thunder. "If you're so fed up, why don't you leave me, then?" he growled. "I will. I'm going to get a job at the bookstore!" "T wish you would!" (Continued on page 281) Josef Muench Of April Blossoming Renie H. Littlewood My heart has looked beneath this crusted snow, To where the brown earth waits the voice of time, With clarion call, to wake the embryo Of torpid seedlings, anxious now to climb, Hand over pale hand, to the golden light. I see prismatic colors of the spring, Imprisoned now, but blended in one bright, Delightsome dream of April blossoming. Though spting is clutched in winter's fast embrace, I hear the pulsing heartbeat that will break The frosted bounds; and then with quiet grace, She will elude his tyrant hand, and make, With fluid fingers, deft in artistry, Of ice-bound dreams a warm reality. Page 239 Through the Darkness Hazel K. Todd ITH an aching heart Rebecca watched the little git] playing with her doll. The child, with her good little left hand, tugged at the blanket she was trying to wrap around the dolly, then, because she couldn't make it go the way she wanted it to, she held one corner in her mouth while she arranged it around the rubber infant. Never once did she so much as raise the little right hand that hung lifeless at her side, the small fingers curled around like tiny bird claws. "Make your other little hand help," Rebecca pleaded, but, as always, it was no use. "T just can't, Mother," the little girl said, indifferently, and straightway left the room, carrying the doll in one arm while the blanket dragged behind. "Oh, there is no use," whispered Rebecca. Not even the mechanical words of "next time" found a place in her mind now. It was senseless to fool herself. Linda's hand was useless. The little fingers that had been full of pep and vitality only three months ago, were useless now, cut on a piece of glass, made to hang numb and unnatural, all their spontaneity gone. "Wait," the doctors said. "Wait a little longer. Cut nerves and tendons are slow to heal. Perhaps in time...." She had waited, waited three long months, each day when she awoke, hoping that maybe today Linda could move the hand just a little. But each day went by the same, and Page 240 each night when she tucked her into bed she breathed again the prayer, "Qh, dear God, make my little girl's hand well"' But it was not well. And there was no sign that it would ever be well so far as she could see. And now even the doctor looked grave when he said, "Wait a little longer." By the window where she stood, she turned her eyes out across the garden already beginning to take on the look of autumn. A few dark clouds floated uneasily across the sky. As she watched, a flood of homesickness choked her, a yearning for the home and friends she had left behind six months ago. Perhaps if her husband had not been transferred, perhaps this terrible accident would not have happened. She longed for the feeling of security and peace she had known, not this dreary sensation of hopelessness and heartache. Hot tears stung her eyes. But as she looked she hurriedly dabbed them away with the corner of her apron, for she could see her neighbor, Mrs. Werry, coming up the path, cartrying a half dozen faded gladioli. Rebecca straightened her apron and opened the door to meet the sagging face of Mrs. Werry. "Come in," she said and motioned to a chair. The pudgy form of Mrs. Werry sank heavily into the chair while her hand wiped the perspiration from her brow. "I told Hebe I just had to come in and see how you were, you poor thing," she began in THROUGH THE DARKNESS her expressionless voice. "No matter how I feel myself, after all, I don't have a child with her hand cut off." She folded her big hands with the few gladioli in her lap and heaved a weary sigh. Rebecca struggled to keep back the tears that threatened again. She dared not speak. "T stopped by little Linda out there," the toneless voice went on. "Her poor little hand. She just can't use it at all, can she?" "No." Rebecca stared at the window. "Not at all." "You know I had a cousin who had a boy with his hand cut that way." Oh, no! Rebecca felt she just couldn't stand to hear the account again, how his fingers never recovered and were always stiff and useless. "Those flowers, did—did you raise them?" she asked. The woman looked down at the meager bouquet. "Yes," she said dully. "I thought a few flowers might brighten you up a little. I did intend to get more, but my back is so lame. Must be rheumatism." "You shouldn't have bothered," Rebecca said. "No bother. Only, as I always tell Hebe, what good are flowers if you have so. Much misery that a body can't stand to look at them." Rebecca took the flowers and placed them in a vase. Mrs. Werry wiped the perspiration from her face again. "Deary me, it's hot. I tell Hebe it's hot as the middle of the summer. Takes the energy right out of a person." REBECCA half-consciously —arranged the flowers in the vase 241 while she gazed through the window again to where Linda played with her doll by the sandbox. She was picking goldenglows that hung over the fence, picking them with her one little hand and carrying them to cover her doll. Rebecca watched while the child collected a golden mound on the grass; then she sat and lifted them by handfuls into her apron. Now she was trying to gather the folds of cloth with her one hand. But they kept slipping away. "Raise the other hand, just a bit," Rebecca kept whispering in her mind. But no, finally the one little hand had gathered the folds of cloth, and Linda skipped away to the doll in its yellow bed, while she sang a gay little tune. But the one little hand had not been quite efficient enough. The apron began to sag and the flowers to tumble. Painstakingly, the little girl tried with one hand to rescue the flowers. "Please bring up the other one, oh, please, darling, bring up the other little hand," whispered Rebecca. But the apron dropped, the hand remained hanging, and the flowers fell in a bright tumble over the grass. Rebecca breathed a tired sigh and suddenly became aware of the dull voice of Mrs. Werry flowing on and on like an endless stream. "And just think of butter a dollar a pound. Seems like some of us poor folks will just have to starve pretty soon." Rebecca turned her attention back to her visitor. 'Almost, I guess," she said because she felt she must say something. "Well, I must go back," Mrs. Werry said, wiping her face again. 242 "Seems like there's never any time for a body to sit a minute. I put some pickles on the stove. Such a lot of work peeling onions and cucumbers. I shouldn't make them. Hebe can't eat them any more. Has a bad stomach, you know. But the boys insist on having them." But she didn't go at once to attend her pickles. She remained sitting and wiping her face. It was another fifteen minutes before Rebecca watched her finally go out the gate and down the path to her home, "My new home," she said half aloud, as the heavy steps of her visitor died away. Mrs. Werry with her perspiring brow and her cousin's boy who never recovered, and her own little Linda with only one hand. She sat listlessly on the arm of the big chair and gazed disinterestedly out of the window. The clouds had gathered and hung black and foreboding in the west. Her throat ached. Suddenly she covered her face with her hands and cried long, choking sobs. After a time she became aware of the merry whistle of her husband coming up the path. The new resentment that had been growing on her lately, filled her. How could he be so gay? What was there to be merry about? Didn't he realize that their little child must go through life crippled and handicapped? She heard his footsteps on the porch now. Again she dried her tears on her apron and slid down into the chair with her back to the door. Now she heard him open the door. "Becky, oh, Becky, where RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 are you?" he called in his free, impulsive voice. With a half-guilty feeling, she remained silent. Then she felt his footsteps coming noiselessly toward her. Did he think he could keep her from knowing he was coming? Why, he had never even been able to walk without waking Linda when she was a baby. She felt his two strong hands on her face, covering her eyes. "Three guesses to tell who it is," he said. "So, I caught you napping." Quickly she pulled his hands away. "As if I didn't know who you are. Who else would be coming here? And I don't sit sleeping. I have too many things to think about," she said angrily, and then she looked into his face and halfway she wished she could recall the words. But he sat on the arm of the chair and put his arm around her shoulders. "Listen, Becky, dear, we are invited to go out dancing with the Daltons tonight. Look, it's just what you need. Please don't say no this time. Jack told me where to get a good baby tender." "Oh, Larry, how can you think of going dancing? Dancing when our little girl's hand hangs useless and reminds you every breath you breathe. I don't ever want to dance again. Not ever as long as I live. Besides, I hate this place. If we hadn't come here we wouldn't have had this terrible trouble." She slid out of his arm and, without looking into his face, went out of the room, the hot tears burning her eyes. T seemed impossible to go to sleep. Rebecca had watched THROUGH THE DARKNESS Larry playing with Linda, bouncing her around on his back while he, on his hands and knees, was a pony that bucked and galloped. Never once had he seemed to notice her little nght hand that hung useless. It didn't seem to bother him that she had to cling frantically with one hand to stay on his back. Then he had played "This little pig went to market," with her toes, and he recited a piece about the beggars coming to town. He had not mentioned the dancing party again. Now he lay slecping peacefully while she tossed about on her pillow thinking and thinking until she wanted to scream. It was sultry hot. Now and then she could hear a few far-off growls of thunder, probably the last electric storm of the year. A late mosquito that had found its way into the room buzzed its singsong above her head. Twice she arose and went into Linda's room, but both times the child lay quietly sleeping. At last she fell into a troubled sleep where she walked alone in a thick darkness hunting for Linda who was crying and whom she could not reach. She was awakened suddenly by a loud clap of thunder. She sat up quickly in bed. For a minute her world was foreign and illusive there in the dark, and then aching reality crept slowly back. It was still night and the night had already been far too long. Would it never end? She pulled the blind on the window and peered into the darkness. A quick flash of lightning revealed a brief picture in the yard. In that second she saw a heap of yellow with the face of a doll peeping from under the cover. Linda's doll! She had 243 left it out where she was playing. The rain would come and spoil its head. She must go get it. From the closet she secured her robe and slippers and hurriedly put them on before the rain came. Out in the darkness she waited for a flash of lightning to show her the yellow bed. It came and she saw it almost at her feet. She saw the doll's face with its sleeping eyes and its rosy cheeks; and she saw the golden flowers freshened already by a few splashes of rain, lying close together as neatly as though two little hands instead of one had placed them there. She stooped and reached for the doll in the darkness. Her hand fell into the soft bed of flowers. She paused a minute. A curious thought struck her. It was amazing what Linda had learned to do with her left hand. She was naturally right-handed, and yet, now that her right hand was of no use, She had taken to the other with quickly gained efficiency. Because she was so young. At three it was easy to form new habits. And she would grow and learn to do other things as thoroughly as she had placed the flowers together. God was merciful when he made_ two hands. She should be glad that Linda had one good hand. And then another thought came to her with vivid revelation. Linda was happy with her one hand. She had skipped and sung as she had built her flower bed. Was there a chance that she, herself, might spoil that happiness in her constant remindings and never-ending worry? She raised her hand and reached for the doll. Her fingers rested on its cold plastic head. She lifted it 244 and stood up. A Splash of rain fel] on her throat and she pulled the soft folds of her robe closer around her neck. Another flash of lightning showed her the path to the Werry's—Mts. Werry, with her sagging face and cr eternal sighs. Could it be that she was on the way to becoming another Mrs, city? Perhaps sometime she would g0 to her neighbor's and carry a few straggling plants and sit and talk of theumatism and the Price of butter, There was another quick flash, a loud peal of thunder, and the Tain came down splashing her in the face and on the hands. She slipped the doll into her robe and walked into the house, only half conscious of the wetting rain, Without turning on the light, slie sat on the divan, slipped off her wet slippers, and a little girl, and she could think, Outside she not too late, bright music would be playing dance talked and danced gaily. She wondered if the Daltons would ever ask them again. She had met them once When they first came. They had invited Larry and her to dinner. But she was homesick and she had come refused to go she had been gone when Mrs, Dalton had called, and Larry, who loved to dance and be with people, had tried to get her to go with him, and when she had tefused each time, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—ApRiL 1949 he had played with Linda, read a Magazine, or brought work home from the office, The resentment had gradually 8town on her because he didn't seem to worry about Linda's hand. And then, in the darkness Outside, she had suddenly discovered that all her worry and heartache had not helped Linda. It was Larry who rode her on his back, and laughed with her, who kept her happy. A tender feeling came over her and some of the Peace she had known in her old home. HE awoke with a cramped feeling in her neck. She twisted her head Painfully and rubbed her eyes, through the window. Remember. Ing the storm, she went to the door and threw it Open. Everything was fresh and clean after the rain. There Was a sharp breeze that said autumn Was at hand. But what did it matA slight noise in Linda's room caught her attention and she turned and tiptoed to the door. It was ajar and she pushed it gently. Quickly she caught her breath. Larry was there kneeling by Linda's Was something wrong? A that Linda Was still asleep. And then she saw. Larry was gazing fixedly at the little right hand, with its curled fingers. Rebecca looked from the little hand resting on the covers up to Larry's (Continued on page 282) Improvement Association Stay, Stay at hom Y heart and Test Homekeeping hearts are happiest, or those that Wande they know Not where Te full of trouble ang full of car, O stay at home Is best. —Longfelloy, NE of the Slogans g the Ception of family ang Its ultimate ational] Recreat; Associa. Place jin Is life and in eternit tion is "The family that plays makes the amily ynjt the most Imtogether Stays together * tother Portant one jp all the worig Scar A. Kirkham has adde to this The Physica] Needs of the family another significant Phrase: "The are imp tative; foo Must be pro. Family that Plays together Stays tovided or the body Statves and dies, Every Latter-day Saint fath Tand is one of the first {urements of mother wants to have a family so}j Patents. But Within atity, The tter-da Saints' con- 4 spiritual } cing like every person js in. §ether," Hence, the Physica] "are of the child 246 the physical, and this: spiritual being needs and requires spiritual food or it starves and dies. The knowledge which Latter-day Saints have of this dual nature makes it paramount that physical and spiritual growth go hand in hand to build a complete man or woman. Among the early revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, we read that Father Adam when he was bowed with age called his posterity together at Adam-ondi-Ahman and there blessed his family, telling them what would happen to each succeeding generation from then until the end of time (Doc. & Cov. 107:53-50). It is the most natural thing in 5 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 the world for parents and children to desire to be together. Parents long for the companionship of their children, and children long for the companionship of their parents. To the mothers I really think belongs the responsibility of stimulating the Family Hour. Perhaps a thought we should keep in mind as mothers is that our children are Heavenly Father's children and that we are only their earthly parents, and that we are responsible to him for our treatment of them. We should also keep in mind that we mothers have the most glorious mission of any mothers who have yet lived on the earth. We have tabernacled those spirit children who have been kept in reserve:: i GEORGE J. AND LUCY GRANT CANNON CHRISTMAS PARTY 1945 Front row, left to right: Thomas C. Lloyd; George C. Heninger; Bertram C. Willis; Heber J. Lloyd; John C. Heninger. Second row: Virginia B. Cannon; Jean C. Willis; child, Lou Jean Willis; George J. Cannon; Lucy Grant Cannon; Augusta Winters Grant (wife of President Heber J. Grant); Rachel C. Heninger; Lucy C. Dutson; child, Elizabeth Ann Dutson; Irene C. Lloyd. Third row: Heber S. Cannon; Bertram T. Willis; Lucy Jayne Lloyd; George I. Cannon; Irene Lloyd; Earl Heninger; Mary Lou Heninger; Owen P. Heninger; Keith C. Dutson; E. Thomas Lloyd. THE FAMILY HOUR IN LATTER-DAY SAINT HOMES for this specific time, "the dispensation of the fulness of times." We should also appreciate that we live at a time when woman and her mission are honored as_ they have never been before in the world's history; that we share in the blessings of the holy Priesthood; that we have the opportunity of having at the head of our family a man who holds the holy Priesthood. S° we come to the problem of how to keep the family together, and as parents lead them to seek for the worthwhile things of life that they may be bound to us for time and all eternity. The Lord admonished the saints early in their history to teach their children the principles of the gospel, and if this was neglected the sins of the children would fall upon the heads of the parents. It is to be hoped that most Latter-day Saint parents recognize the teaching of the gospel as a paramount duty; that they do pray with their children; they do encourage them to seek first the kingdom of God and its righteousness. The Church program affords many opportunities to stress and teach righteous living. The blessing of a child should be a. Day when the family gather and rejoice together that a new member has been added to their group. The ordination of the boys to the Priesthood and their advancement in the Priesthood 247 should be noted; the missionary and his or her farewell and homecoming; the boys and girls as they receive recognition in Sunday School, M. I. A., seminary, and other Church activities all make wonderful opportunities for family gatherings. Summertime, special holidays, such as Christmas, Thanksgiving, Washington's and Lincoln's birthdays, Valentines, family birthdays, vacation days, ward outings, reunions, and special days, all make opportunities for families to celebrate together. George Cannon's _ birthday has been a red-letter day in my life since my marriage forty-six years ago. On that day tributes to that great missionary and spiritual leader are paid and his life's work reviewed. Each year the members of his family are made to appreciate their great sire more and more. My father, President Grant's birthday has likewise been celebrated, and I hope all their lives his children and his children's children to the latest generation will recall in song and story his achievements as a father and a devoted servant of God and his fellow men. There are few families in the Church who do not have a background of ancestry that will make any gathering faith-promoting and interesting. And so a splendid resolution for us mothers should be, "Let's get the family together often." >< S; pring Beatrice Knowlton' Ekman Now Spring, with scented blossoms in her hair, Walks hand in hand with April down the land And all the trees their virgin mantles wear; Bird song and hum of bees are heard again. Grantsville and the Desert Norma Wrathal] ii was on the fourth day of Oc. Community — was called Willow the fear of the unknow as until it co Id do so Itself. Faz] In © love of the spel and the desire 2, a townsite Was surveyed at © gain peace, security, and re igious WOW Creek by Jesse Ww Ox of freedom for their loved 9 Salt Lake C t 1€ two men who Tode into this Tantsville js located in the west. Grantsville. Which were Named for Captain Jedediah Grant had come to the Howard Stansbury Who made the valley a short time before, and had first SuIVey of Great Salt Lake and "Ported back to President Brigham _ its Surrounding Tegions, traveling Oung that there was ample water Clear around the lake. Lakeside, for irrigation by means of Mountain near the shores Of the lake, and Streams. Grant had located the Stansbury Island, g Short distance South Willow Creek in South Wilout into the lake, furnish winter low Canyon, and had explored it to Tange for glazing livestock. Owing Wells, so that their Owners The Cedar Mountains Separate do not have to depend "pon the Skul] Valley from the Great Salt mountain streams entirely, In PioLake Csett—a desert Which can neer days, the first flowing Well was never blossom. It is, in g Way, a oley. GRANTSVILLE AND THE DESERT mirages. The water which rises to its surface is salty and unfit to drink. Even today, with the railroad crossing the northern end, and w: th a national highway chartered on a road map to guide the tourist, one would tremble to have his car break down on some lonely stretch of the road. That early explorers crossed this land with no knowledge of its hazards is, in itself, a miracle. It is the opinion of the historian Charles Kelley that men like Jedediah Smith, Captain Bartleson, Christopher Carson, John Charles Fremont, and other intrepid explorers of this most treacherous desert of North Ametica, should have their names and their deeds recorded beside those of the other great explorers of our na- 249 tion; but so far, too little has been known of them. This great salt plain was at one time covered by the waters of the Great Salt Lake. The Salt Desert has a length of one hundred miles, and is about seventy-five miles wide. Evaporation has removed the surface water, leaving only a great level expanse of mud and salt. No vegetation grows upon this waste, no fresh water enters it, and as far as the eye can see, there is a limitless expanse of dazzling white salt plain. In dry places, and during the summer, this plain is in parts hard and smooth, offering little surface resistance, so that cars seem to skim over its surface. One of these places, the BonLOG CABIN WHICH BECAME A PART OF THE FIRST HOUSE BUILT IN GRANTSVILLE This cabin was built by John W. Clark (not a member of the family related to President Clark). It has been donated by Mr. Clark Jefferies, its last owner, to the Grantsville chapter of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers and is to be used to house relics. MONUMENT ON THE SITE OF THE OLD FORT This monument was erected by the Grantsville Chapter of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers, July 24, 1934. It stands in front of the old meetinghouse which is now the First Ward chapel. Neville Salt Flats, is now used for testing racing cars. But in damp stretches, and during wet weather, wheels bog down in a mud which is like glue; it must be scraped from the wheels, and will cling to whatever is used for scraping. Early emigrants crossing the desert on the way to California, had to abandon their loads piece by precious piece, sometimes even the wagons themselves, in order to cross this desert. Because of the peculiar properties, there is no erosion, and the prints of the wagon wheels, and even footprints, are preserved in the salt plain. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 The first white man to cross this desert was Jedediah Smith, one of those who explored the Great Basin under General Ashley, in the years 1824-1827. Although credit is usually given to Jim Bridger for the discovery of Great Salt Lake, the honors should be shared with Smith and Provost, who discovered it the same year, 1826, each independently of the others. URING the first year, the little band of settlers fled to Pine Canyon because of danger from the Indians. They had tried to follow the admonition of Brigham Young: "Don't fight the Indians; feed them," but to no avail. During the months which followed, the pioneers hauled logs from the canyon and sold them to make a few dollars. Prices were very high that year, ten dollars a hundred for flour, and other prices in proportion. But in spite of the hard times, they saved $380 which they invested in oxen. In 1852, they returned to Willow Creek and took up farming. At that time, a branch of the Church was organized, with Benjamin Baker as presiding elder. The following families comprised the population of the little village: James McBride, Harrison Severe, Thomas P. Watson, William Davenport, Samuel Steele, Wilford Hudson, William Daley, and William Pope. Indian troubles did not end with the first year. In 1853, it was necessary to build a fort for protection of the settlers, in case actual war should break out. No part of this structure remains standing. 'The north, west, and south sides of the old fort were of mud, five feet thick GRANTSVILLE AND THE DESERT at the bottom, twelve feet high, and cighteen inches thick at the top. The east wall was of adobe, but it was never finished. The total length of the wall Was 120 rods, built at an average cost of $25 a rod, thus making the total cost about $3,000, In early days in Grantsville, livestock growing and farming were the Principal industries. Cattle drives were organized when it was time to take the cattle out to the winter range or to gather them in for summer grazing. In this, as in all important undertakings, the bishop of the ward directed the activities, HE little community of Grantsville continued to gtow, and many people who have become prominent once called it home. Although President Heber J, Grant was not a native of this valley, he spent two years in Tooele Stake. It was shortly before his twenty-fourth birthday that young tant was informed — that he had been appointed to preside over Tooele Stake. He was not hapPy about it; in those days, strug. Gling to make his way in the world many responsibilities, he did not see how he could carry on business in Salt Lake, and at the same time supervise one of the most scattered stakes in Zion, spreading as it did all over Tooele Valley, and out to the Nevada line on the west, taking in the small towns scattered across the desert. This Was in the horse and buggy days, and it was no mean task to make such trips. But, with characteristic fortitude, he answered the call. He received no material aid from the Church, and had to pay his own 251 way to and from Tooele, and, at the same time, earn enough to support his family and Carry on his business, President Grant labored as president of Tooele Stake from October 1880 until October 1882, when he was called by revelation through President Taylor to the high position of an apostle. This call came to him one month before his twenty-sixth birthday, The people of Grantsville take ptide in remembering that it is the home town of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. He was born in Grantsville, in a rock house built by his father from rocks hauled from the canyons, and which stood near the estate of Samuel Woolley. President Clark's father, Joshua Reuben Clark, came to the West as one of many who were looking for mines and minerals, He arrived in Farmington, Davis County, Saturday evening, March 9, 1867. He THE OLD MEETINGHOUSE COMPLETED IN 1866 This building stands where the old fort was built, the north wall having been about 143 feet north of the chapel. It is now being remodeled and is the Property of the Grantsville First. Ward. ~ In his boyhood, he attended faithfully following day to resume his Journey, his meetings, such as Sunday School ang Clar not then g ber of the in the Priesthood 48 rapid] no Would Church, attended his first Latter oe; nae q ae tga day Saint S€Tvice and was deeply OR €acons' quorum, y was a hom Pressed b h Princ; les f the £0s- ™MIssionary for the Stake pel and the Sincerity of the People. President Clark, as g Youth, was prom; A short time before his baptism nent In the fielg of Tecreation, and took nN iS into the Church, he attended Apri] 5 _ ~ ee 7 the Cr ae Onterence in #] Tabernacle. The ville Juvenile B d Mowing account of his Impression © XNeW pioneer life as it Sin the ot Brigham Young is ¢ ken from carly days, and helped his father with th Ke diary Work on farm When € was twelve Years old, he Proudly displayed cabbage Brigham Young is abo five feet eight he had raj ed, a Primary fair At the eighty oy ninety pounds He has a good er with sheep 5 cating. He was always Supply of auburn hair, His beard is getobedient to his father, and has Said that eyes are enerally cast toward the &tound. Ask his father's advice He has What Might be termed g smiling countenance, With the Samuel Wool ey family, ane ae a a through the "ce TOugh who came acquaint. Euben herded Cattle for hig uncle ed with Brother Wo lley's Sister, Samuel Wooll He droy them to Maty Louisa oolley, and fell in ieee a fal ee and en" a wrth her qT Were married It is to 5. In the Saddle al] day and all may 11, 1870, in the old Endownight, to 5° Without rest T sleep for ment House in § It Lake City. Ten twenty-four ho 7 time. The lan Children were born tg them, seven suage and the hardships of the cowboy are boys and three girls. Amiliar to him, Wood over g deep and dangerous dugway spends Many week-end there, Dur. With a leaq hamess on his horses Which; f Made jt almost "possible for him to Clark II ang his Wife, Emily And. Hold the horses,; €lson Clark, live on the farm and Dr. John A, Widtsoe wrote: help with the work. The Savings of a Jife usually crowded "Maps the settlement of 4 little vith professional and official g ties haye town like Tantsville doe Not seem been used in aequiting and developing 2 SO great 4 thing. Yep its settlement, —:; labor are i the land along with that of hundreds of other This is an example for the Church to little towns Just like it, their stowth rea. The home farm of Sixty acres of and development. Their indust UCes garden Stuff, Sugar beets, hay, and Other 'TOPs. On this farm too are dwell. Its every Operation, and uch time gs an CK now, they vould be 4ImMazed to © spared fro his a nistrative duties see the results Of their hardships and € gives to Working the soul, and Other Sacrifice. No ubt many of €ssential Jabor to make the earth yield, 4 I Completed 4 beautify] New brick Say in turn, "Just look Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1889 "For THE Ricuts or THE WoMEN or ZION AND THE Ricuts or THE OMEN oF ALL Nations" AWAKENING OF SPRING: The long, long winter is over, or in common parlance, the first spring month is wPonwus, Aint) Ojsthieuioless of spring! Who does not love them? Modest, dainty and fragrant. Who does not appreciate their lovely sweetness? The perfume js wafted to my senses from far off Yeats; Of, aS one writer has beautifully expressed it, "like far-off reminiscenses of youth." 'The approach of spring speaks tenderly to me of lovely flowers and hanging vines, of the sweet music of songpulse of nature. And while admiring all these, the works of q Supreme Being, let us look up and adore the great Creator, not only of that which we see, but of the sou] by which we sense and enjoy them. —Aunt Em. THE POET OF Goop DEEDS Tf you would make life's journey safe and sure Be patient to endure; Let all your thoughts be pure. Your aspirations high, each Purpose strong, To strive and win the victory over wrong. P Let every ill be borne with patience; trust And learn from day to day, To bear your cross along an even Way; 'Twill win for you the star crown of the just, And leave upon your robes no soil of dust, Upon your souls 'no Stains of cankering rust, —Belle Bush LETTER FROM SAMOA: This js the place where women are respected, and have their tights. The men gather the fuel, make the fires, cook all the food, and set it out for their wives. In fact, the women do very little but braid mats and fans, at which they are experts.—Louie Calder Lee WOMEN OF SAMOA: The women still love to dress in the natural products of the native bush. Around their throats they wind necklaces formed of a cry scarlet berry, or shells sewed upon a strip of cloth. Sometimes a fringe made from the rib bones of a fish is attached to this necklace, and often a Spiral boar's tusk forms a hand. Some though barbaric Ornament. Like their civilized sisters the Samoan belles will endure any amount of pain and discomfort in order to be in the fashion, but, unlike them, they enjoy leap year Privileges all the time and exercise the right of choice, for time or for ctermity, with perfect freedom from suspicion of unmardenliness.—Sacra. Mento (Cal.) Report. FIRST GENERAL CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY: The first general conference of the Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall Saturday evening April 6th, 1889. Besides about fifteen Tcpresentatives of the various Stakes the following ladies were upon the stand: Prest. Zina 1), TI, Young; Counsclors Jane S, Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith; M, |. Horne, Sarah M. Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, Romania B. Pratt, and Presendia L,, Kimball, President Zina D. I, Young presiding; congregation sang "QO, My Father Thon that dwellest," prayer by Presendia L. Kimball. Page 254 Az aes RS. 'TRUMAN'S inaugural reception hat, of ostrich feathers in five shades of mauve, and her gray gown, worn once only, will take their places in the Smithsonian Institution beside the costumes worn by Martha Washington and_ succeeding first ladies at their inaugural receptions. N January 19, 1949, Miss Alice Eastwood retired from a_ very long tenure as curator of botany at the California Academy of Sciences. It was her ninetieth birthday, but she is still so competent and active that her retirement came only at her own request. In the great San Francisco fire of 1906, she ran from her own home, stopping to save nothing, and rescued more than 1000 typed plant specimens and some irreplaceable books from the Academy buildings, which, like her own house, were soon in ashes. On one of her many hazardous trips to study western plant life, she discovered the orchid-like monkey flower, unique to southeastern Utah, particularly in the caves around Bluff. In her honor it was given the botanical name Muimulus eastwoodiae. Ur own Relicf Socicty Magazine associate editor, Vesta Pierce Ape Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Crawford, deserves high praise for her poem "Within the Miracle," prize-winner in the Deseret News Christmas poetry contest. Besides its excellence of form and diction, it has a deep spiritual and philosophical beauty. Emma Lou Warners prize-winning story "Repeat the Sounding Joy," in the same contest, was also an exceptionally well-written offering. N Washington, thirty-two years ago, Jeanette Rankin took her seat in the House of Representatives, the first woman in America to sit in a national legislative body. Forty-six women, representing twenty-eight states, have since served. Mary T. Norton (D), New Jersey, has held a House seat for twenty-eight years. A close second is Hdith Nourse Rogers (R) Massachusetts. Our six other women representatives are: Mrs. Chase Going Woodhouse (D), Connecticut; Frances P. Bolton (R), Ohio; Reva Beck Bosone (D), Utah; Mrs. Cecil Harden (R), Indiana; Helen Gahagen Douglas (D), California; Katherine St. George (R), New York. Margaret Chase Smith (R), Maine, is the only women ever clected to the Senate. There were seven women in the last House of Representatives. Page 255 Q— > EDITORIAL — VOL. 36 APRIL 1949 She (Vomen of Gaster MAXY devoted students of the Bible sometimes regret that so little is told of the life of the Savior. And yet the words of the gospels glow with a lasting brightness which has become the heritage of all who believe his word. The brief paragraphs which tell the Easter story are among the most beautiful in the Bible, and surely they are of utmost significance, for they bear the message of everlasting life. It is of particular interest to women that the narrative of Easter mentions several of the faithful sisters who were followers of the Master. St. Matthew tells us that "... Many women were there beholding afar off, which followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him." Among these women was Mary of Magdala who had listened to the words of Jesus on the western shore of the Lake of Galilee. Mentioned also by Matthew was another Mary, the mother of James and Joses. Among these devoted women was Joanna, the wife of Chuza, King Herod's steward (Luke 8:3 and 24:10). Standing at the foot of the cross was the mother of Jesus, and with hier was the wife of Cleophas. In the evening, after Joseph of Anmathea had wrapped the Master in fine linen and laid him in the rock tomb, "there was Mary Magdalene (Mary of Magdala) and the other Mary, sitting over against the sepulchre" (Matt. 27:61). It is mentioned by both Matthew Page 256 and Mark that Salome, the wife of Zebedee, the fisherman of Bethsaida, was with the other women. She was the mother of the disciples James and John. It was she and the other women who brought, on the morning of the first day of the week, precious ointments and spices for anointing the body of Jesus. The story of these women is beautifully told, and it is a precious picture we have, one that has been, in part, repeated through centuries wherever women have given gentle and kindly ministrations in times of sorrow. And very early in the morning the first day of the weck, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun. And they said among themselves, who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre? Then they saw that the stone had already been rolled away and the tomb was empty. It was a woman who first saw Jesus after his rising from the tomb. As St. Mark tells us "... He appeared first to Mary Magdalene. And she went and told them that had been with him as they mourned and wept." How fitting it is that the women of Inaster were carly on that morning and that they were the glad bearers on that day of the tidings of eternal life, that a woman first beheld the risen Lord before he went unto Emmaus and into Galilee. V. P. C. Congratulations to President Smith on His SeventyNinth Birthday Again, on his birthday, we extend to President George Albert Smith our heartfelt wishes for health and happiness and the strength to accomplish those high aims and purposes which are nearest his heart. May he be remembered by the faith and prayers of Relief Society women in all the stakes and missions of the Church. May his voice be heard in times to come, as in the past, upholding the faith of his fathers and speaking words of encouragement and inspiration as a testimony to a world which now, more than ever, needs the message of the gospel. Noted 10 THE FIELD Delay in Sending Rolls for Names of Contributors to the Relief Society Building Fund BECAUSE of the heavy snows and consequent traffic tie-ups involving the mails, as also the covering of mail boxes by snow in rural areas, the general board has delayed sending the sheets to the stakes and missions of the Church on which to write the names of all contributors to the Relief Society Building Fund. If the sheets had become wet or creased they would have been spoiled. Therfore, as soon as it seems safe to send the rolls through the mails, they will be sent. Complete instructions for writing the names of contributors are included with the rolls. Ynstructions Regarding "Tlotes From the Field 7 ECAUSE of limited space sn the Notes From the Field department of the Magazine, where a picture shows a large number of people, it will be possible hereafter to identify only the officers and persons prominent in the activity represented. It is hoped that this will allow some additional space for more stakes and missions to be represented each month. It is suggested that Relief Society stake and ward officers and also mission and branch presidents review carefully the directions for submitting material to this department published in the April 1948 issue of the Magazine. As stated on page 274, all submissions are to be sent through stake or mission presidents, as promptly as possible following the occasion which they portray. Page 257 Table Settings and Flower Arrangements Easter TABLE SUGGESTIONS Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board HERE is in all of us an innate desire to create. The little boy with his tinker toys may grow into the man who will build bridges. The little girl making mud pies to be baked in a make-believe oven may, in later years, become a proficient cook. And cooking is a creative art. Closely akin to the art of cooking is that of table setting. It is surprising how the creative urge can be satisfied through this simple medium. Most up-to-date cookbooks explain the proper way to set a table for various occasions, so I won't go into that, except to say in passing that here one finds those basic principles of art—repetition, balance, and rhythm—and that a _ well-set table is indeed a thing of beauty. No matter how desirable, it is often impossible in this high-geared age, for the members of a family to eat all of their meals together, but the dinner hour should be an exccption. Try to serve attractive-looking, palatable, and well-balanced food in an unhurried and congenial atmosphere. Use imagination in varying your menus and have occasional surprises for the family in the way of table decorations. You will be pleased to see how they will respond. Take the Easter season, for exPage 258 ample. How important a child is made to feel if his colorful basket of easter eggs is used for the centerpiece of the family meal. The favor illustrated here was given to each of a group of mothers at an April dinner in one of the wards. Later, to the delight of the children, the favors did double duty by gracing many an Easter basket. It is to be regretted that the color of this make-believe chicken cannot be shown, for it is very pretty. To make the favors you dye eggs by the usual method in any desired colors. Dip small, fluffy feathers (longer TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS for the tail than for the wings) in diluted vegetable coloring, and spread them to dry while you mix some frosting of powdered sugar and water to a consistency that can be molded in the fingers. This is tinted red for the comb, yellow for the beak, and as near as possible the color of the egg for the other parts. A wad of frosting holds the chicken's head (which is half a jelly bean) in place, and it supplies the medium for attaching the feathers and the vanilla wafer which forms the base. 259 Here is another idea for an Easter favor which you may prefer. Very cute miniature Easter bonnets may be made by using the small size paper doilies for the brim and a nut cup pasted upside down in the center of the doilie for the crown. Decorate the hat with bits of ribbon, feathers, tiny flowers etc., and place them at each place on a stand made by cutting a straw in half and sticking it in a gum drop. For the center of the table use an untrimmed hat with flowers spilling out of it. [This is the first in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. In the coming months Sister Judd will present more suggestions for effective seasonal decorative arrangements.—Ed.] "Consider the Lilies" Jean Chalmers Donaldson How slow my stubborn senses to recall, After the Autumn covering is made Over my lilies, that in spring, a tall Proud stem will stand with satin overlaid.... Blossoms will flourish where no flower is seen. Into the warm awareness of the sun, All clothed in angel-white of mystic sheen That thoughtful summer skies have deftly spun. Even without a morsel of my care— No help of mine—no vigil day and night, Nor in my thoughtless mind a phrase of prayer, Have I the privilege to view this sight: The miracle on Galilee's blue rim, Once plucked and pondered as men walked with him. She Hleart Grows Quiet Dorothy J. Roberts Oh, tender, brief bud of summer, How shall I carry you back to him; How shall I tell the weft of magic Spun, shimmering, to the valley's brim? I shall but say the heart grows quiet, Watching the mesh of tendrils screen, With a feathery veil, one breathless moment. The rolling tide of green. An April Day Grace M. Candland Give me the measure of an April day, Unhurried by the many tasks at hand, To watch the growing loveliness of spring Now entering in, and note the interplay Of shifting clouds, the birth of daffodils, The birch and linden pushing silently From bud and leaf, and see the miracle Of bluebells blooming on the distant hills And All Eternity Carol Read Flake To sharp trill of the telephone brought Kathy Gordon stumbling from bed, her sleep-drugged mind groping to identify a heavy feeling of depres sion. The gitl shivered in the chill, the dining room. _ some dreadful thing that lay ahead of her. "Hello." Her voice was low and husky with sleepiness. "Ts this 402M?" Kathy swayed suddenly inthe darkness as memory struck with sickening clarity. She gripped the edge of the buffet and answered in a whisper, "yes." She and Dan were going to get a divorce! It had been decided last night. "Hold the line, please. Deposit five... - The operator left the line. "Who is it?" Dan called sleepily from the nursery. "T don't... - Hello?" [ll bet you just e telephone at "Kathy darling! Love answering five AM." Linda! Oh, no—not now! There was a note of hysteria as Kathy cried, "Tinda, what in the world are you doing here?" Her young sister's laugh rang met rily. "Pm on my vacation an want to spend it with my namesake. How is the little doll—asleep? "Of course. Honey, you're at the bus depot, aren't you? We'll be right in after you." Dan had turned on the bedside lamp in the nursery and, as Kathy Page 260 moved to the doorway, he leaned up on an elbow, squinting against the brightness, his dark hair rumpled. Three-year-old Gary had crowded him to the edge of the narrow bed and was burrowed deep against him, completely out of sight. "tts Linda?" Dan's voice was tense. "What are you going to tell her?" Kathy's gaze wavered. "Nothing, I guess. She'd never understand." "Who does?" he remarked sourly, sitting up and reaching for his shitt. Kathy stared at him blankly, then turned and went into the room they had always shared and to the crib in the corer where Baby Linda slept. She covered her tenderly and dressed without turning on a light. Dan was silent driving to town. Kathy sat beside him, numb and sick inside, wondering how she could meet the gaiety and exuberance of her younger sister. It was two months since her visit home, a visit that was, 10 reality, a separation. The entire family had been so en tranced with the children that they had not detected Kathy's deep un happiness. Kathy was grateful for this. More than anything else she desired to keep from them the knowledge that she and Dan were having trouble— father invariably referred to as 4 "perfect prince of a Kathy glanced covertly at her husband, silent and scowling as he Was he remembering last AND ALL ETERNITY night, the scene at the dinner table and their talk afterward? *x % * Kate" closed her cy€ss seeing him pace the living room, seeing the beaten look in his eyes 4° he flung out his hands in a gesture of impatience and futility. "Okay, so it take, Kathy, the biggest mistake of our lives, and it's time we did somespoke mote to herself. Dan stopped before the mantle and stared at the photograph of himself in his marine uniform. >. Dent, almost cocky, with his cap tilted ever SO slightly above that broad, boyish grin. She caught her breath as he reached up and knocked the picture flat. "Why do you keep that crazy thing around?" he growled. Her eyes sped to the framed snapshot of Dan and his buddy, Dick Greymont, who had been killed on Guam. I i attention. He dropped heavily Upon the davenport. "Sq what's left? What do we tty now?" Their gaze net—and broke hastily. Kathy flushed as if she had spoken the hated word. Dan leaned his head in his hands. She whispercd. He shrugged and stood Up. "What else?" he asked harshly. Kathy didn't preathe for a mo ment. She felt frozen inside. "You mean—civil divorce?" The muscles in his jaw tightened. When he spoke his voice had \ its harshness. "J don't know, Kathy. I've prayed—you ve prayed. Don't know what he wants us to do." He turned his back. "Dan!" She started up unsteadily. "Dan, it isn't as if another man or woman were involved. There's just.-- ia "There's a little boy and a baby girl," he reminded her almost angrily. "And a pait of bickering pat Is that what he wants?" He pushed past her and went into the nursery, closing the door firmly., hands ing when h weeping from the table? From the table, trying not to heat the heartbroken sobbing from the At last she stepped to the dootway and demanded in icy tones if he intended his son to finish sup per. When he did not glance UP from the magazine he gripped in his hands, she dcliberately started for the nursery. He caught up with het and pushed her roughly aside. * keep out of this," he snapped, and ghut the door in her face. 262 Gary stopped crying and Kathy stood there, all aquiver inside, listening to Dan's voice soothing the child. In a moment he brought him to the table. "Ask Mommie to bring your dinner, son," Gary's round blue eyes, still damp with tears, were hurt and bewildered as they went from one to the other. Kathy groaned and caught him to her fiercely. She met her husband's cold gaze. "Dan, this can't go on," she pleaded desperately. "It's cruel and unfair. It—it's shameful." Dan muttered something and walked rapidly out of the room. Ek ok HE Gordon scene, Kathy thought heavily, glancing out the car window. Dan slowed for a stop sign, his hand brushing Kathy's knee as he shifted. He glanced at her shortly. "Well, what are you going to do?" "What do you want me to do?" "See Whiting. Get the thing rolling." Kathy's mouth twisted and she turned away, unable to speak. This was the way she must meet her sister. She saw her standing on the curb beside her luggage, looking like a fashion model in her trim gtay suit and little trick of a hat. Linda rushed over as they stepped from the car and gave Kathy a swift, fragrant hug. Then she turned to Dan. "M-m-m," she said, stretching on tiptoe to kiss his cheek, "my favorite brother-in-law." In the car she removed her left glove and fluttered her fingers elaborately. "Oh!" Kathy gasped, catching her hand to admire the glistening ring. "When did you get this?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 "The night of his farewell," the girl announced Proudly. "Isn't it gorgeous? See it, Dan?" Dan smiled obligingly. "Very gorgeous. And is it the ting you're in love with, or... +g "It's Brent I'm in love with," Linda sang out happily. "Oh, he's wonderful—it's wonderful!" She turned and hugged her sister ecstatically. "Why didn't you tell me love was like this?" Kathy flushed. "You little monkey," she said tenderly, In the bedroom the girl peeked cautiously beneath the crib covers. "Oh-h, little angel. When will she wake up?" She turned to Kathy. Her brows flew together. "Kathy, are you ill—have you been sick?" "Sick?" Kathy laughed quickly and bent to pick up a hanger, "Of Course not, silly. It's just getting up at such an unearthly hour. Make yourself comfy, honey, while I fix breakfast." Kathy was glad for the commotion of breakfast and babies—for her sister's gay, cager chatter. After Dan left for work, Linda dressed Gary amid shouts and laughter and then begged to feed the baby her cereal, She talked constantly about Brent, his mission, and his letters. "Regular sermons, he writes. Oh, Kathy," she exclaimed earnestly, "aren't you thankful for the gospel and the kind of men it produces? When I think of poor Rosalind Ayres and that—that—" She broke off in disgust. "They're on the rocks already. I guess it's lucky they've had no chil—" She shrieked and ducked as the baby, clutching the spoon in her AND ALL ETERNITY hand, flipped cereal over a wide area. Laughing, Linda looked up at the baby's mother and was surprised to see her staring absently from the window, her face drawn and white. Linda lifted the child from her high chair and walked around to face her sister. "Kathy Gordon," she said with a quiet, knowing smile, "you're going to have a baby, aren't you?" "Have a baby? No," she answered dully, staring past her. "We're going to have a divorce." "Kathy!" Linda cried sharply, "What's the matter with you, saying a thing like that?" "It's true," she answered quictly, taking the baby from her. "He wants me to see the lawyer immediately." "Dan? Wants a divorce? Kathy, what's wrong?" "I wish I knew," Kathy replied bitterly. "I think he hates us all." For once Linda was speechless. Helplessly she followed as Kathy put the baby down for her nap and went into the bathroom where she knelt and washed the few clothes that were soaking in the tub. "T didn't want you to know, Linda, or the folks. But now I guess it doesn't matter, now that we're getting a divorce." Linda began to cry. "But you were married in the temple." "I know. Sometimes temple marriages go wrong." "No, they don't," the girl sobbed. "Only if there is sin—immorality. You and Dan—you're both fine and decent and intelligent." Kathy sat back on her heels, staring unseeing at the wall. "No, LinBut, 263 da," she said after a moment, "if you had been here last night you wouldn't say we're intelligent." And she told her briefly about Dan's sharpness with Gary and her own fury. "Oh, Kathy, something's wrong with Dan, don't you see?" Linda cried. "It's the war; that wound he got on Guam, losing his buddy..." Kathy rose and wiped her hands thoughtfully on the towel. "I could have thought that three years ago, but that's all behind us. No, Linda, we've been happy, perfectly serene in our marriage until—I don't know when it began or what started it." "Maybe it's you," Linda said softly. "Maybe...." "TI know. I'm critical. But his attitude...." She pressed her fingers to her temples. "I think it's since the baby came. He seems resentful of her, Linda—detached, restrained or something. He wasn't like that with Gary." "It's because she's a girl," Linda soothed, putting an arm about her. "Darling, you're practically weaving, standing there. Come sit down." She led the girl to the big chair in the living room and Kathy tried to explain about Dan and Baby Linda. Ek oe x "THEY both wanted a girl and he had been as thrilled as she when Baby Linda came. Kathy would never forget his deep humility as he stood at her bedside. "Everything's too perfect," he had said, shaking his head in wonder and awe, "you and Gary, and now a little daughter. I don't deserve it, Kathy." "T guess we deserve her, darling," Kathy had whispered, weary from 264 the ordeal, "or the Lord wouldn't have sent her to us." | He gripped her hand tightly. "The Lord's been so good to me, Kathy. It isn't right. It isn't fair." Kathy had been disturbed by his mood, but too sunk in exhaustion to puzzle out its meaning. "He feels unworthy," Linda announced simply. "Kathy, if you two would talk these things over...." "I don't believe he wants to, Linda. Not after last night when we both saw what it's doing to little Gary. He wants me to see Whiting right away." "Whiting? Is he your councilman that's a lawyer?" Kathy's eyes widened. "No. I hadn't thought of him. Her voice fell. "He doesn't take divorce cases." Linda jerked forward on the davenport. "Why doesn't he?" "Why, I.... He doesn't believe in them, I suppose." Linda's eyes flashed. "And so instead of going to someone like that for help, you and Dan prefer to take your troubles to some stranger, not even a member of the Church. It wouldn't even have to be a lawyer. It could be your stake president or your bishop...." she broke off. "I wish you could talk to Brent. Brent says the gospel carries the solution to all our problems, physical as well as spiritual." "Brent and his mission," Kathy murmured. "Dan would have had a mission if it hadn't been for the war." "Oh, darling!" Linda was beside her, all tenderness. "Kathy, you love Dan. I know it. I'm going to talk to him tonight." high RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 KATHY was gathering clothes from the line when Dan drove in late that afternoon. As she put them on the kitchen table she heard Linda talking and Dan answering in low tones. She went out softly and found the rake and started to rake the leaves away from the front of the garage. She heard the screen door open and close and looked up to see Dan coming toward her.. He stopped and then came on uncertainly. "Do you think we should talk with the bishop?" Her heart was pounding as she leaned the rake against the wall and came toward him. "Yes," she said breathlessly. "Yes, Dan, I do." They found Bishop Bentley in house slippers seated on the front porch with his wife and a neighbor lady. The Gordons were greeted warmly and the bishop ushered them inside. He was a large, shaggy-haired man with alert, twinkling eyes and the kindest smile. Kathy sat stiffly on the chair he offered and hoped that Dan would do the talking. He did so, haltingly at first. But under the bishop's gentle prompting the story was finally out. The bishop questioned them alternately, nodding now and then in an understanding way. Then he leaned forward in the big leather chair and regarded them with a kindly, sympathetic expression. But when he spoke he was firm. "Now, Brother and Sister Gordon, I want you to put the idea of divorce out of your minds. Neither of you has committed a crime against the other and there's no justification for it. You are unhappy, yes. But you can't think of your- AND ALL ETERNITY selves any longer. Children...." "That's why something must be done," Dan broke in desperately. "Tt isn't nght that...." "And you think divorce is right?" Bishop Bentley spread out his large hands. "Split-up parents—a broken home? No." He shook his head. "Even a sick home is better than a broken one, Dan, in nearly every case. Yours is a sick home right now. But if you will, you and Katherine, you can cure it. Have you prayed together?" he asked gently. Dan looked down. "We always have, bishop, but when there's a spirit of—of bitterness and antagonism." "Tt's difficult, son, I know." He asked abruptly, "Dan, you were injured, weren't you, in the war?" "Yes, a hand grenade wound. But it doesn't bother any more." "Did you have any experience you find it difficult to throw off?" Kathy glanced quickly at her husband and felt a wave of tenderness as she saw his jaw set. When he didn't speak she said softly, "He lost a buddy, bishop, Dick Greymont, a boy he grew up with." "IT see. Do you ever think about that, Dan?" Kathy stared in horror as Dan's face twisted and he covered his eyes with his hands. He said in a tortured voice, "I can't think of anything else lately." Tears sprang to her eyes. "Dan," she whispered, moving forward on her chair. But Bishop Bentley raised a warning hand. He said very gently, "Can you tell me about it, son?" Kathy waited in an agony of You have your 265 sympathy as Dan fought for control. "T was a gunner in our squadron, a pfc, like Dick. It was two days after we landed on Guam and we'd been in heavy battle and our shells were running out." He paused. "I sent Dick for ammunition. I hated to ask him to go and he didn't want to, but I only had a few shells left. I—I spoke pretty harsh to him so he'd go. When he started back with the shells, they—a bullet got him." There was no sound in the room save Dan's labored breathing. Kathy whispered in a voice that trembled, "It was right afterward that Dan was wounded—very seriously. He almost died." DAN moistened his lips and went on. "Dick and I went into the Mormon Battalion together; we were at Guadalcanal and Guam. We were always close. We used to talk about when we got back, things we would do. We both had girls. We talked about the homes we were going to have and children—" His voice broke and his head went down. Kathy closed her eyes in pain, seeing him at her bedside the night Baby Linda was born: "T don't deserve it, Kathy, everything so perfect." It was Dick he had been thinking about! Tears streamed down her face and she forgot about Bishop Bentley. She went down on her knees beside him, sobbing, "Dan, oh, darling, why didn't you tell me? You musn't blame yourself. You were doing your duty and you almost lost your own life. The Lord spared you for a purpose." She caught his hand and pressed it to her cheek, feeling 266 the answering pressure of his fingers. "Dan, I've been so blind—so stupid." He touched her hair gently. "I've been hateful. You said I hated you, Kathy. It was myself—" "Oh, Dan!" The bishop had risen and stood quietly beside them. "I think, Dan, that you have unconsciously built up a resentment against all that's dear to you because of this—what do the psychologists call it—guilt complex? You feel you have no right to them, is that it?" "I haven't, bishop. It isn't right." Dan stood up, clinging tightly to his wife's hand. "Dick was a better man than I am." "You can't be a judge of that, Dan." The bishop laid his hand on the younger man's shoulder. "We should never question God's wisdom either in the things we suffer or in the things he sees fit to bless us with." He placed his other hand on Kathy's shoulder and regarded her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 kindly. "Sister Gordon, you need to assure this husband of yours every day that you love him and appreciate him. And you, Dan," Dan met the Bishop's gaze squarely, "you thank the Lord every night and every morning for sparing yout life and bringing you back to this fine girl, and for sending you children to rear according to his word." -"Bishop—" Dan groped for words to thank him. "Bishop Bentley, you'll never know—" The good bishop patted his arm. "You're a splendid couple, you Gordons, and if I might make a suggestion, I'd say you needed a vacation trip right now, just the two of you." He turned his smile on Kathy. "Do you have someone you can leave the children with?" Kathy raised her eyes to Dan and he put his arm about her waist. "Tindal" she exclaimed. "I know she'd love to. And, oh, Dan, let's go someplace where there's a temple." All the love and happiness in her heart glowed radiantly in her face. - oie — Annual Urge Maryhale Woolsey Shine, window, shine! For the new sun to find you; Flutter, clean curtains! A May breeze is here. Sweep, broom, sweep! Leave no dust fleck behind you.. Spring's the most heavenly time of the year! Polish and paint—oh, I love every feature That matches my indoors to outdoors delight, 1 am the happiest, luckiest creature— Having a snug little home to keep bright.... (Look at those robins, out there in the apple tree, Busy with feathers, straws, pieces of string; Over a last-year's nest chattering happily— Wouldn't you know?... Housecleaning for spring! ) An Easter Party for the Children Elizabeth Williamson TF you are having an Easter party for small children, it is well to Egg treasure hunt and a few games such as "Pin the Tail on the Lamb." Luncheon. Dyeing Easter eggs. Greet the children at the door with a clue telling each child where to find his €ggS Or prizes. Let each one draw a Paper egg from a basket. The gold egg is the grand prize. Keep this a secret, because your own children will not be eligible for the Prize, but it will be gteat fun for them to keep the secret with you. If the children are too young to read, you might draw simple sketches on the clues so they will be able to find the prizes. Prizes can be washcloths made of brightly colored toweling, blue, red, or yellow, cut into shapes of ducks, hens, lambs, and other Easter symstore variety,; or bags of colored jelly-beans may be used. The grand Prize, which is claimed by the one who draws the golden egg, is a live white bunny. After the children have seen and admired the bunny, it is Suggested that it remain outdoors until it is time to leave the Party. It is a good idea, also, to have the children put aside their prizes until the Party is over. It is possible to decorate the table very attractively and in an inexpensive way with things which you can make yourself. Child's name on a strip of paper and paste the ends together. Is dry, set the boiled egg init. Put eyes and nose and a few whiskers on the egg with ink, and you will have a gay rabbit for a placecard. Page 267 268 For the favors make little nests of shredded, colored Papers or cello. Phane filled with candy eggs. These eggs can be brought 'to the table after the luncheon is finished, Peas Dessert: ice cream with cookies Shaped like tabbits, lambs, or ducks, After lunch, in the kitchen, the children may enjoy coloring Easter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Apri, 1949 €gss under your SuperVision, ges should be Cooked the night before the Patty, The children can use their imagination and make designs with tape, Stars, dots, cut-out flowers, and other motifs. The children will want to take the decorated ¢ggs home to show their Parents, Joanna Margery §, Stewart Ourageously, she takes inventory of her Tesources—g home, Poorly furnished and not a slow and build a Profitable business, Over and over, ° "Than you, Joanna," They brought her gifts in the Weeks that followed—flour, bread "Now I can bake we'll be warm Penny looked tuefully around her. "Now we have two kitchens instead of one." "I know. [ft doesn't look very pretty." Penny smiled, "Oh, well, it doesn't teally matter," ut Penny's patient acceptance of the Change hurt her, and the fierce desire to give her daughter beauty rose again. She lifted the about. How would that be? Pll slipcover the some red Material and make some Joanna kisseq Michael's fat neck to hide the tears. There was something about Penny that teached into her like Pain, sleeping, to Paint the woodwork and floors and sew the yards of gingam, ers for geraniums, They brought the All her life Joyounger children.. Abigail, helping: Joanna knead the Page 269 270 raised dough into loaves, listened to Penny's clear, low voice. She shook her head. "Isn't she the beatinest! Just listen to her. I never heard a child read that good before." "Nothing but 'S's' on her report card," Joanna said proudly. "She's going to be somebody, just wait and see." "So is her mother," said Abigail smartly. "TI never did see the likes of the way you've run up this business. How much was it last month?" Joanna laughed. "I keep track by my tithing receipts. Just a minute." She brought the box out of the cupboard and opened it. "Twelve dollars and fifty cents. One hundred and twenty-five dollars." Abigail held up floured hands. "Land sakes o'Goshen!" "But the month before that it was only fifty dollars. Believe me, I was right scared...." She patted the last loaf deftly in place. "But this month I have so many orders I can't possibly fill them myself. Will you come and help me, Abigail? Be my full-time helper?" "Good heavens! Child! I couldn't do that. Henry would have a fit." She went to the kitchen to wash her hands. "It would mean going off relief, and you know Henry hates change." Joanna handed her a towel. "But I'm sure it will be steady. People are asking me to cook for their parties and they want pastries for their dinners. It will be our business, Abigail. Partners." Abigail shook her beautiful silver head. "Henry won't like it. But I'll do it." She nodded vigorously, "If you can take the chances you've RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 been takin', I guess I can, too. Besides, you make it look interestin', this not knowin' whether you're going to eat or not." Joanna laughed. We're going to eat." Abigail's sniff was unmistakably skeptical. "How?" Joanna crossed her big hands on her breast. "In here. Promises." Abigail poured beans into the huge pan. "Wish I had somethin' like that inside o' me. But I'll be your partner, not full, forty-sixty is good enough for me. You thought of it, and you're the one that's been makin' it grow. Henry...." she sighed, "... Well, he'll just have to get used to being a capitalist." es jeans marked the years by such special things as that, being able to have Abigail help her all day long, by being able to hire the protesting Henry to drive an ancient delivery truck Joanna bought, and by Penny's fourteenth birthday. It was to be an event, this fourteenth birthday. Joanna planned a patty. They sat around the kitchen table after dinner, going over the details. The children's faces were ecstatic. Joanna's heart smote her. They should have had more of the good things.... Like this party. Penny's face was shining. "I wish I could ask the whole home room. But I'll have Connie.... Oh, Mother, she's clever. She is the smartest girl in the whole school and her clothes are just beautiful.. Wait until you see." Joanna smacked Michael's hand away from the cookie jar. "You've had ten. That's more than enough for awhile." "But I know JOANNA She turned back to Penny's radiant face. Delight pierced her. Penny was beautiful. Her small face was delicately formed, the dark eyes soft and dream-filled. When Joanna thought of the ingredients that made her child, she thought not of flesh and bone, but of scraps of poetty, captured spring days, remembered songs, haunting bits of beauty that Penny gathered and brought home for Joanna's and her own delight, as another might gather bright stones, or another, stamps. "Who else will you ask besides this wonderful Connie?" Penny counted them on her fingers, "... Ruth and Evelyn, she's the red-headed one, and Cora and Sally.... Sally's brother is the one who is always trying to kiss us." Joanna bit back her chuckle. She leaned her chin on her palms, reveling in this little moment of peace and rest and companionship with her children. "We'll have a Halloween party, since it's so close to the end of the month. We'll take the plants down from the window sills and put pumpkins there instead. You can make black cats to decorate the walls." David grinned down at his sister. "And I'll scare all your sissy friends.... I'll hide by the gate...." "You'll do no such thing. Mother, make him promise...." Joanna looked at her son. He didn't look at all like big David, nor act like him either.... Even the laughter was beginning to leave his brown eyes, except in moments like this, when he teased Penny or the ten-year-old Sally, by stealing her dolls or mocking her adoration for some current movie star. His chin 271 was beginning to look square and firm, and his mouth had a straight determined line. He hated it when Joanna was forced to carry heavy loads, and took them from her when he was home, muttering savagely under his breath. "This is Penny's party," Joanna told David. "It's got to be right. Everything has to be perfect." David's mouth set in that new, queer way. "But Mom, some of those girls are... Are terrible.... They'll think a little home party is cory.... They're used toa... A lot." Penny's laughter mocked him. "Oh, don't listen to him, Mother. He's just bitter. He used to be in love with Connie." Joanna stared sharply at her son. His face turned a painful red. "I wouldn't be such a fool... Unless I had a car." xe ee K OANNA tepainted the _ livingroom floor. She papered the walls, herself, in a gay peasant pattern. She made new gingham curtains and washed the slipcovers. She pored over magazines, judging, discarding recipes. Abigail snorted in disgust. "Land sakes o'Goshen! Anybody'd think you were having the Archbishop of Canterbury for dinner." Joanna giggled but did not look up from her magazine. "This sounds good, ice-cream cones on the top of cupcakes... You put currant eyes and noses on the cupcakes. They'd look just like little witches.. Apples decorated like jack-o'- lanterns." Abigail sat heavily on the davenette and fanned her flushed face 272 with her apron. "A lot of work. Remember, you promised to make all those rolls and cakes for that banquet on the day of Penny's party." "T can manage both." "Joanna, you need a rest, not more work. You look terrible." Joanna put the magazine aside and looked at her hands. "I know. Aren't they a sight!" She rose and went to the mirror that hung above the sink. Abigail followed her. "You don't take care of yourself. No rest. No creams." She patted her own soft cheeks. "That's one thing I've never forgotten. Every night 1...." But Joanna was not listening. She leaned forward staring at the stranger in the glass. She was very thin, her cheeks hollow under the high bones. Her eyes looked very large and deeply blue, but it was around her mouth that the years showed mostly, the years of tightening her lips for the daily struggle. Those years had thinned her mouth and etched lines at the corners. Her brown hair was drawn back in a roll on the nape of her neck. Joanna laughed, and the reflection showed fleetingly as a sliver of light, the lost brightness of her youth. She looked down on her hands leaning on the sink board. They were brown and scarred and rough. "You could be right handsome," Abigail said softly, "if you'd take things a little easier, take care o'yourself." "J haven't time yet...." "But you can't go on alone like this.... Years are running away from you." Joanna turned briskly from the 5) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 mitror. "I'd never find anybody like my David. Besides, I have no time for any man." She stared over Abigail's head. "The only dream I have is of going to California some day, taking Penny and the rest of them. I want to look at the sea.... I've had a hunger for it all my life, landsmen's hunger. I want to see those palms I've been hearing about and I want to lie on those beaches and rest. Someday I'll do that." She looked at the clock. "Good heavens! Abigail! We'd better pitch in or we'll never be through with this night's work. I want to cut out those jack-o'-lanterns for the party tomorrow."."Humph! A lot of work for mighty small fry." "But Penny's getting the worst of it all. That's why this party has to be right." "The worst of what?" Joanna leaned against the sink. "By the time the others are grown, Sally, Michael... David even, V'll really be set. They'll have the good times, the good clothes. Penny's the one that's doing without, and she's helping me like a grown woman, an' she's only fourteen." Abigail got the pan of apples from the back porch. "Pies first? All right. Don't worry about the party, Joanna. Don't worry." "Tm not." "You're worried as a settin' hen. Remind me to bring over some of my special face cream. Every night I pat it on an' it's just done wonders for my skin, why I says to Henry, I "? Says...: aoe piled the family's gifts to Penny on her breakfast plate. She hurried about the kitchen, mak- JOANNA ing hot cakes and squeezing orange juice. It was strange - - - she'd never wottied before over whether or not Penny would like anything she bought, but today she watched, breath held, to see how Penny would like the yellow sweater she had chosen. Penny lifted the ycllow wool to her shoulders and danced ever to the mirror. "Oh, Mother, you re wonderful! How did you know I wanted a new swcater and skirt _,. And ycllow, my favorite color?" "WVell, I thought you looked right pretty in itd Penny turned slowly around. "Pretty? Mother, am I really?" Joanna said softly, "I guess every girl in the world asks that question when she's your age. Yes, Penny, you arc." Penny went in for a last look at the living room. "It looks just adorable. We'll light the jack-o'- lanterns just the minute we get home. It will be dark then. Oh, I can hardly wait to have you mect Connic. She's going to wear her new velvet dress. She told me about it, and it sounds like a dream." After the children had gone, Joanna went to work with a furious intensity. The little house shone. The fragrance from baking cookies 273 and cake poured out upon the autumn air. Joanna worked alone, Abigail's presence made her netvous. She put on her best black dress at three-thirty, and remembered to put lipstick on her pale mouth. She went to the front windows. Abigail was supposed to invite Michael and Sally for dinner. David was going to a movie. Joanna wondered at the thick pounding in her throat. She saw them coming down the street, Penny in the center, the other gitls crowding around her. The girl on the right had smooth yellow hair under a tiny fur beret. She wore a smart blue coat with a collar that matched her hat. That must be Connie. Joanna watched the gitl's face when she saw Penny's house. She saw the delicate brows raise, and the gentian eyes slide to the girls around her. "Is this yours?" Joanna watched Penny's eyes move screnely to the front door. "Yes, and there's Mother. Come on, everybody, Ict's hurry." Connie held back for a moment. And like a band of muddled sheep, the others were stemmed. Penny ran ahcad of them and waited impaticntly on the porch. "Hurry! Hurry!". (To be continued ) Easter-Lily Bloom Julene J. Cushing I have seen the sunset tint at dawning, And heard the twilight songs the warblers sing, ] have felt the pride of trees' first leafing, And in an April wind have tasted spring. I have known the peace of rain's soft falling, And from the wet, sweet grass, breathed earth's perfume, And in my garden there was heaven waiting, Today I found an Easter-lily bloom! ones Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Florence Maller AUSTRALIAN MISSION, PERTH BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, September 24, 1948 First Counselor Florence Maller is shown at one of the booths prepared for this unusual and very beautiful exhibit. Included in the displays were dolls, sea-grass baskets, stools, children's wear, crochet work, hand embroidery, and many novelties, including toy animals. Particularly useful, as well as beautiful, were the colorful aprons and tablecloths. This active branch, "the most isolated in the world" (According to Sister Maller), is very devoted to all phases of Relief Society work. The Perth Branch was the first in the Australian Mission to complete its Building Fund quota, which was raised through personal donations and a most successful concert. Many of the Perth sisters travel long distances to attend their meetings and find much satisfaction in Relief Society work to reward their efforts. Sister L. Macmillan is president of the Perth Branch Relief Society and Sister H. Glass is second counselor. Blanche K. Richmond is president of the Australian Mission Relief Society. Page 274; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 275 Photograph submitted by Grace McPeak NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, SANTA ROSA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS, November 8, 1948 Left to right: President Agnes Gross; First Counselor Mary S. Sanders; Second Counselor Ada M. Wilson; Secretary-Treasurer Grace McPeak. These officers have recently been released and new ones appointed. Mary S. Ellsworth is president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Clare K. Claridge MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE, LORDSBURG (NEW MEXICO) WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, November 7, 1948 Seated, left to right: Margaret B. Speer; First Counselor Edith B. Bradberry; Elva B. Hatch of Roswell, New Mexico. Standing, left to right: Ruth B. Barnes; Orpha B. Nally; Leta B. Harwood; Lucille B. Bailey. A special feature of this conference was the honoring of Sister Edith B. Bradberry, an outstanding Relief Society officer and a well-loved member of the community, and the mother of six daughters who helped to furnish music for the conference. Erma M, Stewart is president of Mount Graham Stake Relief Society. 276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 Photograph submitted by Vera H. Mayhew BERKELEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA), EAST RICHMOND WARD CHRISTMAS PARTY, December 21, 1948 This party was a particularly happy and well-planned occasion, with appropriate seasonal decorations, refreshments, and a Christmas program. Officers of East Richmond Ward Relief Society are: President Candus McDaniel; First Counselor Della Chester; Second Counselor Ruth Yancy; Secretary Beatrice Brough. Vera H. Mayhew is president of Berkeley Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Nadine Brown NEBO STAKE (UTAH), PAYSON THIRD WARD SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED AT THEIR CHRISTMAS CANTATA, December 1948 Front row, seated, left to right: Pamela Huber; Nellie Bannister; Second Counselor Fern Williams; President Isabelle Millett; First Counselor Ida Reece. Second row, seated, left to right: Helen Cowan, Vida Moore; Pearl Blain; Dolly Simmons; Elda Day; May Bishop.. Third row, seated, left to right: Sarah Tanner; Ann Wilson; Naomi Tew; Hazel Baird; Elma Peck; Iva Chase; Della King. Back row, standing, left to right: Iris Amos; Hazel Manwill; Elsie Eckersley, organist; Ramona Smith, pianist; Ruth Walton; Julene Pans; Zenda Jones. ~ This chorus has presented three Christmas cantatas and two Easter cantatas, and, in addition, they have served the community and the ward in many meetings, entertainments, and on other occasions. ' Nadine Brown is president of Nebo Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 277 SR: Photograph submitted by Alligee L. Anderson JUAB STAKE (UTAH), NEPHI FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR December 9, 1949 Left to right: work committee members, Ruby Cox, Ireta Park, and Ruth Wells; work mecting leader Elnora Foote; assistant Secretary-Treasurer Lucille Lunt; First Counselor Pearl Jenkins; President Alligee L. Anderson; Second Counselor Kate Haynes; Secretary-Treasurer Mayme Kendall. The photograph shows only part of the many beautiful aprons, quilts, rugs, and many other articles which were very carefully made for this bazaar, one of the most successful ever held in the ward. Lua L. Stephenson is president of Juab Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Josephine S. Bird UTAH STAKE, PROVO SIXTH WARD CELEBRATES A CENTURY OF SETTLEMENT IN UTAH VALLEY Ten Former Relief Society Presidents Wearing Authentic Pioneer Costumes. Seated, left to tight: Phoebe Smoot; Inez Menlove; Frances Callahan; Eliza C. Nelson. Standing, left to right: Violet Stevens; Martha Brimhall; Marion Johnson; Fay Loveless; Rosalind Oakley; Priscilla Jensen. Sister Nelson was the first president in this group and Sister Brimhall the most recent past president. Zola Sandgren is now the ward Relief Society president. Josephine S. Bird is president of Utah Stake Relief Society. Es 278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949. A F r; —_—a a 7 ee.: — Oe; ja eee = Photograph submitted by Ellen C. Toombs NORTH BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH), BRIGHAM CITY THIRD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT A SOCIAL, July 13, 1948 Left to right: Secretary Ellen C. Toombs; President Rose Young; Second Counselor Mildred Rasmussen; First Counselor Laura E. Zundel. Lucille L. Wight is president of North Box Elder Stake Relief Society. > rs la ttAll ET ene Photograph submitted by Hilda H. Bringhurst ZION PARK STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS PLAY "THE BRIDE'S INVITATION" Annual Fall Convention 1948 In the photograph the mother, at the right, represents the Relief Society organization. She is telling her daughter, the bride, who represents all young women, the values of Relief Society and The Relief Society Magazine. As various phases of the program were discussed by the mother, the pages of the Magazine opened to reveal these activities. About sixty-five people participated in the play which was written by Elda N. Jepson of Hurricane. The poems, and the songs, which were sung by the Singing Mothers, including the music, were all composed by members of Zion Park Stake: "The Bride's Invitation" Elda N. Jepson "A Tribute to the Visiting Teacher"..................:0-0cesesesseo---Roma W. Stout "Joy of Living.............. Words by Partha Jackson and music by Dixie Harrison "Song of Praise"............ Words by Camilla Judd and music by Mildred Sanders In the above photograph the mother is represented by Josephine Sandburg, and the bride by Mary Helen Tweedie. Hilda H. Bringhurst is president of Zion Park Stake Relief Society. 279 WESTERN S TATES MISSION Grand Junction ( Colorado) Relief Socie Officers and Magazine Representative: Arva Algood, Magazine TepreSentative.: ile my huseleven days hunting deer, ] time hunting su he Relief Socie aazine, J sold N and found an wa P. Child is President of the West. €rn States Mission Relie, t ig NORWEGIAN MISSION, STAVANGE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETy OFFICERS Seated, left to tight President Aagot Wersland and ™Issionary Laura [., Christen sen, ond Ounselor A]; Tun Dag land; ertha Kloogh The Officers ang visiting teachers have remodeled o] nd sewed new Suits g dresses They have also Cn instructed 0 making woog fiber flowers fo h TOW desire a Course in American ¢ okin L L em." Standing, ft to ight: Bor aret M eterson Preside t, Norweg; @Ctivities oF this Tanch; "tT: €S€ sisters recently made their firs¢ quilt f, tained fro etta Reiersen; Gunhild Reiersen Sec Mission Relief Society, Teports the Pleces oh the ¢ ¥Y Woolen mj ls. Both Sides were Pleced, as Ining j NOt available 280 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 Photograph submitted by Luise Petersen NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION, ST. PAUL (MINNESOTA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, November 1948 Seated, left to right: President Luise Petersen; First Counselor Laura Koutz; Second Counselor Jeanette Jesse; Secretary Bertha Stewart. Note the beautifully designed quilts in the background and the plain and fancy aprons. Embroidered pillowcases, crocheted hot pads, toys, tea towels, guest towels, and many other well-made articles were displayed, making an unusually successful bazaar. Laura M. Hawkes is president of the North Central States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Nina Callister EMIGRATION STAKE (UTAH), STADIUM VILLAGE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MANY PROGRAMS TITROUGHOUT THE SALT LAKE CITY REGION Front row, seated, left to right: Chorister Nina Callister; organist Irene Bartschi; chorus president Alene Schofield; secretary Lois Livingston; vice-president Katherine Bradford; Iris Heap; Carol Bitner. Second row, seated, left to tight: Virginia Ivins; Jane Lee; Margaret Talbot; Beth Taylor; Shirley Howarth; Fern Wilson; Verna Mae Burnett; Dana Woodbury. Back row, standing, left to right: Evelyn Lawrence; Delsa Anderson; Marjorie Holman; Margaret Richards; LaReah Toronto; Jeanne Olson.: NOTES FROM THE FIELD 281 These young women, whose ages range from twenty to thirty-one, are wives of _ veterans attending the University of Utah. They are all mothers, with one to three children. Sister Callister, in reporting the activities of this ambitious group, says: "In many places the young mothers drop out of Church activity because of overwork with the new child, but the Stadium Village mothers care well for their children and daddy takes over after classes on the night when mamma is 'singing out.' The chorus _ meets weekly in the village at the home of Margaret Richards." Mildred Dyer, not in the picture, is the president of this Relief Society. Winniefred Manwaring is president of Emigration Stake Relief Society. Gighty-Seventh Birthday Nan S. Richardson This is my birthday, without consideration— I'm eighty-seven years, no exaggeration; I don't feel very old, optimistic observation, I don't feel very young, this needs some explanation. But I'm happy, looking forward with great anticipation For better days to come in this last dispensation. <>< Thunderstorm (Continued from page 238) YRA stopped suddenly, all the © bitterness and anger gone. And she was sick with realization 'of what had happened. She saw Bob swallow. He said quietly, "We sounded just like the Hendcrsons." Myra pushed open the front screen and ran down the steps. She heard the door slam, Bob's voice, "Myra!" He was running, and he musn't run! By the Henderson's fence she swung around to face him. She heard a voice say affectionately, "There. Here's a cushion for your back, Nonnie." "Thanks, dear." Mr. And Mrs. Henderson were sitting close together in the lawn swing, so close Myra could have reached her hand through the feathery shrubbery and touched them. They were drinking lemonade. Bob reached Myra. He said, "Honey—" And then stopped, fascinated, too, by this new picture of the Hendersons. Myra saw Mr. Henderson pat Mrs. Henderson's hand. "Mighty cooling lemonade, Nonnie." Nonnie Henderson looked up at him, a twinkle in her brown eyes. "Not near as cooling as that hose would have been this morning, if you hadn't moved!" "Would you a'squirted on me? Really?" "T sure would of, if you hadn't moved." The old man chuckled. Noticed I moved quick." Nonnie Henderson bent over and kissed him gently on the cheek, and the lawn swing swung contentedly back and forth. Myra felt Bob take hold of her arm, pilot her up the street. "What do you know!" he whispered. "Their quarrels don't mean anything. They "You 282 are just thunderstorms to clear the air. You can see they are nuts about each other." "Oh, Bob, I was going to be so noble." "Sure. Me, too. Noble Bob, a hero to the end with never a gripe, never a cross word to the little woman. But people aren't noble, honey. They're just poor humans bristling with annoying habits." "T didn't really mean it, about getting a job." "Why not, honey? That is, for awhile. I think that's what you need. Maybe for just half a day. You could bring the groceries home and I could fool around in the kitchen fixing meals," Yes, alone in the kitchen, Bob could manage very well. "I'd never leave you alone!" "Okay, so I'd be alone a half day, so what? I'd have enough to keep me busy—looking after my canaries." "Your canaries!" "Yeah. I'm going to raise canaries to sell. Fellow in the hospital gave me those magazines and I've been studying up on them, trying to decide." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 Myra went on a mental tour of their small house. "You could have them in the basement." "Basement!" Bob said indignantly. "Basement'd be too damp. The glassed-in porch would be just the ticket. Even temperature. Lots of sunshine." Myra's mind tried dizzily to adjust to the future and a front room full of warbling canaries. "Th-that's a grand idea. Is there money in it, Bob?" "You bet!" Bob's voice was enthusiastic for the first time in months. "This fellow was telling me, over a period of time, his brother made enough money to pay for his home. I figure...." "Enough—" the words came out thick, "enough to someday afford a baby?" Bob pulled her hand through his arm and patted it. "You bet. Darned soon! 'That's why I said work at the book shop, but only for a little while. Until I get this canary business going. Okay?" Myra's small world righted itself and began to turn, crazily, stormily, but happily. "Okay, Bob," she echoed. > Through the Darkness (Continued from page 244) profile, and she saw the tears glistening on his lashes; and his lips were moving silently. Instinctively, she knew they were saying a prayer. And she had thought he didn't care enough! A deep peace crept over her. And a new strength, a strength of faith and hope, one that she had lost for awhile, but which Larry had carried through the darkness. She turned and walked noiselessly to the window and looked out at the bright autumn day. Wet branches shook their dripping leaves gently. "Becky!" She felt Larry's hand on her shoulder. "You were gone so bright and early. I didn't even hear you. When did you get up?" She turned and smiled up at him. "Oh, I got up when it was still dark." THROUGH THE DARKNESS she said brightly. "But look, Larry, isn't it a lovely day?" He looked at her quickly and a broad grin spread over his face. "Uh-huh," he said and squeezed her shoulders in his arms. "Maybe it's nice enough we could even go dancing tonight. Do you think?" "Maybe," she said and _ slipped her arm through his. -- The Boy There (Continued from page 228) forty had risen to the top of the bank on either side and threatened to spill over. But Pa had only laughed at that. He wanted to stop working and go back to the house. It would be easy to find excuses for coming in. He could go to the attic room and he would be safe. He thought of his father, and it was like the pressure of a steadying hand on his shoulder. He took a firmer grip on the shovel handle. He began working quickly as though there was no fear in him. He kept reminding himself of the look there would be in Pa's eyes if he should know his son had quit, left a job unfinished. Feverishly he worked for what seemed a long time, never once looking to the east nor at the dark sky above him. He kept saying, "T've got to get this done. It's my job." The moisture in the air had changed to actual rain now. He felt the drops, large and cool, against his forehead, on his bare arms, through his shirt that was already clinging to his small body. The 283 Announcement am NYLON UNDERWEAR Men and Women NOW AVAILABLE Write for Particulars SALT LAKE KNIT 36 South Main at. \ Ne THE BOOK OF GUIDE BOOK BY VERLA BIRRELL This book classifies, compiles and indexes THE ACTUAL CONTENTS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON Archeology. Geography, Customs, Ete. Facilitates teaching, research. And study Send for your copy nowl MAIL A COPY TO YOUR MISSIONARY Bound in Black or Jade $5.00 DESERET BOOK CO.—Z. C. M. I.—BOOKCRAFT Salt Lake City, Utah a__f__b_ te tote te te te te te te te te, 28 Charts 6 Maps 284 AT THE CLICK OF A SWITCH Electricity does it better, faster and at low cost. GO ALL-ELECTRIC BUY FROM YOUR DEALER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS.. When you come to CONFERENCE visit our store for your musical needs. Choral—3 part and all other types of music GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main St. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 darkness around him was suddenly streaked by lightning and there followed a crash of thunder which seemed to split the sky open. There was another rumble in the distance. For a moment he thought it was thunder, but there was no lightning now and, instead of rumbling to silence, the roar seemed to grow louder and loudcr, scemed to come closer. The smell in the air was of mud and wecds and of water rushing forward, gathering speed and horrible powcr. He wondcred bricfly about the Jones family. Then, instinct, that neither reasoned nor was afraid of consequences, made him throw the shovel to the ground and start running, instinct that was life itself running for safcty, not toward the Jones house but toward the side of the valley where his father's and mother's house stood for everything that was safe and sure. The lightning flashed oftener now and the thunder almost shut out that other steady, awful roar. He must go faster, faster... Faster. If his Pa were only here he would not be afraid. He would put him on his shoulder and in a few, long strides they would be on the slope; they would be on top of the hill looking down upon this terror instead of being a part of it. His breath seemed to be dragging the life out of him, each breath came harder, making his side and his shoulder hurt, making his thin legs tremble beneath him and his heart pound. He couldn't go very much farther but he must... Must.. Must. He could see the water now like some great animal in the THE BOY THERE distance moving toward him, belching foam and slime and death. He thought, briefly, if I lie down with my face to the ground it will all be over ina hurry. It won't hurt much. Then he looked up. He saw something like the face of God. He saw his father and Tip on the upland, coming toward him. His father was calling loudly, "Hurry, boy, [P2 hurry! E saw Tip leaping and barking like one possessed; he thought he saw the look in Pa's. Face, and suddenly he became as light as the | thistle he had often held in his hand for the wind to whisk away. His feet that had dragged before were winged things, carrying him forward, until his father was meeting him on the slope, was liftin him above the roar and chaos of the flood waters that lapped greedily over the place where, a moment before, he had been. He. Was safe. Safe against the | warm, firm shoulder that smelled | of sweat and man. He could hear the loud clap-clap of his father's heart against his own. He closed his | eyes fora moment. Then he heard | Tip making strange noises... But | there was no reason for him to yip | now, no reason to bark so frantic- | ally. He looked at Pa and Pa answered | the question in his eyes with the | words, "He's caught in some weeds. The flood's got him." "Tip," Denny cried, wiggling to | get down. "I gotta get him, Pa. I | got in Once down, he started toward the | slope where the dog was entangled in briar bushes and the limb of a tree. A few large rocks formed a 285 "BUY LINES" familiar to thrifty homemakers everywhere EARS ROEBUCKAND CO. REG pay 2 we THe RIGHT way Tis TO Say ¥ Women, oe =| IMTIMare APPaRg, Since 1883... » Pembroke's has earned the patronage and goodwill of all the Intermountain West through a com-, plete assortment of the finest quality. And the greatest willingness to please... Trademarks that have always made shopping at Pembroke's a pleasure whether your needs are ® Social and Commercial /| Stationery ®@ Office Furniture ® Greeting Cards and Gifts ® Writing Needs and Art 'Supplies DP Gobx malt: _ STATIONERY, GIFTS and a OFFICE SUPPLIES 24 East Third South » Dial 4-8424 286 Mormon Architecture Edited by Joseph H. Weston. Fine book containing 103 large pictures of tempies ' and outstanding chapels of the Church. I, and board binding. $6.00 postpaid. These Amazing Mormons! By Joseph H. Weston. A newspaperman's best selling description of the L. D. S. People. Paper bound, $1.00 postpaid. Where Do Ideas Come From? By Joseph H. Weston. A philosophical essay that is gaining in popularity. Paper bound, 50c postpaid. Pictures of the Temples Beavtiful 10 x 15 inch pictures of L. D. S. Temples, mounted on white matboard, suitable for hanging on wall of office, Relief Society room, or home. Each picture 75c postpaid. Specify name of temple desired. Complete set of eight pictures priced at $5.00 postpaid. WESTON PUBLISHING CO. 660 S. State SALT LAKE CITY 2, UTAH in OE, Ee a A Professional | Giant Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 23 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 cove that for the moment prevented him from going forward with the heaving torrent. His father's hand on his shoulder stopped him. "You can't do it, Denny. The hill's slippery. One misstep and you'll be a goner. Come on boy. We'll git you another dog." His voice was gentle, his touch was kind. Denny started to turn, blindly, then he looked at the dog, saw the mute trust in his eyes, heard the expectant whine. Denny said, "You weren't scared of bein' drowned when you and him run out to get me. I gotta save him, Pa." Unconsciously, he had been seeking means and ways. Now, without stopping, he ran toward the trunk of a tree on the edge of the hill, climbed it and, with the agility of a cat, was out on the longest limb. He was soon near the end of it. It was going down beneath his weight, nearer and nearer to the water. Once, twice, he reached out for Tip, only to miss him. The third time, he cried, "Here, 'Tip. "Heré, old boy." The dog seemed actually to stretch itself upward to meet the hand that was ready to close upon his fur, to lift him to safety. Holding the dog carefully, Denny moved slowly backward on the limb. His father was there to lift the two of them with the largest, gentlest hands in the whole world, he guessed. They reached the house. Ma kissed him again and again, then put him to bed and spooned hot milk into his mouth, though he protested stoutly that he was all nght and wanted to stay up. Pa, stand- THE BOY THERE ing at the foot of the bed, told him, "Mind yer Ma, now. That's good for what ails you." He must have fallen asleep, for when he opened his eyes he was alone in the room and the shades were drawn against the sunlight, which had returned as swiftly as it had gone. Tip was lying beside the bed. As Denny lifted his head, the dog's ears came up, his tail thumped the floor, his body quivered for recognition. Denny turned down the clean sheet and his hand went down to tangle in the damp fur of the dog's neck, "Good old Tip," he whispered, "good boy." Lying back again, he reached over with his free hand to pull the shade from the window. Outside, he could see the trees just as he remembered them... Real and sure. From the other room he could hear his parents talking. His Pa was saying, "Yes, the boy there had a close call, mighty close, Ma." And after a strange silence during which the boy heard his father clear his throat and make a sound like a choked, unwilling sob, the man went on, "Ma, he's a fine, upstanding lad.. LT..0...." His voice broke again. Denny felt his heart leap against his ribs. Tenderness rose in him as the flood waters had risen in the valley. When he was younger—yesterday, perhaps —he would have wept. Now, he felt ashamed of tears, of his own, of his father's. Suddenly, he understood many things, mostly about his Pa. His only sign of the emotion within him was the tightening of his fingers in the dog's damp fur, a rather husky whisper to the dog, 287 SEER ERBSERERBSERESER RRR SR ERR GE © BE) LADIES' THREE-PART SONGS for your Mothers Day Program 116476 Little Mother of Mine Page 2 ee -20 M-O-T-H-E-R Johnson 22. = 20 Mother Rubinstein-Nordman...... 18 Mother Beloved Dunlap ooo. 18 567 Mother's Lullaby Senob AS 2W1016 Mother Machree Ball oo. Eee 15 3168 Mother O' Mine Tours 2. LS 181 My Mom Donaldson ___....... AS 516 Song of May (lemoagin: ing Song for Mothers) Asper W000. Ee 15 3118 Songs My Mother Taught Me Dvorak-Stickles _....... 15 14687 Songs My Mother Taught Me Dvorak oo 10 We specialize in music for L. D. S. Choral groups of all types. Write for information. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. You are cordially invited to visit our store during Conference so that you may see our complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home and school: our Steinway and Lester pianos; orchestra and band instruments: records; and musician's accessories. SWwWeeuweeeeeeewenw eee ee eee OIRST OF ALL—RELIABLITY SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAN From lear and Sar (Address comments for "From Near and Far" to Relief Society Magazine, 28 Bishop's Idg., Salt Lake City 1, Utah) The authors of Our April short Stories Norma Wrathall, author of "Grantsville are already wel] known to Teaders of the and the Desert," hasbeen 4 Contributor agazine, to The Relief Society Magazine since Christie Lund Coles, author of "The 1941. Her Story "All That Glitters Mes awarded first Plze in the 1943 short sto Boy There," will be remembered for contest and her latest story Seen j €T" was 2) q A Heritage (April 1946—January 1947), Mrs. Wrathall, the Mother of fon, chil. For her Many exquisite frontispiece Poems, dren, has Tecent} Moved from Grants. Her outstanding short Stories, and par. Ville to Murra Uta Th Snow Poem Contest in, 3. Mrs, Owned h 8. Wrathall's © 18 the wife of F * Coles, Proyo I enjoy the Magazine so much and wish Utah, and the mother of g teen-age daughto express WY admiration for Anna Prince ter Christie Caroline. Redd for the efforts she put forth in get- " * ting Material for those Stories about the Mary Ek Knowles, author of Thunder. Settling of Arizona localities and her art storm," 3 member of Ogden' 7 i; i c. Es Writers SToup, was dwarded first Prize in should not be forgotten. Also, J do ap. The Relief Society Short Story Contest in Preciate Materia] submitted by Alice Mor. 2945 and third pnze in 1944. Mrs, rey Bailey anq others. The Stories of Pio- &: L. He - Publications "She is the Mother of three lished in the Magazine iS. Very high type, children, a daughter, and two young sons. Or so | appraise it, Also, she finds time to S€rve as President —Evelyn C. Lej h, Los Angeles, Calif. Of the Twenty-thirg Ward, Y. W. M. LA, Se 0 Hazel King Todd, Jetome, Idaho, author Society here in Pago Pago, and I would of = "Through the Darkness,» is the like to tell the ther Women al] the nice Every Good Book You Read Enriches You On the Way to Immortality and Eternal LifeaS |$3.50 By President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. A. Historical exposition of the background out of which the Gospel was restored, showing the need for the restoration of the way to immortality and eternal life The Vitality of Mormonism _...............$2.50 By James E. Talmage This popular collection of classical essays on Gospel themes from the incomparable pen of a scholar and master is in great demand Joseph Smith, An American Prophet _..$3.25 By John Henry Evans An ever popular expository biography designed to help non-Mormons understand and appraise Joseph Smith fairly and accurately DESERET BOOK COMPANY OFFICIAL PUBLISHERS AND DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers 44 East South emple Street Salt Lake City 10, Utah U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 HIL-N V-6-1734 CHOICE GIFTS For Special Occasions — Birthdays and Wedding Anniversaries Recognition Remembrances to Relief Society Officers and Visiting Teachers "WIST YE NOT THAT | MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS 2" The Visit of Jesus to the Temple at Twelve Years of Age BY President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. An invaluable reference book on temple ceremonies and sacrifices in the time of Christ. With illustrations. $1.50 postpaid. All rights and royalties assigned to Relief Society. - & THE OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN Blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid gold front with 24 carat gold-plated back. Bearing the motto and seal of Relief Society. (Postpaid) = $1.20 me TEMPORARY BINDERS FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Substantial temporary binders, into which single copies of the Magazine for one year may be inserted or removed at will. Reduced to $1.00 postpaid. SEND ALL ORDERS TO GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - Marianne C. Sharp - Velma N. Simonsen - Margaret C. Pickering - Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Lillie C. Adams Ethel C. Smith Louise W. Madsen Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - = S 2 $ - - - Associate Editor - - - - 2 = 7. General Manager - - - = c - 7. President First Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Josie B. Bay Alta J. Vance Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen - Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford - Belle S. Spafford No. 5 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Our Responsibility to Inactive Members Civil Liberty Today Velma N. Simonsen 291 G. Homer Durham 299 American Cancer Society Volunteers Bertha Hare Long 305 Planning the Work Meetings Leone G. Layton 307 FICTION A Pattern for Christine Dorothy J. Roberts 294 You Might Have Waited Fay Tarlock 302 Joanna—Chapter 5 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago Margery S. Stewart 312 308 Woman's Sphere Editorial: Magazine Subscriptons for 1948 Ramona W. Cannon 309 Not in the Abundance of the Things Which He Possesseth'"'... -Marianne C. Sharp 310 The Magazine Honor Roll for 1948 Marianne C. Sharp 320 324 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Bazaars, Socials, and Other Activities........ Ccsc: csccssceeo From Near and Far General SecretaryTreasurer, Margaret C. Pickering on FEATURES FOR THE HOME Luncheon Cloths for the Making Braided Rugs—New-Fashioned Rachel K. Laurgaard 316 Drucilla S$. Howard 317 Table Settings and Flower Arrangements: Handle With Gloves Entertaining the Bride a. Mary Grant Judd 318 Ivie H. Jones 344 POETRY This Happy Land—Frontispiece Nyal W. Anderson 289 Mothers of Destiny Shuttles of Life Christie Lund Coles 293 Ruth Harwood 293 Pansy Faces Zara Sabin 298 Formula Anna Prince Redd 306 Released to Spring.......... Midas and the Five Senses.............. Lilacs After Ragin 20............ Cccescsceesecccecseeesecennees 2.... C. Cameron Johns 311 'Eva Willes Wangsgaard 31} Jeanette P. Parry 311 Spring Planting Dawn LeRoy Burke Meagher 317 Evelyn Fjeldsted 317 Rainbow Land 00.22... A.-- Marvin Jones 344 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial] Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Kenew prompt! Y so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. Achsa E. Paxman Mary G. Judd Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Vol. 36 Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Leone O. Jacobs MAY, 1949 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Shis Happy Land Nyal W. Anderson I looked across the richness of a world of wheat That lay a sun-drenched patchwork in the heat, Beheld an opaque blueness in the sky And listened as archaic oaks began to sigh Like patriarchs against the wind. I stood and watched as sultry summer fled With but a backward tilting of her head To shake the emerald oak leaves from her hair As autumn caught them changing, pair by pair, Into a scarlet tambourine. I watched as fields were stripped of harvest gold, And, stretching out my arms that I might hold The waning beauty of this magic land, I found instead a snowflake in my hand That melted in the wind. Cold blew the herald winds on trumpets white As winter kidnapped autumn in the night, And cloaking her within his ermine stole, Entombed the gypsy maiden's soul Within his glittering diadem. And then across the silvered silence of the land I saw a thousand sunlit bridges spanned, And laughed, defiant, when the sapphired king Threw down his melting crown to spring, A river in the wind. And as I watched her, lilac-scented, fair, Weave violets and crocus in her verdant hair, I once again outstretched each empty hand That I might, always, so embrace this happy land Beneath the wind. [Note: This poem was awarded first place in a contest conducted in the winter quarter 1949 by the Wye Magazine, Brigham Young University literary publication, and is reprinted by permission.—Ed.] The Cover: 'Candles of Our Lord" (Yucca whipplei), Photograph by Josef Muench. VOL. 36, NO. 5 MAY 1949 "ae d Josef Muench CALIFORNIA POPPIES (Eschscholtzia californica) Our Responsibility to Inactive Members Counselor Velma N. Simonsen [Address delivered at the annual general Relief Society conference in the Tabernacle on Thursday afternoon, September 30, 1948.] HIS is one of the great mo ments of my life to stand in this historic building and, before this great body of Relief Society sisters, bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel and to the blessings of the Relief Society work to the women of the Church, and to the women of the whole world who will accept of its blessings and its opportunities. When Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society he said: "I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth." Later on he said if the women would live up to their privileges that the angels could not be restrained from being their associates. When he turned the key he opened the door for such a flood of blessings to flow down upon womankind that it is beyond our power to comprehend the greatness of those blessings. There is a French quotation that says: "Noblesse oblige," which might be expressed, "where much is given, much is expected." Yesterday, and especially _ this morning, we have heard much of the accomplishments of women, and our hearts have rejoiced in this accomplishment. We have given much, but I believe that we have Prophet gave the society later on was to strengthen the communities, and is the need of spirituality. Be truly said that in the world of science and material things, nevet before has man aimed so_ high, planned so profoundly, or achieved so splendidly. The wildest dreams of our forefathers are commonplace realities to us today, and yet, never before have men and nations been less sure of themselves. Never has there been a time when there has been so much doubt and suspicion and fear among men and _ nations, when there has been such a complete lack of the true sense of values, when crimes and disregard for law prevail so genGod as the deliber- 292 So, if there is one Latter-day Saint woman in our community who is not receiving of the strength and the blessings of Relief Society and Relief Society activity in the rearing of her family, we have a responsibility toward her. And how can we prepare ourselves and make sure that we are equal to this responsibility? First, we ourselves must be sure that we are living according to the standards of the gospel, that we have active membership, and active and loyal participation in the organizations of the Church. That is one of the great spiritual losses of today ~—lack of loyalty to worthy causes. How many parents do you know who are heartsick over the waywardness of their children? Most Latterday Saint parents are very anxious that their children be active in the Church and, yet, they fail to realize that what they themselves do and what they say, their inactivity and their disloyalty, are the greatest factors in governing their children's lives. We of the older generation have had the teachings of faithful parents and grandparents to set an example for us. We may become inactive for a time and drift away, but those teachings have been so strong that they cannot be entirely lost, and we return. But what about these children who have seen only the actions of their disloyal parents? AST summer President Smith, talking at an open-air meeting in our stake, told the story of a couple who had a fine Latter-day Saint background who became inactive and drifted away from the Church. In later life they realized RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 what they were missing, and came back, but they found that they could not interest their children in the Church or its ideals. And, as he said, they could repent, but they could not repent for their children. President Grant once said, "Wherever you find a woman who is devoted to the work of the Lord, almost without exception you will find that her children are devoted to it." And Brother Ballard in one of his talks said, "If we live the gospel, there is no power in earth or in hell that can prevail against us. There is NO power or influence greater than the teachings of a good woman. What a promise that is to us who are rearing our families, and what an incentive to bring the gospel, a spiritual awakening, to our inactive sisters. We must be our sisters' keepers and do all in our power to keep alive in their hearts a love of the gospel and a desire to live by its principles. I hope that each of you sitting here today is saying in your heart, what can I do to encourage my sisters, the women whom I know in my ward who are inactive? Maybe you are saying, "I wish she would tell us what we can do to reawaken spirituality in the hearts of our inactive sisters." In this you may be like the old farmer down in Southern Utah who was approached by a book salesman who tried to interest him in buying a book, but he said, "Why, what do I want it for?" And the salesman replied: "It will teach you how to raise better cattle, how to raise better sheep and better crops. It will teach you how to be a much better farmer." And he answered: "] don't want that book. I am not farming as good as I know how now." I wonder, are we doing our spiritual farming as well as we know how? You do not need to be told what to do. Do as well as you know how, and I am sure that you will have wonderful success in bringing these inactive sisters into activity. Let us who are receiving the great blessing of Relief Society and the help that it gives us in Tearing our children, let us show by our living that we are more capable, that we are better, that we are happier for belonging to Relief Society. Let us show that we fee] that it is an honor al and so spiritual that, if we can get the sisters to attend just once, they will feel the strength ization and the hope and the Joy and the faith that active participaWhen I saw this large congregaion, I thought that if each reprewoman in her community in Relief Society, the membership would be increased by many thousands. If increased its membership by just one, that, in itself, would bring an increase of twenty-five hundred sisters next year. It is my Prayer that the Lord wil] bless us with a desire and with the ability to bring into activity our inactive sisters. Mothers of Destiny Christie Lund Coles Mothers of destiny: obly you wore the d Our histories can neve you builded well, oak of motherhood; T fully tell eldingly you stood. Believing always there was solace here, his, then, is the reward for which you gave Your toil, your time, y Yourself.* Solicitous Or gay, or grave, Your Courage and your hope, each Played its part. You gave all things. - but most of all... Your heart, OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO INACTIVE MEMBERS 293 A Pattern for Christine Dorothy J]. Roberts clear her eyes. 'Two large tears rolled slowly down her smooth cheeks, leaving shining trails and forming two jagged pools on the golden oak of her mother's old pedal sewing machine. Other girls had fathers and mothers for times like this. Christine had never known her father, and now Mama, who had always been so close to her, was gone. The surgeon's knife, which was to have assured Mama, after her years of hardship, the quiet span of peace and abundance she deserved, had somehow failed in its not unaccustomed miracle. "So unnecessary," her brothers had mourned, with added incentive for their medic studies. Even her brothers were too far away to be reached, Naaman and Don, two promising medical students at school in New York. A girl needed her mother at a time like this, with only a week to'go. The tiny garment under the machine needle swam in the mottled sunlight, till she could not distinguish seam from placket. Like a jigsaw puzzle, the pieces still refused to fit, though she had worked so long that the shadow of the tall elm had crept across the lawn and now dappled the dimity before her. A sheet of pattern directions still lay, unfolded, on the table beside her. She squeezed the tears from her eyes again. Only, this time, she looked up at the calendar on the side wall. Its young Madonna cuddled an angelic, pink-frocked child. Below, the page said, June Page 294 'Ogres blinked hard to 1920, in broad, black print. The days were all crossed off through the 11th. The 19th was outlined with a neat, blue ink line, carefully drawn around the date. This was marked over with a bold, red penciled circle, irregularly shaded in ted. At the bottom of the page, an amateurs hand had pnnted, Herm. The calendar, too, wavered before her eyes, being replaced by the picture of Dave, her young husband, booming, "That little blue line? There's nothing blue about it. Why, honey, it's a red-letter day, biggest in a lifetime! Our first!" And he had boldly used his red pencil. "But what'll we call it? Can't be just It; it's part of the family." "Oh, Dave, it's got to be a Her or a Him." "Her or Him... Her, Him.... Herm! That's what we'll call it, Herm. Till the nineteenth of June, then it can be—" "Herman Dave" Christine joined in his enthusiasm. "Or Hermione Chnistine." He picked her up in strong, young arms and laid her gently on the couch, then returned to the calendar and printed Herm, at the bottom of the page. Some of the bitterness spilled out of Christine in two more tears. "Oh, Mama, Mama!" The small garment before her blurred out of all recognition, and with it the years dissolved, twelve of them.... Eee % GHE was seven, Donnie five, Naaman eight, and Mama—oh, A PATTERN FOR CHRISTINE Mama was sweet and gay and kind and ageless. They were on the long back porch of their small home in the kindly, country town. The old washer sang rhythmically, 'Kerbump-sp-lash, ker-bump-sp-lash," as Naaman swung the lever back and forth, back and forth. Donnie, standing on a crude homemade stool, clung tenaciously to the lever handle, below Naaman's_ hands. "What makes you so ambitious?" asked Naaman, scowling at Donnie's persistence. "I want to help, too," Donnie shrilled his reply. Mama swirled more bluing balls through the rinsing water of the tubs between Christine and _ her, then grasped the handle of the old wringer, fastened to the washing bench. She turned slowly, as Christine fed the clothes through from the first tub. "Oh, Mama, Mrs. Boyne has such pretty pillowslips. Look at this one." A spray of lilacs grew above the hemline of the slip she held up. "It's nice to be handy with the needle," said Mama. "Things like that can grow out of idle afternoons and sitting, of an evening. I'm going to start you on that little piece with the French knots the first night I get caught up with my ironing." A sputtering noise came from the kitchen as Mama wrung the last piece through. "The boiler!" She ran to the stove. "Naaman, dear, please help Mama out with the boiler." With Naaman gone, the dasher, under Donnie's hand alone, almost ceased to turn. Mama and Naaman set the boiler on the porch. Mama lifted the clothes out with 295 a long stick, delightedly. "They are white today. That last batch of soap we made was the mght recipe, at last." "After they're blued, they look pretty as shadows on the snow," Christine observed. "They're beautiful," Mama _ enthusiastically agreed. The washer was thythmically splashing again. One basketful was ready to hang. "Mama," Naaman glared down at the top of Donnie's head, and rolled his eyes upward suggestively. Mama nodded, and called to him, "Donnie, would you like to be a man and help Mama hang?" Donnie left the washer and skipped over to her. "Let me wear the clothespins." She tied the faded embroidered bag around his chest. He reached into the big, bulging pockets and handed her the pins. Christine could hear the spank of the clothes as Mama shook them out smooth. The alarm clock on the bench rang. Christine shut it off. "T'wenty minutes, Naaman. There's only one washerful left." "Lucky day! My arm's stiff." "Well, Pl turn the wringer while you feed." "Say, Chris, I've got a new hiding place for tonight when we play Run, Sheep, Run." "You couldn't have. Tell me." "Can't. The captain might not choose us on the same side. But I've got it all figured out." "Now just the socks." Christine gingerly picked up the socks, one at a time, in two fingers, and dropped them into the machine. "Well, Mrs. Boyne is all cleaned up," announced Naaman, and flung 296 himself into the shade of the apple tree at the corner of the porch. "All clean," echoed Donnie, doing the same. Christine rested in the swing, her feet dangling on the cracked cement. The quiet of their little world and the coolness of the shade enveloped her in the old peace again. Mama soon came out with a basket of clean, ironed clothes. A dish towel was spread across the top and tucked in at the sides. "Whose is that load, Mama?" "Sister Nolte's. And here, Naaman, put Sister Nolte's dollar in this little purse when she pays you, and be sure to snap it closed before you put it into your pocket." Then she brought a plate with bread and jam, three pieces. "And here is a slice each, with my new pottawatomie jam on, for my workmen." "J want the white piece," shouted Donnie, helping himself to the top slice. Naaman and Christine put the basket on Naaman's wom wagon, Naaman pulling, and Christine holding the basket steady. When Christine looked back, Donnie was giving Mama a hug. He had the slice in one hand, and the long willow for driving the town cows home from the pasture, in the other. She guessed it was time for Donnie to go; after all, it was a long way to the town pasture, and the shadows were long on the wide, unpaved road before them. She knew it made Donnie feel important to earn his bit that way. Ig seemed a long, warm trip to Sister Nolte's. "Hold the gate back farther, Christine, this load's wider than the basket." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 They turned the handle, shrilling the doorbell fastened on the middle of Sister Nolte's door. Sister Nolte opened it finally. A pleated white apron edged with lace circled her generous waistline over the maroon alpaca dress with the long sleeves and the immense skirts. Even in June she wore a small, thin, silk-brocaded black shawl around her shoulders. "Ah, you solla bairn. Come in, come in." She patted their heads and smoothed their hair, and helped put the basket on the hall floor. "Come in the parlor and sit." She opened the unused room and a musty odor drifted out. "We'll sit out under the umbrella tree and wait, Sister Nolte. It's cool out there." "All right, if you want. Right out with the money." They sank down under the drooping old tree, their backs against the trunk, Naaman flexed his pocket knife. He flipped it from his elbow, his shoulder, his head. It stood upright in the grass, vibrating. Chnistine searched the grass for a fourleafed clover. The door opened again; a round tray appeared with a large sugar bowl on it made of blue glass with little bubbles here and there, and a wide gold edge and handle. It was heaped with little white cubes of lump sugar. Sister Nolte followed. "A lilla to speece, maybe?" She hovered over them. She gave each a heavy, grooved, red glass tumbler. "Tt is juice from raspberries and currants, mixed." She pressed on them a plate of scalloped cookies with crystallized sugar on top. Ll be A PATTERN FOR CHRISTINE "Oh, thank you, Sister Nolte." "Now you eat." She labored toward the house, calling her husband, "Lilla Chrestian, betta Chrestian!"' "What are the seeds in these cookies?" asked Naaman. "They always taste so funny." "She's from the Old Country, Naaman, and I guess she brought them from there. Funny tasting, though. I'm glad: Mama doesn't use them." Sister Nolte came out with a great package wrapped in papers. "The pig's head, freshly killed and cleaned. I am too gammel this year to take care of it. Maybe Mama can make head cheese? And some sausage; here is some sausage. You like sausage, Naaman?" "Oh, yes, oh, thank you Sister Nolte." "We had to kill early because of Maria's wedding. Oh, such a big wedding. The whole town, near-— ly." "Sister Nolte, Mama is going to give you some of our crab apples for preserves." Christine knew the ways of Mama. "Your Mama iss. Bless your Mama's big, brave heart.' She touched the corner of her eye with her apron. "And the dollar. And for Donnie." She tucked Naaman's pocket full of cookies. Naaman snapped the dollar carefully in the purse and stowed it in his pocket. "Thank you, Sister Nolte, and goodbye." Naaman and Christine each put a knee in the empty wagon and coasted down the hill from the Nolte's. "Put on the brakes," cried Naaman at the base of the hill, dragging his foot. 297 "Here's where we spilled Donnie that day," giggled Christine. "And here's where we found the nickel to pacify him. Let's look in the dry ditch; maybe there's another one. I could use some of that candy.". Christine remembered the treat of spending the whole nickel. "One of these and two of those, no, three of those...." They had pointed through the glass of the wondrous candy counter. "Oh, well, no luck today." Naaman climbed back to the wagon and pushed on across the street. Donnie came around the corner, limping slightly. He swished his willow and the last cow trotted two steps and ambled toward her own corral. "What happened to your foot, shrimp?" Donnie shied away from Naaman. "Nothing. It feels good." "Don't be scared. I've got something for you. A present." "Who from?" "From your best girl," Christine giggled. "Who? I haven't got any." "Guess," Christine commanded. "Trudy." Donnie dug the dust with his toes. "Donnie loves Trudy. Donnie loves Trudy," Naaman sang. "Now we know." Donnie raised the willow switch threateningly. "It's from Sister Nolte, Donnie. Give them to him, Naaman." Donnie tasted the cookies, disappointed. "They taste different." ATER, Mama prepared the supper soup. They knew what kind it would be. It was always the same. (Continued on page 356) Grace TK irton Page 29g how different Now they bravely bloom Gayly flaun Ir t their colors To rid the World of gloom, Thus | tread their m Civil Liberty Today Elder G. Homer Durham Director, Institute of Government, University of Utah T is all too common nowadays to take civil liberty for granted, Our forefathers could afford no such luxurious attitude. Most of the time, most of the people, in most of the world, have been slaves. Greek democracy at Athens was based on Slavery. The Roman world knew little freedom so far as the majority of humankind was concerned. The nineteenth century, true, saw the expansion of civil liberty for significant, large groups of People, but chiefly in western Europe, the United States, and the British Dominions, Indentured servants and slavery in most western countries are now things of the past. Ownership of human beings has ceased to exist, generally, but new forms of control threaten the freedoms that flowered in the nineteenth century, In order that we of the twentieth century may have some appreciation of our general situation, we might consider the facts that in Virginia, in 1625, forty per cent of the population were indentured servants; that thirty-six per cent of the emigrants to Pennsylvania in the 1680's were bond slaves; that a Maryland statute of 1715 authorized not to exceed ten lashes "for any one offense" committed by these indentured founders of our social structure! After a few years most of these servants became free, acquired Property, and established themselves as significant members of society. Slavery, too, flourished in America until the Civil War, numbering, in 1700, about ten per cent of the population. Even among the humanitarian Quakers of Pennsylvania, the lot of the slave was not particularly happy, despite the fact that the leading figures of the abolition movement were eventually numbered among this group. A Pennsylvania statute of 1693 authorized any persons: To take up Negroes, male or female, whom they shall find gadding abroad on the first days of the week without a tick. Et from their master or mistress. To take them to jail, there to remain that night, and that without meat or drink, and to cause them 1 erican Civilization, 1940, page 326), The First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States provides that: assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Together with the following nine amendments, _ this provision constitutes the Federal Bill of Rights. Ese amendments took effect December 1 5 1791, some thirty months after the Inauguration of George Washington under the new Constitution, framed in 1787, ratified in 1788, and put into effect in 1789. The establishment of American Federal union under a written Constitution in 1789 was itself a Page 299 300 significant event for human liberty, even though the original document recognized and consented to slavery and traffic in human beings as property. 'This element, openly recognized in Article I, section 9, of the original Constitution, was supplanted by the Thirteenth Amendment, which, as a consequence of the Civil War, was proclaimed December 18, 1865. The Thirteenth Amendment, section one, declares: Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction. Citizens of the United States today can look at their Federal and state constitutions and read the bases for their civil rights. But these provisions, as suggested by preceding examples, were won, inches at atime. They have found their way into the lives of men and women as the result of centuries of ceaseless struggle. It will require great intelligence and no little activity to perpetuate and enlarge upon them. The same thing can be said of the experience of other nations. HE very idea of a written constitution has a great deal of history behind it. Without probing into antiquity, it can be pointed out that in 1620 the Mayflower Compact of the Pilgrim Fathers constituted a written statement as to their objectives in civil society. In January 1639, the residents of Hartford, Windsor, and Wethersfield, Connecticut, adopted "The Fundamental Orders of Connecticut." More significantly, perhaps, the written corporation charters of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Massachusetts Bay Company, the Virginia Company, the proprietary charters conferred by the British Crown upon the Calverts in Maryland, the Penns in Pennsylvania, and others, were transformed into the forerunners of our modern Constitution. In 1776 the various colonies, in declaring their independence, drew up state constitutions. It was natural, therefore, for the combined colonies to draw up a written charter, the Articles of Confederation, for their loose, American league, whose legal existence extended from 1781 to 1780. This previous constitution-making experience led to the Philadelphia Convention of 1787 which produced the instrument whose legal life commenced in 1789 and continues to the present day. December 15, 1791, stands out in constitutional history as the effective date of the first ten amendments. The Bill of Rights added to the Federal charter the idea that not only should a constitution limit and describe the sphere of government, but that the Constitution should limit the role of government further by describing the sacred sphere of human liberty into which government shall not enter. Incorporated into the Bill of Rights were the significant guarantees declared in the older state constitutions, which in turn, embodied the experience of the race, particularly the tradition of English liberty. English liberty made its strong advances in the century after the founding of Jamestown (1607). Therefore, American liberty is not entirely a re-copy of English experience. It is true, however, that the CIVIL LIBERTY TODAY principle of personal freedom can be traced to Magna Charta (1215). But the Petition of Right (1629), the Habeas Corpus Act (1679), and the Bill of Rights attending the Glorious Revolution of 1688-89, made the principles effective and available for embodiment in the written Constitution peculiar to American experience. Today, in the United States, tights of personal liberty may be classified under two headings: 1. Substantive (in the words of Professors Ogg and Ray), those "pertaining to the fact and essence of freedom." 2. Procedural, "relating to the methods by which freedom is protected." Substantive rights often emerge first. Even if written, as in the Soviet Constitution, substantive rights are meaningless unless accompanied by procedural rights. It is the glory of Anglo-American liberty that our constitutional law not only contains, but generally has expanded, procedural guarantees of substantive rights. The net result, in the United States, is that the individual citizen is surrounded with three layers of legal-constitutional remedies to maintain his liberty: 1. If interfered with by another individual or private group, he has the remedies of the ordinary law, in both Federal and state courts, depending on the nature of the case. 2. If interfered with by a state government, a county, a city, or any other subdivision of a state, he has the remedies of ordinary law, plus the state constitution and its bill of nights, plus those features of the Federal Constitution, particularly the fourteenth amendment, which limit the power of the states 301 ("... Mo state shall pass any law... Depriving any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law''). 3. If the Federal government or any of its instrumentalities, from the army to the post office, interferes with individual tights, the person has recourse to ordinary legal remedies provided by Congress, plus the Bill of Rights and additional safeguards found elsewhere in the Federal Constitution. This system of protections, in law, in state constitutions, and in the Federal Constitution, embraces the following substantive and procedural rights: The substantive guarantees include: 1. Immunity from slavery and involuntary servitude 2. Freedom of religion 3. Freedom of speech and press 4. Right of assembly and petition 5. Right to keep and bear arms 6. Equal protection of the laws 7. The restriction of treasonable offenses to a narrow, constitutionally fixed, maryin The principal procedural guarantees include: 1. The forbidding of bills of attainder (punishment by political legislation without judicial trial). 2. Forbidding of ex post facto laws (criminal legislation enacted after the previously-supposed innocent act was committed ). 3. Guarantee of judicial process by grand jury indictment. 4. The writ of habeas corpus. 5- Trial by jury. 6. Protection of privacy from unreasonable searches and seizures. 7. Due process of law whenever life, liberty, or property are affected. On these hard-won liberties, -incorporated into American constitutionalism, rest the great social, economic, and political advantages of a richly-endowed nation. [This article may be used as supplementary material for Lesson 3 in the Social Science Course for 1949-50—Ed.] You Might Have Waited Fay Tarlock EEING Miss Tyndale again S was just as Nan Kenny had hoped it would be. Miss Tyndale was coming down the flagstone path from her garden, carrying a tin milk pan heaped with gooseberries, her straw hat tilted back from her perspiring forehead. — "Well," beamed Miss Tyndale, her smile deepening the wrinkles in her pleasant face, "this is the best surprise I've had all summer, and look how you've caught me!" She hurriedly set the pan of gooseberries on the path and began smoothing her blue and white gingham apron in a deprecatory manner. "Don't take your apron off, please," Nan called as she came through the white picket gate, pushing her small daughter before her. "Tm going to help you pick the gooseberries." Nan laughed an amused laugh. "It's been so long since I've seen a gooseberry, I'll enjoy doing it." Gooseberries, she thought, had become fashionable. Indeed Miss Tyndale and her picket gate would make good copy for any garden magazine. Nan stood inside the gate, looking with love on Miss Tyndale's tall, spare, and still erect frame and on her face, beautiful in its intelligence and serenity. She's part of the earth, changeless as the seasons, Nan said to herself. Is it escaping the storms of matrimony that has given her this air of tranquility? No, I've known married people to possess the same thing. And think of Page 302 what some of the unmarried ones look like! Why, she was wondering anew as she started up the flagstone path towards Miss Tyndale, has she never married? Sometimes men have no. Sense. The two of them sat on the whitetailed porch. In front of them, and sloping towards the lake, lay the little town, its roofs almost obscured by the summer green. Outside the town were the orchards and fields, lush and rich with the promise of harvest. When a breeze stirred, Nan saw the silver shimmer of the lake beyond the fields. Back of them, and circling the valley, were the mountains, their peaks purple in the afternoon light. Winkie, Nan's toddling daughter, ran shouting on the lawn, stopping now and then to pick a Shasta daisy from the border. "It's beautiful, isn't it?" Miss Tyndale asked, more in worship than for confirmation. Her brown, gnarled fingers snapped off the stem and blossom ends of the berries even as she looked. "There's nothing like it back in New York is there?" She dared Nan to contradict her. "Nothing," sighed Nan blissfully. "That's why I have to come back every chance I get. I wanted to see this as badly as I wanted to show off my daughter." «VE always felt the same way about this town, even when I was a child, not much older than YOU MIGHT HAVE WAITED Winkie," confided Miss Tyndale. She held up a plump gooseberry to the light and polished off a bit of mold with the corner of her blue and white apron. "And it didn't look the same either," she added with one of her deep chuckles. "I remember when I was about five, standing out in the yard in front of our log cabin. There were none of the shade trees and orchards you see now, just a lot of pigpens and corrals too close to the house. But I thought it was beautiful, the most beautiful place in the world, and that my heart would break if ever I had to leave it." She held up another gooseberry, admiring its green perfection. "I always think," she said slowly, "that more importance should be given to the gooseberry. With us it begins the cycle of the harvest." She gave Nan a beseeching smile. "Ill bet you're wondering how an old lady in her eighties has the temerity to be storing up the fruits of the earth." Cutting off Nan's denial, she went on, "Maybe I haven't sense enough to realize that I'm old. But when I stop preparing for the winter, I'm done for. As long as I can store up for gooseberry pies, I'm still part of the living." She scooped up another handful of gooseberries and swiftly snapped off the brown ends. Years before Miss Tyndale had once said, "The present is far too important to me to waste time dishing out the past." But today Nan was hungry for the past and for a more intimate understanding of Miss Tyndale. "You haven't always lived here on the land, have you?" she asked. "T haven't gone too far afield," 303 Miss Tyndale answered, her eyes still absorbing the summer beauty with pride of ownership. "I lived in Provo for a few years, and once I moved to Salt Lake to work in a shop—but that was before you were born." She snapped off another stem with sure fingers. "I've never wanted to live any place but here." "Didn't you mind, when you sold the old house?" Nan asked the question, hoping it was the right one. "Not a bit," Miss Tyndale assured her, "as long as I could live on part of the land. You know," she confessed, a bit of rue in her smile, "that as I get older I understand some things better. I do believe that I inherited the Englishman's passionate love for his land. None of my family, not even my father or my brothers born in England, had it as I do." 'STF you had been truly English you'd still be living in the old house," Nan said nodding to the big, white painted stone house set in a grove of trees a quarter of a mile away from the cottage. "No, I'm typically American," Miss Tyndale declared, a suspicion of conceit in her tone. "I like a raw new. Home with beautiful shining plumbing. But you should see what they've done with the old house." She waved a gooseberry in the air, her eyes bright with interest. "They spent a fortune remodeling it so that it looks like a gentleman's estate. But me, I'm glad to be rid of the old fireplaces and big, cold upstairs." "Yes, you're thoroughly American," Nan teased her. "You have to 304 have everything electric and new." She looked through the open doorway to the familiar living room. It seemed unchanged from the last visit. On the floor were the rugs Miss Tyndale had hooked; the pioneermade secretary was still stuffed with New York Sunday Times; the bookcase with the glass doors shielded the books she wanted to read but seldom did. There was the serving table Miss Tyndale had made from a picture frame and the deep leather chair that had been her father's. Through the rear door Nan could see the electric refrigerator and stove, next to the drop-leaf table made of early Utah pine. "You're English," Nan decided, loath to leave the subject. "You're the reserved type." "Not reserved, shy," Miss Tyndale corrected her. "Why once when I was a child Mother sent me over to Mortenson's to borrow something, and do you know what I did?" Nan shook her head. "When I got into the house, they asked me to sit down. I sat down so frightened I forgot what I came for. At noon when they set the table for dinner they invited me to eat. I knew I should go home, but I didn't know how to refuse. After dinner I went back to my chair. I guess I'd be sitting there now if Mother hadn't sent an older brother after Tie," Miss 'Tyndale's face was momentarily sad, as if after all these years the gaucheries of the child still troubled her. "I can't imagine your being that shy." Nan moved closer to share the same bowl for her cleaned berries. She felt close to Miss TynRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 dale in spirit and wondered if now was the moment to ask her the question she had long wanted answered. She was aware that the moment might not come again. IDN'T you, when you were a girl, ever want to leave this?" she extemporized, moving her hand in an all-inclusive gesture. "I can understand now why it would satisfy, but when I was younger it didn't mean a thing." Miss 'T'yndale's hands were still for the first time, her voice very quiet as she said, "That's one of the reasons I've always admired you, Nan. You weren't afraid to go away on your own. You made a place for yourself and found what you wanted in a strange world. Now, look what you've got." She gestured towards Winkie, busily engaged in stripping a hollyhock. "Of course I wanted to go," she replied, coming back to Nan's question, leaving the gooseberries still idle in her lap, "but I didn't know how to do it." "You should have married someone who would take you away." Nan did her best to give her words a casual sound. "It would have been easy then." Resuming her work, Miss Tyndale smiled. "I don't believe I ever thought of it like that. Anyway, I'd have had to come back sooner or later." She settled comfortably back in her chair and indulged in another of her deep chuckles,"Come to think of it, I might have gone away. I almost had a chance." It was hard for Nan to keep from crowding the edge of her chair. (Continued on page 353) American Cancer Society Volunteers Bertha Hare Long, National Deputy Commander HEN I visited the national headquarters of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I was tremendously impressed with the program of volunteer service which is carried on from year to year by this group of consecrated women. I felt almost as if I were walking on holy ground when I walked through the large board meeting room and viewed the oil portraits of the women who had started and carried forward this service to humanity, as it is still being done. They were women of courage and vision and as each has handed the torch of leadership on to her followers, the same inspiration has been carried along, so that it touches the spirit of even a visitor such as I was. And so I said to myself, what can I tell these women of volunteer services? It is for me rather to learn from them. However, it is true that the Field Army of the American Cancer Society has a splendid record of service to humanity also, and for reasons of information, it is with pleasure that I set down a few of these accomplishments. The American Cancer Society was organized in 1913 by doctors and scientists, with a few laymen, who, motivated by the same unselfish spirit of the great doctors of our nation, wanted to make a concerted effort against the scourge of cancer. They began by surveys, pooling their knowledge, developing a program to increase medical facilities, and to further educate their profession in the nature of this disease. By 1936, they had a very good record of accomplishment, having developed facilities from about thirteen approved hospitals to over 300 approved hospitals and clinics. The great need now was to bring the public up-to-date on the knowledge and information which had been approved by the American Medical Association. There was no money for an educational program. The women of the nation were called upon to organize the Field Army for the purpose of educating the public. It was almost a hopeless task, for ignorance, superstition, and fear filled the minds of many people until few were even willing to listen to the program of education or to read the available literature. The accomplishment of these women of courage, vision, and energy should be a matter of pride to all women. In ten years time, the attitude of the public toward the disease has changed greatly. Today magazines, newspapers, radio stations, etc., are co-operating to get the message to Mr. And Mrs. Average Citizen that "early cancer may be cured, through surgery, X-ray, radium;" to teach them the necessity of complete, periodic health examinations and to go to their family physician at once when any of the "seven danger signals" Page 305 306 appear. This is a notable feat in the field of education performed by volunteer women—but in congratulating these women, let us never forget that we have only begun our work. A recent survey reveals that only half of the population of America can name a single early symptom of cancer. OON the need for service to the cancer patient became manifest. It was learned that a bedridden cancer patient requires an enormous amount of dressings in order to be comfortable; to buy these dressings— they may cost fifty dollars a month per patient—is a drain on the income of almost any family. So the cancer dressings program was Organized. Hundreds of thousands of dressings have been made and distributed without charge by volunteers, meeting a great need of the terminal cancer patient. As doctors set up detection centers and clinics, equipment was needed, which the Field Army has often supplied; also volunteer service has been given to hospitals and clinics caring for cancer patients; loan closets have been established to provide necessary sickroom articles for loan to private homes where a cancer patient is being nursed. Each year during April, the Cancer Control Month, a campaign for funds has been conducted and at last we have available substantial RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 research funds administered by a committee of leading scientists and doctors. One of the finest co-ordinated programs of research that out nation has ever known is seeking the causes of cancer, new means of diagnosing it, and additional methods of curing it. It is a program that anyone may be proud to support. I cannot conclude this article without listing the cancer danger signals which everyone should memorize. They may not mean that cancer is present, but if any one of them develops, go at once to your physician for his advice. These symptoms that may mean early cancer are: 1. Any sore that does not heal. 2. Any lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere. 3. Any change in a wart or mole. 4. Persistent indigestion or difficulty in swallowing. 5. Persistent hoarseness or cough. 6. Unusual bleeding or discharge. 7. Any change in bowel habits. The Field Army of the American Cancer Society is most grateful to the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for the privilege of having this article published in the official magazine. We salute you for your wonderful program of volunteer services, and we are thankful for the opportunity that is ours to also serve humanity in its fight against a vicious enemy of mankind, cancer. Sormula Anna Prince Redd There is a knack to living With others or alone: Be pliant as the marrow, Not brittle as the bone. Planning the Work Meetings Leone G. Layton Member, General Board of Relief Society and Chairman, Work Meeting Committee ORK meeting leaders should begin planning their next season's (1949-50) work meeting program now. Each leader is aware of the needs and interests of the women with whom she is working and should, at this time, be able to make general plans for an appropriate program which will accomplish the purposes of the Relief Society work meeting in her locality. Activity on this day should be planned with the following purposes in view: 1. To enable the women to give service in the Church Welfare Plan by assisting in filling the Welfare clothing budget assignment. 2. To give service to the ward Relief Society organization by participating in activities beneficial to the local society. 3. To foster and develop creative and homemaking skills. 4. To promote a feeling of friendly sociability within the group by working together in pleasant association. Each of these purposes should be considered fully in programming the day's activities in order that the greatest possible good may be gained from the meeting. Our first obligation on this day is to fill the Welfare clothing budget assignment. In doing this, we must be governed by the directions given us by the Welfare committee when the assignment is made. Let us plan to allow all the women an opportunity to participate in this service, that all may obtain the satisfaction and the development which come from so doing. Next, we should anticipate the local activities of our society for the year and include the preparation for these in our season's planning. If we contemplate a bazaar, let us plan ways to use this activity to forward the purposes of the work meeting. Through a bazaar we can interest our members and bring them into activity; we can recognize the skills of some of our older women and ask them to teach these skills to others; we can plan to use everyone along the lines of her aptitudes, interests, and skills. Special activities may be featured on various work meeting days, which will stimulate interest in homemaking and home beautification. The sewing course, which will be outlined in the July issue of the Magazine, may well be brought into the work meeting. Many of our mothers have need of this special instruction, and it may be given in such a manner as to interest the entire Relief Society group when it does not interfere with other planned activities. Fine quilting has become traditional in Relief Society. Let us plan to carry on this tradition by helping all to have an opportunity to learn and practice this skill. (Continued on page 352) Page 307 who Presides g Mple its 4PPointments, | n that abides f on the golden: if order n Orever after, wit en hills that | man, and js like g istance and blend With the azure of the heay. | i between T, € gra ts purest tones within its ° charm the favored few, said, an truly, that Sin the €arth, and; Spring ig the poet's d in the alr, which Penetrates, a5 caf and the flowers f, burst forth, he soul Which js higher than an f ese. The Poet feels this bea ty Without, this 9 flowing f nature's fountains, and the same impulse js intensified in him, €cause the higher or, er of his Creation de mands "*Pression.— Aunt Em MARICOp, STAKE Relief Society Mesa Hall Mencing at Robson 4 d 5 ) ab Oke briefly: felt that life w, °0 short to; | Celings towards €ach other. "We 'can 4S8Sist_ Others in sympathy and love,"__gia., Wilcox, e st ends of earth, tom the kin We call'd our ow: 'tom the land. That ame we Page 308 of all inanj €se forms of beauty, w te things, and causes + € blades of 8'ass to shoot ust In ¢o formity With creat; € forces 5 n sympathy with al] 7<Sent; opened } singing and Prayer, Y. 1) 7) in Dutch grandmother, fifty-two years old, Mrs. Boissevain, has started in the Netherlands a move ment known as the "National Skirt," which numbers 4000 women. It originated last September when women were depressed because they had "nothing to wear' to celebrate the Golden Jubilee of Queen Wilhelmina's reign. They make patchwork skirts from the "odds and ends" in their workbaskets. These symbolize "salvaging bits of the past and uniting them in a new future" of national progress and world-wide understanding. At the end of the last war, Dr. James R. McCain, for thirty years president of Agnes Scott College for Women, in Georgia, said that when future generations read our contemporary history, the headlines will be, not the two wats, but the women's revolution of the past fifty years. He feels that the results of women's business, professional, and political activities have been more harmful than good for society as a whole. He feels that women working when there are more applicants than jobs will bring down all wages. He blames the increase in juvenile delinquency and the decrease in birthrate on mothers' absence from home. It is the (225) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon homemakers who teat families, beautify cities with gardens, and keep churches alive. But he predicted that the tide will turn— that more women will prepare themselves to be expert home-makers. AN interesting phase of the above problem is that some statistics on happy marriages indicate that the girl who has had business training and experience before or after matriage is a safer matrimonial risk 'n some respects than the young woman who has remained strictly at home. THE former Mildred McAfee, who was lieutenant-commander of women's reserves, U. S. N. R., dur ing the last war, and who has been Mrs. Douglas Horton for about three years, recently resigned from her position as president of Wellesley College for women. She felt that her professional obligations were interfering with her being the kind of wife and homemaker she desired to be. M®- SARAH ANN A. GIBBONY, recently died in Duchesne, Utah, at the age of 101 years, six months, and twenty-five days. She had lived on seven different homesteads. Page 309 W she had never wife thoroughly €njoys the New picbought the things, They stiq] ture. Of Course, she was unable to have Payments to Make on their match that blue exactly, and the house, ang she wishes She had fixed green Clashes a little, The Tug is speaker sounded regretful as she TeOn the first of the month the lated the imprudent Purchases of 4 Postman delivers the bil]. Only af. Tiend ter carefy] hecking does she Teluc How often 0 spring attives, tantly ©oncede that th Ing ma transformin the out Ors into chine tot I Correctly. The month 4 radiant an Sparkling ney, World — ly Jnstallment Sure is, therefore Nd cloaki he "nsightly with exquite a pj higher than sh had ex quisite shades of co] en the pected Bu Ousewife Pushes Sky blooms jin heavenly blue dotteg the Worry down in mind and with wh; ) dis hanous OWers, gives q fairly Satisfied glance around does th Ousewife walk to her her ro N Partial Justification own home an 0ok with dissatissY Weeks Jater becomes Excited by the beauty Without, She Visualizes new furniture mM gay club meets again, she dreams, her home wil] look more like Jeanne's ne,. E The Picture js ctched more sharp. Wrought havoc On the ney, Sofa by ly in her mind on *ucceeding days sharpening her claws on the upholand, at length, results in a trip to stery Of the ams. The Installment town and an Orgy of buying, Payments, however, do not become For the first fey days the house. Less, EDITORIAL Finally, the housewife is forced to face her worry and anxiety and acknowledge that she was unwise to have bought more than she could pay for. Instead of the gay and friendly atmosphere she had hoped to create, she looks at her home almost with dislike. But long after she reached this conclusion, she still continues to scrape together her installment money. And it was then that the harried housewife voiced to her friend 311 the remark, "I could have fixed up the old things and would not have been half-sick with worry trying to pay for my new things." The Savior remarked at one time, "for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth." The success of a homemaker does not depend on the newness nor costliness of possessions, neither does joy arise from imprudence and extravagance. C. S. Released to Spring C. Cameron Johns The earth is cushioned velvet to the tread And May has dressed her world in flowered lace; The gilding touch of sunshine overhead Makes miracles of all the commonplace. Even down the canyon ed city street, Where stone and steel resist each growing thing, The little winds are blowing soft and sweet Releasing wintered spirits into spring. Midas and the Five Senses Eva Willes W angsgaard The spring returns the gold we lost In cups of daffodils, And golden lightbirds dip and rise Along the window sills. With gold to see and gold to touch Where water lilies float, And tinkling notes like nuggets tossed From every warbler's throat, A golden scent from hyacinths, And honey gold to taste, Five paths of gold lead to the heart. ~ Who would let it waste? Lilacs After Rain Jeanette P. Parry Who has not loved the wild, sweet smell Of lilacs blooming after rain, Or walked a petal-covered path On fallen blossoms down the lane? So often I have picked bouquets, Dew-dripping, lavender, and white, And placed them in a pale blue bowl To lend their fragrance to the night. I have been far from haunts like these, Have stood in gardens fit for prayer, But still I hear the hum of bees And haunting perfume fills the air. Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 5 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to support and care for. Courageously, she takes inventory of her meager resources and plans for the future. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans for sale. Another neighbor, Abigail Smith, offers to help with ideas and transportation. From a slow and unpromising beginning they build a profitable business. Joanna rears her children with love and devotion and for Penny's fourteenth birthday she plans a special party. 6) N leaden feet, Joanna went to the door and opened it. She took a deep breath. "Darling," she said to Penny. She lifted her head. "My dears, I'm so glad you could come." "Hello, Mrs. Niels," Connie said ptimly. Her mouth pursed as she sidled past Joanna into the room. Joanna saw the quick eyes inventory the kitchen range, the absurd decorations. "I'll have to leave early, Mother doesn't want me in this neighborhood after dark." "But we've lots of time until then." Joanna bustled about, taking their coats and scarves, saying whatever gay and welcoming thing popped into her head. The prayer beat in her throat, please... Please, for Penny's sake, let the party be good, not anything to mar her day, please.... "Did you ever play "Witches'?" she asked them, pushing laughter through her stiff throat. "It's fun." She described it. Connie sat on the davenette and Page 312 smoothed her red velvet skirt. "I'd rather not. It sounds too childish." Joanna swallowed hard. "Very well. Let's play this one... Called 'Ghosts,' and if Connie doesn't like it, she can read a book." She forced them into it, hiding the firmness under the banner of her laughter. She gave the gay prizes she had bought, with a flourish. Slowly, slowly, the ice melted and the girls came on her side. Laughter came spontaneously from young lips. After awhile Joanna could leave the room, go into the kitchen to put last-minute touches on the cakes and the ice cream. The shrieks and the clamor of excited voices were music to her ears. They ate their refreshments in an ecstatic silence. Joanna watched Penny's face. 'There was no cloud upon it, nothing to sully the clear joy of having her friends about her, of showing them off to her mother. But when the party was over and the young guests ready to depart, the clouds rose stormily again. Penny was helping Connie into the lovely coat. "Do come again, Connie. Come often." Connie's mouth pinched. "T'll try. But I'm afraid Mother will have a fit when she finds out where I've been." Joanna stuffed her hands into her apron pockets so they would not strike out at the pursed, pink mouth, the too-wise eyes that bade contemptuous farewell to the little room. Under her eyes, the decora- JOANNA tions, prepared at such a cost of time, grew pathetic, the slip cover faded and sagged. Joanna fought fiercely to bring back the gaiety. Don't you understand, she wanted to cry out, how precious a thing Penny's friendship is? The friendship of anyone who really loves you. What does it matter if they live in a tent, if they love you, they have value? Ruth, a black-haired echo of Connie, nodded her head. "But we really had fun," she said, in frank wonder. Joanna saw the darts had gone into Penny's heart. Her eyes darkened with pain. Joanna had the wild desire to step in front of her daughter, as if by so doing, she could take the pain into herself. She heard her own voice speaking, quickly, lightly, "I'm so glad you could all come. You see, we're moving into another neighborhood, and we might not be able to be together again." "Mother!" Penny lifted enraptured eyes. "You didn't tell me! When?" Joanna swallowed. "Very soon. It's to be a house on a hill, out of the smoke." Connie smoothed the sleeve of her coat. "That will be different. Mother will let me go up there." Joanna watched with the helpless amazement of the adult, as her daughter received this information with shrieks of joy. "Won't that be simply super! Just out of this world?" HEN the evening meal was over, Joanna sat enthroned among her children, while they gazed on her with adoration and awe. "You really mean it, Mother? 313 A big house! Room for everybody to have a room? Oh, Mother, it will be so wonderful." Joanna gulped and wondered if there was a place she could get with a down payment not to exceed three hundred dollars. * "Tll have a room of my own," David said, "a place where I can study without the rest of you getting in my hair." "Your precious old books!" Sally was hostile. "What I want is a place to hang my pictures without everybody painting beards on them." She hugged Penny. "You can have your room, too, and write your poems in it," "Poems?" Joanna turned to Penny. The girl's face was scarlet. "Sally! Why did you have to tell?" She rose and ran toward the bedroom. "They're awful! Awful!" "Poetry." Joanna caught her breath. But of course, she should have known, Penny would never be one to hoard beauty, it would pour out of her like light, into other people's lives. "Poetry.... I'm so glad." Abigail came over after supper to help with the night's work. She listened eagerly to every detail of the party, pausing in her kneading to look at Joanna's face. She made Joanna think of a silver-haired girl, in her ruffled blue apron. There was something young and wistful in her listening. But when she heard about Connie, her outrage knew no bounds. "You should have told her to go home! That's what you should have done. The idea! The very idea! What's the world coming to?" 314 Joanna sliced apples into a pie shell. "I don't know. When I was little, a party was an event. We talked about it for months, before and after. I can't remember ever noticing a house, or taking inventory of the cost of things." "It's their mothers!" Abigail said shortly, "putting their own snobbish ideas into their daughters' heads." "I... I told them we were moving into a new house." Joanna looked up at Abigail. "I... Had to." "Humph," snorted Abigail, "so they defeated you, the brave Joanna, who hasn't been downed by hurricane or famine, going down like nine pins before a bunch of little girls. I thought you were going to buy some new equipment?" "I was,' Joanna said unhappily. "T was going to do so many things. I was going to buy a small bakery and start out with just breads and pastries... A real shop." Abigail blew a curl from her forehead. "Well, you can still do it. The children can just wait for their house." Joanna set her chin. "No. The children need a home. A real one. Penny will need one more and more. I can't bear to have her left out, or have less than the others. She has a right to things. Poetry. Just think of it, Abigail, she's writing poetry." Abigail said softly, "Well, I'm not surprised. I've often told my Henry. 'Henry,' I've said, 'there is one person whose mind I wouldn't be afraid to look into. Penny Niels' mind would be like a flower garden, that sweet, from the looks of her and the things she does for her mother, and the gentle way she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 talks! Just like a flower garden,' I told him." Joanna came around the table to hug Abigail's plump shoulders. "You see, we have to give her lovely things, a chance in life." Abigail patted Joanna's hand. "We'll do it, my dear." joan stood at the kitchen table, the next afternoon, wrapping fresh loaves of bread in wax paper; the pale October sun splashed warmth across her hands and on the kitchen table. A woodpecker swung on the lower branches of the apricot tree, just outside the window. Someone knocked at the front door. Joanna impatiently finished the bread she had started and went to answer it, not pleased to have visitors interrupt her busy day. She frowned at the tall, red-haired man who grinned at her from his great, lean height. "Mrs. Niels?" "Yes, but I..." return his smile. "You're busy, I know... ''m Kent Taylor, and I understood that you are in the market for a house." Joanna's mouth dropped gently. "But, good heavens! I just made up my mind yesterday." "T know," he said, "I read minds by television. You want a house on a hill." Joanna laughed, reluctantly. "I suppose you know how much, or little, rather, I can afford to pay down?" He shook his head. "I never inquire into my clients' private affairs, such as love, money, or pet peeves. May I come in?" He She did not Joanna, kitchen, Wished suddenly She was Wearing her 7ew, high-heeled Shoes, His gtin was quick and Pleased, © I don't believe I've ever tasted fresh, homemade bread In all my life, | Career Woman. | | Teal estate She are Tunning the bys; > N fact jt Was our "harming little ce who told us YOu Were in the market for house." "Your niece?" "Uh-huh, Connie, She was here to a birthd Y Party," "Oh," said Joanna, the room house, She looked 3+ him Wonderingly, Marveling at his quick tongue, the €normous enjoyment he seemed to | ™ very simple things, She liked the tweed Suit he wore, and Startled, Joanna looked Into his unt, homely face. Sh aughter Starting from | is haze] eyes, She began again to Wrap the bread, 316 The gray suit and the neat white blouse looked but the color had not departed from her face, and her eyes mocked her with their shining, She went to open the door for him. She nodded briefly, "You're RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE May 1949 trait." He helped her into the shining car as t ough she were an object Braided Rugs—New-Fashioned Drucilla S. Howard OR an easier and better way of making the old-fashioned braided rugs you will need a large feed-sack needle and some stout string or carpet warp. You should be able to buy a needle at any hardware store. The rags are braided in the usual way. When ready to begin putting the strips together, fold the braided strip the length you wish the center of the rug to be, and with the needle, threaded with string, take up a loop of the braided strands, first on one side and then on the other. Always insert needle from top side of rug. Take up each loop, drawing the string snugly under each time. When working around the ends of the rug, take up two loops on the outside strand, (one on the inside) as many times as necessary to make the tug lie flat. When you have used up the string in your needle, tie the new piece of string to the end you have been using and thread the needle again. 'The knot can be pulled under the loops until hidden. The string will not show If you use two strips of cloth of different lengths in each strand you braid, it will not be necessary to sew the ends together. Just fold the ends a one strip inside the other. Also the needle works better if it is not too sharp. <-> Spring Planting LeRoy Burke Meagher I followed the furrows which dad plowed up And helped with the seeding he had begun, By planting a sackful of corn which looked Like wrinkled-up pieces of autumn sun. The cool, moistened earth felt so good on bare feet And chunks of it stuck between all of my toes, As I walked along, with the sun on my back, And dropped little kernels of sun in the rows. Dawn Evelyn Fjeldsted _ We hear a robin's soft ethereal call, A glad, sweet song at break of dawn, And crocus blossoms, with their tears of dew, Like colored stars are sprinkled on the lawn. Page 317 if pulled up snugly each time a loop is taken up.: [This is the second IN a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, INCE June is the Month that Nouncements had beep Put before S More brides 00se for their the ballog Cte inflated en Weddings th NY other jin the ballog Popped, the g he Year, I want to E1Ve you, a month nouncements "re discovered ahead, som Ideas for nounceSometimes the n WS lS tied ments, showe 8, wedd nS receptions with the bride' ba sound, with and so on he business of future bride- 1 I think f brides, there 800m, or with the hobbies of eith often com S to my min 4 line from "T One of the bridal paj O anYears ago Ong ago, in fact, that © wife of a do Or, Passed atound Yself was abou be a bride, £00d-sizeq scription ttle "Tn all his world" Temarked one filled with AMIN capsules Mm the of the Characters Tepresented largest size btainable €S€ conto spill Over, and all of the guests, There are Many cleyer Ways of Provided they have Perennially high-lighting the display o¢ young hearts, get their share, — Hrousseay, What Would we do stems of he flowers jp the center Schiaperelj', 4 of the table, Other balloons were Make Sachets of Various paste] TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS 319 of them inside each door, which is ina wedding Teception, try to vis. Left open: to display household ualize the crowd and have your dec. Linens, Orations in large masses and rather GPE AKING of Chinittinas bells, igh In the room 50 that they ra t the large ones are ideal to use for wedding decorations, I attended til th with a flood light, Try Pinning of small white flowers to these Christ. Se Sprinkle the flower arrangements for any spting party or for 4 bride's with ice water and Place them in the 6, baby shower. These little fay. Refrigerator until needed, ors are made by inserting a swab n planning decorations for any stick in a round of plastic fab. Large Soup, such as that included Magazine Subscriptions for 1948 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp HE general board takes this T opportunity to express heartfelt thanks and gratitude to the Relief Society officers, Magazine representatives, and subscribers who have demonstrated their loyal support of The Relief Society Magazine during the year 1948. 'The devotion with which the Magazine representatives throughout — the Church have placed the Magazine in the homes of Latter-day Saints is indeed gratifying. Also a matter of joy and pride to the general board is the success of the representatives in placing the Magazine in the homes of many who are not members of the Church, but who may thereby learn of the ideals and accomplishments of Latter-day Saint women and partake of their spirit of service and enrichment of life. Subscriptions—1948 The subscription figure for December 31, 1948 (77,740) shows a loss of 3,238 from the subscription figure of December 31, 1947 (80,978). However, more than half of the subscription total for 1947 represented subscriptions taken out at the old subscription price of $1, and the total as of December 1948 reflects subscriptions at the new price of $1.50. Therefore, the general board feels that the Magazine representatives have worked exceptionally hard during 1948 and are deserving of special credit in having so successfully established the Magazine at the new price. Page 320 Because of carrying so many subscriptions during 1948 at the old subscription price, the general board regrets to report that the Magazine showed a small deficit at the end of 1948. However, it is confidently expected that one year from now the subscription figure will reveal a substantial increase and that the Magazine will be entirely self-supporting. For the full realization of these expectations, the general board enlists the continued efforts of the officers and Magazine representatives during the year 1949. Honor Roll Percentages Continuing the policy established in 1948, the membership figures on which the Honor Roll percentages for 1949 will be based, will be counted as of January 1949. This allows each Magazine representative to obtain from the secretary, at once, the membership figures of January 1949 on which her percentage for this year will be figured. In this way a Magazine representative may know all through the year the number of subscriptions she must obtain in order to be on the 1949 Honor Roll, New Features and Services The editorial department of the Magazine strives constantly to improve the quality of the Magazine and to add new features of special interest to Latter-day Saint women. It is gratifying to note the many new authors represented during the year, from so many different parts of the world, and to observe, also, the growth in literary skill of those MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1948 authors already familiar to readers of the Magazine. Better Photographs the circulation work fai thfully The Relief Sodepartment likewise and efficiently that 321 Tesses, may be rough united effort fostered by 1049 aS a year of outstanding accomplishment The Relief Society Magazine. Tees for Highest Ratings Stakes South Los Angeles Stake, 120 Pe Cent Magazine Representative-—Nancy M. Rupp Wards Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Stake, 284 Per Cent Harter MNissio ns California Mission, 85 Per Cent Mission President—Vivian R. McConkie Mm tsston Districts Imperial Valley District, California Mission, Magazine Representative—Mr, W. Cc. 117 Per Cent Cox Five Stakes Achieving Highest Percentages South Los Angeles (California) Provo (Utah) an Shelley (Idaho) _ California — Texas-Louisiana Northern States Uustralian ike Nissions Achieving Highest -----....... Zola Stapley Percentages 85. Vivian R. Blanche K, Richmond ( Pres.) 75._Lula P. Child (Pres.) Magazine Representative—N ellie A, 322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 19 Stakes in Which All the Wards Reached 100% or Higher San Francisco Florence M. Fitzgerald Pasadena 2 Sadie Liebig Granite - Elizabeth W. McClelland Florida _ Maude G. Hawkins Wards and Branches in Stakes and WMlissions Achieving 200% or Higher East Point Branch (Georgia), Southern States Mission --300.___Grace Ann Estes Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Stake 284Nellie A. Harter Shelton Branch, Seattle Stake 267. May G. Axelson Jefferson Ward, Alberta Stake (Canada) 250 Jennie Wheeler Manavu Ward, Provo Stake (Utah) 0 244 Flora Buggert Tyrells Lake Branch, Taylor Stake (Canada) 230.__Clara E. Selk Brawley Branch, California Mission ---225___. Irene Wadell Oklahoma City Branch, Central States Mission219. Dagmar Patterson Lone Pine Branch, California Mission 214 Nina Lenbeck Springville First Ward, Kolob Stake (Utah) 209... Addie Underwood Stakes by Percentages South Los Angeles 120 Boise Provo 113 Bannock San Francisco 110 Rigby Shelley 109 Park Phoenix 107 Malad Cassia 104 East Provo Idaho Falls 104 Big Cottonwood Pasadena 103 South Salt Lake Liberty 102 Grant Palo Alto 102 Long Beach North Idaho Falls 102 Wells Granite 101 Blackfoot Florida 100 Cottonwood Burley 100 Sevier Oquirrh 100 Bear Lake Sugar House 100 East Rigby Kolob 99 Alpine South Idaho Falls 98 North Rexburg Taylor 98 North Box Elder Wasatch 98 Salt Lake San Fernando 96 Young West Pocatello 96 a Humboldt 95 De e —_ Nampa 95 ear River: Emigration San Joaquin 93 South Sevier Ogden 93 Yellowstone San Bernardino 93 Twin Falls Big Horn 92 Union 49 MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1948 North Jordan Ensign Sacramento Farr West Oakland Reno St. Joseph South Ogden Berkeley Oneida San Juan Rexburg Minidoka Highland Snowflake Los Angeles Gridley Uintah Mesa Weiser Caché Emery Parowan Davis East Cache Portneuf Chicago Bonneville Lake View South Box Elder Uvada Seattle Timpanogos Idaho Sharon West Utah North Davis Star Valley Zion Park Palmyra Millard Mount Graham Oapa Utah Franklin San Diego West Jordan South Davis Hillside Ben Lomond Lehi Southern Arizona Pocatello Alberta Teton Tooele Grantsville Denver Montpelier South Carolina organ Lost River Cedar East Mill Creek St. George Orem East Jordan nab San Luis Blaine Pioneer Mount Jordan Garfield Spokane Mount Logan Wayne Smithfield Nevada Benson Temple View North Sanpete Moroni Roosevelt Logan Maricopa Nebo Weber Woodruff Riverside Juarez South Summit South Sanpete New York Lethbridge Duchesne North Carbon North Sevier Mount Ogden Deseret Lyman Summit Portland Gunnison North Weber Moon Lake Panguitch Washington Juab Hyrum Carbon Santaquin-Tintic Beaver Relief Society Alberta Stake Aetna Hartley Hillspring Jefferson Leavitt Alpine Stake Enrollment 20 20 70 6 43 641 American Fork Second 66 American Fork Third 118 American Fork Fourth 52 American Fork Fifth American Fork Sixth 80 57 American Fork Seventh 70 Hyland Bannock Stake Bench Central Cleveland Grace Grace Second Lago Thatcher Bear Lake Stake Bloomington Fish Haven Garden City Lake Town Lanark Liberty Ovid Paris First 42 Subscriptions. Pet No. HONOR ROLL Magazine Representative Iris S. Jensen Annie L. B. Orr Viola Wynder Jennie Wheeler Emma Broadbent Edna L. Meredith Mildred Peters Donna Tregaskis Ann C. Hansen Lupril Okey Leila J. Abel Marie Reimschussel Ruby B. Day Ida J. Sorenson Rose Hanson June Welch Mary B. Anderson Ethel Sant Afton Robinson Reba C. Turner Earline Smith Millie Sprouse Bertha Thornock Carol K. Howell Margaret Hodges Emma W. Cheney Fontella Parker Laura Poulsen Hazel L. Peterson Rosa Grandy Relief Society South Cottonwood Valley View Winder Big Horn Stake Basin Belfry Burlington Byron Cody Cowley Iona Lovell Penrose Powell Red Lodge Worland Blackfoot Stake Blackfoot First Blackfoot Third Blackfoot Fourth Groveland Pingree Riverside Riverton Rose Wapello Blaine Stake Fairfield Richfield Dietrich Branch Shoshone Branch Subscriptions Pct. No. 69 81 107 96 125 103 86 120 Magazine Representative Elsa Fors Lorraine R. Miller Margaret D. Paul Daisy A. Tew Louise Y. Tuttle Mary Youst Nellie Erickson Sally Griffin Mary Way Hope Eyre Dora Howe Christina Norton Tilda Wasden Sarapta Asay Augusta Crow Zella Averett Zela Clegg Ardella Wooten Lillie Farnes Afton Johnsten Sarah J. Chapman Sarah E. Cammack Tacy Winmill Carrie Brown Ameline Chaffin Enon Tucker Louella Packham Ivena Brown Mary Cleveland Iva Lou G. Pingree 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 St. Charles Sharon Bear River Stake Beaver Deweyville East Garland Elwood Garland First Park Valley Penrose Promontory Snowville Stone Tremonton First Tremonton Second Thatcher Ben Lomond Stake Lorin Farr North Ogden First Benson Stake Lewiston Third Berkeley Stake Berkeley First Berkeley Second Claremont East Richmond Fairfield Napa Pittsburg Vallejo Walnut Creek Big Cottonwood Stake 676 Cottonwood Holladay First Mt. Olympus 108 88 92 Wanda S. Rich Hazel Long Edna B. Ward Alpha Packer Pearl Perry Dora Shaffer Janusine M. Peterson Salina Johnson Eloise Palmer Lena M. Jensen Marva Stokes Cora Dalley Francis Mills Mildred Bunnel Lillian Barfus Mrs. Golden Burton Martha Alberts Edith V. Judkins Anna W. Mills Emma J. Hinckley Mae Waldram Ada Lindblad Mable Smith Elverda Coats Izetta Bramwell Jessie Stubbs Margaret Davis Winnona Lockwood Emma Amtoft Ethel A. Smith Francis C. Remund Mertle Ault Mary Timmerman Boise Stake Boise First Boise Second Boise Third Boise Fifth Glenns Ferry Meridian Eagle Branch 20 Mountain Home Branch 13 Bonneville Stake Garden Park Thirty-Third Yale Burley Stake Burley First Burley Second Burley Fourth Burley Fifth Declo Pella Springdale Star Unity View Cache Stake Logan Third Logan Fourth Logan Ninth Logan Sixteenth Logan Seventeenth Carbon Stake Dragerton Branch Cassia Stake Basin Marion 103 128 170 L. Emma Cordon Utahna S. Randall Irene K. Read Leah Harker Maybell Richardson Leola T. Thurman. Mable Roylance Edith Blackmer Estella M. Hall Thelma Jacob Pearl Dent Millie Barnes Jane R. Robinson Mary Bateman Ella B. Boatman Mildred N. Moss Lucille N. Jamison Nellie Kidd Ellen C. Mitchell Gladys Bowen Gertrude Durfee Lucynthia Halford Thelma Taylor Orilla J. Lucas Louise R. Rich Jessie Bouwhuis LaVaun Hawkins Genevieve B. Bradley Effie W. Darley Coral Williams Jane R. Hale Marion McIntosh Sarah Adams HONOR ROLL 325 North Farmington Denver Stake Cheyenne Denver Second Englewood Deseret Stake Callao Branch Magazine Representative Ada L, Hale Jane R. Hale Mabe] Boren Marie Ww. Bradshaw Virginia Smith Charlotte W. Spencer Ruby 326 a in m 3 eo m Zz z= > 2 N r = > =< $ Franklin Stake ' Mapleton 25 24 96 Cora Knapp Whitney 57 46 81 Blanche Hul] Garfielg Stake Circleville 74 66 89 Etta Haycock Kingston 19 21 11] Gail B. Coats Granite Stake 692 699 101 Elizabeth W. McLel. Columbus 70 71 101 Irene § Hilton Fairmont 76 76 00 Mary Springe; Forest Dale 144 44 100 Katherine Crane Lincoln > 103 Catherine M. Wise. Nibley Park 143 143 100 Emma Armstrong Wells 124 126 102 Haze] E. B. Radley Grant Stake 447 395 89 Alleen F, Keller Hillcrest 86 92 107 Vondra Dipo Lorraine 83 67 81 Helen Flowers Smith 74 8217) Rubelle B, Francis Springview 106 82 77 Louisa A, Francom Wandamere Ward 95 72 a Dell Holmberg Grantsyil}, Stake Erda 21 16 76 Mrs. Allen Warr Grantsville Second 102 78 a I. Worthington Wendover 45 45 109 Carol § Duke Gridley Stake 279 218 78 Violet Gray Chico 42 33 79 Carol McIntosh Grass Valley 29 29 100 Nora Medlyn HONOR ROLL 327 Charlotte S. Ferguson Naida F, Stoddard Anna E, Schwieder Lydia M, Clark 328 Kanab Stake Moccasin Kolob Stake Springville First Springville Second Springville Third Springville Fourth Springville Fifth Springville Seventh Springville Eighth Springville Ninth Mapleton Lake View Stake Kanesville Lake View Riverdale Roy Lehi Stake Lehi First Lehi Fifth Lethbridge Stake Barnwell Claresholm Diamond City Orton Stavely Taber Second Liberty Stake North Second South Second Third Eighth Ninth Harvard Liberty Margaret Heaton Mary W. Clegg Addie Underwood Eudora Jensen Ellen Giles Rose Roylance Belle Childs Effie Philips Alice Wilmott Ellen Larson Ardilla Perry Isabelle Simmons Inez Nelson Pearl Champneys Jane E. Hyden Hazel May Bone Alice Stice Hazel Jensen Pearl Erickson Esther Wilcox Mary Dickie Ida L. Rodgers Lucille Valgardson Lila B. Pressler Amelia Marsh Charlotte Duncan Beverly Miles Emma Liebelt Lila B. Pressler Ann H. Peery Alice Russell Portage St. John Maricopa Stake Mesa Fourth Pine Mesa Stake Alma Chandler Gilbert Hayden Mesa Third Mesa Seventh Casa Grand Branch Ray Branch Superior Branch Millard Stake Fillmore First Fillmore Second Fillmore Third Flowell Minidoka Stake Emerson Hazelton Hunt Paul Rupert First Moapa Stake Boulder City Charleston Davis Dam, Littlefield Logandale Overton Twila R. Howell Anna Lyle M. Jones Millie H. Henkel Celeste Patterson (President) Lula L. Allen Lola White Edith Eyring Madge Germaine Clare Hubbard Thelma Williams Thelma C. Millict Irene Herbert Martha Backetine Leona Robertson Rachel Warner Treta Bartholomew Ora B. Hanson Verl Christensen Clarinda Green Louie Mae Mecham -Deliah Wickham Phoeba Parson Zelma Bauer Maybell Stevenson Greta F. Rosenbaum Grace McNatt Mae Richard Vinda Reber Alice Sprague Mildred Robison HONOR ROLL 329 Relief Society Montpelier Stake Bennington Bern Cokeville Nounan Raymond Wardboro Moon Lake Stake Boneta Morgan Stake Croydon North Morgan Slide Moroni Stake Moroni West Wales Mount Graham Stake Duncan Layton Solemonville Virden Animas Branch Mount Jordan Stake Sandy Third Mount Logan Stake Logan Seventh River Heights Mount Ogden Stake Highland Enrollment 33 Y/2 38 18 Wo) 26 2D 92 32 53 147 By 58 7 80 73 49 81 No. Subscriptions Pct. 85 100 82 106 107 100 85 78 80 86 Magazine Representative Veda Burdict Myrtle Stecklar Lydia Harmon Helen Crossley Eleaner Saton Genevieve Kunz Opal Barton Faye London Julia Carrigan Betty Redden Jane Blackham Florence Blackham Hallie Dees Ella Farley June Curtis Emma J. Lines Arminta Richins Mamie L. Winkler Emma L. Pehrson Rose Hansen Tennessee Foutz Enrollment Relief Society North Davis Stake Sahara Village Branch 24 North Idaho Falls North Jordan Stake 513 North Rexburg Stake 630 North Sanpete Stake North Sevier Stake Subscriptions Pct. No. Magazine Representative Susan Argyle Clara Wallace May Sessions Marijane Adams Lucille Johnson Magdalena Nelson Leona Merrill Edith Southwick Emma Jensen Lucille Sorenson Elna Andrus Mable G. Morgan Edythe P. Blanck Malinda H. Christensen Louisa Skog Loretta Foote Lucy Furness Belva Withers Louie Graham Arvilla Parkinson Ive Price Mary Thomson Zina Pincock Fannie M. Graham Annie Brotherson Vera Shelley Hazel Curtis May M. Gledhill 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Clearfield First Clearfield Second Syracuse Stake Coltman Idaho Falls First Idaho Falls Fourth Idaho Falls Seventh Osgood Ucon Bennion Granger First Redwood Taylorsville Hibbard Newdale Plano Salem Sugar Teton Milburn Mt. Pleasant South Mountrainville Aurora Vermillion 110 61 122 525 50 87 98 137 52 101 65 116 51 68 71 37 46 72 148 110 15 150 13 89 22 Garrison Branch Kimberly Branch Corinne Harper Evans Branch North Carbon Stake Castle Gate Storrs Scofield Branch Gladys Squires Theodocia Garnet Lorena Davenport Rita Bradshaw Blanche F. Woolard Lucile B. Hennis Lilly Loveland Hanna Castagneto Anelda Reece Emily Kent Ethel Hiatt Clystia R. Powell Edith Reid Maud Mifflin Agnes Dearden Jsabell Hansen Alma A. Lang Iretta H. May Seretta J ohnson Fern Channell Geneva F. Wright LaVina S. Hansen Dorothy B. Willie Rose B. Nelson Liona R. May Margaret Smith Mary Babcock Marie Ericson Sarah Donaldson North Weber Stake Taylor Oakland Stake Alameda Dimond Elmhurst Hayward Maxwell Park Ogden Stake Huntsville Liberty Ogden Fourth Ogden Thirteenth Ogden Twentieth Ogden Thirtieth Ogden Thirty-first Oneida Stake Banida Dayton Glencoe Glendale Preston Third Preston Fourth Preston Seventh Treasureton Oquirrh Stake Hercules Magna Pleasant Green Spencer Orem Stake Sharon Windsor Lorene Farr Lila F. Graham Lavine McRae Gladys Thomas Trene Dutson Alyce Johns Veda Mann HONOR ROLL Pearl GWilliams Edris Knapp Florence Ss. Hill Thelma Newman Magdalene Brown Nanna M. N. Christiansen Audrey Dewey Rozella Crews Kenna Bergeson Ada Bell Irene Schwartz Mary B. Larsen Eulalia Larsen Mrs. Alfred Kern Lizzie Weaver Jennie Swainston Vera Atkinson Hazel B. Jones Hazel Bertoch Relief Society Palmyra Stake Palmyra Salem Spanish Fork First Spanish Fork Second Spanish Fork Third Birdseye Branch Palo Alto Stake Burlingame Naglee Park Palo Alto Redwood City San Jose Willow Glen Park Stake First Tenth Thirty-first Duncan Emigration LeGrand Webster Parowan Stake Enoch Paragonah Parowan West Summit Pasadena Stake Alhambra Baldwin Park Belvedere Eastmont El Monte Enrollment No. Subscriptions Pet. Magazine Representative Lois Nash Christy Sabin Delila G. Williams Pearl Cloward Hazel J. Christiansen Rachel Spencer Sarah N. Avery Augusta G. Wood Eliza J. Horsfield Edna R. Cole Inez V. Tuhlsen Maud L. West Rasmine Jensen Hattie S. Hanigan Clara Dittman Lamecia Pierce Sarah Harmon Anna Buie Margaret Runnels Edna Davis Ada Flandro Phebe Taylor Cora B. Murie Virginia Dunton Sara S. Hulet Lucy Green Sadie Liebig Ruther Harper Affa Caldwell Kate Scott Carol Miller Thelma Harms Relief Society Provo Stake Manavu Provo Fifth Provo Seventh Provo Tenth Raft River Stake Malta Moulton Sublett Yost Reno Stake Hawthorne Lovelock Reno Sparks Susanville Westwood Rexburg Stake Archer Burton Independence Lyman Rexburg Second Rexburg Third Rexburg Fourth Rigby Stake Grant Hamer Lewisville Menan Second Rigby First Rigby Fourth Roberts Terreton Beaver Creek Branch Subscriptions No. Pet. 113 244 85 86 100 Magazine Representative Flora Buggert Flora Buggert Fanny S. Whimpey Mary Josie Eva Thorsen Alice O. Neddo Alice O. Neddo Julia H. Clark Sylvia Olsen Eva Montgomery Elmina Cummins Ada M. Jensen Florence Milich Annie L. Morrison Bertha J. Purdy Genet Johnson Mary Young Daphne Nef Norah Grover Zina Clark Pauline Perry Anna Benson Maud Taylor Wanda Hunziker Mary Moore Amelia Stallings Rachel Taylor Sarah McClure Melba Kinghorn Lizzie Golder Margaret Chandler Ann W. Nielsen Ruth Marriott Maurine Peterson Mildred L. Haag ' 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 EI Sereno Las Flores Mission Park Monrovia Montebello Pasadena Rosemead Whittier Phoenix Stake Capitol Glendale Phoenix First Phoenix Second Phoenix Third Phoenix Fourth Phoenix Fifth Scottsdale Pioneer Stake Thirty-second Edison Pocatello Stake Pocatello Eighth Pocatello Thirteenth Pocatello F ourteenth Portland Stake Eugene Portneuf Stake Arimo Garden Creek Lava Hot Springs Merrill Swan Lake Virginia May Gerwin Dora Larson Sarah Booth Martha Hanks Nell Maiben Mary Phillips LaVon Howse May Kneisley Zola Stapley Rowena Bretzing Julia S. Kremer Claradell S. DeWitt Phoebe Thomson Rintha Naylor Ralva Mitchell Eulla Davis Mildred Smithson Edith Murray Ida Deters Helen Gunther Mary Howells Cora Hartvigsen Viola Thorn Ada L. Parris Lula Welch Lucille Capell Hattie Rowsell LaVene Pilgrim Marie Henderson Marion Shapper] Riverside Stake Riverside Twenty-eighth Roosevelt Stake Ballard Roosevelt Second White Rocks Sacramento Stake Arcade Homestead Roseville Sutter Auburn Branch Placerville Branch Woodland Branch St. George Stake Gunlock Ivins Pine Valley St. George Fifth St. George Sixth Veyo St. Joseph Stake Bryce Eden Globe Miami Pima Salt Lake Stake North Seventeenth Nineteenth Twenty-second Twenty-third Capitol Hill Hilvie Daniels Eleanor Smith HONOR ROLL Verna Werner Eliza Gilbert Myrtle Hoopes Susie V. Beutler Elsie Jones Augusta Hillman Vida B. Morey LaVernia B. Lewis Jane Lyman Goldie T. Baker Venda Gorden Maybell Hunt Martha E., Hafen Maud C. Gardner Elma M. Miles Emma C. Abbott Adelle Bunker Rula Colvin Nellie Dixon Ola Colvin Hilda M. Sanders Ella Sims Opal Cluff Rebecca P. Bean Mary Pack Klea Gray Alma Laxman Nellie A. Harter Melba Barnes 333 Relief Society Enrollment San Bernardino Stake 466 Colton Fontana Ontario Pomona Redlands Riverside San Bernardino First San Bernardino Second 54 Victorville San Diego Stake Hillcrest La Mesa North Park Valencia Park San Fernando Stake Burbank Eleysian Park Garvanza Glendale East Glendale West North Hollywood Reseda San Fernando Studio City Sunset Van Nuys San Francisco Stake Balboa Mission San Francisco Sunset No. Subscriptions Pct. Magazine Representative Hollie Jolley Breech Mrs. Louie Westover Alice S. Walker Vienna Stewart Lois Higgins Gladys Smith Ida K. Woodbury Laura Lee Hilliker Betty E. Trent Fay Adams Sarah Bodily Gladys Brimhall Ora Peterson Nancy Bird Elsie Weber Jane Reynolds Frances Kelland Elizabeth Burnett Elizabeth Brower Ruth B. Turman Helen Yaple Zola Larsen Leona Hobbs Peninnah W. Anderson Lucille A. Switzer Katherine Duke Florence M. Fitzgerald Mary C. Sernack Hulda Noether Ann E. Savard Lillian E. Clawson Relief Society Shelley Stake Basalt Firth Goshen Jamestown Kimball Shelley First Shelley Second Shelley Third Taylor Woodville Smithfield Stake Smithfield First Snowflake Stake Claysprings Heber Joseph City Lakeside Linden Pinedale Showlow Snowflake Woodruff Enrollment 572 48 68 75 49 26 90 79 38 31 48 82 South Box Elder Stake Brigham City First Brigham City Second Brigham City Sixth South Carolina Stake Columbia Gaffney Spartanburg Augusta Branch 111 112 104 Subscriptions No. Pct. Magazine Representative N. Florence Hanny Thelma Hoskins N. Florence Hanny Mattie Christensen Eva Burke Florence E. Gifford Edna Anderson Ruth H. John Charlotte Winn Marvel Peterson Edna H. Kotter Jessie Littledike Kathleen B. Fraser Ruby Hancock Rose Reidhead Maurine Despain Luella K. Burke Etta C. Seymore Jane W. Jackson Louise Woolford Marge Hunt Zella S. Turley Arta Sessions Ezma L. Knudson Elizabeth M. Baird Daisy M. Neeley Vernie Mae Martin Elizabeth Noblin Bertha N. Cook 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 San Joaquin Stake 243 Modesto 63 Stockton 82 Tracy 24 Ione Branch 15 San Luis Stake Alamosa 55 Santaquin-Tintic Stake Elberta Branch 18 Seattle Stake Bellingham 34 Queen Anne 57 South Seattle 21 Tacoma Central 67 Port Orchard Branch 24 Shelton Branch 6 Richfield First. 119 Richfield Second 115 Richfield Fourth 109 Greenwich Branch 15 Sharon Stake Edgemont 52 Oak Hills 40 Pleasant View 40 Sarah Dana Mable J. Arnald Ellen Burt Sarah Dana May H. Frasure Ruth J. Nielson Bertha Hurst Bernice Burtenshaw Amy Black Maxine Johnson Opal McDaniel Grace Price Harriet E. Barney Ella M. Petrie Emily J. Heath Charlotte Myler Vernice Baldwin Myra Ennis May G. Axelson Beth V. Anderson Stena Mangum Jane Y. Pollett Laura Wilson Naomi Foisey Maurine Snedegar Mildred Nielson Flora Bigler Mrs. Paul Crandall Mary E. Cluff South Davis Stake South Idaho Falls Stake 378 Idaho Falls Third 108 Idaho Falls Eighth 73 South Los Angeles Huntington Park 88 South Gate 127 Walnut Park 102 South Ogden Stake 663 Ogden Ninth 86 Ogden Fourteenth 86 Ogden Eighteenth 89 Ogden Twenty-sixth 96 Ogden Twenty-seventh 55 Ogden Twenty-eighth 96 South Salt Lake Stake 521 Burton 74 Central Park 93 Haven 80 Miller 96 'Anna Bangerter Reeve Hill Wanda Gill HONOR ROLL Valeria Blotter Leda Jones Alice Marler Elizabeth Perry Rosa Waters Nancy Rupp Letha Henricksen Caroline Hurd Josephine Mugleston Rhea Warren Lucille Miller Ramona Wells Clara Willis Marie De Spain Estella Sorensen Ethel Varney Loretta Cramer Ada Gibbons Viola DaBell Marie Wagner Loretta Faddis Josephine Swenson Margaret Williams Kathleen Combe Hedy T. Davies Inga Denstad Alice Frandsen Hanna Dietrich - Rosemary McKinnon & San Juan Stake Blanding Grayson Monticello Lockerby Branch Morgan Branch Sevier Stake Richfield Third Sigurd Bountiful First Bountiful Third Bountiful Fifth Ammon Idaho Falls Sixth Stake Downey Firestone Grant Manchester Matthews Maywood Vermont Uintah 382 93 107 106 14 30 697 114 40 131 79 86 106 91 880 83 38 51 101 105 111 74 29 Enrollment Relief Society South Summit Stake Southern Arizona Stake Spokane Stake Coeur D'Alene Branch 14 Star Valley Stake Sugar House Stake 767 Summit Stake No. 417% 57 46 101% 75 26 Cd) 31 75 36 6 17 Subscriptions Pet. 84 100 110 91 82 81 79 82 Magazine Representative Tillie B. Collings Lydia E. Fillmore Ruby Baker Sarah Farmer Sadie Pope Laura Simpson Norma Wright Francell Gines Louisa Done Ethel Gardner Lenore Duncan Emma Masten Sarah Moser Eliza Robinson Carma Skinner Leta Coffman Melissa K. Wallace Annie Buckway Liahona Smith Hattie Pope Ada Sears Elmea Flora Alice Jones Jemima Crittenden Sybil Staley Relief Society Castleford Branch Filer Branch Uintah Stake Ashley Glines Maeser Vernal First Vernal Second Vernal Third Bonanza Branch Union Stake Baker La Grande First Pendleton Union Halfway Branch Utah Stake Provo Sixth University Uvada Stake Panaca Pioche Hiko Branch Wasatch Stake Center Charleston Daniel Heber First Heber Second Heber Third Heber Fourth Midway First Wallsburg Enrollment 23 27 No. Subscriptions Pct. 100 85 78 Magazine Representative Mable Sparks Martha Taylor Elsie M. Palmer Annie Morrison Effie Holfeltz Marie Johnson Mary A. Eaton Pearl D. Winder Alice Billings Zora Gurr Leola Blake Sadie E. Shelton Lillie Waldrop Belle Eriksen Clarice Kohler Wilmerth O. Ward Jane B. Evans Leda Law Eva T. Lee Hertha Kroencke Jewel S. Hansen Mildred Lawrence Phyllis Christensen Zina Ritchie Ina Orgil Annie L. Clyde Lula Hicken Margaret C. Callister Verna M. Hicken Martha Burgi Orpha Edwards 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 South Sevier Stake Annabella Joseph Monroe North Monroe South Marion Peoa Woodland Binghampton Whitewater Willcox Branch Bedford Freedom Grover Thayne Bryan Emerson Hawthorne Marlborough Richards Sugar House Hoytsville Upton 499 57 42 112 92 32 34 38 66 38 8 30 87 48 56 109 139 115 127 114 163 47 9 Taylor Stake Magrath First Magrath Second Raymond First Raymond Second Raymond Third Raymond Fourth Stirling Welling Tyrells Lake Branch Temple View Stake Six - Seventh Teton Stake Cache Cedron Darby Jackson Timpanogos Stake Grove Lindon Manila Pleasant Grove First Tooele Stake Tooele First Tooele Fifth Stockton Branch Tod Park Branch Twin Falls Stake Kimberly Martaugh Twin Falls First Twin Falls Second Twin Falls Third Twin Falls Fourth Grace B. Fletcher Lucile Gurney Annie Steele Minnie B. Litchfield Iva M. Jensen Esther J. Anderson Retta F. Heggie Elsie Perrett Anna Wilde Clara E. Selk Elizabeth Keachie Grace E. Higley Leatha Kunz Eva Hillman Beth Robertson Martha Larson Ella Smith Thelma Freeman Ann Nelson Clara Smith Earlene McGee Elva Benson La Rue Tabbert Goldie Tolman Mrs. Floyd V. Stanger Naomi Egbert Lenore Carroll Mable M. Judd Vera Holland Bertha Bolton Wayne Stake Weber Stake Wells Stake West Jordan Stake Bingham 75 Herriman 52 South Jordan 129 West Pocatello Stake 600 Arbon 20 Wynona Wickman Jay Clark Robena Harris Winona Hartman HONOR ROLL Fannie Chandler Clara McMurdie Ella Scott Irene Burt Edna Hunter Violet Riggs Ruth Lewis Mrs. J. R. McGill Allie C. Hartley Fern L. Roberts Avis Belnap Ida A. Isaacson Cora Miller Lucy Grames Mary Teerlink Mable Wood Jennie Waldron Aretta Hanson Merle Wennhold Hazel J. Robison Agnes Dansie Eliza Reynolds Blanche Myers Elsie Merrill Reta Austin Lois Bolingbroke Emma Hurst Elva Neeley 337 Hanksville Grover Branch Ogden First Ogden Nineteenth Weiser Stake Cascade Emmett First Fruitvale Letha Nyssa First Nyssa Second Ontario Owyhee Payette Vale Belvedere Browning Ivins McKay. Waterloo Whittier Wilson Riverton First Riverton Second Pocatello First Pocatello Third 10 9 119 75 612 18 36 8 59 37 33 78 45 29 50 178 116 121 106 122 152 92 72 88 88 123 Tressa Leary Elizabeth C. Ander. 338 MISSIONS Australian Enmore Glen Huon Hurstville Nambour California Atizona Chino Verde Valley Wickenburg Bakersfielq Delano Oildale Taft Wasco Imperia| Valley Blythe Brawley Indio Yuma Las Flores San Luis Obispo Santa Maria Mojave Desert Barstow Bishop Lancaster Lone Pine Mojave Ridgecrest Trona San Gorgonio Banning Blanche K, Richmond Marjorie Watson Elsie F. Parton Joyce Atkinson Vivian R. McConkie Virginia West Back Creek Buena Vista Danville Eastern States Albany Buffalo Canandaigua Gloversville amestown Ancaster etuchen Palmyra Philadelphia Pittsburgh Reading Schenectady Gladys B. Carmack Leah p. Godfrey New England States Fal] River Newport Springfield North Central States Austin Billings Duluth Marian A, Robinson Beatrice Nielsen 14 HONOR ROLL Relief Society Gettysburg Glasgow Grand Forks Lewiston Miles City Minneapolis Sioux Falls Sumatra Tower Williston Willmar Northern California Fresno East Fresno Klamath Alturas Monterey Bay Pacific Grove Salinas Santa Cruz Watsonville Redwood Arcata Rogue River Ashland Etna Yreka Santa Rosa Lakeport Santa Rosa Sonoma Enrollment 4 21 TFOANRUONMNM 20 125 12 No. WnNN _ aocnmntt w 23 Subscriptions Pct. 133 75 81 82 Magazine Representative Mildred Sandberg Colleen Walker Lottie Lehew Mabel I. Sawyer Princess Smith Florence E. Synnes Geneva Runeberg Gladys W. Savage Rosmyn A. Bruneau Ellen Grimmer Mabel Lindblad Georgia Markow Blanche Fuller Eva Croshaw Letha M. Nuttall Eva W. Hardwick Claris Matheson Leah Butler Mrs. W. C. Goodman Mary F. Burrows Claricie E. Bounds Alice Murphy Ruth C. Dutra Edith Leshler Martha Fisher Bertha Kingsford Relief Society Grand Rapids Jackson Lansing Central Ohio Columbus Dayton North Ohio Akron Alliance Cleveland South Ohio Cincinnati Wisconsin Eau Claire Lyndhurst Rhinelander Sheboygan Northwestern States Bend Bend John Day Prineville Redmond Butte Deer Lodge Helena Livingston Corvallis Corvallis Lebanon Sweet Home EnroilSubscriptions ment 11 13 16 No. Pet. Magazine Representative Amber H. Davis Millie Smith Annie B. Watt Helen Y. Page Margie Spresser Doris Hunt Beth Price Agnes Murray Mrs. Floyd Randall Hazel Robinson Adeline Taylor Hazel M. Bradshaw Luella Schroeder Selma Hoffman Bertha Brandan Rosalind Henneman Lalovi Harris Lucie Howard Florence M. Silvers Bessie Colomb Irene Butler Lucile Rossiter Idell B. Lee Lucile Hardman Dollie Whitmore Leone E. Burnett 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Sequoia Avenal Hanford Shasta Orland Northern States Tllinois Clinton Decatur Galesburg Peoria Quincy Springf ield Central Indiana Cambridge City Columbus Indianapolis North North Indiana South Bend South Indiana Linton Vincennes East lowa Bonaparte Tri Cities Waterloo East Michigan Detroit South Pontiac West Michigan Battle Creek May Parker Elna P. Haymond Rena P. Custer Lettie Crews Freda Belle Diel Rena P. Custer Mrs. John Diepenbrock Anne Evens Burrows Johanna C. Meissner Ellen R. Clayton Bertha Lilly Mrs. Theodore King Marie Buck Martha Hakes Maza L. Overlade Nellie F. Center Matilda Huber Melba T. Turley Susan Ferguson Dora E. Mostert Ethel Milton Kathleen Cc. Larson Reba Clark Louise Beauchamp Sophia B. Gordon Shirley Leslie Great Falls Bynum Fort Benton Golden Ridge McMinnville McMinnville Tillamook Veronia Woodburn Missoula Allendale Charlo Hamilton Kalispell Polson St. Ignatius Northern Montana Chinook Oregon Oregon City Washougal White Salmon Rainer Auburn Puyallup Southern Oregon Roseburg Wenatchee Grand Coulee Leavenworth Quincy Wenatchee 90 27 103 26 OnOaDX ie) N Beatrice Payne Vilate Stott (Sec.) Maxine McDeede (Sec.) Leah Eddington Ruby Eichert HONOR ROLL Vera Larsen Mrs. J. SWinfield Clara Tenney Donna Workman Sarah Farnsworth Bernice T. Allen Esther B. Swainston Edith Neilson Winnie Wendt Venetta Brower Georgia Pierce Lois Webb Vanda Marchant Maude L. Dean Lucy Chesley Margaret Zollinger Naomi Ward Zora Kitchin Leona Hickman Dora M. Love Delma Westover Pauline M. Baird 341 Kellogg (Independent) Relief Society Yakima Goldendale Hermiston Pasco-Kennewick Sunnyside Toppenish South African Springs Southern States Alabama Bay La Croix North Alabama Birmingham McCalla Central Florida New Symrna Orlando Tampa Winter Haven South Florida West Florida Bristol Olive Telogia Georgia Athens East Point Gibson Macon Milledgeville Enrollment 21 (45) 10 Subscriptions No. Pet. Magazine Representative Ruth McCardell Mabel Oman Mildred M. Despain Norma E. Tree Margaret M. Hansen Mavis Louw Effie B. Cotton Julia Gaines Mary L. Vining J. Marie Moore Lucy J. Michael Elizabeth C. Kimbrell Ethel R. Gainer Murle O. Green Violet A. Pettley Mrs. L. V. Adams Julia Mae Kennedy Ester Johnson Irene Dixon Grace Ann Estes Addie L. Black Lucille Bennett Vallie Taylor Enrollment Relief Society North Texas 45 Borger 12 Lubbock 9 Monahans 16 San Angelo 8 North Central Texas 94 Cleburne 8 Forth Worth 25 West Dallas 5 Wichita Falls 14 West Texas Corpus Christi 4 San Antonio 21 No. 608 45 13 7 18 7 85 9 25 9 12 Subscriptions Pet. Magazine Representative Christie J. Smith La Priel D. White Dorothy Waldrop Grace Miller Muriel C. James Lonie Jarrell Annie S. Poll Inez Pou Lydia Swanson Ora S. Brown Bertha E. Rinehart Lulu T. Unice Bernice Wainnes Laura Brunson (President) Pauline Detrick Mrs. Clark Barrett Blanche L. Reed Anita Walters Inez S. Searle Mary E. Harris Alice Belisle Margaret P. Jackson Cora B. Knippers Sylvia Rugg Lucille Wright Doris Tynes Clara A. Methvin Dorris Lawrence Grace N. Nicol George Ann Murphy Lelia Traylor 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Texas-Louisiana South Texas Bay City Baytown Houston Orange Port Arthur Valasco North Louisiana Alexandria Corleyville Farmerville Many Monroe Natchitoches Winnifield South Louisiana Albany Baton Rouge 744 158 3 17 52 9 11 10 132 9 6 5 23 16 17 14 127 7 21 Georgia-Florida Douglas Genoa Moultrie Perry Quitman South Georgia Brunswick Ridgeland Savannah Mississippi Columbia Liberty McNiel Sand Hill North Mississippi Senatobia South Carolina Denmark West South Carolina Rock Hill 61 80 78 Ollie Mae Adams Dora Solomon Florence Milton Mildred Barlow Lottie R. Brown Ida Bell Lison Bertha Cawley Eleanor Pruitt Vivian Lowther Alberta Clifton Otilla K. Grener Katie Blalock Christine Spiers Hattie McLean Lillie Floyd Alberta L. Bone Edith Smith Bogalusa Covington Gonzales New Orleans Pride Western States Casper Fort Washakie Fruita Glenwood Springs Grand Junction Hot Springs Meeker Montrose Paonia Rangely Rapid City Rawlins Rifle Riverton Santa Fe Scottsbluff Sheridan Sarah Ward Neola Dee Jenkins Ida Ficklin Mayola Miltenberger Gertrude Aucion Lula P. Child June Dodds Irtense Emos Lena Elizondo Lula Dunsdon Anna M. Allgood Maxine Hinton Estella Madsen Afton Holt Elizabeth Williams Helen B. Calder Mable Thomas Lucille Butterfield Ruth Cronor Lucille M. Jensen Alta Jordan Emma N. Brown Mildred Cox HONOR ROLL 343 WE shall be able to wear our "nylons" a long time if we treat them with due respect. Keep an old pair of cotton gloves in the hose bag where they can be slipped on when removing your hose or putting them on. This is a good practice at any time, but especially when high prices of commodities make economy in all personal and household affairs essential. More hose are snagged from rough hands than from dining-room chair legs, and hose are more often discarded because of snagging than because they are worn out. As a matter of further protection and economy, try classifying your hose and keeping them in small paper bags. Label each bag plainly, giving the necessary information to eliminate the need of putting the hand into the hose to determine which pair is suitable to wear for each occasion. I ON NYt MENDED TOE Handle With Gloves Ivie H. Jones RAYON RUNNER MENDED NYLONS President, Spanish-American Mission Relief Society = Page 344 —= Rainbow Land Marvin Jones I followed a rainbow to its end For a pot of gold—that I could spend— I'd spend it all, I thought, for you, As any lover for his love would do; But where the rainbow touched the land The only gold was yellow sand That rimmed blue pools of useless wishes— Stirred by fins of rainbow fishes.... in this department Should be se Society Presidents, See Tegulations governing the Submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAARS, SOCIALS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES arilyn Parberry are shown nly a part of the extensive and very beay broidered and croat the tiful bazaar They sent ding quota and made $ they have give Page 345 346 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Photograph submitted by Ann J. Killpack BIG HORN STAKE, RED LODGE (MONTANA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Left to right: First Counselor Lois Cozzens; President Theda Lynn; Second Counselor Hazel Updegraff; work director Augusta Crow. This branch was organized January 28, 1948 and a year later held its first bazaar. There are thirteen members enrolled and there were on sale 200 articles. 'The picture shows only part of the beautiful displays which included a large assortment of crocheted and hand-embroidered articles, as well as children's clothing, layette articles, and many decorative items for the home. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 347 Red Lodge Branch was organized under the direction of Sister Ann J. Killpack, former president, North Central States Mission Relief Society, but it is now included in Big Horn Stake, of which Amelia H. Robertson is Relief Society president. Photograph submitted by Vida Fugal Swenson UTAH STAKE, PROVO THIRD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY COMPLETES MAGAZINE PROJECT—BOUND VOLUMES (1-34) MADE INTO A PERMANENT COLLECTION Shown looking at Volume 1 of The Relief Society Magazine, seated, left to right: Esthma C. Tanner and Secretary-Treasurer Nellie B. Bullock. Standing, left to right: Second Counselor Nellie R. Mecham; President Vida F. Swenson; First Counselor Alice B. Stephensdn. In describing this outstanding accomplishment, Sister Swenson reports: "Had it not been for Sister Esthma Tanner, a devout member of our Relief Society, now seventyeight years old, we may not have begun this project. She said to the presidency: 'I have kept all of my Magazines, and have many of the earlier numbers. It would make me happy to place them where they would do the most good.' And so our collection began. We invited the membership to bring in as many Magazines as they could.... We contacted all our older members, out of-town people, and the Relief Society general board office.... Finally, all we lacked was one Magazine in volume 1." This precious number was secured, and in August 1948 the collection was complete and the ward Relief Society officers had all the volumes bound. Then they supplied the material, and the president's husband, A. Alfred Swenson, built an appropriate cabinet for housing the books. On December 7, 1948, this complete, beautiful, and priceless set of books, arranged in the cabinet, was presented to the Provo Third Ward Relief Society as a Christmas gift. Sister Swenson suggests: "While early Magazines yet exist, may other groups feel the desire to secure a full set for themselves, that this choice material may be preserved as a cherished treasure for generations to come." Josephine S. Bird is president of Utah Stake Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Photograph submitted by Helen Hassell NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, ASHLAND (OREGON) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ASSEMBLES IN NEW CHAPEL FOR OPENING SOCIAL October 1948 Left to right, beginning with the third person, front row: Mary Burrows, district aid; Helen Hassell, President, Ashland Branch Relief Society; Marion Lusk, First Counselor; Josephine Davis, Second Counselor, Geneva Wray, SecretaryTreasurer. This active and enthusiastic branch was organized three years ago with eight members. There is now an enrollment of forty-five active members. At the opening social each class leader presented a review of the lesson material for 1948-49. These talks were interspersed with readings and musical selections. Refreshments were served to conclude the pleasant afternoon. "We truly enjoy the spirit of the Lord," Sister Hassell writes. Mary S. Ellsworth is president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. Photograph by Norman Johnson, Roanoke, Virginia, Submitted by Maggie Snow CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, CHARLOTTESVILLE (VIRGINIA) RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AID IN CHAPEL BUILDING PROJECT Front row, left to right: Second Counselor Goldie Dawson; First Counselor Florence Dudley; President Maggie Snow. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 349 Second row, left to right: Secretary Irene Dunn; Viola Snow; Betty McBride; Sister Henderson. Third row, left to right: Catherine Chellis; Mary Davis; Phyllis Wells. Back row, left to right: Alberta Wells; Doris Dudley; Elizabeth Hamm; Mary E. Dean; Hattie Davis; Francis Pritchett. At the dedicatory services for the Charlottesville chapel, President J. Robert Price of the Central Atlantic States Mission, paid special tribute to the Relief Society women who "put their shoulders to the wheel.... And with many hours of cooking, sewing, and saving, they helped to bring the chapel project to completion." Built on the main road which leads to the historic home of Thomas Jefferson, "Monticello," this chapel will stand as a testimony to the divinity of the message of the restored gospel. The chapel was recently dedicated by President Bruce R. McConkie of the First Council of Seventy. Mabel A. Price is president of the Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Opal Broadbent LYMAN STAKE (WYOMING), LYMAN WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE HIGH RECORD FOR 1948 First row, third from the left: Emily Bleumel, age seventy-three, who has been a visiting teacher for thirty-four years. For twenty-five years of this time Sister Bleumel and Sister Annie Eardley (deceased) were partners, missing their calls only twice in all the twenty-five years. In her young womanhood, Sister Bleumel and her companion traveled in a wagon, leaving their homes early in the moming and returning just before. Dark. Second row, at the right: Irene Platts, President, Lyman Ward Relief Society, and mother of sixteen children. Third row, at right: Opal Broadbent, President, Lyman Stake Relief Society. Sister Broadbent reports that a record of 100 per cent was made for the year, with the exception of one district which was not visited one month. Of the eighteen districts, nine are in the country, where the distances average six to twenty miles per visit. 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Photograph submitted by Louisa Stephens MONTPELIER STAKE (IDAHO), MONTPELIER FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY DISPLAYS SIX BEAUTIFUL QUILTS Left to right: Second Counselor Anna Cochran; First Counselor Mable Hansen; President Mary Wilkes (seated); Secretary-Treasurer Lillian Dimick; work meeting director Clara Smith. These six beautifully designed and carefully made quilts were all completed during October and November 1948. Louisa Stephens is president of Montpelier Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Abby W. Webb DAVIS STAKE (UTAH), FARMINGTON FIRST WARD, ELEVEN RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, left to right: Lucy Hess, first Relief Society president of the ward; Millie Wood; Lyle Warnock; Gertrude Ellis. Back row, left to right: Gorgenia Young; Ethel Udy; Lillie Hepworth; Lizzie Boylin; Margaret Hess; Kate Whitney; Effie T. Apple. Abby W. Webb is president of Davis Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 351 Photograph submitted by Margaret M. Peterson NORWEGIAN MISSION, STAVANGER BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR November 26, 1948 This very successful bazaar consisted of displays of exquisite handwork, toys, clothing, household ornaments, cakes, and pastries. Note the lovely lamp shade in the center of the photograph and the quilt in the background. Sister Margaret M. Peterson, President, Norwegian Mission Relief Society, reports as follows: "The work in the mission is going forward and bazaars are being held in practically all the branches," Photograph submitted by Bethyal Lund BEAVER STAKE (UTAH), MILFORD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR December 10, 1948 Seated, left to tight: Gertrude Fisher; Steven Fisher; Cora Jones; Ina Norton; Secretary-Treasurer Bethyal Lund; Second Counselor Maxine Barton; First Counselor Jessie Frazier; Cassie McKnight; President Hazel Kesler; Hannah Smith; Verna Tomsick; Cuma Goodwin; Mary Johnson; Jane Lang; Maude Stoker; Mildred Wilcock.. Phylis S. Warr is president of Beaver Stake Relief Society. 352 Raynor; Alta K Tow Oo nght: Jeannette Gli; Stake Relief Oci; Hammer,: nes, work Meeting leader; Second Counselo; S ciety President DeLilah M. Fy lenbach. LS group Tepresents the quilters of Son Francisco Ward Pletion of One quilt a Month DeLilah M. F ellenba SWeet spirit of the Sisterhood Of the I ce & So that no teat Relief Society to the fullest a will want to miss oad Possible extent. Time, neyo™ day every, Eo itis mit OOF entire season', should fee] both needed and wantCtivitjes Well in advance, Wwe can be ed. Each should hay, 7 Opporassured of Profitable ang Well-baltunity Contribut, Service anced Program Which wil] accom and to develop her skill Everyone Plish the fine Purposes of the Relief Who attends Id partak of Society k meet; YOU MIGHT HAVE WAITED You Might Have Waited (Continued from page 304) "Tell me about it, please," she asked, politely hiding her eagerness. "Well," Miss Tyndale said, "if you can stand a garrulous old woman a while longer, I'll tell you the story." Miss Tyndale flashed a smile that on anyone else would have been described as cryptic, on her it was half amusement. "One day," she began, "my youngest brother Ned came home from school with a friend. They must have been arguing, for the friend insisted I was going to marry Tom Wallcrist." "Who was Tom Wallcrist? I never heard of him," Nan cut in. "Tom Wallcrist was a young man with a plodding gait and a plodding heart, but he had a spark of fire in him." Her smile this time was for some secret memory in her heart. "Ned," she said, taking up the story again, "didn't like the idea of my marrying 'Tom. He came rushing in, all upset. "T was in the kitchen, down on my hands and knees scrubbing the floor. 'Jen,' he said, his face tortured, 'you aren't going to marry Tom Wallcrist, are you?' "T didn't know exactly what had gone on, but I guessed. More to comfort him than anything else, I said as I wrung out the mop cloth, 'IT wouldn't matry Tom Wallcrist if he was the last man on earth.' "That satisfied him. He rushed out to his friend and said, 'Jen isn't going to marry Tom Wallcrist. She says She wouldn't do it if he was the last man on earth.'" 353 We Recommend These TWO COLLECTIONS for every SINGING MOTHERS' Music Library Sacred Choruses—(Hansen) SSA.....75 Angels, Ever Bright and Fair—Handel Rt Eventide, It Shall Be Light—Gaul But the Lord Is Mindful of His Own— Mendelssohn Eye Hath Not Seen—Gaul For Thee, O Dear, Dear Country—Gaul God So Loved the World—Stcainer He Shall Feed His Flock—Handel The Holy City—Adams I Will Sing of Thy Great Mercies— Mendelssohn Lift Thine Eyes—Mendelssohn Lord, Bow Thine Ear—Mendelssohn O, Holy Night—Adam Open the Gates of the Temple—Knapp These Are They Which Came—Gaul Fox Library Collection, Vol. I (secular) SSA 85 A Japanese Sunset—Deppen I Love a Little Cottage—O'Hara Indian Dawn—Zamecnik In the Heart of the Hills—Lee Lassie O'Mine—Walt Little Bluebird of My Heart—Grey Love Came Calling—Zamecnik Magnolia Bloom—Bernd Neapolitan Nights—Zamecnik One Fleeting Hour—Lee Out of the Dusk to You—Lee Sometime—Somehow—Somewhere—Wallace The Prayer Perfect—Stenson The Little Old Garden—Hewitt To Sing Awhile—Drummond We specialize in music for L. D. S. Choral groups of all types. Write for information. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We pay postage. We also have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home and school, all types of musical instruments, including Steinway and Lester pianos; and musical accessories. FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH | Wud é ( "Ke e MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH 354 This AD Is VALUABLE TO RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS To the bearer, we will allow a Discount of $2 500 OR MORE Toward the purchase of any New or Used Piano in our stock, if presented by July 1, 1949, Call or write for information Just Off Press—14 easy Piano arrangements of L. D. S. Hymns by Seldon N. Heaps. List sent on request. SUMMERHAYS MUSIC C0. 17 W. Ist South Salt Lake City PLAN NOW TO ENROLL - - BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY SUMMER QUARTER First Term: June 13 to July 22 Second Term: July 25 to August 26 SPECIAL FEATURES ELEVENTH ANNUAL MUSIC FESTIVAL a al BAND AND ORCHESTRA FAMILY LIFE INSTITUTE STUDENT PERSONNEL AND GUIDANCE INSTITUTE WORKSHOP FOR JOURNALISM ADVISERS LECTURES—CONCERTS—RECITATIONS A broad offering of Graduate and Undergraduate courses will be taught by the strong el Faculty augmented by Visiting Specialists. An added feature this year will be Leadership Week. Which will be held in conjunction with Summer School. Write the Dean for a Summer School Catalog BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 "What happened then?" Nan was breathless with curiosity. "Nothing," Miss' Tyndale said, matter-of-fact. "I was mortified for a minute, then I dismissed it as childish nonsense. You know how everyone talks in a small town. Within an hour I'd completely forgotten it. I didn't even think of it, when a man called me from the gate that evening. "I went out to see, and there was Tom. He was standing stiff as a rod on the other side of the fence. I walked up to him, but before I could get out a 'good evening' he stopped me by saying, "You might have waited until I asked you!' He didn't say another word, just turned his back and walked away." "But didn't he come back?" Nan insisted. "No, he didn't." Miss Tyndale scooped up a last handful of berries, her wrinkled face bland. "He left town right after that. He went out to Colorado and did right well in the cattle business—or so I've heard." "Oh, dear," Nan's voice was a wail, "it shouldn't have ended that way. You should have gone after him and explained." "What was there to explain?" Miss Tyndale's voice was some eighty years mild. "You should have gone after him anyway," Nan insisted. Miss 'Tyndale's laugh was free from remorse. "Girls didn't 'go after men' in those days. Anyway, I'd have been too shy to say anything." So that was it! Nan saw it all in swift comprehension. Miss Tyndale had been too shy. I should have known it, Nan told herself. She YOU MIGHT HAVE WAITED wanted to call Winkie and say, | "Look long upon this face. In her you have touched hands with the past." Winkie, she realized, was too young. She could only hope that in the years to come, some remembrance of Miss Tyndale's face, some inflection of her quiet voice, or some fragrance from her garden would remain. With swift compassion, Nan took Miss Tyndale's wrinkled face between her strong young hands and kissed the startled lady on her furrowed cheek. "I'm glad you stayed," she whispered, her voice constricted with emotion. Miss 'Tyndale's usually steady hands were shaking. "I declare," she said, "I didn't know it was so late. You get that child of yours and we'll go in the house for a cookie. "You know," she told Nan as she led the way into the house," I think the view of the valley is even prettier from the living room this time of day." Table Settings and Flower Arrangements (Continued from page 319) tic with "pinked" edges, and are ridiculously cheap to make. Make a hole in the center of the circle, slip the stick through, twist the material ever so slightly and fasten it to the stick with Scotch tape. Attach a loop of ribbon to the botton of the stick for a handle in case you want to string them on ribbons, tie a bow on each, and there you are! You can make one in almost as little time as it takes to give these directions. 355 —_ Professional daa Social Stationery e COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah oo _s RONIE JOHNSON SALT LAKE MONUMENT. COMPANY Phone 4-4025 Same Location Since 1890 186 N Street Opposite Main Entrance City Cemetery Salt Lake City 356 DLBAABAREBAABAASS "Know Your Utahns" Listen to Golden Memories every Sunday 9:45 a. M. On Station KDYL. And read about them in Sunday "Deseret News." Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary The Same Personal Service to All Regardless of Lost The cost is a matter of your own desire. Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 No. Main Salt Lake City ALLRRBRRERRREBEESSSAUS A Great Business College PLUS our L. D. S. Institute of Religion—both under the general direction of the L. D. S. Church Department of Education. Beginning and advanced training, the year round. Expert employment service for graduates and advanced students. Returned Missionaries: You will injoy the activities of our missionary organization. Information gladly furnished on L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah request. 70 North Main RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 A Pattern for Christine (Continued from page 297) But it was always good. Was it because of Mama? Boiling water, with dry bread broken in it, and salt and pepper and butter. Christine set the table and turned the chairs facing outward. "Come, Donnie," called Mama. Each knelt by a chair. "Donnie, will you—?" "Dear Heavenly Father, thank thee for this day and..." with Mama's help he finished. "What a nice, close-of-the-day prayer, Donnie," whispered Mama. They sat at the table, eyes lowered, arms folded. "Christine—" « "and for this bread we thank thee..." "Amen." ' "Please pass a piece of Christine's cake," ventured Naaman, slyly, recompensed when Christine glared at him. "Well, you cut it like cake, in wedges." "Look at the slices Mama cuts. They're straight," shrilled Donnie. Why did Donnie have to speak so unnecessarily loud, thought Christine, as she looked enviously at the even brown slices Mama had Gin: "Maybe it's the knife," said Mama. "Maybe it's tired. It's getting very old, you know. It crossed the plains with Grandma. "Was it an Indian knife, Mama?" Naaman was excited at the thought. "To scalp with?" added Donnie. "Donnie!" Christine looked at him disgustedly. "After all, we're eating!" "Oh, no," Mama put in, "nothing so romantic. Just one from a A PATTERN FOR CHRISTINE hardware store in Kirtland, one of the few not burned by the mobs. Grandpa used to sharpen it out here in the orchard on the old grindstone." "Did you help?" shouted Donnie. "I put drops of water, from a can, on the stone as he ground. But oh, just so much water; not too many drops." "May I be excused, Mama; I'm finished?" asked Donnie. "Certainly, dear." Donnie lay on the floor, one foot in the air. "It feels so good, Mama; it feels so good to have a sliver in your foot." "Christine, dear, will you clear the dishes while I take care of Donnie, please?" "Sure, Mama." Mama filled the washbowl with hot soapy water and put it on a chair beside her rocker. She sat in the rocker and held out her arms. "Come here, Donnie, I have a story to tell you. "A story, goodie!" He limped over and climbed on her lap. "Have you seen Dr. Johnson driving his fine horse and buggy around town?" "With his black bag." supplied Donnie. "Well, Naaman Says, some day he is going to be the doctor and drive such a fine horse and buggy." "Me, too," interrupted Donnie, "I'm going to have a bigger buggy; a long square one with fringes, like Brother Nolte's. And a gray, spotted horse. Brother Nolte let me hold the reins and put the buggy whip back in the holder." "Wouldn't you like a fine doctor 357 "Satisfaction Guaranteed or Your Money Back!" You can't lose at Sears! In the first place all Sears merchandise is first quality... Tested in our laboratory, specified at the factory, then field tested under actual "in-use" conditions. Nothing human is infallible. So, just on the long chance that some time something might slip through, we say to you in all sincerity and good faith: "If anything you ever get from Sears doesn't make good—SEARS = seas Main or State iii ee ee ee at 8th South Salt Lake City I@VIVONNYeViYaXliYevivevivey Berial CG betes Dial 5-665} Relief Society General SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. PARK FREE Board furnishes BURIAL CLOTHING for CHILDREN and ADULTS a Address: 28 Bishop's Building 'Salt Lake City 1, Utah LONNONONNGNNOY 358 like that to take care of your foot?" Mama looked up at Naaman. "Naaman, please dear; I can't see slivers very well any more. Will you pine "No, no," shrieked Donnie. Naaman held up a beautiful glass marble, flecked with color. "You can hold it." "Will you play a game with me?" bargained Donnie. "If you don't bawl." THE blue twilight slowly claimed the quiet, country town, circled in the sure, close embrace of the hills. The arc light on the corner blinked and then flared its pale, morning-glory of light on the wide, dirt road. Children seeped from all the homes in the neighborhood, whooping. "R-rn, my sheep, run..." Christine tingled with delight. It was delicious. It was heaven. A young, brown elbow touched her own in the dusk; patched overalls, in running, brushed her faded apron. The dusk air twined her curls with coolness and washed her with ecstacy.... The curfew tolled across the summer night and the street grew still again. When they went in Mama was ironing Mrs. Boyne's beautiful, embroidered pillowslips. "Oh, Mama, save one for me to iron." "The prettiest, the very prettiest, ll save for you to iron tomorrow, because you iron so well, Christine. You'll soon be too much competition for me. And now to bed, and don't forget your secret prayers, because that's the way to get the things you need and sometimes even the things you want, if they're right for you to have." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 Mama tucked the sheet over Christine and kissed her twice. "Oh, Mama, I love you." "And I love you. It's such fun to have a little girl. Just wait and see,' Mama whispered gaily, and then went back to her ironing.... X OK OK OK s¢TUST wait and see... "Oh, Mama!" Christine's head fell to her arms on the machine, and all the test of the bitterness sobbed out of her in a silent prayer. Mama, brave, wonderful, cheerful Mama.... Christine opened her eyes and sat up. Someone seemed to be near. Cherished words came back to her —oh, not in tones her ears could hear, but in words her heart could understand.... It was the remembrance of Mama. Her mother's smile, her words, seemed to return in vividness and beauty. Mama would always be here with her. She would never be alone. Christine sat looking at the summer gold that lay outside, and she felt a deep contentment. She was comforted. She drew her eyes back to the unfinished sewing. The pattern sheet, yes, the pattern, Mama had always said that if the pattern was good, she would be wise to follow it until she grew adept enough to devise her own. Her confident hand patted the folded paper. Tomorrow, she would finish the sewing. She would use the pattern. She heard the scrunch of Dave's anxious, hurried steps on the walk, and caught the sound to her singing heart. The door opened. "Christine, | Christine, Herm?" Bright with her old smile, she moved into his arms. How's Auerbach's Makes It Easy For You To Knit Yourself A Dress Knitting is an easy and fascinating hobby. Auerbach''s gives FREE knitting lessons with all yarn purchased. Minerva Yarns: @ MONTEREY, all wool knubby-yarn SS). As,.80c ounce VELVEEN, 71% wool, 29% rayon, shiny rayon thread.......80¢ ounce Cost of handknit dregs pictured..$21 Minerva pattern book containing a marvelous collection of dress patod 6 ae.25¢ ART NEEDLEWORK AUERBACH'S FOURTH FLOOR Auerbach's, State and Broadway Salt Lake City, Utah book..25¢c. Or Monterey Yarn. Color Please send me................---. Copies of the Minerva Pattern Please send me.................... Ounces of Minerva Velveen Name Address......... City. State Utahns, please add 2% sales tax. Please add 25 cents to cover mailing and insurance. From Tlear and Sar "A Pattern for Christine," is Dorothy Roberts' first short story, but she is well- _——: known to our readers as a poet and writer of articles. Fay Tarlock, author of "You Might Have Waited," is a frequent contributor to the Magazine. A note regarding her work appeared in June 1948. I want to take this occasion to tell you how very much I enjoy the Magazine. The three prize-winning poems and the (by Estelle Webb Thomderful, as well as zine contains. May the L continue with you in the great work you are doing. —<Annie Boss, Paris, Idaho I surely like the Februaty (1949) issue. Everything 15 lovely. _Frances C. Yost, Bancroft, Idaho I read the Magazine from cover to cOVver and do not miss one thing, but woul like to single out the story "We Are So Busy" (March 1949) 4S having 4 special inspirational value for all who may Pro crastinate their generosity and acts of kindness. —Delores T. Lindsay, Sparks, Nevada I am Magazine from month to month, and must congratulate you upon the excellence of the material that you present, and also upon the editorial arrangement, which is equally good. The Lord bless you in his great work, and may he continue to bless you with health and strength. —John A. Widtsoe, Member, Council of the Twelve, Salt Lake City, Utah I was thrilled more than you can know at seeing excerpts from my recent letter to you printed in the February Relief Society Magazine. It produced a wave of fan Page 360 mail from Missouri to Utah to Oregon. Guess, aS 4 writer, I have arrived, © Thank you and always best of fortune to you and the fine work you are doing. -—Bert C. Mitchell, Salem, Oregon It is gratifying to have a poem in your March _ issue ("Sky Writing') along with Alice Morrey Bailey's "I Have Seen Aspens." Her words takes one into the mountains through the seasons and defies ever forgetting the aspen valleys. Cameron John s "Art Teacher' is more It brings more than just a slight lump to one's throat. Marvin Jones, Salt Lake City, Utah The short stories, "Compromise" (by Mildred R. Stutz) and "We Are so Busy" (by Sylvia Probst Young) 12 the March Magazine are entertaining sermons without sermonizing. 1 am thankful for both of them. —Susa Gould Walker, Panguitch, Utah I have enjoyed my first. Year so very much with this beautiful, inspiring book. The information I have gained from studies with it has been of great worth, opening a new understanding of a wom: an's life and work by following the gospel teachings. ~—Ruth Neil (English wat widow), Canada Tonight Sister Pehrson and I have been talking about the fine things the Relief Society work gives to the women of the Church. Sister Pehrson had so many good things to say about the Magazine that we decided to write and tell you how splendid we think it is. She reads it every month, from covet to cover, the wonderful lessons, the excellent editorials. The stories are good company these long winter days. She would not exchange the Magazine for anything in the world. Lucile Bennion and Christine Pehrson, Vernon, Utah Every Good Book You Read Enriches You On the Way to Immortality and Eternal |e53.90 By President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. A historical exposition of the background out of which the Gospel was restored, showing the need for the restoration of the way to immortality and eternal life. The Vitality of Mormonism.....................92.90 By James E. Talmage This popular collection of classical essays on Gospel themes from the incomparable pen of a scholar and master is in great demand. Joseph Smith, an American Prophet....93.25 By John Henry Evans An ever popular expository biography designed to help non-Mormons understand and appraise Joseph Smith fairly and accurately. DESERET BOOK COMPANY OFFICIAL PUBLISHERS AND DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City 10, Utah IUNE 1949 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E, Paxman Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 36 JUNE, 1949 No. 6 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES A Measuring Rod for Growth Blanche B. Stoddard 364 Contest Announcements—1949 368 Foinis for Poets to Remember Eva Willes Wangsgaard 371 On Writing a Short Story Fay Tarlock 374 El Paso and the Latter-day Saints.. Sadie Ollorton Clark 384 Orchid Hunting in Honduras Elizabeth Williamson 390 FICTION Young Hearts Are Fragile. Olive W. Burt 377 A Family's a Family. Estelle Webb Thomas 406 Joarnna—Chapter 6 one en cise enceeesnssessenessesenescssssesnsnesscnsesananeceseessseesenecesescesecessecssseseececeaeseMargery S. Stewart 416 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago secsssssssssasesesenssansesanseesccceesesesseee B94 Woman's Sphere a Ramona W. Cannon 395 Editorial: The One Hundred Nineteenth Annual General Conference...........--Leone G. Layton 396 In Memoriam: Mary Ah Ping Tyau wees 397 Deseret Sunday School Union Centennial Conference 2.0.0.0... We 397 Corrections in Magazine Honor Roll 398 Notes From the Field: Anniversary Socials, Bazaars, and Other Activities............: ccccsseecees General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 419 From Near and Far 432 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Table Settings and Flower Arrangements: Pleasure From Simple Things............ A. J. Neff 399 Pressed Flower Pictures—a ''Designing'' Hobby 404 Inner Resources Caroline Eyring Miner 405 Rescue That Little Rocker. -Rachel K. Laurgaard 413 Carrot Marmalade oo... Cceccccceseeeeceeseenee Soe r ee e cneeesereeeess aFrances Kolarik 415 POETRY Sweet Memory—Frontispiece. Temple Shadows - Roses Wet With Rain... Dorothy J. Roberts 363 a. En noe nnnns neuesLizabeth Wall 370 sescesrseceusesscavesoeeeseceessseterecee-nes-cea-noesGrace Sayre 370 yA (500) 5 a.. Evelyn Fijeldsted 373 A Song the Heart Must Sing -Anna Prince Redd 376 Impressions 2......-seccsecosccoessoessusecsssoeessessussuessussnessuvesuessuessuvsusesasssevenssnessusesvesavesisssessriseseesuecescosesElise B. Maness 376 Pastoral Gene Romolo 389 T Shall Go On coceecccccccoceccccceceeececeoee:.. Ee esl J osephine J. Harvey 389 00 AWCS9 epee erecrscercerremreceerrerrre ror Pe SEE Catherine Renstrom 389 Selective Memory o.. Ccccccccccscseccccssscseesssscccssessussaessessuessuesssessecsivesesseeesvesneessoeseesteeeseesee. Clarence Edwin Flynn 393 a sostrececsees eeRenie H. Littlewood 398 ScansKatherine F. Larsen 403 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15e. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. ROSCS onsceecsecesescnessesesscsnsesnsessccosesocessessesnessnessesssusussovenuessesussentesuessuseenseeeeeeseen.. Christie Lund Coles 376 Only 3 99 Brighten up your wardrobe and delight your purse at the same time. Sizes 12 to 20. Left: Geometric pattern on Aqua, Lavender or Navy. Right: Spring floral print on Navy or Black. Rayon taffeta trim. DOWNSTAIRS STORE READY TO WEAR BLOSSOMs AND CLOUDS THE RELIEF —". MAGAZINE VOL. 36, NO. 6 JUNE 1949 - _. The Cover: " Sweet ITlemory Dorothy J. Roberts I recall him, true and wise, The lad from long ago who cries A starry beauty back to me Through ribboned lanes of memory. When twinkling pools of rain would hide Their stumbling depths from me, as guide, He steered my elbow in his palm. He poured his simple faith as balm To heal my budding discontent And lit a maiden's wonderment. I never hear him in the dark, Moving now, nor could I mark His lightened footfalls should they pass, Still as shadows over grass Or midnight sparrow under eaves. Yet often when catalpa leaves Are shielding their ethereal bloom, I drift from this dissolving room And walk with him a country lane, A summer evening washed with rain. Talisman Rose," Photograph by Josef Muench. A Measuring Rod for Growth Blanche B. Stoddard Member, Relief Society General Board [Address delivered at the annual general Relief Society conference in the Tabernacle, Thursday afternoon, September 30, 1948.| HIS morning we had a wonderful demonstration of the growth of our building fund which will make possible the realization of a great Relief Society dream. For a moment this afternoon, I would like to speak of a measuring rod for our own individual growth, the following of which may make it possible for us to realize some of our dreams.. We have a beautiful song which says: "I know that my Redeemer lives, and because he lives, I, too, shall live again." 'The sacrifice of Jesus has ensured the resurrection. We shall literally live again. But his coming has brought to us another kind of living, a rich, full, abundant living that we do not have to wait to enjoy in some hereafter. Before the tme of Jesus the old Mosaic Law was in effect, "An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth," but Jesus brought us the greater law of love, of tolerance, and forgiveness. He gave us the key for this rich, abundant life, and his gospel is highly practical. It is something that we can put into our daily lives and really live, and it is a strange thing, is it not, that we hold to perfection in obedience to natural law. We just take for granted that if we obey certain laws we get certain results. But we do not always do that in regards to this great law of love. Page 364 For instance, if I want to bake a cake, I must have certain ingredients and certain proportions, and if I skimp or leave out one I do not get a good cake. My husband is a builder. If he wants good concrete he must have cement, sand, and water, and if he leaves out any of these he has not good concrete. If you want to send a special delivery letter you must have a thirteen-cent stamp, a tencent stamp is not enough. If we want a pound we must have sixteen ounces; fourteen will not do. And it is said that one-thousandth of an inch variation in the building of an engine shaft will cause enough friction to ruin it. O, do I fool the oven with short measure recipes? Does my husband fool the sun with short measure concrete? Do we fool the laws of harmony when we play false notes? We fool only ourselves. Then why can we not accept this same procedure in following exactly and completely this great law of love which encompasses all others? Why cannot we take for our formula of life: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself," a formula just as exact and scientific as any other? To solve it does not entail great sacrifice or noble and heroic deeds, just the will to live from day to day with A MEASURING ROD FOR GROWTH the happiness of others as our goal, and in reaching it we will find our own greatest happiness. So let us take that formula for our measuring rod and as the years go by, at intervals let each of us ask himself, have I grown in love this past year? Is it easier for me to love all men, all classes, all nations? Am I as kind in my home and thoughtful as I could be? Can I tell those I love that I do love and appreciate them? Or, is it too much bother? Am I as kind in my judgment as I ought to be? And it seems to me, sisters, this last is a keynote for our happiness, to be kind in our judgment of each other. It is said that we judge other people by their actions; ourselves by our intentions, and that is not fair, is it? If we were willing to judge other people by their intentions we could never judge, because we cannot possibly know what is in another's heart. One day my little daughter came running into the house and aid, "Mother, Joyce says I am spoiled." And I said, "Well, Judy, I have heard you say a dozen times that Joyce is spoiled." She did not answer for a second or two and then she said, "Well, but she is." A fine old English convert moved into one of our wards a few years ago and had been there but a short time when the bishop asked him to take charge of the sacrament table for the following month. He was so thrilled to think that he was worthy, but some of the sisters in the ward went to the bishop and said: "This man is not worthy to handle the sacrament. He smokes." 365 He had been a heavy smoker all of his life but now he had joined the Church and he was trying so hard, and these women did not know what his wife knew. Day after day she would see him out in his garden down upon his knees with the tears streaming down his face, praying for strength to leave the cigarette alone. He had conquered and he was worthy, but they did not know it. When we moved to Salt Lake a number of years ago we lived next door to a sister who held a very high position in the Church, but she did not go to sacrament meeting. She did not go to Relief Society meeting. She did not visit the poor and the needy. She did not do any of the things I thought she should in the position she held. It seemed to me she just rocked on her front porch day after day, and I was quite free in my criticism of her. But I awakened one morning to find that she had died in the night with cancer that I knew nothing about. That is why she could not do the things she wanted to do. So let us be kind in our judgments of each other. EMEMBER this morning in the closing prayer, Sister Cowley implored the Lord that we might guard our tongues. Most of the trouble and unhappiness that come in our association together is because of our unguarded tongues, the unkind things we say. Our pioneer grandmothers had a code. They prayed: "Lord, keep us from pettiness. Help us to be big in thought and word and deed." And it might help us to remember this, that great minds discuss ideals, 566 average minds discuss events, small minds discuss people. I wish we would remember and teach our children that to find happiness we must seek it in a focus outside ourselves, the kindly visit to those in trouble, the needed praise to the timid. To give aid to those in distress rather than to seek my own comfort—that must be something that Jesus would have me do, and to speak words of understanding to those bowed down is what he would do if he came among us today. So let us not miss him on the way, because the selfish pursuit of our own plans will guide us away from his path. Look about you. Who are the neurotics among us? Not these sisters on the stand, not our Relief Society officers, our auxiliary workers, not our bishopric, not our First Presidency. They are too busy serving others to feel sorry for themselves. And men are only great as they are kind, and the more kind the more Christ-like. And I am sure we have no finer example in all the world than our beloved Prophet of today who is with us this afternoon. He is known all over this world as a kindly man who loves the children of his Father in heaven. I do so want to tell a sweet little story about him, and I do not have his permission, but I do have his daughter Edith's, so maybe President Smith can settle with her. Edith went to pick him up at his office, on a winter night, and he put on his hat and said he was ready to go. And she said, "Where is your overcoat?" He said, "I haven't any." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 She said, "Papa, where is your new overcoat?" And he said, "Well, I went out at noon and I met a man on the street who was cold and shivering and did not have a coat and I gave him mine." So Edith wrapped a shawl around him and took him home, and I am sure she must have wrapped it around him with special tenderness that night, thankful for the great heart within her father. So we must let ourselves be touched by the spirit of the Master, that we may speak words of kindness and appreciation to those we meet in the common walks of life. The Master said, "Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the children of God." And the peacemakers are those who, having love and sympathy for men, are always trying to get them to understand and love each other and to co-operate with their Heavenly Father to obtain a family relationship here among his children on earth, as sons and daughters of God, with mankind a family and a universal home and the kingdom of God here on earth. There is such an opportunity to serve all about us, and it is not always enough to do the little things we have to do. The real joy comes in doing the things we do not have to do. } OT long ago I was nding on a bus down Ninth South. It was raining. We got in the middle of a block and a blind man was groping with his white cane to get off the curb and across that busy street. Our bus driver stopped the bus and got A MEASURING ROD FOR GROWTH out and helped him across, came back and got in and we went on. Not a word was said, but J am sure every heart on that bus was warmed because he did not have to do that little thing, and I imagine dozens oi motorists had whizzed by this blind man and probably thought, poor man, I hope he makes it, but the bus driver did something about it. President Smith has given a definite assignment to Relief Society to spiritualize the homes of the Latter-day Saints, but we must. Start with our own by teaching therein the gospel of Christ. And we all heard Brother Howard Driggs say here in our conference two years ago that the spirit of the gospel is caught, not taught. It is easy to admire the teachings of Jesus. It costs no effort and it satisfies our yearning for the ideal. It is likewise easy to discuss him and his principles. Day after day and week after week, in our Church organizations, we listen to the great truths of his teachings, but when we have to dig down to build upon the rock; when we try loving our enemies instead of getting even with them, how different we find it. Yet we know it is the doing of these things that is the final test of our character and is the measuring rod of our growth, and though we cannot do all the things that Jesus did we can have faith in him. Though we cannot perform the miracles he did, we can still grow more like him who went about doing good. As we study the precepts of our Savior, seeds of kindness and forgiveness are sown in our hearts. Then 367 let us act upon them that they may bring forth their fruit. Then we must ask ourselves if we have grown in love these past years, and as we go among our fellows may our lives silently and surely influence others until the whole earth is leavened. Not very long ago Brother Stoddard and I were coming home from San Francisco and it was necessary to drive all night, so I took the wheel for about a hundred miles while he rested, and I was amazed at the great system of beacon lights and warnings on our great desert, warnings to the aviators and the motorists. And I noticed something else as I drove along that night, and you notice the next time you are out, that all these metal markers along the side of the road and these curve signs, they are just dark, dull metal. They do not mean a thing until our light flashes on them, then immediately they send back their warning to us. Now our Heavenly Father has put his guideposts all along the way, the Word of Wisdom, the law of chastity, of forgiveness, of tolerance and service, but they will not mean anything to us unless our lights are on. So let us keep them shining brightly and grow each day more like him, and be sure our measuring rod is big and broad. May our testimony of Jesus be the kind of which he would approve, a testimony clearly spoken through our lives, and may his principles of living, his example of helping others to the more abundant life, become our own life purpose, I humbly pray. Contest Announcements—1949 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the general board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The general board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contest study carefully the articles on creative writing which appear in this Magazine, and also similar articles in the June issues for 1947 and 1948: "The Art of Poetry Writing—A Symposium of Opinions," page 370, June 1947, and "We Want to Write," page 375, June 1947; "For Makers of Rhythmic Beauty," page 370, June 1948, and "You Can Write a Prize Winner," page 372, June 1948. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1949. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize «0.2.2.2...$25 Second prize................$20 'Tintaprze..................28$15 Prize poems will be published in the January 1950 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Page 368 Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board, and employees of the Relief Society general board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestant to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS—1949 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work. 'ec. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other persons with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational 369 institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem. E. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1949. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1949 opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1949. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize.........-...-------$50 Second prize.........-......$40 Third prize........ A... A$30 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1950. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. 'The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board and employees of the general board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of 370 publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D.. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first ptize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. > RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1948. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Temple Shadows Lizabeth Wall It casts a cool, long shadow on the grass, This great, gray, kindly Temple I have found. Beyond the gates I hear the people pass; All up and down the busy street, the sound Of traffic beats a city-sad refrain. But those who walk the paths beneath these walls Shall seek this place again... And yet again To find sure comfort where the shadow falls. This soft, green shadow holds a gentle peace That all the tangled world is searching for. Here is the answer, here is all release, Escape from pain... Or fear... Or any war. The Temple hears each lost, bewildered cry, And reaches up to find God in the sky. > Roses Wee With Rain Grace Sayre Beyond the poignancy of grief, When storm shall harass and oppress, A loveliness shall blossom forth To greet the heart's caress. And with the joy of it the pulse That beats anew and aches the throat, Swells to sing its happiness In quickened, lilting note, And memory, forgetting pain, Remembers roses wet with rain. Points for Poets to Remember Eva Willes Wangsgaard Author of Singing Hearts, Down This Road, After the Blossoming, Within the Root won a contest because it was chosen from many contributions, the greatest percentage of which had to be sent back. What makes a poem? Chiefly emotion and originality (that originality inherent in personality, which is the only originality since Eve), clothed in appropriate and effective words and arranged in a form suitable to the subject. Suppose we want to write a poem, what do we seek first? The idea with the poet's personality attached to it, what she feels and_ thinks about a particular situation, circumstance, heartbreak, or other experience. How do we go about it? We con it over very close to our hearts, letting it stir and grow from the very depths of our beings, thinking, utterly alone, far removed in thought from surroundings, people, and things, until the idea is rooted and sprouting. The chances are that it will somehow know whether to be an oak or a maple, just as a seedling does. T let a poem take its form from the emotion it rouses in me and hope that it will stir my readers to feel what I am feeling. But if it does not choose the proper form, it is a cripple and will not produce the desired effect. Some poets build poems with a conscious choice of form to fit the emotion they expect to arouse. If you choose your form, then do it surely. In order to do this you Bie: published poem has must make yourself a master of form. Any good rhyming dictionary carries a chapter or two on meter, forms, and patterns, with a discussion of what scholars have learned about their use and effects on readers. Also, any poet who wishes to increase the quality and effectiveness of her work should provide herself with a good basic textbook on poetry writing and should study it diligently. All of us have poetic ideas, but we must learn to express these ideas in a way which will be understandable and pleasing to others. A technical training is just as essential for poetry as it is for music Or painting or sculpture or any of the other arts. Practice in following the various forms and patterns of poetry will make them so much a part of you that they will be waiting inside to come when you need them. Many poems appeal because of their form and rhythm which make the reader feel the sensation the poet wishes to portray. Activities such as swinging, flying, rowing, walking, have inherent thythms. Poems need portray no very deep philosophy if they stir the reader with emotion and memories. Many poets object to strict forms in poetry as a hindrance to thought processes, but I find form an aid to ood results. It furnishes the music which is the chief agent in stirring emotion and it disciplines the poet to choose her words carefully. In order to fill the form to its fullest Page 371 372 capacity a poet must think deeply and prune conscientiously. This makes for better thinking, deeper feeling, and so, of course, for better poetry. However, if a poet lazily fills in lines with wordage like lumpy cotton batting, the poem will be loose and the form will show through above the idea and will make a bad poem. Careless and uninspired work is always bad. It is not the form, but the poet's hitching a ride on the form, which hurts a poem. MAGERY is another aid to a poet, giving her a chance to paint a picture, stir an appropriate emotion, and put a profound concept into a concrete form which might have been ponderous and have fallen unheeded without this path to the heart. 'Take this from "Between Seasons": He who alone stands watching summer go Southward on wings and earthward in a leaf Feeling all time in one relentless flow, Longs for a portion he may hold in brief. Here you see the man standing out beneath the sky, the leaves falling, the migrant geese flying, and feel the swift passage of summer and youth. You long with him to grasp a portion to hold in your hand a little longer as proof that you had it, but feel the futility, with time slipping farther and farther away. Or take: When I consider that a century Has gone as windswept appleblossoms go... Here you tie the passing of a hundred years to a common experience of the here and now. Allusions help to stir memories and say much in few words, as: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Denied the Star, the Mount, the Fatal fall... Here the life of Christ is referred to by the sign of his birth, the star, the Mount of Olives, and Calvary Hill where his sacrifice was consummated. Now let's take up a few of the dont's of poetry writing. Don't invert for the sake of rhyme. An inversion is a change in the natural order of word arrangement. In conversation we might say: The birds flew south. But the amateur poet might say: South flew the birds. This would be an inversion. To invert in order that a word or phrase may be given added emphasis for a purpose is good, but to turn a sentence inside out like a schoolboy's sweater just to make rhyming easy shows laziness or thoughtlessness and puts the work on the reader. Inversions were never good form. Poets have used inversions because people like to hear rhymes, and by inverting a line a poet could get words that were easy to rhyme and saved the effort of finding harder ones. There was a time when few readers objected to inversions and therefore poets did not bother to eradicate these faults in composition. However, times have changed, and we must now strive harder, or we shall be left behind. We have a much more widely read and exacting audience today. The more sensitive the reader, the more he will appreciate good workmanship, and the more quickly he will be offended by careless composition. Always reach for the best in your readers. Contractions, also, are character- POINTS FOR POETS TO REMEMBER istic of amateurish and carelessly written poetry. Don't say o'er for over, because such uses are tricks to make the meter come out even, and tricks may be fun, but they are never honest, and poetry must be sincere. The same thing is true of e'er for ever, 'neath for beneath, tis for it is, and many other contractions that are not in accepted usage today. There was a time when it was the style for meter to dominate the idea in popular poetry, but that style became obsolete long ago, and it shows a sort of artificiality that is displeasing to discriminating readers today. Poetry is very close to human hearts and a vital means of communication; it should be both direct and sincere. "Poeticisms" and old-fashioned words and expressions like ere and yesteryear should be avoided. If you would not use a word in a letter to a friend or in intimate conversation, the chances are that it will sound false in a poem, too. This doesn't refer, of course, to words in a wider vocabulary than one usually employs in speech, only to style. Many carefully written poems need revision for strengthening weak phrases or lines or for smoothing sounds and freshening imagery. A real craftsman cares enough for her poem to tear it phrase from phrase and put it back together, like a good watchmaker repairing a fine watch. 373 I like to feel that my poems are true, not only in general, but in every part, having no false word or untrue analogy to mar the truth. Sometimes critics are mistaken because they lack specific information or interpret experiences differently, but a poet can develop the ability to hear an inner bell that rings when the truth is sounded and reject the comments and criticisms that do not help. If some word or phrase in one of my poems offends a sensitive reader, I can usually dive back under and come up with something that pleases both of us and have a stronger poem for the revision. But if a change does not ring as true to me as the original, I would not change it to suit the greatest critic I know. The poet is the final judge. "To thine own self be true... Thou canst not then be false..." be it a poem or anything else you wnite. Books to Study New Rhyming Dictionary and Poet's Handbook, Burges Johnson, Harpers, New York, $2.50. Wood's Unabridged Rhyming Dictionary, Clement Wood, The World Publishing Company, Cleveland, Ohio, $3.50. How to Revise Your Own Poems, Anne Hamilton, The Writer, Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston, Massachusetts, $1.50. An Editor Looks at Poetry, Stanton A. Coblentz, Wings Press, Mill Valley, California, $2.00. The Art of Versification, J. Berg Esenwein and Mary Eleanor Roberts, The Home Correspondence School, Springfield, Mass, $3.00. A A Memory Evelyn Fijeldsted Because of love so perfectly attuned, The memory of her laughter may not be A memory, but is laughter faintly heard From realms of immortality. On Writing a Short Story Fay Tarlock Graduate, Pulitzer School of Journalism, Columbia University HERE are many reasons why writers who are eligible should enter the Relief Society short story contest. Three of you who enter' will receive prizes and an abiding satisfaction. A few of you will discover that you like to write, a rich reward in itself. But the greatest good, perhaps, is that each entrant will have sat down and persevered until she has written a finished product. Writing a short story is a contest in tenacity. Whoever writes one has won in the struggle. In addition to this the writer has also gained a keener appreciation for the art of short story writing. Once you decide to enter the contest, get busy on your story. The idea may come from an incident in your childhood, from some mannerism of a friend, a newspaper clipping, or something that happened down the street last week. Within yourself you have characters to peoplea thousand and one stories. Find the incident that will kindle the spark of interest in one of your familiar characters, and you have the germ of a story. One successful writer advises that a beginning author write only of the stuff of his daydreams. We all have secret longings. Is there one so strong in you that you desire to bring it out and give it to a character in a story? If so, you will have a real emotional interest in the character. Another writer says that the underlying idea of your story must Page 374 be that of a widely known human experience, whether it be the general rule or the exception that is as true as the generality. What you are, your fundamental beliefs and principles, will guide your writing, even when you are least aware of it. Draw from your own resources. Success did not come to Kathryn Forbes until she wrote I Remember Mama. When you have chosen your story, make certain in your mind that your choice is right for The Relief Society Magazine. You may know the Magazine well enough not to need to review the stories published in the last dozen or so issues. If you don't, read the stories carefully. Remember you are writing for a widely scattered audience of women, bound by common ideals. Your story need not be didactic. Indeed it should not preach. Let your characters be the moral force that you wish to convey. A good way of beginning is to get the material down and break it up into a rough chart, then build up to a definite climax. Sometimes an outline helps. Who is character A? What is he going to do? What about characters B and C? What are their intentions? Now write your beginning. On page one you should reveal what the story is about. Think of your material in terms of happenings. Any stimulus that does not promise some kind of con- ON WRITING A SHORT STORY flict is not a good one. When you have found a good opening situation that promises conflict, you have the beginning of your story. Don't try to tell everything in the first few paragraphs. Use little flashbacks to give the who, what, when, where, and why. The end as possible. Set your characters in the beginning and let them tell the story. Descri a form of characterization and you have only a few words to use. Don't make the mistake of telling too much about your character. Let him show himself through his words and actions. For the moment, become the character you are trying to convey. Look him in the face until you know the texture of his skin, the set of his mouth. Use his gestures, listen to him talk. How does he walk? Even if you have to shout to your self, be yout character long enough to get the feel of him. Back to your story. Arouse the reader's curiosity in the first sentence, if possible. Every happening in your story should have a good premise. Don't forget that a com: mon device ls to have the actor fail at first. With each failure he finds himself more deeply involved. Every complication must be planted, subtly. Then comes the black moment, then 4 new situation that has already been planted, and presto, the end. Write it all at one sitting. The first time for deleting unnecessary parts and fitting the parts closer together. Don't worry if your 375 first version is twice too long. You can cut and polish. Hen you have the story in workable shape, the events interlapping, the characters consistent, begin revising for sentence structure. You can console yourself with the fact that the greatest stylists of the ages have agreed upon the difficulty of writing a good sentence. You revise, remind yourself omnipresent connectives and sentences loaded with same time you are revising fot words, keep in mind the sound of your sentences and making cleat your meaning. You may have your story written and yet have a whole page of necessary facts you must insert. In time, you will take an interest in writing for its own sake. Your writing will begin to have smoothness and even beauty. One of the best ways to detect flaws in reasoning and in diction is to read yout story aloud—to 4 trusted person or to yourself alone. You will find sentences that would make you blush if you were to see them printed. Begin writing your story several weeks, or longet, before the end of the contest and give your self a cooling period. Let your manuscript rest for 4 few days, OT 4 few weeks. Then take it up and work st over. Many of those troubling situations will resolve themselves. Most writers. Meditate long 0" their stories before they are set on paper. Think of your characters as 376 you go about your daily work. The right dialogue may come while you are washing the dishes. At all times keep small sheets of paper and pencil handy. Don't rely on your memory to give you the phrase you conjured in the dark. It has to be written down at the moment. Before you start to revise, surround yourself with writers' tools. A good dictionary comes first. With it, should be a number of books on word study. By all means have a handbook of good usage and _perhaps a textbook of English grammar. Writers have nothing new to write; it is the saying of it that must be new. The tool books are used more by professionals than by amateurs. Ask yourself these questions: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 1. Does the reader know what my story is about? 2. Is its underlying theme timely and provocative? 3. Have I created a single impression? 4. Do my characters seem real? 5. Is there suspense? 6. Have I aroused worthy emotions? If you can answer yes, you have done a good piece of work. Reference Books Preparing the Manuscript, by Udia G. Olsen, $1.25. Story Writing, by Edith R. Mirrielees, $3. * Creative Fiction Writing, by D. McCleary, $2.50. All of the above books are obtainable at: The Writer, Inc. Publishers, Boston, Mass. Characters Make Your Story, by Maren Elwood, Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston, $3.50. —_ A Song the Heart Must Sing Anna Prince Redd Love is a shimmering, mystic thing, A song the heart must hear and sing; As radiant as a wedding dress, As frail a thing as happiness.... Oh, why did I not know! Impressions Elise B. Maness June is roses, June is laughter To remember ever after, All the myriad petal perfumes Gently blown. June is love the world expected; June is duties left neglected For the flower-laden sunshine, Summer-known, June is music faintly drifting, Sudden winging of birds lifting Above nodding clover blossoms, All spring's own. R oses Christie Lund Coles Like frail tufts of marquisette, The fragile clouds drift in the sky; And beautiful, beneath the moon The roses lift their petals high, Their scent as gentle as the kiss Of lover on a loved one's cheek; Their beauty as ethereal as Pale sunlight on a mountain peak. Roses, summer, youth, and love Inseparable as stars and moon, Or love song whispered tenderly, As the lark's first ecstatic tune. Young Hearts Are Fragile Olive W. Burt HE superintendent of the Children's Aid Society was very kind. Martha felt that kindness spreading out from the calm gray eyes and the gentle mouth above the strong chin, spreading out and enveloping her like a bland ointment on her hurt heart. "T'm sorry, Mrs. Lewis," the quiet voice was saying. "I recognize your need and it is a very real and urgent one. But," she hesitated and then went on firmly, "please try to understand our position. Our concern is first of all for the children in our care. 'They need homes and love, yes; but they need more than just that. They need to live out their destinies—" Martha stared at the woman. What was she trying to say? What was the message behind her words? Was she intimating that she and Bill would not let the child live out his destiny? That was absurd. Why, they would do everything in their power to improve and enrich that destiny! They would give him everything Danny had had—Danny— The superintendent glanced down at the filled out forms on her desk. "Your son was an only child, Mrs. Lewis. He was a wonderful boy—a shining, golden personality, And he died as he had lived, brilliantly —a hero." Martha felt the rent in her heart aching again as it always ached when Dan was mentioned. It was a tender ache, a proud ache, for Dan had been more than they said. He had well earned every tribute given him. But there was something lacking in the speaker's voice. She spoke of Dan calmly, honestly, but without that tinge of envy that crept involuntarily into most women's voices when they spoke of Martha's son. It was almost as if she didn't think that being a hero was so much. "You would find our little boys are not like your Dan. Not one of them, I think." __ Of course not! Martha thought. There is no one in the world like Dan. "But we'd do our best to make him—" Martha began, and was stopped by the coldness that froze the smile on the superintendent's lips. That is what we feared, Mrs. Lewis. You and Mr. Lewis have an ideal in your hearts — an ideal no child could equal in your estimation. We do not want to place these children in situations that will make for unhappiness for them— and for you, too; but, mainly, we are concerned with the children. No, I am afraid that, desperately as these children need the homes that have been denied them, we must reject your application." Martha could not believe the words. Reject their application! There was something wrong here. She stood up, angry, suspicious. "Is there something I have neglected," she asked cruelly, "a preliminary bonus?" Page 377 378 A faint flush rose with difficulty in the clear cheeks of the superintendent, who also rose. But her voice was still calm and quiet. "Yes," she said, "I am afraid there is something you have neglected, Mrs. Lewis, to put the child's need before your own." She gathered up the papers with a gesture that dismissed Martha, and, trembling with anger and hurt as if she had been slapped, Martha turned and hurried out of the room, down the dim hall, and into the street. Bill would hear about this. Bill would do something! Half-blinded by the sunlight, Martha stumbled across the street to the comforting green of a doll-sized park against the gray of pavement and buildings. She sat down on a bench, shaking with anger and disappointment, and watched the children playing around her, only half-seeing their bright, fluttering figures, only halfhearing their tinkling voices. It was going to be terrible, telling Bill this. She couldn't make him understand, because she didn't understand, herself, what was wrong. Maybe she would if she thought about it awhile. She hadn't understood about the little baby, either, at first. Probably her perception had been dulled by her sorrow, because before Dan's death she had been quick enough to catch and interpret innuendoes. T had been hard to persuade Bill that they should adopt a baby to take a tiny measure of the empty space left in their hearts with Dan's going. Their hearts had been so full when Dan was there—his sturdy masculinity demanding so much, his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 ardent love of life filling them, completing them, spilling out of their hearts into affection for his playmates, his schoolmates, his buddies, his girl friends. There had been no emptiness then. At last, Bill, seeing her need, had said, "Of course, honey, if that's what you want. But a baby will be hard work—and you're not as young as you were when Dan was little. And I'm afraid you're going to be disappointed, too. But if you want to try it—" With no more encouragement than that, she had gone to the baby placement bureau and applied for a child. "We want a boy—a husky, blond, athletic type," she had stipulated, feeling that they would enjoy the child more if he resembled Danny. If Bill could teach him to fish and swim and play football and _baseball, he might forget, just a little, what he had lost. She had filled out the proper forms. She had been eager at the interviews. She had spoken freely of their hopes and plans and of what they would do for the baby. "We can give him everything he needs or wants," she had said, not boasting, but hoping to impress the authorities. "We have a lovely farm—we haven't gone there for two years, but the lease is soon up. We can take the baby there—give him a pony—our Danny loved his pony and was a wonderful rider—" The woman had asked once, "Would you consider a git] baby?" and Martha had hesitated. She, herself, would love a little girl, but Bill —it would be difficult enough for a boy to take Dan's place. How YOUNG HEARTS ARE FRAGILE could a girl fit in? She had managed to convey this to the matron, who seemed to understand. But in the end it hadn't mattered, for it turned out that there was a tule against giving tiny babies to couples as old as Martha and Bill. She had been surprised. Somehow, she had thought any agency would be glad to give a baby to them, who could do so much for it. Their own boy had been an example of their fitness as parents—Dan, gay, eager, well-adjusted, healthy. But after she thought about it awhile she could see that they were right. She had never thought of herself or Bill as old, but they were centainly not young—and it had been a long time since Dan had been a baby. Maybe they would find it difficult to cope with a lively little fellow. Martha's problem was to explain this to Bill in such a way as not to hurt him, in such a way as to leave the path open for some other solution. HEN the time came, she couldn't tell whether Bill was relieved or disappointed. There were so many things about Bill that she couldn't understand nowadays. They were in some ways so much closer together, so much more dependent upon each other for happiness and companionship. And yet there was an invisible wall between them—a wall of fearfulness lest one hurt the other. Then Bill had said carefully, "A little baby might not have been such a good idea after all. But perhaps we could get an older child. I understand there's some socie that finds homes for older children." That had convinced her. Bill was counting on this, too, to ease 379 the hurt that grew more and more terrifying as the empty weeks went "She had looked up the society Bill had mentioned and had made application there. She had been excited when she returned home after the preliminary interview, when she had seen the children in their classrooms. "Oh, Bill! I'm sure this is better. We can see what they are like— we can find one that just suits us. They are so nice, the people in charge. They say it's important that the child suits us and that we suit the child. We'll find one that likes skiing and tennis. He can have Dan's room, and Dan's trophies and cups will give him an ideal to live up to." And then, after all, their application had been denied! Slowly, feeling every one of her forty years like a separate burden upon her, Martha rose from the bench and walked slowly home to the empty apartment, emptier now, since she had dreamed of it filled with blond and boisterous youth. When she told Bill that night after dinner about the agency he took it more calmly than she had hoped. He reached out for her hand as she stood before him, hurt and angry, and drew her down onto his lap, cuddling her, making a child of her in his utter need. "They're right, honey," he said huskily. "It wouldn't work out for us. For some folks, yes, but not for us. We've had the best—" his voice faltered. After a moment he went on, "You can't tell what they're like —even a kid of six or seven. He might look like Dan~a little—but 380 what if he turned out to be stupid, or a coward? I'd hate having him around." Martha leaned against him, comforting him, but the shadowy wall between them was thick and impenetrable. And __ before them stretched long, empty, futile years of remembering. Bill set her from his knees and rose and began to walk restlessly about the room. Before long he said, as he said so frequently of late, "Tye got to get out for a few minutes. Do you want to go for a walk?" Weary as she was, she nodded silently, and they went down onto the street, quiet in the shadows and solitude of the night. They began to walk—to walk until they could return home, physically _ tired enough to sleep. DURING these walks Martha felt nearer to Bill. Here they walked silently, with no pretense at gaiety or at casualness. 'The poplars whispered above their heads and from open windows scraps of music floated out. But they were alone and unobserved, even by each other. There was no conscious direction to their steps, and neither one knew just where they were, when a sudden noise recalled them from their world of shadows. 'They were approaching a square, official-looking building, with a lighted globe above the doorway. At the curb, opposite the door, a knot of men and boys were leaving cars, and it was the scuffling among these that had caught their attention. "What's happening, Bill?" Martha asked, trying to reidentify herself with the real world around her. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Bill glanced up at the building and understood at once. "This is the police station," he said. "Looks as if some kids are being rounded up." "Kids?" she asked. She stared at the group moving across the sidewalk; at the officers, big and husky with guns at their hips, and at the boys, dragging back, hitching their bodies as far as they dared, their boldness brought to a sharp edge by the hone of fear. "Oh, Bill! What have they done?" Bill shrugged. "Stolen a car, maybe, Or snatched a purse. Or broken into a cigar store. No telling what a kid will do." Suddenly, right in front of them, one of the boys, the very smallest one in the group, gave a quick twitch to his shoulder, broke from the policeman's grasp, and darted past them down the street. The officer yelled and started in pursuit. Martha wanted to put out her foot and trip the officer. She wanted to, but she didn't. She just stood there, watching. And in a moment the officer came back, panting, dragging the boy with him. "RIL." Martha whispered, "can we go in? Can we find out what they've done and what will be done with them?" Bill looked at her. "It won't be fun," he said. "They're probably a tough little gang. We'd better move on and let the law handle this." "T'm not going to interfere, but I've got to see, Bill. I couldn't sleep if I didn't." They followed the group inside the station and to the booking YOUNG HEARTS ARE FRAGILE sergeant. Martha stood just inside the doorway, holding Bill's arm, her eyes searching for the little fellow who had almost got away. He stood with the others, but apart from them, a skinny, dirty little youngster in soiled levis and a ragged shirt. The belt around his middle was drawn tight, and Martha felt like crying at the tiny girth of leather, as if there were not much more than backbone to circle. His eyes were downcast, and Martha found herself wondering what the eyes would be like, and wishing the child would raise his lashes so she could see. As she watched, he did raise his eyes and looked towards her, and there was no miracle there. Their brown irises seemed Opaque, so that Martha could not see into them at all, could not read what went on behind them. Instead of being disappointed with this, Martha felt sad, as if it were somehow her fault. She began to listen to what was being said in the toom, and had no difficulty in discovering that this was a band of juvenile car plunderers for whom the police had been hunting a long time. One of the boys, a youngster of about fourteen, seemed to be the leader. The little fellow who had tried to get away wouldn't talk when they spoke to him, wouldn't give his name, so the leader spoke up for him. "He won't tell nobody his name," he said. "Call him Skinny. Skinny Jones will do." He shrugged. "He's kinda dumb, someways, but he's little and quick—" So they make use of him, Martha thought angrily. She turned to Bill, "What will be done with them?" 381 "They'll get hold of all the parents they can. Some of the boys will probably be taken out to the boys' home on South State. Tomortow they'll investigate more thoroughly. Some will be sent to the State reformatory—" "But if that little fellow won't tell his name—" "They'll get it. Don't worry." {ee then Skinny raised his arm and wiped his nose with one long swipe of his ragged shirt sleeve, his brown eyes wide and hard and unwavering. The pitiful inadequacy and helplessness of that gesture caught Martha's heart and twisted it tight. "Let's get along," Bill said, but Martha stood still. "Wait, Bill. Wait." When the boys had been taken out of the room, Martha stepped up to the sergeant's desk. "What about a little fellow like that—Skinny?" she asked, absurdly anxious to know that things would be all right with him. The sergeant looked down at her and smiled. His eyes were gray and kind with little crow's feet to humor at the corners, "Don't worry about him, ladv. We'll take care of him." "But you don't even know hie name—or his mother—" "It won't be hard to find. He'll talk before morning—they all do when they're caught for the first time, even when they're as tough as that kid." "Tough?" Tough enough to keep his eyes dry, but not his nose! "Look, lady," the sergeant said, "they're a tough gang, and he's tough or he wouldn't last ten min- 382 utes with them. His mother you ask about is probably tough, too, We have 'em every night—kids like this. During the war their dads went gallivanting off to big war plants and their mothers went out to grab off some of the big money that was floating around. The kids had to shift for themselves, And we knew that's the way it was, and hoped it would soon be over. "But now many of those dads don't want to come back and pick up their old jobs and old families again; and the mothers don't hank. Cr after working at home for nothing. So they chase whatever moncy they can find, and the kids are still left to get along as best they can. They've had half a dozen years now to grow tough in, and believe me, lady, they can't be handled like the kids you'te used to knowing. Surprisingly Bill spoke up. "Isn't there something that we could do, officer? Don't you parole these kids to reputable families?" The sergeant smiled. "I haven't seen many reputable families asking for them," he said. Then he nodded. "Yeah, that's the theory—but who wants to take in a kid like that? Listen, you folks don't know the score. Go home and forget it. Or if you can't forget it, if you really want to do something, come back tomorrow and talk to the Captain." They went out into the street, Martha clinging to Bill's arm, "T don't want him to stay there a single night," she whispered, tears choking her. "And of course when his mother knows—" "The sergeant's right about her, probably," Bill said, and went on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 thoughtfully, "but that kid isn't bad—yet. You know, I got ina jam like that once—" They walked along in silence, Martha waiting to hear, knowing that Bill had never told her this beCause, though it had been of tremendous importance to him at the time, there had never been a place for it in their life together, "YEAH," he said at last, "I got in with a gang that stripped light fixtures from empty homes, They called my mother and she came down to the police station— I wish you could have seen her. Some of the mothers came weeping and wringing their hands as if their kids were ruined for life. Some came down swearing at the cops as if their kids had done nothing at all. But mother came down, calm and quiet as if I'd just misstepped into a mud puddle and got a little dirty. "She talked to me, not the cops, and she made me do my own talking to them. I don't know how to explain the way I felt—ashamed of myself for what I'd done, but proud of my mother and proud to be man enough to own up and take my medicine. And I was determined I'd never get into a mess like that again." After a long time he said, "Skinny needs someone that knows how to handle a thing like that—I wonder if his mother does." Martha was unable to sleep, thinking of Skinny in a room full of tough boys; talking, as the sergeant had promised he would, because that ridiculous nose of his would not give him any peace with the tears crowding back of it, hurting his eyes and his throat. _And_ she YOUNG HEARTS ARE FRAGILE sleeping, either, © wasn't surprised then, when Bill said the n | Martha nodded, bered in the night about th to accept the empty heart. The criminals," Bill about Paroling The "aptain looked at him, €n his you're interested, she won't hear of adoption. She'll let 383 of you through the kid, and as soon 4s he begins earning © | As Martha Watched him, Skinny lifted his arm | l telentless Within him, Bill's hand left the Wheel and Teached for his handkerchie¢ Handing it Casually to Sk; "Blow hard, Son!" nly then did Martha Temember Never another Dan, She thought, EI Paso and the Latter-Day Saints Sadie Ollorton Clark President, Houston, Texas, Branch Relief Society T was in April 1910, that Porfirio Diaz finally became alarmed over the brewing Mexican revolution. He threw the frail idealist, Francesco Madero, into the San Luis Potosi prison and thereby ended a third of a century of absolute dictatorship. Little did he realize that a forced American migration would follow this act, nor did the unsuspecting Latter-day Saint colonists know how soon they would have to flee from their homes, or which families would be responsible for a new stronghold of the Church —the yet unborn E] Paso Ward. The location of the city of El Paso has much to do with it's colorful history. The first name, "El Paso del Norte," means the "northern pass." The Rio Grande River, at this point, flows through the cactus-covered mountains, creating the best natural passage from the north to south in many desert miles. It was equally important as a station in stage-coach days, and was the key point in a transcontinental railroad building race in 1881. In the sixteenth century the venturesome Franciscan friars, traveling from Mexico City to Santa Fe with the Spanish explorers on the dusty Camino Real would give thanks for the grateful shade of the cottonwoods growing on the banks of the river, and would rest at this oasis in the desert. 'Today, cross-country tourists find this modern city a natural breaking point in a journey east or west. Page 384 American historians tell us the first white visitor to this colorful land was Cabeza de Vaca, the only survivor of the shipwrecked Navarez expedition of 1527. He found his way to this area in 1536 and was welcomed by the Indians living there. He was never able to explain why one tribe after another looked upon him as their God, asking him to heal their sick and bless their food and their children. For the next three hundred years this territory was under Spanish and Mexican rule. As a result of the battle of San Jacinto in April 1836, it became part of the Republic of Texas. In 1846 Texas was annexed by the United States. Of interest to Latter-day Saint readers is the fact that Alexander Doniphan was the first man to bring the American flag to El Paso. This was in 1846, during the war with Mexico. Doniphan was loved by the Missouri saints because he befriended them in the unhappy days when they were expelled from Jackson County. When he was ordered to execute the Prophet Joseph Smith he refused, and told his superior, "It is cold blooded murder. I will not obey your order. If you execute these men, I will hold you responsible before an earthly tribunal, so help me God." The chief settlement in those exciting days was on the south side of the river. El Paso was known as "Franklin," and was too small to be very well-known. The Mormon Saath?? Mention pnt pipiteer Gapii il p binge, SpE iD Courtesy, Chamber of Commerce, El Paso, Texas VIEW OF MAIN BUSINESS SECTION, EL PASO, TEXAS Page 385 386 Battalion crossed the desert a few miles north of the village, in 1846, on their journey to California. In 1876, Anthony W. Ivins, with a party going to Mexico, camped on the north bank of the river, and shot a deer on the spot which is now the center of the city. In 1897, the Church Authorities asked Isaac W. Pierce to go to Cuidad Juarez and open up a lumper yard for the benefit of the people living in the timber regions of Chihuahua. He was the first Latter-day Saint to live in this locality, and his residence was a home for all friends going to and coming from Mexico. The first Church services in that city were held in his own house. Isaac Pierce was truly a benefactor to hundreds of travelers who came to him for aid, and he kept up his good work as long as he lived. He died in 1906. His son, Arwell L. Pierce, carried on his father's business as well as his interest in the Church. In 1912 he moved from Cuidad Juarez. He was the first Latter-day Saint to make a perma nent home in El Paso, and when he moved there the Church came with him. BU! In 1912, the old order passed in Mexico. One of the first de-_ mands the revolutionists made was the evacuation of the Latter-day Saints who had sought refuge in their land. Because of the Edmunds law, which was passed in 1882, a small group of Church members felt that the only way 'they could keep their families together was to leave the United States and make Mexico their home. In the decade preceding the turn of the century, they migrated to this southRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 ern country. Though few of them gave up their American citizenship, they all had come to look upon Mexico as their homeland. Their buildings were permanent, their plans for the future were all to be fulfilled in Mexico. But suddenly, and without warning, orders were given to leave. Villa and his bandits were moving in on the villages, and it was worth a man's life to stay and defend his property. The colonists had prospered in Mexico, and the homes they left behind were spacious and beautiful. 'They were denied time enough to salvage their portable possessions. Beautiful china, valuable silver, precious keepsakes and heirlooms were all left to be confiscated or destroyed by the marauding outlaws. J. W. Wilson of El Paso tells that he was in bed with a broken back, in the village of Pearson, when word came that Villa was on top of the mountain near the little town. The Americans left, wasting no time. Mr. Wilson refused any offers of help. He crawled to the top story of the house and hid himself. 'Through an attic window he watched the bandit army as it marched through and ransacked the town, looting, robbing, and even killing several of the native citizens, then riding on. When Mr. Wilson did leave Mexico, he came, as most of the refugees did, to Cuidad Juarez on the train. He says: The railroad was so badly torn up and so many revolutionists were on it, that I was just two weeks from the time I left my home until I crossed the bridge into Fl Paso at three in the morning. The Mexican soldiers searched me and took all the cash I had before they would let me come across. When I landed on the EL PASO AND THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS American side I looked up and saw the Stars and Stripes waving for me. Never did that flag look so good to me before. This was typical of the condition of more than 3500 people. They came to El Paso destitute and penniless. 'Their American citizenship was not questioned, but the town was not prepared for such a multitude. The officials of the city did all they could to help them, but the townspeople received them with mixed emotions—pity for their plight and hesitancy about taking in so many of a despised people. As there were no houses ready for them at the time, the refugees were unloaded at a lumber yard, and as long as they were in desperate need the United States government fed them. Without any delay, the separate families set up housekeeping between piles of boards and shingles, making the best of what they had until they could improve their situa- 387 tions. The unconquerable pioneer spirit of these people showed itself in these trying days. It would have taken a greater catastrophe than this to make them give up. While the women cooked and washed over the campfires, husbands and __ fathers surveyed the town for jobs and vacant houses. Within a week, over half of them had found work and had rented homes. Before a month had passed the entire company had left the lumber yard. [MMEDIATELY after their arrival, Senator A. B. Fall asked for a government appropriation for their immediate aid, and money to send them any place in the United States where they had relatives to help, or an assurance of work. Approximately seventy-five per cent of the refugees accepted this aid, and left El Paso. Most of them went to Utah, but many of the people decided to remain, and it is they who became OS SSS LE x i '4 wiped Bilis HOE: 388 the nucleus of the present El Paso Ward. They and their children have become respected citizens of the border city. Many of them are now prominent in business, political, and professional circles. 'They have built beautiful and substantial homes, and, all in all, take an important part in the community. One of the beauty spots of the El] Paso valley is the country home of Bishop George Q. Payne. It is built of native stone, typical of its surroundings, but it is unusual because of the variety and beauty of the flowers and shrubs which grow in profusion in his gardens. The arid and rocky soil of this country can produce vegetation, but it takes labor and devotion to beautify even a small yard. The saints of the El Paso Ward take great pride in their chapel. For years the erection of a suitable meetinghouse was the common aim and desire of every Latter-day Saint family in the vicinity, and practically every member has some personal interest in it. It cost approximately $75,000 and compares favorably with the most beautiful and expensive chapels in the Church today. The building is a modified Spanish type, in keeping with the best architecture of the city. The lawns are always green and well-kept, even during the winter. The custodian, Otto Baptist, a convert from Belgium, takes special pride in the upkeep of the Church property. He is, and has been, the only custodian since the chapel was built in 1931. A friendly and gracious spirit seems to radiate from the walls of this sacred edifice, and to the members it is indeed a second home. On RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Sunday mornings they gather on the patio and visit in the warm sunshine. After the evening meeting the foyer is crowded with a friendly, handshaking group who refuse to leave until the last light is turned off. The membership of the ward is constantly increasing because visitors, first impressed by the fraternity and feeling of fellowship the members show for one another, are willing to listen to the truths of the gospel. The El] Paso Ward has had only two bishops. Arwell L. Pierce was ordained the bishop in 1918 when the ward was first organized, and he remained in that position until 1942, when he was called to preside over the Mexican Mission. He, more than any other one individual, is responsible for the growth and the happy condition of the ward. He has been a prominent business man for many years in E] Paso, but his greatest interest has always been in the welfare of the Church and the people who came to it. His home has been a haven for visitors going to or coming from Mexico, and most of the General Authorities of the Church have enjoyed his hospitality. Because of his unusual possession of a dual citizenship, and also because of the great respect he commands, he has been able to render service to thousands of travelers who have had difficulty in crossing the international border. Whether it was a misunderstanding of the language, laws, or personalities, a call to Bishop Pierce would generally solve the problem. Bishop George Q. Payne has carried on this excellent work. He guided the ward through the war EL PASO AND THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS years, when, because of the proximity of Fort Bliss to E] Paso, hundreds of Latter-day Saint boys were able to come to Church. Special Priesthood classes were held for these service men. The M. I. A. Planned a full recreation program, and no Latter-day Saint boy needed to investigate the night clubs on the Mexican side of the river for entertainment. 'There were seventy-two boys who served under their country's flag, from the FE] Paso Ward. The El Paso Ward was first a part of Juarez Stake, with headquarters in Mexico. In 1919 it was annexed to the St. Joseph Stake, and when St. Joseph was divided, El Paso became a member of the Mt. Graham 389 Stake. Its membership now totals around 700. A high percentage of the people are active in Church work, and a most gratifying number pay a full tithing. Officers travel 250 miles each way every month to attend union meetings at Safford, Arizona, and several high council members and stake officers are members of the El Paso Ward. The dauntless and lofty spirit which has always characterized this group seems to be diffused into all who have later come to make El Paso their home. Although it was born of revolution and bloodshed, its ultimate destiny seems to be a working unit in the kingdom of God. | <——- Pastoral Gene Romolo Above the emerald herbage-covered hills, A shining dawn arises from the night And one full-throated song thrush blithely trills A paean for the largess of the light. Kissed by the sun and rippled by the breeze, Grainfields are like imbricate amber seas, And pastures that are broad and lushly green _ As David's own, with fatted cattle teem. From a near hillside, bells on browsing sheep Sound, drowsily, a low idyllic lay, And quiet, soft-fleeced, lambs still lie asleep, Unmindful of the re-created day. Here, at this hour, abide content and cheer— For peace, from strength of work well-done, is here. F Shall Go On Josephine J. Harvey I shall go on, But with the dawn The realization grows © That you have gone! I cannot forget And yet | I must go on. My Way Catherine Renstrom I prayed to God for help; Not the easy way, he said; If your shoulders are broad And your heart is brave Your burden will make you strong. So I took up my burden and went my way And my burden became a song. Orchid Hunting in Honduras Elizabeth Williamson promised to tell you about our orchid-hunting expeditions (unscientific! ) here in the center of Honduras. As you remember, I never cared particularly for orchids. Of course, we were thrilled at school when someone sent us a corsage with an orchid in it, but I was impressed not so much by the beauty and rarity of the flower as to why anyone would spend five dollars for an orchid when ten cents worth of violets would have made me happy! Anyhow, I've changed my mind. Orchids are magnificent! And, furthermore, I've learned to like them. Some are so tiny it is difficult to see the structure of the bloom. They come in all sizes, shapes, and colors. They grow wild, and are uncultivated. The native women gather and bring them down from the mountains in basketfuls on their heads. 'They sell them for fifty centavos a bunch! (twenty-five cents in Our money). We first became interested in orchids while we were picnicking and, accidentally, found some on an old oak tree. They were a beautiful long spray of tawny gold blossoms, with dark brown spots on the petals. We didn't find any more that day. They are most elusive and especially well camouflaged. They grow in the most inaccessible places, high in an old (and very rotten) oak tree, or on the side of a cliff. From that day on, we were absorbed in orchid-hunting. Something like searching for pirate's treasure—I can understand how fasPage 390 cinated scientists and archaeologists are in finding and developing their special interests. We were only amateurs and knew very little, technically or botanically, but we were spurred on by the hunt, the reward —the fun in general. We _ never knew what species would be revealed. If we made a find we could bring it back—give it to a collector or hang it on a nail in our patio, water it occasionally, and it would thrive and bloom like mad. (Incidentally my favorite find was a pale green orchid about one inch in diameter. It grew in a cluster of three or four. I never saw one like it again and didn't identify it.) We usually went in groups on our hunts, people who liked to hike primarily (but the not-toostrenuous type). In one of our groups there was an archaeologist, a naturalist and his wife, a young Swiss outdoor man, an artist, and usually another couple for good measure. (All of the people in the group were interested in photography.) E, took sandwiches, chocolate, fruit, things we could carry in our pockets, ice and a soft drink for after the hunt. We piled into a station wagon, as it seemed to hold more people and specimens. The day I remember particularly well because of the loot was the Provividencia Day. Providencia is an orphanage farm for small boys. It is a lovely place in the pines about seven miles from Josef Muench "ORCHID QUEENS" Page 39] 302 town. In the main building we could get refreshments served by the Swiss in charge of the orphanage. The surrounding country is very much like our own mountain country in northern Arizona or New Mexico. Or, as a matter of fact, almost anywhere where there are pines and a scant undergrowth. The elevation is about thirty-five hundred feet. It seemed strange to hike through pines and oaks and suddenly come upon a banana plant or a palm tree. Otherwise we felt quite at home. At the beginning I felt rather dubious about the snake situation, but during the two years we were there I never saw a snake. Doubtless, there are many at lower altitudes. However, there were plenty of seed-ticks and red bugs—not harmful, but annoying beyond description. On Providencia Day we left the orphanage farm and took a trail through the pine woods. The naturalist was helpful in pointing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 out new plants and birds. The Swiss explained the correct walking technique. (It was amazing how it worked and helped!) Frequently we took little side trails on our own, searching and discovering this and that. That day we heard a whistle from a distance and saw the naturalist walking rapidly towards us. When he reached us we asked him what had happened, what he had found. He was disturbingly calm and said, "Come along, I want to show you something magnifico!" We went down a path until we came to a hollow which looked like a deserted banana grove. We climbed through overgrown brush and tangled vines, down into the bananas. I imagined I could see little bright eyes peering at me, eyes of unknown creatures waiting to bite, sting, or wrap themselves around my body and squeeze me to death! Nothing happened. Then at the bottom of the grove we were told to turn around and look up. We saw a beautiful thing—a small ORCHID HUNTING IN HONDuRAs 393 Where Many other Te hidden Which she had &n We were Teady to Jeaye age each of the women For every friend] Th Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1889 "For THE Ricuts oF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women or Att NATIONS" THE DEAR OLD GARDEN My dear old garden! Still I call it mine And mine it is, for in its grateful shade Of every tree, and shrub, and flow'ring vine, My children and my children's children play'd. Round these my aching heart instinctive clings, And they to me are sweet and tender things. —E. B. W. WESTMINSTER ABBEY: Poet's Corner—People usually enter the section of the abbey known as the "poet's corner" at the door where the unfortunate Queen Caroline knocked in vain for admittance to the coronation of her husband, George IV, This section acquired its name from the fact of Chaucer's having been buried there, his monument having been the inaugural one. Among the most important monuments in this section, besides the one to Chaucer, are those of Spenser, Shakespeare, Milton, Goldsmith, Gray, Thompson... Chapel of Saint Edmund—There is a great fascination in going in and out of the various chapels with their ancient tombs and windows. The sight acts like a spell upon the mind, carrying it into the remote past and causing the actors in former scenes to be present with us. JUNE Thou art here with thy garland of roses; Thou art here once again with thy song; Thou hast brought back the blue sky and sunshine The days so exquisite and long. —RMts. H. F. Thomas THE WAY TO REST: Many women never rest. 'They seem not to understand what rest, real rest, means. To throw one's self down with a newspaper or book is not to rest; it is only a change of occupation. To sit down and keep the fingers flying over some sort of fancy work, as if one were pursued by a demon of unrest, is certainly not rest. But to lie at full length on a hard surface; arms extended at the sides, head back, with no pillow, eyes closed, all cares, and worries dismissed—this is rest; this will smooth away wrinkles in the face and in temper; this will give an air of repose to the tired, anxious nervous woman; this will take away many an ache and straighten out the rounded shoulders and craned out uccks. SEVIER STAKE: The Relicf Society Conference of this stake was held in the Relief Socicty Hall in the second ward, Richficld, March 15, 1889, commencing at 10 AM. On the platform were President E. Bean and her counsclors, Jane Spencer, and 'Theresa Thurber, and several other presidents of branches in the Stake. President Bean said that we had in a way been left to ourselves; the day had come for us to exert our energies and act for ourselves; that we had enjoyed many privileges and we had not appreciated them fully. "Some day these blessings might be taken away from us and we would miss them." We should set a good example for our children.—Christina Sellers, Secretary eo: xy, Z | sahesen = Re Ri > I > HERE are approximately one hundred women veterinarians in the United States. Only one of them, Patricia O'Connor, is 4 ZOO veterinarian, At the Staten Island Zoo, in West New Brighton, New York, she arranges the 130-item diet for the animals housed there, extracts their aching teeth, and anaesthetizes them for Operations. A regal python, from which she temoved a cancer more than a year ago, is still] living. To another veterinarian and gives lectures and _ teaches classes in biology. UNDER the sponsorship of Lilith Lorraine, poet and publisher of Rogers, Arkansas, the Avalon State Chapter of Utah, with Marijane ortis of Corinne as director, has recently published 4 handbook for poets, The Lost Word. This useful and inspirational volume contains a poetry dictionary selected by the Utah "Avalons" and a textbook by Miss Lorraine. SKED at about the age of five what she wanted to be when she grew up, British Edith Sitwell embarrassed her Parents by replying, "A genius." That is probably what she is because her early poems, not understood, were Publicly hissed; yet now she is being spoken of as 4 Possibility for poet laureate of Great She is matried oy») Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Britain. She and her two brothers, Sir Osbert and Sacheverell, are considered "a prime example of how It is possible to succeed in spite of every advantage," of kings and nobles in their veins too lowly a profession for their exalted Station). They have all won high regard in collection of dolls of all nations, authentically dressed, is being held in trust by the Children's Mu. Scum of Washington, D. C. Mrs, Morris Gewirz, chairman of the Project, recently presented to Mrs, Harty S. Truman, to add to the famous collection, a very "smart" looking doll, dressed 4s an American business girl, R. And Mrs. Sam Mercer, of Sioux Falls, Towa, aged ninetyfive and ninety-four, respectively, are believed to be the longest-martied couple in the United States, They have celebrated their seventyseventh wedding anniversary, When moving in a covered wagon from Towa into Missouri, as a young married pair, they were stopped and questioned by Frank and Jesse James, the outlaws. Al] of their six children are stil] living. The oldest is seventy-four, Page 395 At the Close of the fina] and seek to ng of the one hundred nineand destroy, teenth annual conference of the meettom the Opening address of E] » Many felt a teat reder Benson on the CBs Church Uctance to leave 'th Tabernacle of the Air to the last Words uttered ne felt that as long as he remained at the ¢ within that teat historic buildin € would b tion, and the Strength of he plea of the Church of the stren th of ay Otities live in accordance eneral Ay hotities a5 demonwith 8Ospel Ptnciples Wo comments Were commonly the heed to study the Book of Mor. Card: "Wasn't it wonderful that mon, and atten President Smith yw ell enough to be with us?" and "Td member an other all the brethren we en." > and the obli- "8 On all teachers to pre sent truth and €ave the interpreta of the °Ccasion when Our Prophet ne a oc acher's own a stood with the Bible in his upraised ee os 18 calling, and uttered words of at we welfare _ 8 held on _ the address of President Belle § The Courage and Conviction of Spafford as be President Clark as he Cautioned urch members agai. An cautioned Relief nst IMsidious Influences Within ¢ €l 1 € Welfare pro- ' Tam, especial] as ita lied to the by President ns 0 "the a in. Making out CKay, calling the attention of the torehouse Orders unde saints to the efforts of the enemy tion of thei to un ermine the foundations of Page 396 strated in the Conference just ended All felt the impressive so] — and in the majesty and Power of awful warning to the inhabitants of e earth Special emphasis was Placed on tion to the Individual student, un elief meey members present Pr! 5, too *pecial note of the ba vice and exhortation Contained jn EDITORIAL INSpiring and 397 Members in on Sunday by ¢] the Intermountajn > egion who w VI © Plivileged to hear ademy, and *€ Proceedings Over the radio StaUS Of the Brigha Youn Univer- © conference 4nd went on their The thoy ands of p Ople who at €r lives tended the Conference Sessions and € tens of thousands RELIEF Society women throughout the Church Join with the bereaved Sisters of Oahu Stake In Paying tribute to Sister Mary Ah Ping Tyau lingereq for a fe days Ithout Tegaini NSClousness €T passin deprives the Clganization of 4 great, good, and faithfy] leader and benevolen friend ¢ € rich be a livin Onument in + | Constantly wit Conference 'THE Deseret Sunday § choo] Union unday evenin | St, sealed Among the items Was © Punciples of the O past Superintendents Were given by esday y the Mixeg Chor. Sity, Who died Relief Society meeting in the Waikiki Wy. Denly stricken j]] and was immediately Confined 10s, were filled with the spirit of Way TejOicing, Tesolved to live bet. Arch 31, 1949. In her Usual good health, Sister Tyau attended =e! 23) Sh. Was sud the hospital Where sh 398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 members of the present gencral board, and first assistant general superintendent George R. Hill expressed deep appreciation for Richard Ballantyne, a Scottish conyert to the Church, who conducted the first Sunday School in the Rocky Mountain region on December 9, 1949. Music, much of it especially composed for this occasion of rejoicing, expressed the ideals of Sunday School workers over the years and extolled the gospel principles which will direct its ideals and its activities in the years to come. Relief Society women throughout the Church extend congratulations to all Sunday School workers in this the Centennial year, and the general board expresses its best wishes to General Superintendent Milton Bennion and to his assistants and board members. Corrections in Mlagazine Honor Roll Due to mistakes made in the records of two Idaho stakes, their positions on The Relief Society Magazine Honor Roll, published in the May 1949 issue, were incorrectly listed. This error is deeply regretted since both of these stakes placed high on the honor roll, with Rexburg Stake leading the Church in the percentage of its subscriptions, and Rigby Stake also making an excellent record. The correct listings are given below. Rexburg Stake, Idaho Magazine Enrollment — Subscriptions Pct. Representative Rexburg Stake 548 687 125 Daphne Nef Archer Ward a 103 132 Norah Grover Burton Ward 50 66 132 Zina Clark Independence Ward 36 37 103 +Pauline Perry Lyman Ward 56 68 121 Anna Benson Rexburg Second Ward = 137 180 131 Maud Taylor Rexburg Third Ward 64 71 111 Wanda Hunziker Rexburg Fourth Ward = 127 162 128 Mary Moore It will be noted that each ward in Rexburg stake achieved well over 100 per cent in its subscriptions. Rigby Stake Rigby Stake 647 650 100 Amelia Stallings Menan First Ward 59 65 110 ~=Grace Tucker Menan Second Ward 67 68 102 = Lizzie Golder Of Sil ver Laughter Renie H. Littlewood On wooded mountain tops I hear The wood nymphs chatter secrets where The sound of silver laughter, The west wind sways the birches, And through the summer atmosphere, Then, leaving them aquiver there, An echo follows after. He dips below, and searches With breezes puffing saucy cheeks, For willow reeds to make a song The zephyr-cherubs scramble Of happy, silver laughter; Through green and leafy hide-and-seeks And, as the music floats along, In tree and bush and bramble. The echo follows after. Table Settings and Flower - Arrangements 'Note: What could be more appropriate for June, the month of roses, than a discussion of flower arrangements and kindred subjects? For this reason I have asked Mr. A. J. Neff of the Neff Floral Company, Salt Lake City, to tell us of some of his personal discoveries with respect to nature's stock in trade of beauty. I am very happy to "turn the time over to him," for this article in my series. —Mary Grant Judd Pleasure From Simple Shings A. J. Neff ANY volumes have been written on the art of flower arranging. Various rules have been presented such as the tule of height, the rule of balance, tules of color, of unity, and of focal point. Obviously, this brief article cannot do justice to all the rules involved and so, for the most part, the author chooses to touch upon them briefly, emphasizing what to him is the most important rule of all. This is that you find pleasure in flower arrangement, for it is an absorbing pastime. This is the season of the year when most of us have flowers in our gardens. Experiment with them. Have fun arranging them. Now, when the blooms are plentiful, is the time to practice the various principles involved. 'Then, when winter comes, you will be able to use the somewhat expensive greenhouse flowers mote effectively. Learn to look around you. Look carefully! At any season of the year, you will find a tremendous amount of nature's ornamental products that you never dreamed existed. For example, all winter long there is a wealth of interesting dry material. It is a stimulating challenge to the designer's ability to take seemingly commonplace material that is available and make it into a thing of beauty. Picture an arrangement in a low chartreuse or brown bowl with a sharply accentuating spike of the redroot weed and, resting lower down, a cluster of tan seed pods of Ailanthus, or tree of heaven. Around the base, covering the pin frog, may be placed a few pieces of mottled clinkers with orelike substances gleaming through. Who would imagine that these latter had been salvaged from the ash can! Add a small figure to your arrangement, such as a weatherbeaten Chinese peasant, and you have something that would add interest to any home. In the early spring, when the trees and shrubs are just beginning to show life, become aware of other shrubs than the well known pussy willows. Bring into the house (pro vided you don't have hayfever!) the long catkins of the Carolina poplar, or the delicate flower of the lowly boxelder tree. Use this material as it comes on and, when it is gone, there will always be something else Page 399 400 A BRANCH ILLUST in the sequence of nature to take its place. Whenever you go on a vacation, look for unusual branches, stumps, rocks, and grasses. Here is a hobby for the whole family to engage in together. Make a collection. For instance, instead of speeding across our Utah desert at an unsafe rate, stop once in awhile, get out and walk around a bit. Look especially where vegetation is having a hard time surviving. Usually in windswept areas or on extremely sandy or rocky hillsides—anywhere nature is having a difficult time—you will find the grotesque and weird-shaped branches and trees that are so tremendously interesting. Watch for them! The writer, in company with his entire family, spent two very enjoyRATING THE PRINCIPLE OF INFORMAL BALANCE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 able afternoons, tramping the desert southwest of Tooele, Utah. It would be hard to say who enjoyed the outing most, the grownups, Or the children, whose keen imaginations were given free play. How delighted they were to discover some twisted branch or weird-shaped stump and proudly add it to our collection, Even the baby seemed to know that some unusual pastime was in progress. My mother, who is of an age when many women pre fer to sit at home, had a sparkle in her eye, as she picked up such objects as pieces of gnarled native cedar to represent her contribution to our store. We returned home with a wonderful assortment to add to our pleasure and that of our friends for many days to come. The accompanying — illustration shows a fine specimen, exactly as it was picked up on our jaunt. This branch illustrates perfectly the principle of informal balance. Can't you just picture it mounted on a plaster of Paris base and set in a large window with ivy or philodendron twining around it? OW as to the actual arranging of flowers. Remember it is always desirable to incorporate some accent into the design. It is like a dress. The dress that is remembered is the one with some sort of accent. It gives character to the dress and likewise, accent gives character to the flower arrangement. Usually the best accent flowers are those that grow in tall spikes, such as snapdragons, stocks, glads, heather, Liatris, and the like, many of which are to be found in our gardens. In the absence of a spike flower, one may be improvised by tying or wiring flowers together as a garland to resemble a spike. Much has been written about "line" arrangements in flowers, and the term has been unnecessarily shrouded in mystery. Many people have told me: "Oh I couldn't do a line arrangement." Yet they go ahead and make a design and, without knowing it, use an adaptation of this principle. 'There is really nothing difficult about it. A "line" design is merely any arrangement that falls into dominant or accent lines. 'The beginner, placing asters loosely in a bowl usually makes a fine effect. She uses the "line of the circle." Of more character than the line of the circle are those of the vertical, the horizontal, and various combinaTABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS 401 402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS tions or adaptations of these two. The principal idea to keep in mind with any arrangement of dominant lines is to keep them flowing, graceful, and spontaneous, never set, rigid, or stiff. One particular form, which is not only interesting but is capable of innumerable variations, is the line of the asymmetrical triangle. 'The accompanying diagrammatic illustrations show various adaptations of this informal arrangement. The diagrams show what would be twigs, branches, or flowers. In actual practice, however, the materials used are seldom found as illustrated but must be cut, bent, and arranged to conform to the desired effect. The drawings not only illustrate the principle of dominant lines but serve to show how balance may be achieved. (Note the effectiveness of 403 placing the pin frog "off center" when using a low, shallow bowl.) Much could be said, if space would permit, about the containers in which we place flowers. Do not be afraid to sharply accent. Make dominant lines really bold, leaving no doubt as to their dominance. One good rule to follow is to make your accent a minimum of one and a half times the height or length of the container. A florist often uses lines as much as two or three times the dimensions of the container. If any part of the above discussion confuses you, please don't despait! Keep trying. Don't lose interest. Learn to experiment. Above all, don't make flower arranging a chore. It should always be on the light-hearted side. Please have fun with your flowers. [This is the third in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. In the coming months Sister Judd will present other suggestions suitable to particular seasons.—Ed.| Mlargery Katherine F. Larsen Where can one find words for 'her? In the limpid dark wells of her eyes Dwell many mysteries, many sorrows, Yet from their depths spontaneous laughter springs, Sparkling up like fountains toward the sun. Where are words to tell of her? Her voice is as moving and as strangely sweet As the liquid fall of water in a cool canyon. The strength, the flowing quality of her, Are like a constant, slowly changing river. A stillness lies upon her mouth, upon her hands, Until the fluid lines of speech or laughter Ripple them as water under wind. « 3 atte: bd Pressed Flower P Mina Hartvigsen Wright, Murray ictures—a@ "Designing Hobby, Utah, Creates Flowers in Frames 66NAAKING pressed plains, "but it challenges the The possible patterns and Wright's "floral portraits" well as striking an ists, Mrs. Wright experiments wi of veins in the blossoms. Designs have won ™ th She is an flower pictures is only one of my combinations reveal gracefulness, expert blending of tones and tints, as d unique contrasts. In i tinting petals an expert at the exacting art of sand pressing. Any prizes and awards, including a certificate of honor presented by the Utah Centennial Committee in 1947: With the first flowers of sprin buds and fully opened blossoms, an large variety of flowers p d reserved an are more easily and successfully pressed, n their beauty all flowers so that they retail g> she follows Although certain va not be picked for pressing while they are damp with dew, or wet with rain. The sand pressing method, well as artistic, consists of placing filling in around th the sand until they are method of pressing flowers is also used by Mrs. Wright to place the flowers between between the newspapers. Heavy material Page 404 folds For weights very effec which Mrs. Wright has found to be practical as the blossoms and buds in a flower pot and carefully thoroughly dry and ready for mounting. And allowing them to remain immers old anvil, a pan which will exert sufficient pressure. Lasting Beauty by Arranging Mrs. Wright begins to make her collections of the seasons until she has a found methods of pressing However, flowers should The more common flat between sheets of folded newspapers and applying weights _ but she advises anyone using this method of clean absorbent tissue paper before inserting them of nails, or any other dry sand i When the flowers have been gathered and pressed ready for assembling and designing into "portraits" Mrs. Wright prepares the picture frames and mounting materials. For the foundation of the portrait she uses heavy, smooth cardboard, padded with cheesecloth and covered with silk, satin, or taffeta in cream white or some pastel tint. The flowers are attached to the mounting with liquid paste. A masonite back is used to protect the picture from breakage and to seal it against dust and smoke. Mrs. Wright, in spite of being crippled since childhood, lives a full and useful life. At the age of five she suffered a fall which broke her back and from which she has never fully recovered. Very early in her childhood she lcarned to make yarn flowers and mount them on velvet and under glass. She made tissue-paper flowers; she tinted modeling clay and used it for many arts, making flowers, figurines, and picture frames. She also learned dressmaking, quilt and rugmaking, and various types of handwork. A musician and organist of ability, Mrs. Wright is also a poet, having written over two hundred original compositions. In Church work her particular interest is genealogy, and at home her large family, six sons and a daughter, make life interesting and eventful. "What a privilege is life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," Mrs. Wright often remarks, for she has found the world wide and wonderful, and she endeavors to share her talents and her accomplishments with others. Inner Resources Caroline Eyring Miner TT you are mature, you will be able to entertain yourself as well as others." This is a wise bit of philosophy I heard once long before I understood its complete meaning. Experience has clarified it. I recall a neighbor of mine who did not seem to be able to do anything alone. If she was to make pies, she came for me or got another of her neighbors to peel apples with her. She wanted to help me do my washing and then have me help her so that we could be together. She did not seem to be able to spend an evening or even an hour by herself. When her husband and son were away, as they frequently were, she was always hatching up some excuse for a small party. "How that woman must hate herself," my husband said once, impatiently. "No, it isn't exactly that," I said, "she hasn't the inner reserves or resources that make herself worthy of entertaining herself. She hasn't developed fascinating hobbies, reading, fancywork, playing a musical instrument, writing poems, which might give her something to say to and to do with herself when she is alone. And so she makes an evil out of the fine quality of neighborliness by doing it to death." And what a pity it is, for sooner or later, one will have occasion to be thrown upon one's own resources—in prolonged illness, in living in isolated areas—maybe in sheer defense when one's neighbors have grown weary of too much neighboring. It would be well for all of us to take stock of our own resources, our ability to entertain ourselves. If we could say with the poet, "I'm the best friend that I ever had; I like to be with me," how rich we would be; emotionally, how mature. PRESSED FLOWER PICTURES 405 A Family's a Family Estelle Webb Thomas RS. Damon laid down the M letter and glanced around the breakfast table at the assortment of faces turned toward her, expectantly. "My goodness!" she murmured, helplessly. There was an instant of silence. Mr. Damon cleared his throat. "When did you say they are coming?" he inquired. "Tonight!" Mrs. Damon glanced at the letter for confirmation, hoping she had misread it, but knowing she hadn't. "Yes, tonight, the tenth. You see, the letter was delayed." "Read it again!" Aunt Janey demanded, "I don't rightly know what you're talking about!" She cupped her hand behind her ear and leaned nearer, busily chewing, as she listened. Mrs. Damon picked up the letter again and obligingly shouted, "Ill just read what he says about coming: So, I'm bringing her home to meet the family. She has about everything else in the world, but she doesn't have any relatives. There's where I have the advantage of her. Maybe a real, live family —and I do mean live, will help me to sell myself to her. "And he says she's an orphan— raised in boarding schools!" Curtis, the fifteen-year-old, said, wonderingly. '"What's he trying to do, shock the poor girl to death!" "Oh, Curt!" Mrs. Damon's tone reproached him, but she added, doubtfully, "but I do wonder what she'll think of us?" "She'll think I'm a fine figure of Page 406 a man!" Mr. Damon complacently patted his billowing waistline. "Prob'ly can't see the man for the figger!"" Aunt Janey snapped, in one of her unexpectedly sharp moments. Mr. Damon laughed, goodnaturedly. "Well, Aunt Janey, it cost too much to put it there, for me to want to lose any of it!" he yelled. "See how proud Dale is of you all!" Mrs. Damon said, quickly, forestalling another comment by Aunt Janey, "I hope you'll do him credit!" "His memory must be failing," Curt observed, cynically. "I remember when he wanted to keep us a secret from his girls." "Oh, Curt, it wasn't that!" his mother protested. "It was just that he wanted you smaller ones to sort of grow on people, gradually." "Couldn't we have the twins and Mike in bed when they get here?" Natalie suggested. Natalie was seventeen and, since she was in love most of the time, thought she could understand Dale's situation better than anyone else. "Let them grow on her gradually, as you say." "But she'd be bound to find out about them next morning!" Mrs. Damon sighed. "And they're so bouncy mornings!" Natalie said, hopelessly. "We could give them sleeping pills—" Curt began, when the twins and Michael, who had been engaged in a quiet game of toast stealing while the grown-ups' attention was absorbed, suddenly woke up to A FAMILY'S A FAMILY the fact the conversation concerned them. "Jeepers!" Patty shouted, "what are we, smallpox or something? What've we done now?" "Yes, what've we done, now?" Penny echoed. Mike, hastily swallowing Penny's toast, wiped his mouth and assumed the angelic expression which was his assurance against accusation —just or unjust. "I've done nothing," he said, blandly. "Murder will out!" Aunt Janey pronounced, grimly, scraping her cereal bowl. "And Dale actually wants to exhibit these—" Curt began again, but Mr. Damon interrupted, sternly, "That will do, Curtis! If Dale is proud enough of the family to bring his girl all the way from Chicago to meet us, why should you feel so differently?" "T don't know, Dad," Curtis considered the question gravely, "there are some old adages that might explain it. "Distance lends enchantment,' is one, and 'Absence makes the heart grow fonder.' I imagine it's the latter that applies to Dalc's case. Nothing could lend enchantment to our kids." "Well, as I allus say," remarked Aunt Janey, apropos of nothing, "There's just as good fish in the sea as was ever caught." 6sTDHANK goodness, it's Saturday," Mrs. Damon said, rising briskly. "You can all help get ready for them. We do want to do Dale proud, bless his heart. I mustn't forget to start those rolls he asks for in his postscript. Let's see—Natalie, I'll tum the hving room over 407 to you." She turned distractedly to the twins. "You girls do your room, and do it well! But first, wash the dishes. And do keep your eyes on Michael! Michael!" Mike, who had been sneaking out, turned slowly back. "Gather up all your toys, from the hall and everywhere and take them up to the attic." Mike's angelic smile faded, "But what'll I play with?" he whined. "Cet outside and play like a boy!" Curt said, impatiently. "You're too big to play with toys all the time." Mike threw back his shoulders and looked every one of his six years. "That's right!" he said, finding the suggestion good. "And you, Curtis," Mrs. Damon went inexorably on, "please shake all the rugs and hang them on the line, till we get the floors waxed." Curtis, who thought she had forgotten him and was trying to slip away to his workshop in the attic, reluctantly shuffled into the living room. "1 didn't have time to shave this morning," Mr. Damon said, hastily snatching his hat and coat. "Will 't be too much to hope that I can have the bathroom for a brief pe riod this evening?" Without wait: ing for an answer, he dashed into the hall and, a moment later, a heavy thud brought the family on a tun to see him scrambling up off the floor. "Where's that Mike?" he shouted, wrathfully, "he—I'll—that's the last time I'll ever slip on that thing!" He kicked a bright, red dump truck viciously across the hall. "Are you hurt, John?" Mrs, Damon asked, anxiously, as she stooped 408 automatically to pick up the offending truck. "No thanks to that kid if I'm not," her husband muttered, "and put that toy right back where it was! He'll never learn to put his toys away, so long as you do it for him!" Mrs. Damon meekly replaced the truck and looked vaguely around for Michael. He seemed to have disappeared, but she could hear the twins upstairs, loudly cleaning their room. Probably he was with them or Curt. Aunt Janey was calling and she hurried away. When Curtis had finally retreated to his attic laboratory, Mrs. Damon again missed Michael. She took her hands out of the dough and went to the foot of the stairs. "Curtis! Is Michael with you?" An indistinguishable murmur answered her. "Well, send him down to pick up his toys," she called, and went back to finish mixing her rolls and plan the rest of her dinner. At 11:30, she called Natalie, "I must run downtown, dear. Aunt Janey wants some yarn matched, and you know how she is—doesn't think you could possibly do it right! Besides, I think I'll ask Esther for her recipe for shrimp salad, it's better than mine. Fix the children some soup and crackers, will you, and take Aunt Janey a tray? And please get Michael out of the attic and see that he picks up his toys!" She hurried away, skirting the dump truck, still in the hall. Ig was inevitable that there should be callers that afternoon. Mrs. Damon laughed and chatted, inwardly seething. Nothing was being made ready for the visitors. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Natalie, who had started to make her room immaculate, for Elyse must share it with her, was crosslegged on the floor, deep in old letters, as she always ended up when she tackled her vanity drawers. Curt was presumably in his laboratory, as always when he had his way, and from their shrieks and laughter, it was evident the twins were sprinkling the lawn and particularly each other. The dough for the rolls was booming over the pan's edge, when the guests finally took their leave. "Look out for the dump truck!" Mrs. Daman called, just in time to save fat Mrs. Boris a bad fall. "I have to leave it for Michael to pick up— his father's orders." "Where is Michael?" she cried, a few minutes later, "I can't remember when I saw him last!" Feeling suddenly terribly uneasy, she ran into Natalie's room. "Nat, where's Michael? Where did he go after lunch?" "He wasn't here for lunch, Mother.' Natalie looked up, absently. "Didn't he go with you?" "Curtis!" shrieked Mrs. Damon, running to the foot of the stairs, "Gs Mike with you?" "T haven't seen Mike since breakfast," Curtis answered, crossly. "I was right in the middle—" "Oh, my baby! Oh, gracious, where is he?" Mrs. Damon's anguished cry brought the other children running. In a few minutes, sobered and anxious, they had scattered in search of him, and Mrs. Damon was frantically telephoning her husband. At six o'clock, Curtis came in with the vagrant, followed, during A FAMILY'S A FAMILY the next half hour, by the other detachments of the searchers, returning, wearily, to report failure. Aunt Janey, who had remained unmoved throughout the entire affair, now commented oracularly, "Don't I always say, a bad penny will retum?" Michael, it transpired, had taken Curt's suggestion that he play like a boy, literally. He had wandered into the streets, joined a gang g0- ing fishing, or rather been allowed to tag along, been dared to go swimming, and almost drowned in the icy water, before one of the boys had discovered he knew very little about swimming. The frightened boys had tried to send him home then, and Michael had been quite ready to go. He was hungry and cold and dirty. The only thing that had prevented his going straight home was that he did not know where his home was. Suddenly, he was an adventurer no longer, but a little boy, barely six, with lots of nice toys at home and a mother it seemed he had not seen for years. He had begun to cry, standing by the dusty road, rubbing his eyes with grimy fists, tears streaking the dirt on his woebegone little face. A kindly trucker had picked him up and was trying, at a gas station on the outskirts of town, fo find where the Damons lived, when Curt caught sight of Mike's dirt-streaked face behind an enor mous hamburger, and had claimed him. Curt and Mike arrived home shortly before the twins, who were almost as disreputable looking as Mike—limp and dejected, hair tibbons lost and hair flying loose. Vic- 409 tims of conscience because they had not "looked out" for Michael, they dragged in, so sure he was kidnapped and lost forever that, at sight of his filthy, smug little face, they began to howl, with mingled relief and anger, that he had made them suffer so. There were more tears from Mrs. Damon and Natalie a few minutes later and a few forceful remarks from Mr. Damon before he hurried into the bathroom, declaring he was going to get his shaving over before cleaning operations began on those kids. MBE: Damon was in the kitchen starting the delayed dinner, when his voice rang through the house, irtitably demanding quiet. "T can't even hear myself shave in this racket!" he yelled. "Hear yourself shave?" Mrs. Damon shouted back. She was in the midst of shaping her rolls and couldn't run as she usually did at his call. "Certainly!" he stuck his lathered face through the bathroom door way. "Didn't you know I had to learn to shave by ear? Curt is always taking the light bulb for his pesky workroom and leaving the socket empty!" Still grumbling, he disappeared into the bathroom. "Oh, dear!" Mrs. Damon despaired of making Curt hear through the hubbub. Let John shave by eat and get out of the bathroom so Natalie could start on the children before Dale and Elyse arrived. It was at this inauspicious moment that the front door was thrown open and a joyous shout of, "Hi, folks! Here's—" followed by two heavy thuds, brought everyone, in- 410 cluding Mr. Damon, with one side of his face lathered, to the front hall. On the floor, flat on his back, lay Dale and sprawled across him, a girl who was pretty even in that ridiculous position. In the excitement of finding Michael, someone had kicked the dump truck back into the middle of the hall. Mr. Damon, looking like a onesided Santa Claus, and Cuttis helped the embarrassed couple to their feet, and Dale, laughing and rather red-faced, began introductions. He hesitated when he came to the three younger ones, as if he could scarcely recognize the little tramps; but went manfully on, "And this pair, Patty and Penny, better known as the Gruesome Twosome or Double Trouble, and Mike—" "An angel with a dirty face!" Michael put in dimpling. He felt quite a hero as the cause of so much commotion and, remembering that Natalie had so designated him in a moment of weakness, thought it would help to establish his status with Elyse. "It never rains but it pours, I allus say," Aunt Janey pronounced, ambiguously, when she was introduced. With such a start for the visit, Mrs. Damon feared the worst. But the children, evidently feeling they had done their worst, were almost models of propriety. Michael did ask Elyse, earnestly, if she thought Daddy was a fine figger of a man and Patty repeated Aunt Janey's trenchant comment. Penny then volunteered the information that Mother would probably be a fine figure of a woman if she didn't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 do bendings all the time, and at the mental picture of Mother's "bendings," she and Patty had such an attack of giggles they had to be sent away from the table. There was another awkward moment when Aunt Janey, chewing vigorously with her front teeth, stared balefully over her glasses at Elyse and stated, cryptically, "Well, pretty is as pretty does, I allus say." These lapses were quickly covered by the adult and aware members of the family, but Mr. Damon's tone was hollowly hearty and Mrs. Damon was frankly flustered. Even Natalie and Curt, with all the aplomb of modern youth, felt they were fighting a lost cause. Dale watched Elyse anxiously, trying to see behind her polite, smiling mask, giving the others piteous glances that begged, come on now, please show her how nice you can really be! But when the children were sent to bed, loudly protesting that it was still early, the sense of sitting on top of an active volcano somewhat abated, although there was still Aunt Janey to be reckoned with. Mrs. Damon tactfully suggested that the travelers must be weary and, as soon as was decently possible, everyone retired. DALE breathed a huge sigh of relief when the last good might was said. He lingered a moment alone in the livingroom, trying to get back the joy that reunion with the family usually brought. But he could not help seeing the children through Elyse's eyes. Elyse, who had never known any home, but fashionable boarding schools, would un- A FAMILY'S A FAMILY doubtedly classify them as brats and Aunt Janey as 4 "character." At that, the children had been tired and, for them, subdued during the evening. He shuddered at the thought of morning, when, freshed and full of good will, they would take over the entertainment of the guest. There would be a few hours respite before they must be coped wi again. But he had congratulated himself too soon. In the hall, the pajama-clad twins were just completsold Elyse, whom they had waylaid en route to bed, a dollar's worth of garden seeds to help that was bad what about Elyse washdark beput And then, when he was just sink-, a terri fied shriek had brought him upright d, with a it came from Nat's room. It seemed that when d out the der the covets, where he had crawled from the pillow, horned toad, frightened and upset as Et between a wild desire to laug and humiliation, Dale and Natalie assured Elyse this was not a piece of cruel mischief, put simply a love offeting and proof of how deeply Mike had fallen for her, since No- 411 one else was ever allowed to touch Galahad. Quiet, like a much disturbed bird, once more settled cautiously overt the house. 'The girls finished theit desultory conversation and were drifting off to sleep when a Te sounding bumpety-bump jarred the ceiling directly over their heads. That Curt, Nat thought, angrily, was big enough to know better. Evidently he had not gone to bed but was still working in his stupid laboratory, and had carelessly dropped something. She slipped out of bed and quietly tiptoed from the room. Why the quiet, she did not know except to keep UP i the fiction that Elyse was asleep. She was ashamed of making excuses. She jerked the attic door open and hissed, "I heard ou trying to knock the house down and thought it was in very poor Curt looked up innocently from his notebook, "Oh, you mean when I accidently pushed all those "Was that what it was? I thought you'd dropped a ton of brick. Elyse of us," Curt murmured, - «Pyon't you kids ever settle down, day or night?" Dale stood at the foot of the stairs, his face strained and disillusioned. "7 thought we used to have faitly peaceful nights, anyway." He turned back into his room, and the two stared at each other with stricken faces. Natalie's eyes filled with tears and even Cut tis' monumental "JT guess weve kin down," he muttered, as 412 ARI Y next knocked moming, Dale purposefully on Natoor. Tell Elyse we'll have to be 1 s to catch the seventhe kitchen, however, where his mother © was starting preakfast. "Mother, could Elyse and J have 4 pite before the others get UP so | can get her to the seventhirty?" forbade questioning and depressed, his i _ She had had the they were both staying -¢ pack together. Had misunderstood. Elyse made a mere pretense of eating, as did Dale, and bade Mts. Damon 4 subdued goodbye. Her held out his hand. "Well, goodbye, he held up his hand. "Never mind making excuses, | know just how the family saw them through yout eyes. See how those kids would seem to a you've been. Vd RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 sort of forgotten how impossible they ate. "7 jsten, D io "wait! 1 want to apologize for pringing you here, and fot thinking, even for a minute, you could ever "Shut up!" Elyse snapped, furiously. "You can't do all the talking, ou know, even if you are the only A FAMILY'S A FAMILY mum when the others rattle on about their folks! To never get a letter or a package from home? Sure, I was going to talk about them! I was going to bring them into the conversation every time I got a chance! They were going to be mine, you selfish prig! My Gruesome 'T'wosome, my funny Aunt Janey, my darling little Mike, my—" Her voice had grown higher and higher, and now she broke into hysterical sobs and started blindly for the train door. Dale set down her luggage and seized her arm. "Elyse, wait—" Elyse jerked away. "Leave me alone you—you—" A stocky policeman, who had been watching them from a distance, stepped nearer and said, in a low, but menacing tone, "Leave the 413 lady alone, buddy, and stop bothering her, see!" Dale turned a haughty stare on him. "Tl do no such thing! She's trying to run out on the family. I admit they're a pill, but after all, a family's a family!" "Oh, my mistake!" the policeman acknowledged, rather embarrassed. He turned to Elyse. "Sure thing! You got a family, lady, you got 'em. They get onto your nerves, sure, but you just can't take a powder! Might as well face it!" Elyse turned back and lifted teardrenched eyes to Dale's, a tremulous smile breaking over her face, like the sun through rain. "He's right, Dale! I've got me a family and I'm simply Rescue That Little Rocker Rachel K. Laurgaard N how many junk-filled attics does Grandmother's little, old sewing rocker stand forlornly gathering dust and cobwebs, its cane seat poked through, awaiting the coming of the itinerant chair-mender, who will never pass this way again! Sometimes it rocks dejectedly on the back porch through sunshine and through rain until, falling apart, it is tossed on the woodpile or carried off by the junkman. Such a pity it is for this quaint piece to come to so neglected an end, when it might still grace a fireside or add charm to a period bedroom! No piece of solid wood furniture is ever in too hopeless a state to be not going to take a powder! You might as well face it." refinished or repaired. 'True, the upholstery may be worn and soiled —tear it off and throw it away. The pretty natural markings of its wood may be concealed by layers of dark varnish and paint—scrape them off. A few hours of effort and a little application of elbow grease will reward you with a chair of which you can well be proud. To transform the rocker, you will need a can of paint and varnish remover, a putty knife or scraper, a file for the rungs and corners where the paint clings so tenaciously, sandpaper, boiled linseed oil, and turpentine. First, spread plenty of newspapers down and go after the old finish. 414 If your chair has been painted and repainted several times, it may take a couple of coats of paint remover to get it clean. The more work you let the paint remover do, the less work there will be for the sandpaper—and you. Scrape off the gummy paint with the putty knife, being careful not to gouge the wood, Dry it off thoroughly, and file and sandpaper it smooth. Some woods are softer and easier to work with than others. If you are lucky enough to have a walnut chair, you can get a smooth satiny finish in a comparatively short time. Maple and oak are harder. Always sandpaper with the grain. Coarse sandpaper will gouge walnut, but you may have to resort to it on badly scarred maple or oak. But be careful! Coarse sandpaper cuts deeply. A medium grade is the safest, and, for the final smoothing, use only the very finest. F your little rocker has become unglued or broken, you will probably find it more convenient to send it out to a fix-it shop for repairs. Furniture clamps are a necessity for a good job of re-gluing. Sometimes, however, it is an easy matter to glue a loose joint or two and, by means RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 of a well-placed screw, hold them securely. Small metal angles or flat strips with holes for screws can be used to advantage to strengthen the seat from beneath. Now for the finishing process! If the wood is walnut, use walnut oil stain sparingly, and after that has dried, walnut wood filler, to fill the ores. When this has set for the required length of time, rub in a mixture of boiled linseed oil and turpentine—two-thirds linseed oil to onethird turpentine. The finest of hand-rubbed furniture has a finish impervious to water, achieved by the application of several coats of oil, with light sandpaper between each coat. In fact, if you have real patience, eliminate the stain entirely and darken the wood slowly by rubbing in repeated coats of oil. However, if you wish to finish your little rocker quickly, two coats of oil are enough, with a good coat of liquid floor wax to top it off. Oak, maple, birch, and any others of the lighter woods are very nice finished in their natural color without benefit of stain. With oak, an oak filler may be used to seal the pores, or you may merely oil and wax it. Maple and birch are so RESCUE THAT LITTLE ROCKER close-grained that they don't need q filler. Yous little rocker is NOW ready for its covering. If it was in a good state of repair and had never had other covering than the caning, you may like to have it re-caned. This, of course, is the authentic thing to do and, perhaps in your community, there «, an elderly cabinet-maker who, in his youth, Jearned the almost extinct art of caning. But cane seats are perishable, unfortunately, and long before our little rocker was relegated to the attic, it probably had a succes sion of makeshift seats tacked onto it. If such is the case, and there are many nail holes close caning holes, it will be better to ill This will not be difficult. Five yards of upholstet vs webbing, and plenty of tacks will do the trick. Fold the ends of two or three strips of the webbing, depending on the size of the seat, along the front, as close to the inside edge as possible, without danget of splitting oF weakening the wood. Pull each strip sO tight it twangsTurn under and tack similarly to the back edge. Then attach three more strips to one side, 415 weave them through the first three strips, and attach firmly to the othet side. The tighter the webbing is stretched, the less Sag will develop in the seat. Do the back in a like manner. Now stretch a piece of burlap ot canvas over the webbing and tack down. If you can, use horsehair ot upholster's moss for padding, ©spe cially for the seat. Old horsehair should be washed and dried in the sun to restore its springiness. But any sort of cotton batting will do very well and, in case you do use hair or moss, be sure to cover it with a layer of cotton so that it won't poke through the covet. Remember that the stuffing will pack down considerably, so use plenty of it, and cover this with muslin. Tapestry may be with small upholsterer's curved needle and thread. Brassheaded tacks make a neat finish, too. Ruffled calico or chintz is best sewed onto the muslin cover, to make it easily removable for washing. There now, aren't you prou of yout handiwork! And can't you just see Grandmother's eyes light up as she sees you rocking in her little chair? —_—_—_— __———— oo or CARROT MARMALADE Submitted by Frances Kolarik large carrots" 4 lemons Grate the carrots and slice the lemons thin. Overnight. Slowly for one hour, then add the sugar and of the carrots and lemons and let stand pints of watet 5 pounds of sugat Pour the water over the mixture Next morning, boil the mixture poil until the mixture jells. (Note: This recipe was sent to Mrs. Kolarik by Mrs. Carl Morris of Graytown, New Zealand. Sister Mortis, day Saint missionaries and sionaries. ), is a faithful friend to the Latterfrom home" to many mis- Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to support and care for. Courageously, she takes inventory of her meager resources and plans for the future. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans for sale. Another neighbor, Abigail Smith, offers to help with ideas and transportation.. From a slow and unpromising beginning, they build a profitable business. Joanna rears her children with love and devotion and, after years of careful saving, she plans to buy a house on a hill. A real estate salesman, Kent Taylor, takes Joanna to see a house he has for sale. The chill air. Everything seemed different. Not just another autumn, this had a secret exciting something in it, as if the days had something special to give her. He turned up the hill that led toward the Capitol. "This is the best way to get to the house... The long way around." "But I'm so busy," Joanna answered breathlessly, "besides, I have to be home by three-thirty. The children get out of school then, and you must have a lot of customers waiting." He said loftily, "They are Mother's. Let 'em wait. Besides they are all very old, or fat, or... Anyway, this is a lot more fun." Laughter began a slow growing in Joanna, not the ready laughter she had for her children, or the neighborly laughter for Abigail's tart comments, but a laughter from Page 416 Jose took a deep breath of deep within, as when winter withdraws, foot by foot, and spring begins her tasks. It was like that, as though her heart had been enclosed in ice and was now breaking free. The house was an old one, but well-built. It stood high up from the street, and was reached by climbing a flight of stairs. Lawns sloped sharply to the street. The porch was in need of paint, but it was wide and long, plenty of space for Sally and Michael and their friends. The living room was long, too. It boasted a window seat. Against the east wall was a brick fireplace, painted white to match the woodwork. The floors were hardwood, recently sanded and waxed. Joanna caught her breath when she saw the dining room. It had such possibilities. Stairs ran up the west wall to the second floor; under the high east windows were shelves. The paper was beautifully patterned, green leaves and traceries, giving the effect of summer sun and cheerful shade. Joanna touched the paper with gentle finger tips. She looked up to find Kent 'Taylor's eyes on her and she blushed. She went on tiptoe into the kitchen, because suddenly their footsteps seemed very loud in the deserted house. There was an electric range. She turned to Kent Taylor, who leaned against the door. He nodded. "It goes with the house. There's a stoker downstairs, you'll never have to carry another bucket of coal." JOANNA She looked down at her hands. They were gloved, but he must have noticed them. This morning, the coal dust ground into the skin. She looked out the back door. No blackened sheds, with coal dust marking a path to the door, but a white-painted garage and roses and lilac bushes around the green lawn, a peach and a cherry tree to give shade as well as fruit. "I know it's going to cost more then I can pay," Joanna said, There was a bedroom downstairs and three upstairs. Joanna wove her dreams. She would take the downstairs bedroom, share it with Sally. The big bedroom, upstairs, opened onto a little screened porch. Penny would love that. David could have the next larger bedroom, and Michael would like the small one with the sloping ceiling. She turned to Kent Taylor. "But I have so little... Not enough. Not nearly enough." He whistled regretfully, "They are asking quite a little down." He helped her down the stairs, "But there is always a way to raise money." She said, wonderingly, "What on earth do you do for a living that would lead you to make a statement like that?" He grinned. His hair was very ted in the sun, and she could see the freckles spattering his skin. "I'm a writer... Of articles. That's how I know that something always turns up." "T won't borrow for a down payment." He helped her into the car and slid under the wheel. "Somehow I knew you would say that. You're 417 There's? Different, Mrs. Niels. Something about you.... E told her about himself on the drive home. He was thirty-six, her age. Joanna stole a look at the blunt profile. He seemed so much younger than she, and there was no difference in their years. He had been married. She had died of injuries suffered in an accident. Kent Taylor ran his hands around the steering wheel. "T've never been able to tell anyone before, the horror of it. She was so young, so beautiful, so alive. It was strange to watch her die, the hot, quick life pouring out of her in the red flood they couldn't stop. It made me know what an enemy life is. Not to be trusted. It makes me realize what an idiot a man can be to dream. Dreams, fragile as china, as easily broken." He stared straight ahead. "Well, I've done. A good job of keeping a hop, skip, and a jump ahead of life. I'm never giving it another chance to get at me." Joanna looked at her worn gloves and listened to him. He spoke of places he had been. The glamorous names slipped lightly from his tongue, and Joanna could see him moving among the fabulous people, his red hair like a bright banner, his easy laughter winning friends on every side, and always that secret armor to keep out those who would come too close. She was sorry when they reached home. It was like stepping out of a brightly lighted world into a drab, familiar room. The little house seemed more battered than ever, smaller; the fence sagged. For the first time, Joanna knew a rebellion 418 against closing the door and donning the flat, comfortable shoes, and sifting the endless flour into the great bowls, against carrying the heavy buckets of coal to feed the ever-hungry ranges. The children poured out of the house to greet her. Penny, slim and eager, brought up the rear. "Did you find it, Mother? Did you find our house?" "All yours?" Kent asked. Joanna put her arms around Michael and Sally. "All mine." She saw the cloud obscure, for a brief moment, his laughter. "Crown jewels," he said, and the twinkle was back. "I'm Connie's Uncle Kent," he said to Penny. He reached in his pocket for the keys and held them out to Joanna. "Just in case you want to run up and see it again." He patted Michael absently on the head. "I'll come tomorTOW." "T can't look for houses tomorrow. I'll be too busy." "Work can wait," he said. "But it's a crime not to see more of these autumn days." When he had gone the children besieged her with questions. Abigail came running over. "Where have you been? Orders have been pouting in." Joanna chuckled. "All right, I'm almost ready for the salt mines, but how about all of us getting in the truck and going up to see this house?" She looked at Abigail and added soberly, "I'd give anything to ownit. It's a... A home." GHE drove them up to the house. They shouted with joy at the mere sight of it. She went ahead of them, unlocking the door with a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 flourish. The children and Abigail spread over the rooms like ants. Joanna was hard put to keep up with their demands that she come here and there. She followed Penny up the stairs to the bedroom in the front. "This would be for you," Joanna said. Penny went over to the door that opened on the little porch. Her back stiffened. "Oh, Mother!" It was like a cry. Joanna went to her. It, Penny?" Penny pointed silently below her where the city's lights, like countless gems in a black velvet box, scattered from hill to hill. Southward the lights stretched, to the east they tumbled down the hills, and to the west they lost themselves on the black plains. 'The starry sky seemed to billow to meet the earth like a great curtain. "It's lovely," Joanna said, and was aware that Penny was crying. "Why, child? What is it?" Penny buried her face on Joanna's shoulder. "It's so beautiful!" she wept. "It hurts me inside. Makes me so full of.... I don't know what to call it." Joanna was silent, holding Penny in her arms. But the cry went up from her heart, from the very depths of the longing she had, to give her children happiness. Please, Joanna prayed silently, please, let us have this house... If it is thy will... I most humbly pray. She stroked Penny's hair. "Tf it's right for us, we'll have it." "But it is nght," Penny whispered. "I just know it is." (Continued on page 427) "What is Regulations €0vetnong the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. EAST PROVO STAKE (UTAH), PROVO THIRTEENTH WARD SEWING PROJECT ARTICLES DISPLAYED AT PARTY Left to tight: Second Counselor Rosamonde Johnson; First Counselor Glenna Hill; Mary Larsen and Catherine Gauchay, work mecting leaders; President Abbie Dutson, The exhibit was displayed in a gay frame, Surrounded by daffodils and pussy wil. Lows, Included were Pretty blouses, cotton dresses, skirts, Pajamas, quilts, and many Page 419 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Photograph submitted by Alice DeMordaunt BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO), THOMAS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT PARTY, April 1949 Front row, seated, left to right: Grace Merrill (now of Logan, Utah); Zada Peterson, who served over fourteen years; Sophia Christiansen, who served over eleven years; Pearl Murdock; Julia Williams; Lilly Dance. Back row, standing, left to mght: Gertrude Williams; Marie Anderson; Mary Broadhead; Arvilla Stander; Alta Stander; Gladys Evans, present President. Each of these faithful and devoted presidents was honored with a corsage. The program presented a favorite song of each of the presidents and a social hour and refreshments followed. The Relief Society of the Thomas Ward was organized in 1902. Two of the living past presidents, Annie Colman (of St. Anthony, Idaho) and Melissa Murdock (who lives in California) were unable to attend. Alice DeMordaunt is president of Blackfoot Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Lorena W. Anderson TEMPLE VIEW STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS GIVE CONCERT IN HONOR OF RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY March 17, 1949 Among the officers and members in this photograph, are: Lorena W. Anderson, President, Temple View Stake Relief Society, back row, fourth from right; and at her left First Counselor Margaret A. Moyes; Second Counselor Bernice O. Wardle, stand- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 421 ing back of the piano, immediately behind the chorister, Naomi B. Hahn, (wearing black dress), center front; Secretary-Treasurer Leah L. West, at right on the front row; DeEtte Stewart at the piano; Sue Christensen at the organ. The entire stake board are members of this chorus, which is made up of singing groups from all the wards in the stake, and also the Mexican Branch. The girls wearing formal dresses, representing the wards, acted as ushers. Lorena W. Anderson is president of Temple View Stake Relief Society. Pe caearensth by Ida S. Ae SNOWFLAKE STAKE (ARIZONA), SNOWFLAKE WARD RUGMAKERS DISPLAY THEIR HANDICRAFT Left to right: Minnie Rencher; Nettie Rencher; Leonora Rogers; Wilmirth Willis; Alice Shaw. Insets, left to right: Salina S. Turley and Julia S. Ballard. At a February work meeting in Snowflake Ward ten types of rugs were demonstrated, also a wool blanket woven by Jenny Morris on a handmade loom. This rug received the Blue Ribbon at the Arizona State Fair. Sister Turley has served for fifty years as a visiting teacher. As a girl she spent six years helping her father freight from Holbrook to Fort Apache and she took many Relief Society quilts on her travels and sold them for the benefit of the organizations. At the age of twenty-one, when her mother died, she took charge of her eight brothers and sisters. In 1911 she married a widower, Theodore Turley, and cared for his seven children. Sister Turley is an expert needlewoman. In one summer she made 120 bonnets. Sister Ballard, a daughter of the noted pioneer Jesse N. Smith, was a pioneer of Snowflake. She has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for fifty-three years, and is the mother of ten children and stepmother to five. Also, she has served the community as a good and kind neighbor in times of sorrow and sickness. Ida S. Hendrickson is president of Snowflake Stake Relief Society. Photograph 422 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Photograph submitted by Jessie S. Reese SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), ANNIVERSARY PAGEANT "Such as I Have I Give Unto Thee," March 18, 1949 Seated, left to right: Pauline Gniffin; Eunice Ravsten; Roma Low; Leone Chambers; Cherrill Hendricks; Blanche Gunnell; Mary Mather. Standing, left to right: Wanda Larson; Yvonne Peterson; Beverly Benson; Marion Bischoff; Bessie Griffin. This anniversary program and pageant was held in honor of the retiring presidency and board members: Anne M. Farr, Hilda J. Roskelley, Elizabeth P. Astle, Gwen M. Noble, and Emma R. Hansen. The pageant was written by Lillie P. Weeks and Mary P. Hale, depicting in song and drama the work of Relief Society during the eleven years that Sister Farr served as stake president, stressing, in particular, Welfare work. The photograph represents womanhood and the four graces, Faith, Hope, Charity, and Courage, the two readers, and the dancers. Alta C. Allen is now president of Smithfield Stake Relief Society. & fae atte. 9 eSNG Photograph submitted by Madge P. Fowler PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA), BALDWIN PARK WARD RELIEF SOCIETY COMMEMORATES ANNIVERSARY DAY, March 15, 1949 Relief Society officers, beginning fourth from left: First Counselor Florence Till- — President Mary M. Thorne; Second Counselor Audrey Sessions; Secretary Lillian Wilcox. Madge P. Fowler is president of Pasadena Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Johnson, i¢Presenting ard Relief 5 Caroline M. T. Ociety; Sarah E. FT Johnson; Martha Ones, Tepresent. Ones, re Tesentin Sist; P g mmeline B. Wells: Over, Tepiesenting Amy e §, Spafford, ack Tow, standing, 0; Blanche: Adleen Knight @el Bray: Tuo: mith: Nor > Mary Buttle, ' i jams; Mary FL. Tch, r 424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Photograph submitted by Hattie S. Shurtz ST. JOSEPH STAKE (ARIZONA), PIMA WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A RECORD OF i100 PER CENT FOR TWO YEARS President Pearl Cluff is seated at the left on the front row; her First Counselor Wyona Bryce is ninth from the left on the front row; Second Counselor Zella McBride stands at the left on the second row; Secretary Fern Alder is at the right on the second row. Hattie S. Shurtz is president of St. Joseph Stake Relief Society. Ee ne ee ae eee 2 AF OS Oe Bows ee Photograph submitted by Roberta E. Johnson SPOKANE STAKE, MOSCOW (IDAHO) WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 14, 1949 President Gwen Green stands at the center front, immediately behind the birthday cake; at Sister Green's left is her First Counselor Leona Canfield and at Sister Green's right, her Second Counselor Aleen McCowan. President Edna H. Bennion, Spokane Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Located at Moscow, home of the University of Idaho, this group is unusual in Relief Society history. Of its forty-five paid members, twenty-eight are student-wives, who exemplify compassionate service, for they help each other in sickness and share each other's burdens, sorrows, and joys, with the same crusading spirit as their pioneer ancestors. Their youth and enthusiasm, despite financial hardships and crowded housing facilities, have written a new and heroic chapter in Relief Society history." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 425 Photograph submitted by Lileth Peck LEHI STAKE (UTAH), LEHI FOURTH WARD, SIX RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT REUNION Left to nght: Julia A. Brown, first President, who was set apart in 1904; Lileth G. Peterson; Inez H. Russon; Julia F. Hunter; Velma R. Russon; Hazel C. Roberts, the present president. The social honoring these devoted sisters was held in connection with the ward Relief Society bazaar. The sisters enjoyed themselves in reminiscing of the past, as they lunched together and viewed the lovely display of fancywork, rugs, and quilts which were exhibited for sale. Lileth Peck is president of Lehi Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Lula P. Child WESTERN STATES MISSION, GREELEY (COLORADO) RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, December 4, 1948 Left to right: Second Counselor Julia Mae Kipp; President Emma Lou Bibby; Thelma McDaniel; Secretary-Treasurer Birdie Blackburn. Lula P. Child, President, Western States Mission Relief Society, reports that the sisters held this bazaar in one corner of a grocery store: "They are very proud and happy at what was accomplished, not only in uniting the group, but in raising enough money to finance their organization." 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 TUTTE, TTT of 4 $; i snes 4 Photograph submitted by Reva F. Wicker — SOUTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH), BOUNTIFUL THIRD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1949 Standing, left: Eveline B. Bjorkman, author of the anniversary dramatization, "The Organization of the First Relief Society." Standing, fourth from left, Ireta A. Page, ward Relief Society president. The dramatization, following the authentic history of the occasion, was beautifully written and effectively produced. Preceding the play, a delicious hot dinner was served to one hundred guests. Reva F. Wicker is president of South Davis Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Nina J. Langford SOUTH OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), OGDEN TWENTY-EIGHTH WARD ACHIEVES 100 PER CENT VISITING TEACHING RECORD FOR EIGHTEEN MONTHS Front row, beginning seventh from the left: Second Counselor Grace West; President Leona King; First Counselor Addren Isaacson. Second row, at left: class leader Anna Critchlow; and beginning third from right: Stake Relief Society President Reka Parker and her Second Counselor Dessa Richins. Fourth row, at right: First Counselor, South Ogden Stake Relief Society, Erma Jacobs. On March 16, 1949, these visiting teachers were honored at a social. Miniature dolls, dressed to represent visiting teachers, and wearing the official Relief Society colors, gold and blue, were used as centerpieces for the table. Each visiting teacher was presented with a booklet containing choice writings and poetry. There are sixtytwo active visiting teachers in the ward and seven alternates. Reka Parker is president of South Ogden Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Photograph submitted by Sarah L. T. Call BEN LOMOND STAKE (UTAH), 427 PLEASANT VIEW WARD, SEVEN RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, left to right: Emma M. Wade (1929-1934); Eliza H. Rhess (1924- 1929); Susanna M. Johns (1923-1924). Back row, left to right: Mildred R. Cragun (1941-1944); Grace M. Williams (1944-1946); Sarah L. T. Call, present President; Florence H. Jensen (1934-1941). Of the ten presidents of this ward Relief Society, three have passed away. This photograph was taken at the anniversary party March 17, 1 Ora Macfarlane is president of Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society. >. Joanna (Continued from page 418) The days fled by. Kent Taylor came daily to call for Joanna. 'There were many houses available, but none of them to give that feeling of arms held out in welcome. Kent appeared not at all perturbed by her lack of interest in other houses, nor by the unwillingness of the owners to sell the house for such a small down payment. "We'll find something, Joanna, and in the meantime I don't know a better way to spend my afternoons until I have to go." "Go?" Joanna was frightened by the sudden quick beating of her Professional aed KSA) Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah 428 SOME BEAUTIFUL LADIES' 2-PART CHORUSES for your Ninging Mothers.. Group The following numbers are all arranged for soprano and alto voices (SA). Beside Still Waters—Hamblen _.... 15 Bless This House—Brahe 16 Father, We Thank Thee—Castleton) Se eee 16 The Good Shepherd—Barri _. 12 Grateful, O Lord. Am I—Roma _...._.15 I Come to Thee—Roma __....... AS I Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara 16 In the Garden—Miles 18 Lift Up Your Heads—Hopkins _...... 12 The Lord Bless You and Keep You —Luthin 2 0 22 The Lord's Prayer—Malotte __........... 20 My Task—Ashford _ 2. 12 O Divine Redeemer!|—Gounod _....._.12 The Prayer Perfect—Stenson.........15 Thanks Be to God—Dickson __...__ 16 Thy House Forever—Protheroe - 12 Write for information on music for all types of L. D. S. Choral groups. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We pay postage. We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and élas ssical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records. PIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY Daunes J ae °C SAAIN STREET SALT Ms cay ft, ed =—_* a > () > () RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 heart. Why should it matter to her if Kent Taylor came or went? "T'm due in Denver. I'm to interview some people for an article. By the way, has anyone been around asking about your products?" Joanna laughed. "Should they? No one has. But my business is growing. If those people would just wait I would have their old down payment." "Two thousand dollars is a lot of money." "It will come," Joanna said. He turned to her, his hazel eyes probing her own. "Now, what makes you say that?" "Something secret.. Cial." "You and your faith! Strange to find a saint in this day and generation. You ought to be wearing a sunbonnet and be pushing a handcart." Joanna was troubled. "I thought you were one." "Not me," Kent Taylor said, "not since... Not for a long while." He came and took her hands. "When will you go out with me, Joanna?" She pulled nervously away. "I'm much too busy for play. Right now, I've a thousand things to do." Only to Abigail did she confide the reason. "I'd look a fright, just that old gray suit, and that older dress. My hair is a fright." Abigail sniffed. "Why don't you buy yourself something, instead of saving for that house you're not going to get? Why don't you get yourself something nght glamorous?" "But we are going to get the house," Joanna said.. And spe- T was on Thursday that the man | came. He knocked at the front door, and smiled meagetly when Jodtohim. He sniffed the air. "Boston-baked?" "Yes." Joanna smiled at him, he "May I come in, Mts. Niels? I you park FREE on Sears big storeside lot.:. — stor portance.. He tapped his | "ss _s breast pocket significantly. Joanna smothered her Jaughter. "Come right in. I; have to sit in the kitchen. Just baking som" cakes... + *) Joanna sifted flour and baking you in the real estate business Mr. -?" "Parkinson, foods. You've Joanna smiled. On rare occasions, when feeling wealthy of your products - - "Ah Indeed! "Why, of course, I've been T've bought some. Just to try." Well, then you know that we are the makers 0 unusual things to eat... Or usual things with an unusual flavor." "1 know." Joanna nodded. Advertisements make your sound.- - romantic... 48 well as good, especially yout Fresh-frozen Southern Barbecue. That was really "Your foods good." She wondered what the hittle man was selling. "We would like to buy your recipe for Boston-baked beans, Mrs. Niels." Joanna slowly put the sifter on Sy! Gohl-tlecine mauY FROM YOUR DEALER AUtah P ower & Light Co. Message JOANNA was such 4 nervous little jan. Have something of the greatest lm 429 No traffic tickets - - * 2° time limit when Zerneine 430 Our store has always had a warm place in the hearts of June Conference visitors—and we shall certainly look forward to a renewal of fellowship. Choral—3 part and all other types of music GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main St. Sound Training Is Essential To Success. Offers you that training in 43 departments of instruction. Character building also receives its proper emphasis. SUMMER QUARTER STARTS JUNE 13 SECOND TERM BEGINS JULY 25 Catalogues are now available for both the 1949 Summer Quarter and for the 1949-50 School Year. Write for your copies -to THE Y PRESS BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO. UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 the table. "What did you say, Mr. Parkinson?" "Recipe... For the Boston-baked beans. Of course, you couldn't sell the beans any more. But I think you would like the way we would put them out. Your name on the product, and a little history on the side of how you came to make it." "What do you mean, Mr. Parkinson?" She stood still, her eyes on his face. Mr. Parkinson squirmed a little under the blue blaze of them. "Everybody knows how you came to sell them, Mrs. Niels, of how you were left... In poverty... And how a kindly neighbor brought you a sack of beans he had been given, and how you started your little business with his gift." Joanna laughed and rolled her hands in her apron. "Oh, no, Mr. Parkinson... I couldn't do that." He chuckled with her. "I rather thought you would say that. But did you ever think of the women you could help...? A lot of women are left in straitened circumstances..." Joanna stared over his head. "I hadn't thought of that." *We will give you five thousand dollars for the recipe...." Joanna looked down at his face. "Did you say five thousand dollars?" "Ves." There was a burning in Joanna's breast, an aching of tears ready to overflow, a wild, sweet song within her. Other people would call it 'luck." But always she would know, beyond the shadow of any doubt, who had sent this man to her, and why he had come.. (To be continued) ~ Auerbach's Makes It Easy For You To Knit Yourself A Dress Knitting is an easy and fascinating hobby. Auerbach's gives FREE knitting lessons with all yarn purchased. @ Minerva Yarns e MONTEREY, all wool knubby-yarn Le... E.80c ounce VELVEEN, 71% wool, 29% rayon, shiny rayon thread.......80¢ ounce Cost of handknit dress pictured..$21 Minerva pattern book containing a marvelous collection of dress patTee ee ee aie YES ART NEEDLEWORK AUERBACH'S FOURTH FLOOR uelacfs Auerbach's, State and Broadway Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me...............--.-- copies of the Minerva Pattern book..25c. Please send me................... Ounces of Minerva Velveen or Monterey Yarn. Color. IN carr ie ce ener ee eee Address A PSCC UC i eee eeeeeeere cece Soca = cc 2000 SOS EECICIOS SOTA CO ADSI Please add 25 cents to cover mailing and insurance. Utahns, please add 2% sales tax. From lear and Sar Eva Willes Wangsgaard, author of "Points for Poets to Remember," lives in Ogden, Utah, and has had several books of poems published. She has achieved national recognition as a poet of distinction and ability and has won many prizes and awards. She is well known to readers of the Magazine for her many fine contributions, especially for her prize-winning poems in the Eliza R. Snow annual contests. Fay Ollorton Tarlock, Danville, California, author of "Writing the Short Story," was graduated from the Pulitzer School of Journalism, Columbia University. She has had considerable experience in many fields of writing, including advertising, newspaper reporting, children's literature, critical articles, stories, and features. At the University of Wisconsin she made a careful study of Latter-day Saint history and wrote her Master's thesis on newspaper treatment of '"Mormonism'"' in its early years. Our readers are already familiar with the many fine stories and articles which Mrs. Tarlock has written for the Magazine. Sadie Ollorton Clark, (sister of Fay Tarlock) Houston, Texas, author of "El Paso and the Latter-day Saints; Olive W. Burt, Salt Lake City, author of "Young Hearts Are Fragile;" and Estelle Webb Thomas, Farmington, New Mexico, author of "A Family's a Family," are all names familiar to our readers. We have mentioned them before in this department and we shall have more to say about them in future issues. Thank you for the lovely setting you gave my poem "Of April Blossoming" (April 1949). I am always proud to have my work appear in the Magazine, because I know it is in such good company. —Renie H. Littlewood, Brigham City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine has been in our home for years and I have been Page 432 continually interested in the poetry that is contained in each issue. —Richard L. Pope, Provo, Utah Please tell me the point in the story "Compromise" in the March number.... What should be brought out? Mrs. Lucille R. Seely, Mt. Pleasant, Utah The third prize story "Compromise" in the March issue was intended to serve as a warning and to demonstrate that no compromise can be made by Latter-day Saints with Church standards. The story showed that if parents fail to observe the Word of Wisdom in their homes and fail to set an example of mghteous living, they cannot expect their children to observe Church standards but to follow the parents' unrighteous example. Such _parents bring condemnation upon themselves and jeopardize the eternal welfare of their children —Ed. I have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine for unnumbered years. I always read it from cover to cover and invariably enjoy it. Thank you for your fine Magazine. —Melba K. Allen, Goshen, Utah Those who really enjoy the Magazine do not mind the increase in price. My sales have fallen considerably, but over 100 per cent is not so bad. We are having wintry weather in midsummer (January). My husband and I have just returned from a 3,000-mile round trip to visit our son's grave. He was a pilot during the war. The place where his body rests is beautiful beyond description—on a gentle slope, surrounded for miles by fields of long, green, waving corn, and in the background majestic and ageless are the towering, rugged peaks of mighty mountains.... The gospel is our only armor. It brings security and peace. —Flsie F. Parton, Penshurst, Australia May you have continued success with the Magazine which is truly an inspiration to all of us out here. —Marion D. Clegg, Heber City, Utah Pook Vs fr 1°. The Wool: Wise Now is the time to enrich your library with... Sharing the Gospel With Others........$2.50 Selections from President George Albert Smith's addresses. Distinctive gems of good will and wisdom. On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life 22 e eee$3.90 By President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Timely, thorough, interesting, informative treatment of the reasons for the restoration of the Gospel. Vitality of Mormonism.......................2.....$2.50 By James E. Talmage 104 short, readable, illuminating essays on distinctive themes of the restored Gospel. Introduction to the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price _...$2.25 Readable, factual, fascinating analysis of these modern scriptures. DESERET BOOK COMPANY "Education lives as long as we read good books." 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City 10, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 PRESERVE HEAL in the home with abundance of fres canned fruits and v tables for all year Sugar is a_ preserva and an enricher. le, VOL. 36° NO. 7 ae LOR? Previews and BS P a & NS Fi 2 r essons for October JULY 1949 f THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford =:. I. Marianne C. Sharp - - - Velma N. Simonsen - c a L - Margaret C. Pickering - - - Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Lillie C. Adams Ethel C. Smith Louise W. Madsen Aleine M. Young President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Alta J. Vance Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Nellie W. Neal Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - co - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 36 JULY, 1949 No. 7 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES For Those Who Come After Anna Prince Redd 435 A Tribute to the Pioneer Mother 'Nellie Ward Neal Appointed to the Relief Society General Board The Land of the High Uintahs Lucy Fryer Vance 438 Roxey Robson Heslop 439 Olive W. Burt 441 Suggestions for a Work Meeting Luncheon Christine Eaton 470 FICTION The Jumpher Family: Mama and Papa Deone R. Sutherland 447 Joanna—Chapter 7 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago Margery S. Stewart 458 Woman's Sphere Editorial: The New Frontier 452 Ramona W. Cannon 453 Vesta P. Crawford 454 From Near and Far FEATURES FOR THE HOME Table Salting: and Flower Arrangements: Es Louisa Allen Thomas Makes a Pioneer Quilt Let's Vary the Picnic Menu Make Use of the Rocks —_ Salads of Infinite Variety.............. LESSONS AND PREVIEWS Table Settings for the Canyon.... Mary Grant Judd Rachel K. Laurgaard 464 _Ezra J. Poulsen 466 SenlecececetenenealilSara Mills 468 47). 472 leDon B. Colton 474 478 eer Social cience: Latter-day Saint Political Thought, Preview...... Briant Jacobs 484 490 The Declaration of Belief' Optional Lesson in Lieu President Joseph F. Smith of Social Science: The First Presidencies, Preview. Homer Durham 49] 495 T. Edgar Lyon 497 Ruth H. Chadwick 433 "Mood of _ a PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 83-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Birthday Greetings to Sister Augusta Winters Grant...... Bo THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 36, NO. 7 7 JULY 1949 Pioneer Mother Ruth H. Chadwick She held him close to nestle near her breast, And tried to hush each fitful baby moan; Tenderly, her aching arms caressed The thin, frail body, hot against her own. Into the blackened strangeness of the night, Beyond the covered wagons' friendly sphere, She gazed as lurking shadows grew in might To feed her soul's anxiety and fear. Her sleepless eyes then sought the stars above, And silent words made up her anguished prayer: "Oh, Father, spare this dear one that I love, And make me strong to carry my full share." She held him close, and from her stalwart soul Flowed living faith that blessed and made him whole. The Cover: "Pioneer Women at the Gate," Photograph by Willard Luce. pel Sa Warren Lee UTAH STATE CAPITOL For Those Who Come After Anna Prince Redd Day in Utah... From hamlet cracked in their bark and the sound to city, throngs line the was like ice popping on the Virgin thoroughfares. It is a holiday, a gala River. The dampness penetrated day! One hundred and two years ¢very cranny of house and body. Have passed since that first small Cattle died on the range and corral band of men and three women enstock could stand only by leaning tered the Valley of the Great Salt against inadequate shelters and Lake, One hundred and two years fences. The people, reduced to of almost unbelievable progress! Smutty flour for their coarse bread, Thousands stand sweltering in the with little milk or fruit, became heat, waiting for the commemoratsnert like the half-frozen animals. Ing parade, heads bared to the flag But with the first intimation of and acutely conscious of the freespring the natural resilience of the doms for which it stands. Pretense pioneers called forth new courage, and folly are lost, for the moment, 4S surely as the warming of the sun in reverence. Eyes are alight with called forth new grass. And, because pride and the spatk of renewed horses were too poor for travel, a ideals. 'The throat tightens as the pioneer boy began a thirty-five-mile parade, a colorful and symbolic pag: walk to the town where his sweeteant, moves down the street, hisheart lived. The dawn was still raw torically depicting the scenes and with cold, but the air was freighted achievements of the past. And we With the scent of coming buds and of the present generation can but thawing ground. It was a good stand and watch—and measure the world. It made a man feel strong J ULY Twenty-fourth... Pioneer fog. Every day it grew colder. 'Trees adequacy of the present. And free. Handcarts... I cannot follow Twelve hours later, in the welthem down the street..-- [cannot coming, mild dusk, he swung in see them for my teats. "Come, long strides up the street and to Come, Ye Saints"..-- That song the house of the gitl he loved. To- «s the embodiment of faith and the gether, they welcomed spring. Prayers that brought out people Because of their distance from the here. The cords of restraint all but Endowment House, they were mar snap, for to me it is my own pat ried the next day by the girl's ents singing..- - It is their story I reluctant father and, in a borrowed relive today.--- wagon, drawn by a borrowed team, x ee they began the journey to the town WINTER came early in the year that was to be their new home. The 1857. Almost before the fall boy had exactly a dollar and eightydays were done there was a heavy five cents. The gitl had two dollars frost. And the world seemed enand a half, a chest packed to its veloped in a damp, thick blanket of bulging lid with homespuns, rugs, 4 Page 435 436 meager assortment of cooking utensils and dishes, and a few small packets of sugar, sage, and thyme. And, stowed carefully into the back of the wagon, was a small four-lid cookstove, her dead mother's most prized possession, now the binding link between the old life and the new for the young bride. The joint heritage of both the boy and the girl was an unshaken faith in the goodness of life and their part in it. Two days of creaking, jolting travel and the borrowed team pulled the borrowed wagon into the yard of the borrowed dugout that was to be their first home. The sun had gone down in a blaze of orange light. Strange sounds filled the twilight, sounds that saddened the girl by their unfamiliarity since they were part of the unknown that lay ahead. The boy turned the homemade key in the handmade lock, and they went into the windowless little dugout. And suddenly, because they were together, it became home. "THERE followed days, weeks, and months of hardship and privation—drought, snakes, insects, hunger, fear. Sometimes, even doubt. A son was born, too frail and weak to survive in his rigid surroundings. There was little but faith left, yet it was enough to heal their sorrow and send them in search of a new and better location. The boy, in the new settlement, was assigned his section of land, did his allotted rods of fencing in the company plot, worked and prayed, fought Indians, guarded the fort; dreamed and waited for the good future he knew would be theirs. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 The girl, pressing back fatigue, hunger, fear, and sorrow, kept her faith, too. And she kept her smile and her love for her husband. "T see a little light," she would tell him, "we'll be prosperous some day, I have no doubt; but never more blessed than we are now. We'll have other children—sons and daughters who will be faithful and happy. All that we do now is for them." And the boy agreed. For, by then, they had a home, a garden, milk, and honey. And none of it was borrowed. Surely, God had been good to them. Then came another spring and another little new son. A strong boy, equal to his surroundings, beautiful as their faith. Then, as if to test them, they were called to help colonize in a high, cold climate that was foreign to them and seemingly barren of promise. But neither faltered. The boy left the girl to care for the little new son while he went ahead to prepare a home in the new place. The summer was hot and long. The girl and her baby were stricken with measles. Denied water to cool the fever and with little care by the frightened neighbors, who knew there was little they could do to stop the ravages of any disease, the baby died and the girl was left alone. But she kept her faith and prayed to live, prayed for strength to bear her loneliness, prayed that the runner would find her husband soon and bring him home. And because of her faith, when the boy came, he found her smiling.... Ee ee "Utah, We love thee. Land of FOR THOSE WHO COME AFTER the mountains high, land of the sunny sky".... Yes, Utah, we love thee! The pioneer floats were gone, now, lost in the parade.... High school bands came gaily into view —smartly costumed boys and gitls, playing with all the glad young strength of their hearts, their steps high with hope.... Floats depicting the state's prosperity.... Mining, manufacturing, building.... Agriculture, giant peaches, golden as the sunset shimmering on Great Salt Lake; celery as crisp and fresh as a mountain breeze; rainbows of flowers; floats of children, singing |... The new generations. And because of them, blessed be the old, the pioneer generation. A good heritage for us who pioneer in a new, and equally testing age. What is our stature? KOR OR ACROSS the valley, miles from the scene of the parade, is a little house, set well back in a halfacre lot, surrounded by a hopeful lawn and struggling young shrubs, wild columbine against the foundation; a steppingstone path and a waggly tailed little dog to welcome us. Today's young parents live here, and the place is their own. "T want to see what I. Can do on my own," the boy said. "Do you think you can take it?" "If I can't, what has my education been worth?" she countered. She is young and fair-skinned, enthusiastic as a spring day—and as hospitable. He is not home, but as she takes us through the compact little house, we see him through her eyes—young, ambitious, eager to put his heritage to the test. And such 437 dreams they have, and faith, and ideals; these modern edition pioneers, as courageous as were my 1857 boy and girl! By the work of their hands and their minds, they have managed to preserve the culture and dignity, the courage and foresight of their ancestors. Four years of navy service and college for him, four years of making things do and getting things done, for her. Three rooms built of pumice blocks, plastered by hand just to see if he could, painted by her just to see if she could. Her eyes shine as she shows us where the lintels are placed, for doors to new rooms are already planned and, when the little house begins to get growing pains, out will come a few blocks and there the door will be. With $2,000 saved from his service days, the house was built. From the attic and basement of their parents' homes, came the furnishings. Carefully refinished or slip-covered, these pieces look modern and inviting. And there is a real little cradle, of pioneer vintage from her own and her mother's baby days. Doors, windows, marble mantle and hearth, pressed stone for the kitchen work table tops, are anniversary, birthday, and Christmas gifts from their two families and their many friends. "If I begin to wish there were more such anniversaries," she confided, laughing a little, "I remind myself of all the things the real pioneers didn't have and never even dreamed of having: radiant heat, electric lights, automatic stoves and washing machines, refrigeration, doctors to apply the sciences that have brought children's diseases down to 438 a minimum, and—well, just too many things to enumerate." "Then you have not found it hard, this modern way of pioneering?" we asked.. "Well, it's not easy," she responded with spirit, "but it's gratifying. And, oh, the neighbors and friends are wonderful. Somehow, they all contrive to help. A shrub here, a plant there, a can of paint, seeds for our garden, exchange labor that gives us flour and milk for things we have or can do. Well, it's just the pioneer spirit bursting out all over again." From marble hearth to picture windows; from lovely Wedgewood pieces in the china cupboard to a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 year's supply of shining tins of stored food, there is assurance that dreams can be made to come true. Into this setting the two golden-haired little gitls fit like sunshine, assured of as sensible and happy futures as anyone may have in so variable an age as this.... * eK The parade is gone from our sight, and too soon from our minds, but not, we pray, the things for which it stands. The past is good, not for itself alone, but for the principles of truth, culture, and integrity it has engendered. May those who come after never forget, nor fail to evaluate their heritage. A Tribute to the Pioneer Mother Lucy Fryer Vance A backward glance at burning fires in Nauvoo, a stifled sob, a breaking heart, and the pioneer mother of 1847 faced the great unknown. She was only mortal, too, the same as you and I. Afraid? No! Shall we say she faced it unWithin her breast were pangs of fear for all she might be facing out beyond the dark horizon; the blast of winter's cold; the shimmering waves of heat rising from the arid desert lands; the bands of roving savages which might descend with heathenish yells and leave only smoldering embers to tell the story of what might have been; a dwindling food supply and empty water kegs; pathetic, pleading cries from fevered lips; thoughts of persecution that might follow even to the boundaries of the everlasting hills. Yes, surely thoughts like these came whirling through her tired mind with that last glance at home and all she held most dear. But this I know—these pangs of fear were not for self, but for those precious bits of life entrusted to her care who understood not this Gethsemane; who knew not why the rumble of the wagon wheels and plodding hoofs of oxen were to be their lullaby. Did this pioneer mother think to falter? No, not once! She knew that at the head of that winding caravan, a prophet led the way, and through her tears she smiled and pressed the toilworn hand of him she loved the best. They had a part to play in God's great plan and they would play it well. Together, they would face the great unknown, for love and faith had always found a way. Together, they would play each scene with all the art at their command and, come what may, when the final curtain softly closed, she knew that they would be triumphant, for God was at the helm! Nellie Ward Neal Appointed to the Relief Society General Board Roxey Robson Heslop President, Primary Association, Farr West Stake descendant of stalwart pioneers and one who has striven all her life to uphold their traditions and_ standards, Nellie Ward Neal comes well qualified for her appointment, on May 4, 1949, to the general board of Relief Society. Her new assignment is a fitting climax to her activity in the auxiliary organizations of the Church. She has served efficiently as secretary, class leader, and counselor in the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, as a Sunday School teacher, a Religion Class stake board member, and a counselor in Primary, but her greatest achievement and joy have come in Relief Society service. As a theology class leader, her lessons were well prepared and interestingly presented. The families in her district always welcomed her as a visiting teacher. In February 1939, she was called to be president of Plain City Ward Relief Society, being released in September of that year to become president of North Weber Stake Relief Society. January 18, 1942, at the division of the stake, she was chosen to preside in the new Farr West Stake and has continued in that calling until the present time. In this position, she has been a member of the executive council for the Latter-day Saint girls' program, which included for some time the NELLIE WARD NEAL preparation of the mothers and daughters meetings held in connection with stake quarterly conferences. She was Relief Society representative on the first Ogden Deseret Industries Committee, and vice chairman and later chairman of the Relief Society presidents department of the Northern Utah Region in welfare work. She performed faithfully and competently all the duties devolving upon her. A patriarchal blessing, given by her grandfather, James Ward, which promised that the spirit that led her Page 439 440 forefathers from the land of their nativity would be her constant comanion in her labors, has had a powerful influence in her life. She was born in North Ogden, Weber County, Utah, a daughter of Lorenzo and Mary E. Barker Ward. She and Roosevelt Neal were married June 6, 1928, in the Salt Lake Temple, and established their home in Plain City. He and their nineteen-year-old twin children, Donald and Dorothy, have given wholehearted assistance to Sister Neal in all her Church work. She has always been interested in educational pursuits. She graduated from Weber Academy and Weber Normal College and has taken extension courses from Utah State Agricultural College, the University of Utah, and Brigham Young University. She taught school in Ogden and Weber County. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 Her bits of verse have been sent to many friends for Christmas, birthdays, in times of discouragement and sorrow, or as a kindly thought of remembrance for some service rendered. They have also added beauty and inspiration to many programs. Thoughtfulness, friendliness, a keen sense of humor, sincerity, humility, devotion to duty, love of God and all his creations, and a fervent testimony of the gospel are virtues which qualify her for the position of responsibility to which she has been called. Hosts of friends are saying, "Congratulations, Nellie. We love you. Thanks for your help along the way. You have inspired us with your faith and diligence. May our Heavenly Father grant you his choicest blessings in your new appointment." a Little Sure Feet Iris W. Schow Through the long' days, over hillock and flat, Little feet measured the length of the Platte; "Stepped off" the rising slopes, through the coarse grass; Bruised by the jutting rocks, gained the South Pass; Over the steepest ways, pressed right along; Youth put wings to their tread; trust kept them strong. Now, tough steel tools, guided by a trained hand, Measure the breadth of our civilized land; But the survey which was real and complete Was made, step by step, with little sure feet. Embryo C. Cameron Johns Thoughts are worlds About to start, But words stay chiseled On the heart. Mood of Music Ruth Harwood Were I to sing to you today The music of my mood, The essence of my song would be A psalm of gratitude. The Land of the High Uintahs Olive W. Burt HE Uintah Basin in Utah, with its surrounding country, is a magnificent, unspoiled area, parts of which remain almost as they were when the Mormon pioneers came into the Great Basin. Or you can go pack further, carried by the remnants of old forts, inscriptions scrawled upon sheer canyon walls, names of mountains and fivers, to the wild, free days of the Mountain Men, or on back to the days of ancient Indian tribes whose matk is faint but unmistakable—or even go pack to the day of the dinosaur. Truly, the flavor of age is nowhere else so pervasive and compelling as it is in the northeastern part of the State. The Uintah Basin is bounded on the north by the Uintah Mountains, one of the few important east-west mountain ranges in the country. It is a beautiful range, with the highest peaks in the State rising majestically into the unsullied sky. They look peaceful, as if nothing coul disturb them, but they have known disaster. They have felt the great heaving upthrust that tilted them high above their old testing place; they have felt the clawing fingers of glaciers, scraping ugly gashes across their face and breast. But they have waited quietly, until the scars were healed with pine and spruce, with flower-enameled grass, and shrubs sweet with wild fruit. Above the 125-mile-long chain of lesser slopes, rises King's Peak, highest point in the State; with Wilson, Hayden, Marsh, and Leidy peaks and Mount Lovenia, all rising more than 12,000 feet. Below their snowy summits are hundreds of jewel-like, glacial lakes, fed by sparkling moun tain streams, and teeming with trout and mackerel: Mirror, Grandaddy, Moon, Island, Pyramid, Green, to name only a few of the best known. While an automobile road has been built into this alpine region as far as Mirror Lake, the area lS really unspoiled and will remain so, as it has been set aside by the Federal Government as 4 permanent "primitive area." In the most frequented spots, such as Mirror Lake, the gateway to the Grandaddy reg; ion, Moon Lake, and Defas Park, accommodations for the less hardy are available—cabins, stores, lodging, guides, horses, and boats. But to get the real "feel" of the place, one has to pack in, sleep under the stars, eat campfire meals, in short, take the region for what it is—a throwback to days when what is recreation today was hard living. S is to be expected, the rivers, born of the melting snows in these peaks, are not insignificant streams: the Bear, Provo, and Weber, and the Duchesne that feeds the mighty Green, stself a tributary of the Colorado. These rivers, making their inevitable way to the sea, have carved channels as varied as the waters themselves, from the bustling, trout-filled Provo and Weber to the terrific Green, with its Red Canyon gorge and Hideout Canyon more Page 441 442 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 4 Ps f; Olive W. Burt 4 i a MIRROR LAKE IN THE HIGH UINTAHS than i500 feet deep, channeled through the rock, and Ladore Canyon, in ages past the lush feeding ground of giant reptiles. The heavily timbered slopes teem with game, and the marshes are alive with beaver, muskrat, and mink. It was the abundance of game that made the region a bountiful hunting ground for the Utes who claimed the area, and for the Shoshones who strayed that way, as well as for Priddy Meeks and his son-in-law during the famine times in the tiny, new THE LAND OF THE HIGH UINTAHS Mormon settlements further west. But it was the endless reserve of rich, furbearing animals that brought the first white men to live in the region. 'A few miles west of the ColoradoUtah border, on highway 4° is a marker honoring the "first white men in Utah," Fathers Escalante and Dominguez. Father Escalante has left a rather detailed record of his visit to this area, but it was an exploratory trip, resulting only in calling attention to the region. The first white people actually to live in the area were the trappers and traders—that romantic, freeto outfit and supply them. These men, who made a business of 10- mance, left their imprint on this rich region, and the first year-long dwelling for white men within the territory that is now Utah was built by a trader. FARLY in the 1800's, any gentleman with sartorial aspirations had to have a beaver hat or two. The Hudson's Bay Company, exercising a protected monopoly of the fur trade in the North, was waxing greedy with wealth, when the Americans along the Mississippi, particularly in commercial St. Louis, began to cast envious eyes upon the fur business. General William H. Ashley and his associates tured their backs on the Missouri River to follow the Platte westward, crossed the Rockand came into the virgin land Utah place names, but here can be mentioned 443 only those that came into the Uintah region. Ashley "invented" a new system of collecting the peltries from his trappers and distributing supplies—a system called the rendezvous. At a. Designated time each sumand independent with peltries spot. The heavily laden pack train of the company. 'There would be a week of high living, during which the peltries would be sold, and new Supplies purchased. At the end of the week, the trappers would return to their streams an lakes, with nothing but theit kit for the coming season, and the pack train would return to St. Louis, even more heavily laden (but with peltries ) and with all the money it carried out to pay for the furs, returning with them as payment for goods. The first of all rendezvous was held on Henry's Fork of the Green River, on one side or the other of the Utah-Wyoming boundary line, in the year 1825. In following years the rendezvous was set in other lush fur regions, but the trappers from the high Uintahs always made their way to the meeting place, loaded with rich peltnies. In 1831 Antoine Robidoux came into the Basin to establish Fort Uintah on the Duchesne river. With him, it is supposed, was one Denis ulien, who carved his name and the date in five different places on the walls of the canyons, to establish himself as the champion inscription writer of this period. This post was destroyed by Indians in 1844. In 1837, Robidoux evidently built Courtesy, Utah State Historical Society RENDEZVOUS OF FUR TRADERS AND TRAPPERS another post, near the place where the White and the Duchesne Rivers enter the Green from opposite sides. Charles Kelly, Utah historian, has found remnants of such a fort and inscriptions of 1837 of both Robidoux's and Julien's names. After the destruction of Fort Uintah, the area was left pretty much to the Utes and the trappers who were too "sot" in their way of life to change, though Captain John C. Fremont and his men made a couple of trips through the area, with varying reports as to what they found here. Once or twice companies of "Forty-Niners" or other transcontinental journeyers would venture down from the Oregon Trail and cross the Uintah Basin, but these excursions were generally not very happy ones and did little for the country. In 1851, soon after Utah was made a territory, with a good deal larger RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 area than it covers today, the Uintah Basin was incorporated in Green River County (now in Wyoming). It remained so until 1862, when county boundaries were changed, and changed again and again, all into the present boundaries of Wasatch, Duchesne, and Uintah, with Daggett not established until 1917. Brigham Young, as Governor of the new Territory, was also Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and he created the Uintah Agency. It had a rather sketchy existence, and on August 25, 1861, Daniel H. Wells announced a list of names of men who had been called to go into the Uintah Basin and establish a settlement there. Brgham Young, explaining his action, said, "Now I want a settlement there and I wish to pick the company. The Gentiles will take possession of that valley if we do not, and I do not wish them to have it." ' THE LAND OF THE HIGH UINTAHS HE advance group set out early in September, but soon returned, reporting that the land was good for nothing "but as a hunting ground for Indians and to hold the world together." The plan for a Mormon settlement there was held in abeyance for a time, but just then Pressdent Lincoln set apart all the fertile valley of the Basin as an Indian reservation, closed to white occupancy. President Young was quite upset to find his prediction of a few weeks earlier, fulfilled in this mannet. The Indians in the Basin were generally friendly to the whites, pat ticularly to the Mormons, but further east, in Colorado, there were a number of uprisings and massacres, and so, in 1887, three companies of soldiers were ordered to leave Fort From a painting by Ramsey 445 Fred Steele in Wyoming and proceed down to the Uintah Basin, there to establish a fort for the putpose of keeping the Indians in hand. The soldiers came into the Basin from the north, and after a good deal of hardship due to their isolation from supplies, they finally built Fort Duchesne. Most of the buildings of the original fort have disappeared, but the community is still there, and is at present the headquarters of the Indian Agency. Meantime, a few Mormon families were seeking homesteads on the less choice ground available to them. In 1876, the Robert H. Snyder family moved into Ashley Valley and for ten months Mrs. Snyder was the only white woman in the valley. In 1877, John Fairchild took his famPAINTER'S CONCEPTION OF PREHISTORIC ANIMALS OF THE UINTAH BASIN 446 ily in. Children began to be born there, and to die—and the Ashley Valley was a part—though an isolated one—of the general development of the Territory. In the winter of 1877-78 the first school was opened, and in 1879 new settlers poured in. The following winter was one of those cruel tests that seem to have followed the Latter-day Saint settlers into every new community, as if trying out their mettle before giving them peace to go ahead. This winter the only contact the little settlement had with the outside world was through mail carried on snowshoes by Peter Dillman. Peter Dillman is a name that appears everywhere in the history of the Basin—postmaster, school teacher, interpreter, guide, friend, neighbor. Keeping Dillman company in his activities were the Hatches, George Albert Glines, the Snyders, and others whose names still ring through the Basin. In 1878, Alma James Johnston built a cabin for his wife—not in the valley as everyone else had done, but up on the "bench" northwest of the settlement of Ashley. This was the first house on the present site of Vernal. In the seventy years since then, this community, the county seat of Uintah County, has grown slowly but steadily, with farming and livestock—and lately the oil fields to the south—to aid its prosperity. Westward in the Basin other settlements—Roosevelt, Duchesne, and Myton, grew up along the highway that crossed the Basin from east to west. There is no railroad into the area, even yet. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 ODAY, the Uintah Basin claims the proud title of "Bread Basket of the State." It also boasts the only important veins of gilsonite in the United States. No longer inarticulate and isolated, it makes its bid for a place in the sun through co-operation and willing effort. The white citizens and their Indian brothers have joined hands in a sort of mutual admiration society, which has its climax each year in the Uintah Basin Industrial Convention. At _ this three-day gathering, both races display their crops and stock, their handiwork and crafts, their skill on foot and on horseback, their traditions and culture. All this has been written, and yet not a word has been said about the national monument up in the very northeast corner of the Basin—an area so unique that it draws the scholarly and the curious from all parts of the country. This is the Dinosaur Monument — the graveyard of the giant reptiles, where are found hundreds of skeletons of the prehistoric monsters that once roamed this high land. It is only a seven-mile trip from Jensen, on U. S. Highway 4o, to this awe-inspiring quarry, where, in indisputable stone, the past becomes believable and real. A trip into this magnificent area of lofty peaks and golden desert; of quiet farms and mountains split into chasms; of thrifty white men and ambitious Indians—a land of contradictions and contrasts—will reward you with the "feel" of the past and the pulse of the present. The Jumpher F amily Deone R. Sutherland Vip Mama T all started to happen when my sister Randy, whom my brother Richard calls "Rancid," heard about Papa's new job first, and the intended move. We were out in the back yard throwing the trash that wouldn't go into our cans over into the cans in Anderson's back yard, since they weren't home. It's beCause we have so many children that we are always overflowing, Mama says. "Gee, Rancid," said Richard, handling a big clinker like a handy club, should he need one, "gee, Rancid," repeated Richard, waving his clinker, "what did Mama Say?" "She said, 'Under no condition, under no condition, could we al] movel'" Randy lifted her hand. "Mama said, 'It's in the middle of winter, too. And _ the children, Hugh. What about the children?' " "Just tell it your way, not like ama," instructed Martha Jane. "Doesn't she put on?" asked Richard. "Rancid Barnharp!" "Bernhardt," | corrected. "Anyway, she smells," said Richard. Randy went into the house. We went on dumping stuff and think. Ing about what was going to happen to all of us. "T don't want to move," said Martha Jane, and her glasses slid off the end of her nose, [ picked them up, wiped off the snow, and straightened them. Richard handed me a Piece of string, and we tied them and Papa around her ears. We didn't say anything. When it got too cold to stand still any longer, we walked around the house, making a trail in the snow, stood under the cherry tree in the back yard, kicked at the stunted pine, and then picked up Martin and went in. Mama called Grandma on the phone and told her, but we weren't supposed to know yet. Then Grandma came to see Mama. "You can't possibly give up your lovely home," declared Grandma. "What are you thinking of to make a move with all these children? Besides, what would I do without my only baby in the same city?" Grandma blew her nose on one of the long white lace handkerchiefs she always carries. "You were never very strong, Kate. Now, you take a stand. Hugh's always had his way. Be firm. Stay here without him, if necessary. Oh, he's important enough to make other arrangements if he wants to, Oh, my poor, beautiful child," and she blew her nose again. Randy told us all about what Grandma said and, when Grandma went, she patted Mama on the shoulder, chucked Martin under the chin, but she never ever took him to hold, and drove away in her own car, "Mama's Mama is very different from Mama, most of the time," said Richard. We didn't hear any more about Page 447 Mama into the kitchen, also. We didn't say anything. We I can't; you'll have to be the one tried not to think that Papa to tell them," Said Mama, "You're wouldn't even be here for his birththe one that's breaking, P Our day. We always had a birthday Party home. You'te the one that's 80ing for each of us, and Papa's was the n Leave my mother—my Patents? I've sobe and then not be able to, They lived in this town 'aij my life," do that in all the books," wailed Mama. "What does Mama do?" | asked. "But you're Married to me," said "She just Packs with her lips set Papa. "We make the Ome tothe way she looks when she washes gether—" ama and Papa looked the outside of the windows and we at each other. They had Come back wash the Inside, and Our side isn't into the dining 'oom. They both Clean enough. I expect She and Papa looked tired and sad. Mama had red are too old to be romantic," and her eyes looked stubborn PAPA left in the afternoon. We "Well," "Pa sighed, "you'd bet. All went down to the station to ter tell them then." see him off We tried to pretend it was —— Should have said goodbye to Ing we hadn't heard about before. The children at home," said Papa Oes Papa ~~ 'o sell the holding Martin away from him. Ndy, 'eS We stood looking at him and A him," said Mama. Mama. "Well, Kate," he said. The 'No, we could rent it for a year {rain made a noise and the porters Or so, and then without a doubt hurried the people. We'd be back. Just as soon as Pye " had the Practica] experience," Well, Kate, wbeated Papa, ere not going," Mama tie. Don t go, begged Martha Jane. Cided. "The children ang | are Wipe your nse Papa said to staying here Can you imagine g Martha Jane absent-mindedly, He You can go alone, since you insist. "You're stubbom," saig Mama, THE JUMPHER FAMILY train started up and Papa jumped on the step. "We'll mail you your birthday presents," called Martha Jane, who is very practical, That only made Papa look more lonely, hanging on the step, and then the train was gone, and Mama Was crying into Martin's bib we'd forgotten to take off him, while Martin picked up the hairpins very carefully out of Mama's hair. When we got home the house seemed very empty. Martha Jane dropped her glasses out of one of Our second story windows, and Randy came down with the hives. We still had two weeks before Papa's birthday, but now we didn't want to buy anything, we didn't want to have to mail our presents to him. "Of course we'll mail him his Presents and have a special dinner," said Mother. "We'll celebrate your father's birthday even if he is away on business." "Richard went with Mama to help her Pick out our Presents, and Randy and I and Mar. Tha Jane stayed home and waited. Randy got out Papa's letters and read them. They sounded cheerful in a way. "That's just to cover up," said Randy. She lay on Mama's bed eating the chocolate chips that Mama was going to make chocolate chip cookies with, "Are they good for your hives?" I asked. "I miss him, too." "If he were here," said Randy, "I would even let him see me in the music festival at school, if I got Over my hives in time. I'm a danc. Er, you know." "Yes," I agreed. ("She isn't really," Richard had told me. "She just 449 waves her arms and sort of wiggles, like this. She looks a mess." ) "Weren't you going to let Papa 0?" > "Oh, no," said Randy. "It's tertible to let your parents go just to be proud of you. Lesley and [| think it's common. But | would even let him go if he were here." Randy lay on her stomach. "T don't €ven want to read any more." I wiped Mama's cold cream off Mattin's face and picked up her powder box. It had been a long time since we had heard Martha Jane. I went to find her. E_ wrapped Papa's presents on Friday night. Martin tried to eat the blue and silver wrapping string, but Mama Stopped him. En he crumpled the tissue paper in his hands and looked very surprised. We gave him a ruined piece to play with. "Tf Papa were here," said Richard, "we could have a good party." "Who'll get to choose the menu for his birthday dinner now he isn't here?" asked Randy. "T will," said Mama, She pasted the package for Papa and picked up Martin, who was fussing. He dropped the silver string across her dark hair, "There," she said. "Now won't Daddy like a package this size!" "I guess so," said Richard. "How far away is Papa?" asked Martha Jane. "Not very far, dear." "He says he has a nice apartment," Randy reminded us, "that is, if we wanted to come on for awhile," 450 "You couldn't go anyway, with your hives," said Richard. "They're not catching," said Randy. "It would be awful not to be really where he is for his birthday, wouldn't it?" "Are we going to Papa?" asked Martha Jane. "Are we?" asked Richard. "Are we?" I asked. "We are," said Mama. "Oh, yes, we are," and she began to cry a little and Martin dropped another piece of silver string across her hair. "We'll go by train," said Mama. "We'll get there by his birthday." "W'ell surprise him," said Richard. "Well, not exactly," said Mama. "We'll wire. We want some place to stay." "What about _ this asked. "Tll have your grandfather help me rent it. Oh, my!" Mama smiled at us. "You'll be good on the train, won't you? All of you will help?" "Oh, yes," we said. Grandma and Grandpa came down to the train to see us off. "Well, Kate, you've done some foolish things, but I guess this is the most foolish," said Grandma. "Never mind," said Grandpa. "All those children," said Grandma. "I told you not to marry Hugh. I told you to have a small family. I told you not to let Hugh tear you away. Remember, I warned you against chasing after him. No pride—" "Never mind," said Grandpa, lifting Martha Jane up the step. "T warned you, Kate," said Grandma. Mama jumped up the step house?" I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 and took Martin from Grandpa. She kissed Grandma. "Tm sorry to be leaving you," she said. "I'm sorry to be going away for awhile," but her face looked all smiley. And we waved. Only a day and a night and a morning and we would be with Papa. The train began to move. We went in and sat in our seats. Randy had Mama's old Japanese fan which she held open across her face with just her eyes peering out. She was sensitive about having the hives. Martha Jane carried her dolls. Richard and I put Martin between us. We were really going somewhere. We were travelers. We felt very cosmopolitan. Randy said something behind her fan. We leaned forward, but her voice came muffled and she was being dignified. It didn't matter. We'd soon be with Papa and our family would all be together again. And for Papa's birthday! HE people on the train seemed very nice. One lady leaned forward and tickled Martin. "Ooooo is sooo cute," she said. After awhile she lifted him up over the back of the seat. "Oooo sit with me," she said. Martin reached up and pulled her hat down across her face. "Get the baby," said Mama to Richard. But just then Martin lost all the popcorn Richard and I had fed him in the station to keep him good. He lost it on the lady. "Oh!" said the lady. "Oh, dear," said Mama, and she went and got Martin. The lady went down the aisle to the rest room. When she came back, she kept looking very carefully out of the window. THE JUMPHER FAMILY We went in to lunch. Randy sat across from me. Everybody watched her eat while holding the fan. It got to be quite fascinating. Not once did she lower it. "What shall we have for dessert?" asked Mama. "Ischree—" said Randy. "What?" "She said ice cream," said Richard, staring at Randy. He had grown quite respectful toward Randy and her fan, She did look different with it. "Qh, look," cried Martha Jane. "Ts snowing!" Everybody in the car looked out of the windows. It had begun to snow. We could no longer see the fields we were passing, and the little towns blurred in the snowstorm as we went through them. "Tt won't be long," said Mama. "Now, we'll go back, and I'll tell you lots of stories. And then it will be night, and tomorrow we'll see your father." "But first we get to sleep in a box," said Martha Jane, sliding down off her chair. We went back to our car. Martha Jane hopped on one foot all the way. Richard bet me that she'd never make it. Randy held her fan and walked behind us. I knew she was pretending she didn't know us. She did that lots of times when we were downtown. "Walk up with us," Papa or Mama would say, but Randy would lag and look away and pretend she didn't belong to all of us. "Tt's her age," Mama would whisper to Papa. Randy would frown and try to pull her features so that she didn't resemble us. That would make peo- 451 ple stare at her also. Like now with the fan on the train. We went back to our seats. "Now maybe Martin will quit chewing the upholstery," Richard said. "Now that he has eaten." Mama held him on her lap, and he poked at her eyes and then tried to chew her buttons. She held him and let him see the snow through the window. "Snow," said Mama. "Snooooo!" said Martin. "Fe can talk," said Mama. "Did ou hear, he can talk?" "Snoooo!" repeated Martin; then he laughed. "We'll tell Papa," said Randy. "Won't Papa be pleased?" said Richard. "Snoooo!" said Martin. And he kept saying it all afternoon and that evening. And when he woke up the next morning he said it. "I like sleeping in a box," said Martha Jane. "I want to always—" "Tvs too exciting now to read," said Randy. "We'll soon be there." "Say snow, Martin," said Mama. "Snoooo!" said Martin. WE got ready to get off the train. This was a big city we were coming to. The buildings stretched tall and white and dark. Martha Jane stood up and put her hand on Mama's knee. I would have, too, but I was almost too old. Then we had to get ready awfully fast, for there we were and there was Papa coming, running down the platform under the long, low roofs to meet us. He grabbed Mama and then us, and we stood on the platform and it was very cold, but that didn't matter. (Continued on page 462) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1889 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN oF ALL Nations" FAULT FINDING: There is nothing that destroys the happiness of a home, so quickly and completely as fault finding. It is an enemy of peace and contentment. Persons who indulge in this habit of finding fault at home with those they love the best, forget that home is the place to make happiness, and to make this earth an Eden. One fault finding person in a family can make a home so miserable, that its members are glad to go abroad to the neighbors to seek that comfort which is denied them by their own fireside.-—M. E. T. CLARA BARTON is as active as ever. Her humane work was carried on in Paris after the fall of the Commune. When the Mississippi overflowed its banks in 1884 she appeared, laden with relief. Her work in America, additional to what has been mentioned, has relieved the sufferers of the Ohio floods, Michigan fires, Charleston earthquake, Texas drouth, Mount Vernon tornado, and now the awful calamity at Johnstown. She is president of the American Red Cross Society. The motto of the American branch is: "Relief in war, famine, pestilence, and other national calamities." NOTICE: Dr. Hughes' Training School for Nurses will open its Second Term October 15, 1889, at her residence on First West Street. The proposed summer term will be postponed on account of the heat. Students desiring to enter should apply as early as possible as the usual number of the class is now nearly complete. MEMORY OF THE SEA In the midnight hour, a memory Swept like music o'er my soul As I stood in silent reverie, Where the surging billows roll;— Minor music, sad and sorrowing, Full of trembling, full of tears, Ever like the ocean's murmuring, Bringing back the tide of years. Telling of the long forgotten In the cycles of the past, Of the nations crushed and broken In the world's great holocaust. —E. B. W. PLEASANT GROVE: Special meeting at the meeting house May 20, 1889, President E. Brown presiding. President John:— "There are many subjects we could speak upon. We live in an important time, and it requires us to be prayerful and diligent continually, that we may escape the great calamities that will come upon the inhabitants of the earth. The ladies' journal, the Exponent, is not supported by us as it should be. This is a valuable paper and the price has been reduced to $1.00 per year." TIME OF CHANGES: Many practical lessons of faith and repentance have been taught this people in their journeyings, wanderings, and times of severe trial, and they assuredly know that there is an outstretched arm ever ready to protect and defend them if they put their trust in Him, and not in the arm of flesh. This day we are now living in, is spoken of as the trying time, the testing of the integrity of the Saints. Page 452 Y: f A " NG OLIVE WOOLLEY BURT, wellknown Utah writer, and _ frequent contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has received word from Bobbs-Merrill Company, her publishers, that her interesting and instructive book for children, Luther Burbank, Boy Wizard, has been translated into Japanese and Getman and is being distributed in these countries. 'The same company is bringing out her book Prince of the Ranch, the Story of a Collie, in August. The locale is the Thousand Peaks ranch of Mrs. Adele Cannon Howells (President of the Primary Association) on the upper Weber River, Utah. IN spite of being blind since infancy, Almeda Adams, eightythree years old, of Cleveland, Ohio, has conducted choirs, taught music, written operettas, books, and magazine articles, and has kept house for herself, living alone. In countless ways she has helped the underprivileged. She says that to help others, "No one needs eyesight, just insight." Soviet women are still forbidden to leave Russia to live in other countries with their foreign husbands, the excuse being that they would be "exploited as kitchen slaves." Who is supposed to do the cS) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon housework in a communistic s0- ciety? EWISH women are doing a splendid work of regeneration among their young girls in foreign countries, by establishing homes where vatious types of training are afforded and subsequent employment is found for them. The homes provide qa democratic atmosphere and an interesting social life. The entrants are selected by committees of women doctors, psychiatrists, business women, and social workers. Many of the gitls were in wartime concentration Camps. FuLIZABETH CANNON PORTER McCRIMMON, formerly of Salt Lake City, now of Los Angeles, was honored guest at a luncheon of the Circulo Hispano-Americano in San Francisco, during Pan-American Week. Mrs. McCrimmon is the author of Cortez the Conqueror, and after the luncheon, her book was reviewed by a well-known critic, and highly praised by the president of the club. [N Denning, Arkansas, a slate of all women defeated an all-male ticket at the municipal election in April. For seven years this small town has elected all women officials. Page 453 VOL. 36 Q-> EDITORIAL c~9 JULY 1949 She Vlew Frontier MORE than a hundred years have passed since the vanguard of the Latter-day Saints first entered the wide and lonely valley between the Wasatch Mountains and the Salt Sea. They were pioneers to a land of promise and theirs was the task of subduing the arid land and of building edifices of faith and courage and erecting and sustaining the more lofty temples of the spirit. Our forefathers on that long journey to Zion were accustomed to sorrow and disappointment. 'Their campfire thoughts and their hopes and dreams along the trail were a weaving of grief for those whom they had left behind and a surge of hopeful beckoning into the unknown land. Their old homes had disappeared forever on the eastern horizon and they looked toward the West as pilgrims seeking "the ramparts of the rocks" for their protec: tion. President Brigham Young, €xpressed his thoughts of the valleys in prophetic words: God will temper the climate, and we shall build a city and a temple to the Most High God in this place. We will extend our settlements to the east and west, to the north and to the south, and we will build towns and cities by the hundreds, and thousands of the saints will gather in from the nations of the earth. This will become the great highway of the nations. Much of the conquest of the land has been completed, in the home Page 454 valleys and even in the far-off places. There are few unknown regions to beckon the pioneers of today. Our generation faces a new frontier that requires an even more elusive accomplishment. To us and to our children have been given the task and the duty of retaining in its strength and purity the gospel heritage which our forefathers cherished through tribulation. And it is our further responsibility to use our time and our energy, the allotted span of our lives, to help in the great work of directing the minds of men and women towards the rich spiritual life which is gained through brotherhood, through being keepers of not only our own eternal destiny, but through being also of service in the spreading of the message of Jesus, which must be exemplified at home and carried to the far frontiers. It is, perhaps, an easy and an accurate accomplishment to measure that yield of grain which has been secured from the desert, but who is there among us capable of measuring the harvest that may come from a spiritual planting? These seeds develop less certainly and may require a greater length of time for their maturing. And we who seek a new frontier must go forward with great courage and with the inspired devotion of the true pioneer who sees not only the near goal, but the long road that reaches beyond this world. V. P. C. AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT (Photograph taken on a recent birthday) Birthday Greetings to Sister Augusta Winters Grant Age Ninety-Three, July 7th gracious and lovely woman, rich in memories, and still interested in the affairs of her family, her community, and her Church, Sister Augusta Winters Grant, widow of President Heber J. Grant, finds much pleasure and contentment in the sunset time of her life. Comfortable and happy in her pleasant home high above City Creek Canyon and Memory Grove, Salt Lake City, Sister Grant often sits at her window looking out upon the valley and the gleaming lake, thinking, perhaps, of the part she and her family have played in the development and growth of the city and Church. Sister Augusta, as she is lovingly called, is a precious link to the past, for she was so much a part of her husband's life that she still seems to be inseparably joined to him in the affections of Church people. She has many friends and a large family who make her days bright with remembrances, telephone calls, and visits. Relief Society women throughout the Church wish her a happy birthday and many days of contentment among the people she loves. Page 455 Sable Settings and CHower Arrangements Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board [This is the fourth in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. In the coming months Sister Judd will present other suggestions suitable to particular seasons.—Ed.] Sable Settings for the Canyon E love to go into our canW yons—not only because they are so beautiful, but because of the complete change from our ordinary surroundings which the scenery gives. Just as your guests enjoy wearing casual clothes for your canyon party, so they will welcome original ideas in your table settings to enhance the satisfying food which robust canyon appetites call for. So this month I want to talk about table settings suitable for out-of-door picnics, or to be used in canyon and country homes. It is in our family log cabin at Brighton in Big Cottonwood Canyon, Utah, that most of my activities have centered, so I am asking you to pardon me if I become a bit personal. One affair that I shall never forget, because of the complications preceding the dinner, took place at the M. I. A. Home at Brighton. I had planned a pioneer theme since the date was near July Twenty-fourth. When I arrived to set the long table in the dining room, I found, to my consternation, that a meeting of the general boards of the Y. W. And Y. M. M. I. A. Was in_ progress there and would continue for some time. What to do? It was suggested Page 456 that there were some window shutters stacked away for the winter. Could we improvise a table by placing these shutters on wooden sawhorses? We did! I tried to use wrapping paper in place of a cloth, but the shutters were so wide that, even by using two strips of paper the length of the table, there was a gap of about seven inches in the center. Fortunately, I had planned to decorate with covered wagons, miniature bonfires, and pioneer dolls. I quickly ran outside, shoveled up some loamy soil, generously sprinkled with dry pine needles, and made a realistic road down the center of the table. The covered wagons and the bonfires looked quite at home. These latter were made by placing dry twigs in the form of a tepee with bits of orange and yellow cellophane tucked under the twigs to simulate fire. A stick of burning incense placed in the top of the twigs made a spiral of smoke. Place cards were bits of sagebrush tied with calico bows. An idea which I have used over and over, varying the central theme according to my mood, is to make an out-of-door scene for the center of the dinner table in the cabin at Brighton. The base is nothing more nor less than a large square of gal- TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS vanized iron salvaged from an ancient washing machine. (The machine, long since useless for its original purpose, makes an excellent coal bin.) It has been such fun when on a trp, to pick up some quaint little object for our canyon table setting. From Yellowstone Park came several little incense burners in the form of log cabins and a tiny bear to stand under a miniature pine tree. Ever so small Indian baskets and pieces of pottery were found in Mexico. There are even some little rubber donkeys, with natives astride, from faraway Haiti. Some of my most prized possessions have come from the "five and ten." Here I found metal sets of cowboys and Indians and some very realistic bits of tustic fence to arrange as I choose. From Bethel, Maine, the home of my maternal pioneer ancestors, came some little birch canoes to float on our make-believe lake. HE lake is made of a piece of broken mirror with plaster of Paris, painted tan, encircling it. The entire piece of metal that we use on the table is covered with green moss which we gather a short time before the guests arrive so that it will keep 457 fresh and moist. There are always a few tiny wild flowers available, such as buttercups and forget-me-nots, with which to dot the moss. A few colorful rocks, bits of bark, and treelike twigs complete the setting for whatever figures we decide to use. Wild flowers always make a lovely canyon centerpiece. I especially love a patriotic combination of red Indian paintbrush, white columbines, and bluebells, and they come as if ordered just right for the month of July. But sometimes it happens to be just between seasons. This will give your imagination a chance for free play. The oddest idea I ever used was one summer when it rained overly much, with the result that flowers were scarce. There were, however, quantities of toadstools and mushrooms, with their umbrella-shaped caps delicately tinted in mauves, creams, and rose colors. These, with moss and rocks, made an unusual and really beautiful table. I remember particularly the huge fungus which measured a good ten inches across and held lighted tapers. Next month I shall talk about "glamour weeds." -—< Sireworks Christie Lund Coles Swiftly I lift my eyes To catch their loveliness, Like sprays of sequins On the night's blue dress, Like golden trumpets, Music, visible; Like shattered rainbows, Jeweled, beautiful. I watch them and my heart Lifts upward now to ache, Hearing the sputtering sound As new ones rise and break, And fall upon the night In such brief finery That ancient stars are dimmed Before their sorcery. Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 7 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to support and care for. Courageously, she takes inventory of her resources—a home, poorly furnished and not paid for, and $1.19 in cash. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans for sale. Another neighbor, Abigail Smith, offers to help with ideas and_ transportation. From a slow and unpromising beginning, they build a profitable business. Joanna decides that she must have a better home for her children. A salesman, Kent Taylor, shows her a house on a hill, which Joanna cannot afford to buy. Unexpectedly, however, she is offered $5,000 for her recipe for Boston-baked beans. ENT Taylor came when the man had gone. He sat on the edge of the kitchen table and filched cookies from the growing pile before him. "It's incredible, Joanna." But he seemed not too much surprised. Joanna, taking more cookies from the oven, straightened and stared at him. "Kent Taylor! You had something to do with this." The afternoon sun __ poured through the window and burned on his bright hair. "Strangest thing.... I'm to do an article for the Post about the William Davidson Company." Joanna came to the table and leaned on it. "You told them about me... About my Boston-baked?" His hazel eyes mocked her. "Come to think of it, believe I did. Angry?" "Oh, Kent, how could I be?.... Page 458 [''m... I'm always so amazed when it happens so naturally...." "What are you talking about?" "Miracles." Kent caught her wrist. His face was very close to her own. Joanna could see the gold flecks in his eyes, the light freckles under his tan, the lines that quickened when he was amused. 'There was a sudden thudding in her breast. "Now we can celebrate. You're going to get your house and your shop. Be young, Joanna. Be young and frivolous. Don't be bowed down with responsibilities all the time. Let's go rake a few stars down from the sky." "Td like that," Joanna said. "I'd like that very much." He swung to his feet. "Wonderful! T'll call for you at eight tomorrow night. We'll have dinner. We'll dance. Can you dance, Joanna?" "T've forgotten how." "Good! I'll teach you." Abigail came over when he had gone. "I saw his car drive away and I came right over. Oh, Joanna, I'm still walking on stars from that Mr. Parkinson. Now finish telling me." Joanna said dreamily, "I have a date, Abigail... A date with Kent." Abigail flushed with pleasure. "About time, I says. When is it?" "Tomorrow." "Tl go down town with you... In the morning... Just to see you don't buy another practical dress." JOANNA The dress was a soft green wool; the coat was gray, the hat a dashing thing of gray to match the coat. It had a green feather slashing through it. Joanna could hardly bear to leave the dressing room in the shop. "T never dreamed I could look... Like other women." "What other women wouldn't give... To look like you do this minute. Now for a manicure and a hair fixin', Oh, we'll give that young man a surprise, we will," Abigail promised. T was fifteen minutes to six when Joanna, breathless and taut with excitement, reached home. Her children fell back from her, awe in their eyes. "Gee, Mother, you look wonderful." David's eyes shone. "Like a movie star!" Penny said. Michael pushed a grimy paper in her hand. "This is our program for tonight. Gee, Ill bet none of the other fellows will have a mother as good-looking as mine." Something lurched _ sickeningly within her. Memory. This couldn't be the night! Dimly, for days, she had been aware of David's excited talk about the P. T. A. Program. She looked down at the paper in her hand. "Solo... Michael Niels." She looked down at his bright, expectant face. "You're... Going to sing... Alone?" she asked. "Sure, Mother. 'That's the surprise. I told you I was going to bring you a surprise. 'They chose me... Out of the whole school." "Darling," Joanna said, and hugged him hard. The other children were jumping up and down in their excitement. Sally pushed the yellow curls out 459 of her eyes. "Take us, Mother. We want to hear Michael. We're going to sit in the front row." She called Kent Taylor, caught him as he was leaving. She had never heard his voice on the phone before. She liked it. It was quick and deep. "Joanna? Anything wrong?" She told him, and heard his click of impatience at the other end of the line. "But, Joanna, I'm going away tomorrow. Denver and then New York. I don't know when I'll be back." She said dully, "But Michael has never sung before. This is important to him. I couldn't let him down." "T see." The words were like a little gate closing against her. Michael came into the kitchen when she hung up the receiver. He flung himself upon her, hugging her with all his might. "I love you," he said. "I'm going to sing like a million dollars, you wait and listen." She hugged him to her, hiding her face in his hair. NOW covered the ground in the morning, hiding the bright, blown leaves, shrouding the trees. Joarina was glad to see the whiteness. It hid the color of a hot autumn. She plunged into the business of getting her family settled in the new house, and her work moved to the little shop she and Abigail had found. These were gigantic undertakings, requiring their toll of her strength, until she fell into bed so exhausted that her heart began a queer, lurching sensation. She went to a doctor. He shook RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE jy y 1949 his head. "You eally must Slow was to take care Of the lawns ang Own, Mts. Niels hail he porch S and the asement; She smiled at m. "T wil] slow Mic 4el was to Oversee the WasteOwn, just as Soon as J set things askets an un the €trands, and settled en I'm lanning Visit elp Sally with € dishes, Penn to one of € seacoast towns 'mM =~ was to make th ds, vacuum, and 80ing to under g Palm fo; months and months," id her Cheek her own. Knee, "O en Planning Something like that for pp; t [; ont put it 'We all 8, Mrs. Niels," But When had been a dre (| * Suess this js the she rented it, Most beautify Ouse in the whole, Wide world," scrubbing cloths ' Of herselg and Abj Ousands of nicer igail, the Place be. - She Papered the front of the shop j yellow ang -.. This feeling j them, Mother? Thi | cum with a | yellow bor Her showcases glisO Nave jt?" he smiled at David. Circle around the mirror, and she 'T see you've writte Out the Placed req &etaniums on a white chores?" shelf where ey made a ay splash David nog d and speq to get oPegion Other, If ch one of US will just herself. "They'I] alway Temind me ° his job nd put a ¢ ck tight o¢ the old Ouse, the req and white €re when he's finished, here won't checked curta; nd li. Ardly anything for you to do." aren't we lucky the paper, « got it all] figured out, tened. She hung bright Plates in a Joanng cared for the §€Taniums JOANNA "IT should think you'd want to forget that place as quick as you could. Ugh! The hours we've put in." She looked complacently around the shining store. "Pin-clean, every inch of it. Folks will feel right good buying their bread here." She tried on the new yellow apron that would front the gray uniform. "Unlock the door, Joanna, and stand back. We're ready for business." Joanna laughed and kissed Abigail on her soft, flushed check. "What would I have done without you? You've... Been a pillar, Abigail, a beautiful, bright pillar." Abigail untied the apron. "It's been a right interesting affair, even Henry admitted, the other night, that working for you was almost as good as being on relief." She looked up. "Here come your first customers. What is that fellow carryin'? That black thing?" "A camera?" Joanna went slowly to the door and unlocked it. The man with the camera took off his hat. "You're Mrs. Niels?" "Yes?" "How would you like a little publicity?" Joanna stepped back. "But that would be wonderful... But why?" A smile softened his hard-bitten face. "Not many folks here in town but have eaten your bread. I've been waiting for years to have it turn doughy and flat... Like the others. But up to now it's had integrity." Joanna laced her fingers in delight. "I guess that's the nicest thing anyone ever said to me." He opened his camera. "I'd like an inset of you, perhaps a full shot. Turn this way, Mrs. Niels." 461 BIGAIL and the children shrieked with delight when they saw the paper that carried Joanna's picture and a two-column spread. "But Mother," Sally exclaimed over and over. "You look beautiful." Secretly, Joanna thought so, too. She couldn't get over the delight of turning the page and having her own face look up at her, serene and laughter-touched. She bought several copies of the paper and smuggled them into her room. She couldn't get over the wonder of being attractive. For it was there for anyone to see. It had become fashionable to have a face like hers, with good bones showing, and faint hollows under them. It was smart to be wide of shoulders and very thin. Glamorous, they called it. She suddenly discovered that she had a host of friends. On the opening day of her shop, flowers were everywhere, baskets and baskets of them, bannered with bright ribbons that wished her luck. Long before closing time, the counters were bare. Joanna hired two more women for the kitchen, put Abigail in charge, and bought uniforms for two more salesgirls. She began to be asked out... To dinners, to plays. She met a great many interesting people. It amused and amazed Joanna to be the center of attraction, to watch men arrange things so they could take her home, to have the telephone ring because someone wanted to take her out. She bought new clothes, reveling in the texture of velvet and good tweeds. On the day she opened the second Joanna Bakery, she bought five pairs of shoes, and then could 462 not sleep all night, shocked by her own extravagance. She laughed when her children crowded around to admire her before she went out. She cupped Penny's face in her hands. "Darling, you see? A woman can be Cinderella at almost any age." Sally rubbed her face against the garnet velvet of Joanna's gown. "I'm so glad you're having fun, Mother. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 Have lots and lots of it, heaped up and running down." Penny said, ""There's a boy named Tom Nichols. He wants me to go out with him... To a party. Mother, it's... He's special." "Well—if you are in by elevCligg -Y. "Mother!" Penny flung her arms around Joanna and hugged her hard. "I do love you." (To be continued) The Jumpher Family (Continued from page 451) "Say snow, Martin," said Mama. "Lalalalala," said Martin. Mama laughed and then she cried, and then we were in the taxi going home. "It isn't much of a place, but we're lucky to have an apartment of any kind," said Papa. "What did your mother say about coming? Oh, never mind. Don't tell me today." "How did you bend your glasses like that, Martha Jane?" Papa asked. "One eye isn't even looking through the lens. Fix them, Randy." And then we were at the apartment. It was small, but Papa said we'd find a house real soon, or a bigger apartment. We _ walked through the rooms, and Martin found the garbage and started to stir it with one of the spoons from the dining car on the train. It began to snow again and got dark very early. "It's nearly time for bed," said Papa, and he told us all the stories we asked for and turned the lights dim. "If you hadn't come, I would have come to you," said Papa, looking at Mama. Martin played with his silver string and Mama's hair, looked at the snow and said, "Lalalalala," and then went to sleep. And then we were all going to bed. Randy and I and Richard said goodnight. Papa kissed us and then took Mama and lifted up her chin. Mama began to blush, and a piece of silver string fell forward across the place where Mama's hair was the curliest and darkest against her temple. "Hugh," Mama said. "My word," said Randy. "Don't Mama and Papa look different!" "You do, too," said Papa. "Is it the hives again?" Randy sighed. "I thought you were going to be romantic. Hives! I didn't even get to dance. I wrote you al] about it." Mama moved to go with us to comfort Randy, but Papa kept hold of her. "Good night," said Papa, pulling her back into the living room. "See you kids in the morning. I haven't even had a chance to talk to your mother yet." He tumed again to Mama. "Hello, Mama," we heard him say. "Hello, Kate." K. Louisa Allen Thomas Makes a Pioneer Quilt E Louisa Allen Thomas, Ogden, Utah, is shown displaying her unique pioneer quilt ¢ which depicts events in early Church history and the settlement of the mountain valleys. The quilt is made in the shape of the State of Utah, with a beehive, representing the State emblem, in the corner where the southwestern part of Wyoming joins Utah. The State is made in blue cloth on a white background, with the historical figures designed in gold-colored material. The figures and events pictured include the Angel Moroni delivering the golden plates to the Prophet Joseph Smith; a covered wagon, symbolizing the long trek from Nauvoo, Illinois, to the mountain valleys; crickets and seagulls in the fields; the Brigham Young monument, and This Is the Place monument. Mrs. Thomas selected her designs from newspaper pictures and copied them with carbon paper. The stitching is done in diamond pattern for the center, bordered by a scroll design, and for the edge a leaf motif is stitched on the white cloth and the edges gracefully scalloped. The making of the quilt has given Mrs. Thomas, who is seventy-two years old, much pleasure, and she plans to use this handiwork as an heirloom to be handed down to her family. She writes: "I have made many beautiful quilts, have one on the frame now." Among her many other activities, Mrs. Thomas finds time to teach a Sunday School class and she has completed the genealogical research for thousands of names. Page 463 Let s Vary the Picnic Menu Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson Sp ea ig are not the only "finger-foods" that can be served at a Fourth of July outing. Furthermore, potato salad is not the only hearty salad for a hungry group of picnickers. Here is a happy twosome that should be more widely known in this fair land of ours. Perhaps it is the name that baffles us. Pjiroskies are impossible to spell and still worse to pronounce, but they are delectable to eat—and not difficult to prepare. Let's let the Russians call them what they like—we can re-christen them "Bomburgers" and Americanize them as thoroughly as they deserve to be. They are a combination of hamburger and doughnut that adapts itself perfectly to picnics. In place of the ever-present potato salad, let's borrow from the French and serve vinaigrette. In spite of its fancy name, it is a plain and wholesome salad. On the Fourth we celebrate the founding of the "great melting pot"—the land that welcomes all races with their customs and their talents—and, incidentally, their foods— and makes them all Americans! BOMBURGERS 1 Ib. Ground beef 1 tsp. Salt 1 small onion, chopped 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 tbsp. Flour % cup buttermilk 2 eggs 3 cups flour 3 tbsp. Cooking oil 1 tsp. Baking powder Page 464 Brown the meat and the onion in a frying pan. Sprinkle with one tablespoon of flour, and set aside to cool slightly. Mix eggs, oil, salt, sugar, and buttermilk. Add flour, which has been sifted with the baking powder. Mix well. Roll out small amounts of this dough on a flouted, board. Make them about the size of a large pancake, and place a spoonful of the meat in the center. 'Then fold two of the sides together across the top, pinching the dough tightly, so that the Bomburgers won't spring open in the frying. Drop them in hot fat, pinched side down. When they are a golden brown on one side, turn them over. Remove from fat and serve warm or cold as desired. VINAIGRETTE Diced cooked beets Chopped onion One boiled potato, diced Toss together with mayonnaise > —- Bear Lake Alice Morrey Bailey This, nature's canvas, done in blue— Blue lake, blue hills, the pale blue span of sky In shades and tints no artist dares to try. The greening depths of smalt, sage-gray, subdue Themselves to cerulean tone and hue. Tier on tier of lapis lazuli, Line on turquoise line, outreach the eye; In mirrored surf the herons wheel and slue. Lost in sapphire waves, the mallard floats Above the bice-dull fishes' mystic haunts. Muted in expanse, the wild bird notes Echo over subterranean fonts. From azure-thin to cobalt, deep as night, The dreaming senses drown in blue delight Wind Music Elaine Swain Some, stalwart souls, find rapture In the winds that howl and roar, With every crash of bough Their savage spirits soar. Give me the gentle zephyr With a rustling of the leaves, For me, the languid tempo And the song the willow weaves. LET'S VARY THE PICNIC MENU Diced cooked carrots 465 Chopped dill pickle Make Use of the Rocks Ezra J. Poulsen cheap If they ate not alrea jround under yout feet, you W} mortar, you trouble finding plenty of actual building of the wall. For using rocks. They do well to One of the most interesting pro jine a small water ditch, both for ects t undertake without Ay h artistic effect and for the conserva degree of skill in masonyy, is laying tion of moisture. They make the a flagstone courtyard or patio. This best of retaining walls, pird baths, might well unite the house with an flagstone walks, and foundations for outdoot fireplace, the latter 4 so to small building be built with the same design ah Perhaps the reat fence has fallen materials This undertaking may into discard, W th the posts broken expand into an outdoor living Too) off and the wires sagging, with the with rustic furniture and, } are t ing out mte the allay — The fireplace naturally becomes something on which to drape theit the center of many outdoor activi foliage. Ere, 4 neat stone wall. Ties, such as marshmallow roasts an would create 4 miracl of durability picnics With the table handy, i and beauty If you are a trifle hes js always easy to serve a complete the vines will covet UP the wall, anywaySo place for your first effort. Make sure you have 4 enough wary forces of nature without crack Page 466 will be Tugged but durable. Eee oa Wangsgaard On spurs of Columbines € in dahlias' bold, amboyant faces, asts among the cherries, 1€ daisy ave used Wisdom a d th stems, thyme, mnt, sweet Marjoram, garden hoe, YOu should have anise, sy ner Savory, dil] and the ma 88 Of an infinite Variety of Sweet basi] © any of them M fortunate Ones with space Should The eng is not yet. You will uve everything from lettuce to need bottles of oj and vinegar, gteen g d peppers Apartment There was 4 time when | Considered dwellers ea have herh » town in Olive oi] 4 Must. That Was before flower pots, if needs be, 1941. Now | have learneq to use Imagination is all Important in and like 'NY good salad ol. Yer. Salad Making, that and knowing the when I want a Particularly 800d sa].; and cabbage, not the least of which Your Condiment Shelf should be 's the delicate green Chinese Cab. Almost as Varied. There should be €. Learts, land, The herb list: js almost as lon With al] this aTay, the resp rs Cnlves, parsley tatragon young mus simple ere are €w funda- . SALADS OF INFINITE VARIETY Icebox S€veral hours before using, Lettuce should be broke hand, by "PPears into the Wood. Next your greens You n T of lettuce leave ay be used S€parately or together with almost and py It is Teady If Y Tecipe is this. 469 T may also add some Celery i Or about > € greens &cnerously grated Parmesan cheese, | T stuffed e ed, are and cheese balls, or table Combinations. Seedless Stapes RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE jyl y 1949 he dressing with Pineapple Vinegar, Pumer of salad naking Don't" he Christine Eaton DvY2Nc the past S€ason, it was often a Proble; Meeting da © COst Which ¢] for this Purpose, Was felt desirable to ne | > either a hot dish Made cookies Were Usually seryeq as desserts. § Menu was used to n to Supply a ie YS at the Moderat, OCI te Reh Soc he followin » and hom feed about thirty People at 4 "Ost of around $3.50 POTATO ROLLS (Makes about 4° rolls) 3 medium-sizeg Potatoes, boiled 2 eggs 1% tsp. Salt Mash the Potatoes ang While they are still hot, stir in the shortening Nd sugar, beat Well, add Uk and salt, hen Cooled to lukeway beat in 1 yeast cake and 1 cy aKe into rolls = Well-beaten €g8s and al] Nd let rise unti] very light; bake at 375 degrees, about 15 minutes. BEET JELLY SALAD (Serves 6 7 Persons) When the jelly begins to st; chopped ¢ | stiffen, add, CUP beets, chopp elery or shredded cabbage and oe i uM into mold, chil] ar or lemon Juice ttuce and garnish MOORIS} DELIGHT (Makes about 3° COokies ) ' cup brown Sugar SP. Soda 4 cup Margarine 4 tsp, salt Cream the Margarine and brown Sugar, soda, and salt, and Stir thoroughly. Cut in OW Pan, such as 4 Cookie sheet. He bottom Of a shal. FILLING "2 cup White Sugar grated tind ang Juice of, lemon CUP Water Chop the raig; ile stil] ho Tiety, and When fruit IS used Make adding a little Suga 1 cup milk T small can 'vaporated mijk Our. Let sta the flour that can be Stitted and |. Eaded iy n T envelope gelatine 2 cup Cold water 1 cup hot Water 1% CUP uncooked Oatmeal] he Margarine and Sugar. 'Take One half of mIXture 14 cups Talsing The above, 1¢ Member, jc Only a afraid to experiment. 2/73 cup shortenin * CUP sugar a warm Place til] light and foamy, then add 5 ) (5 orG CUPS). Leturise until double In bulk. 1'3 cup Sugar /2 tsp, salt % Cup mild ying 1% Cup flour S 3 tbsp, cornstarch Mary Grant Judd, author of the Visiting teacher Messages, "Our Savi Married Robert L came yj elfare ably in this ca 1 1045. There dren, two sons and n and ten standchildren; Readers of 4azine are already familiar with the Many ex Written, and With the CUITENt series "Table Settings and Flower Less than th after Teceiving his degree, Broth Cobs en tered Page 47} cellent ar icles which ster Judd has STheology—"re Life and Ministry of the Savior Preview of Lessons for 1949-50 Don B. Colton A originally outlined, the textbook to be followed again this year is Jesus the Christ by Elder James E. Talmage. Again this yeat only one chaptet of the text will be treated in each lesson. We are sure that experience has demonstrated that each chaptet provides sufficient material to occupy the class period. Class leaders are urged also to study references at the end of each chapter and secure authentic enrichment material wherever available. | However, the discussion should be confined to the subject matter of the lesson. It is doubtful if any other period 'nthe world's history ever needed the true Christian way of life as does the one in which we ate living. 'This year's course will deal largely with doctrines of the Church as they were taught by cn opportunity to study these doctrines; and it is earnestly hoped that this study will awaken in the heart ing others to see the true light. The objective will of life as Jesus taught it that we Page 472 may pattern out lives more closely after his. This course follows closely the text Jesus the Christ. The events in the Savior's life are treated in the same chronological order as in the text, and each lesson covers many different subjects. The objectives given at the beginning of each lesson are, therefore, general in Na ture. Questions are given at the end of each lesson. It is suggested that class leaders use these questions to aid in obtaining class participation and discussion as the lesson is being presented. Again, the titles of the chapters of the text have been used as the titles of the lessons. For the 1949 50 season WC shall study chapters 25 to 32 inclusive, and the titles and objectives of the lessons follow: Lesson 17. Jesus Again in JerusaIcm," chapter 25- Objective: To increase faith in the Lord Jesus by a careful study of some of his wonderful teachings. Lesson 18. "Our Lord's Ministry in Perea and Judea," chapter 26. Objective: To demonstrate that Jesus taught a plan of life capable of saving all who will repent and obey him. Lesson 19. "Continuation Of the and the cross, Petean and Judean Ministry" up to Ple on his Toad to foreknown Calvary Lesson 22 « sus Returns to the See and Publican," Chapter 27, Page I s Temple Daily," chapter 30. 473.,; Objective 0 study aretully the Objective; ° continue the unfold. Lord's chings Withi emple Steat gospel Plan as tg ht by the life, Lord Jes Lesson 20, "Continuation of the Pe. Peson Ma isin Close a Our Lord's rean and Judean Ministry," Chap. "ublic Minis '% Chapter Boe €T 27 conc uded and "The Last Objective Convince the Prayerfy] inter," chapter 28. Student Jesus is th Lor Carefy] analysis of his Masterly teach Objective. To prove by Cumulative ing during "the Petiod which closed €vidence that Jesus was indeed the his public Ministry, Sleatest teacher mankind has ever now. Lesson 24, "Further Instruction to tles,". Lesson e "OT to Jerusalem," the Apos chapter 3? Chapter 29. Objective: To show how Clearly ang forcefully Jesus instructed those who Objective: To show how steadfastly Were to Carry on his Work after his ©SUS continued to minister unto peo. Crucifixion, Sheology tp. Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 17~"Jesus Again in Jerusalem" Don B. Colton Objective. To Increase faith in the Lord Jesus by a Carefy] Study of some of his wonderfy] teachings, LESSON DEPARTMENT Ing, by his Matchless teaching, of the 473 as he neared the ¢ Ose Of his earthly 474 It was both a memorial and a yearly harvest celebration at which all males in Israel were required to "appear before the Lord in formal celebration," that is, to appear or attend in the court of the tabernacle or temple and "make his offering with a joyful heart" (Smith's Bible Dictionary, page 192). Many of the Saviors brethren urged that he should go to a more prominent place than Galilee to display his powers; but not through zeal for his divine mission, for we are expressly told they did not believe in him. When he refused to let them direct his movements, he took occasion to tell them of the difference between their status and his. He was not of the world as they were. The world hated him because he was not of it, and, therefore, he was rejected by those who were of the world. At the Feast of Tabernacles There was great interest in Jerusalem concerning Jesus. Many people believed he was a good man, although many disputed this, and all seemed to be afraid to espouse his cause openly for fear of incurring the displeasure of the rulers. Jesus decided to go to the Feast of the Tabernacles at Jerusalem and, probably on the third or fourth day, he appeared. As usual, he soon began to teach the people. Evidently he surprised the teachers. They asked among themselves: "How knoweth this man letters, having never learned?" He was no graduate of their schools, nor had he sat at the feet of the rabbis. Note his answer: "... My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself" (John 7:16-17). Thus he revealed his teacher—the great Eternal Father. The test he gave was eminently fair. It is fair today. Do his will and we shall know. Jesus honored his great 'Teacher—his God—and, therefore, he was free from selfish pride and boastfulness. The rulers had tried especially to convict the Lord on two charges, breaking the Sabbath and _blasphemy. It will be recalled he had healed an afflicted man on the Sabbath. Jesus now referred to this act of mercy, saying: "I have done one work and ye all marvel." The rulers were in doubt as to whether they should accept him for the miracle or reject him because he had performed the miracle on the Sabbath. He confounded them when he showed that the law of Moses expressly allowed acts of mercy on the Sabbath. "Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment" (John 7:24). Strange how prone men are to misjudge. All the works of Jesus were good and many people were beginning to believe in him. When the chief priests realized this, they sent officers to arrest him and bring him before their high court—the Sanhedrin. 'The Master, however, continued his discourse, telling the people that he would be with them only for a short time; and that he would then return to the Father. Always his remarks that he came from the Father and would return to him caused bitter discussion. The people would not accept his doc- A Perry Picture From a Painting by Hofmann CHRIST AND THE SINNER Page 475 476 tine that he Was from God—g Part of the Godhead. Any of the plain People were impressed with Jesus and declared € was the €ssiah. The technica] objectors quibbled over his Coming from Galilee. They atgued that the | me from Bethle- 3:1-21), abandoned inking to ensnare € Lord, he Scribes and Pharisees asked, "B at sayest thou?" Ha € decr death Penalty, jt Would hay been against the Jay of the Romans, MCE Power tg Inflict the death Penalty ha been take from al] Jewish tribunals and adultery was not 4 Capital Offense under you, let him Ist cast g Stone at er." That as the Jaw. Jesus be. An writing on the sound. The woman's 4CCusers slunk away, C man, Lord, And €sus said unto her Neither do | demn thee 89, and sin no More (John 10-11) and lead 4 better life. The Light of the World € Master Tea LESSON DEPARTMENT 477 Sent him. Wit bitter Sarcasm, his The p Ophets were dead and Jesus Opponents asked, "Where js thy h ared to say that all wh obeyed ather?" Fre told them that if they him Would be exempt from death "own the Fy her also, € Pharj- ©SUS proclaime his own su Sees would have seized him ut the Premacy again: "Ver; Ys Verily, | Could not "No man laid hands on Say unto you, Before Abraham Was ing title It was g declaration of The Truth Shall Make You Free the Lord's et mal Gods 'PJesus It would be well for Cass memChrist of the New Te tament was are found € © part of Bodily ang Spiritual] S greatest Character, John alone rec Blindness aughty Jews of Sabbath-da € they were th € Ords Sdid to them Street. Truth, and the tr a ke you was born blind?" us knew, and they knew, joy that Istae] had [ i Ote the Sav- <i ' €en in Politica] Even at that t; » Dut to Spiritual] Teedom. Said he, "Veri Y> Verily, Say unto you, Whosoever cComhis birth, hosoever SINS jis; Is in bondage to sin, They Were j | OF MY Saying, he sha See death" (Joh Cen made to see, and though the | '51), seemed to the Wickeg Jew e by a Prophet. Sought the man out an had known M; for his hoy; Was not yet come." Tam" "lS to read John Y would believe and fo]. Low him. Ax ye shall know the this man mitteth sin js the Servant » they woulg have He ad exalted himself above Abr, Was an awe INspir- *1-59. Therein the Jehovah of the aster, who di sin, Is Patents, that he In, 478 known to him that the miracle had been performed by the Son of God. The man believed and worshipped him as the Lord (John g:1-38). Shepherd and Sheep Herder If time permits, the class should give attention to the great lesson taught in John 10:1-21. An account is given there of one of the Lord's most impressive discourses. Only through him may we enter the fold. He is the Good Shepherd. No stronger arraignment of false pastors and teachers was ever written. He explains how broad and comprehensive his plan is by saying: "And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd" (John 10:16). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Relate the incident of the Jewish tulers trying to trap the Savior by seeking to get him to judge the woman taken in sin. Show how wisely he avoided their attempted snare. 2. In what way is Jesus the light of the world? 3. Christ's statement "The truth shall make you free" applies today just as it did when he uttered it. Explain how the truth makes us free. 4. How did the healing of the blind man on the Sabbath day show that Jesus Christ understood the pre-existent life? 5. How may a testimony of Christ be obtained? References in the Four Gospels Matt. 5:21-48; 7:15. John 7:1-53; 8:1-59; 10:1-21. Visiting Seacher ITlessages—Our Savior Speaks Preview of Lessons for 1949-50 Mary Grant Judd HE visiting teacher messages for 1949-50 will be a continuation of the series titled, "Our Savior Speaks." As in the previous year's messages, timely and_ significant statements of the Savior will be presented. Some are loving admonitions, others are statements of fact, and still others are presented in the form of thought-and-actionprovoking questions. The titles for the various months will be as follows: Lesson 1. "I Am Come that They Might Have Life, and that They Might Have It More Abundantly" (John 10:10). Objective: To show that the way to eternal life is the most complete life. Lesson 2. "Behold, I Stand at the Door, and Knock" (Rev. 3:20). Objective: To point out that Christ is ever ready to enter our hearts, if we but prepare the way. Lesson 3. "These Things I Have Spoken unto You, That in Me Ye Might Have Peace" (John 16:33). Objective: To affirm that through conforming our lives to the teachings of Christ we may possess peace in our souls. LESSON DEPARTMENT 419 Lesson 4- "Lovest Thou Me?.-: Objective: To point out that, followFeed My Lambs" (John 21: 15). Ing their marriage, the allegiance of a _ } man and woman 0 each othet tran Objective: | point out at this ad scends eve the lasting allegiance monition 15 €q™ lly important today. Which they owe theit parents Lesson "Is Not the Life More Lesson 7 "Nevertheless Not My Than Meat, and the Body Than Will, Dv Thine, Be e" (Luke Raiment?" (Matt. 6:25 22:42 Objectiv To emphasize that there is Objective To help us ace pt life as it a larger lif than that © he body, comes am t to lose ft h dumng namely, that of the spizit adversity P. Lesson 8 "Be of Good Cheer Lesson For This Cause Shall a (Matt. 14:27 an Leave Father an ther an Ae = Shall Cl t te" (M Objective: To reaffirm that in bring: ce eave to }118 (Matt ing help and comfort to others, We 19 5) gain JO for ourselves <cT am come that they might have _ little children were at ease In his life, and that they might have society and common folk heard him it more abundantly" (John 10:10). Ladly. He showed compassion tO Thus spoke our Savior to some of ward even. Dishonest men and sinfu his questioners, in explaining his women He went to them and won earthly mission. Them. 'Thus he set the example of In the early days of the Christian tolerance toward all. Era some men thought that by wit Other mis aken ideas of an earlier drawing themselves from compa eriod, W h persis some in onship with their fellows, they oUt 0) eneration, 4! That 1¢ would more neatly approac ligion is pum ly t epare us for of people—begeat and lepers, Sashowed us that the religious life is maritans and publicans, the rich the abundant life. He came not to and the poor. He was at home restrict US in out enjoyments of with all and loved them all. Men life, but to add to them. In high places sought him out, yet It should not be necessary t0 for- 480 bid an intelligent man to do harmful things. He ought to avoid them because he has no taste for them, because he finds more real satisfaction and more enduring pleasure in the doing of things that are recreational, but harmless in their nature, or by engaging in constructive activities. One might well ask, why should one choose a life that is small and contracted when there is within his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 reach the life that is full and complete? How often have we heard missionaries speak of the time spent in the mission field as the happiest one of their lives? It is because they have discovered how completely satisfying their lives could become when they were experiencing the joys of the spirit. This broader existence 'is the one that Christ brought to light when he came, that we might have life and have it more abundantly. ~-~<- Work IT leeting—Sewing Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Preview of Lessons for 1949-50 VERY Latter-day Saint woman should acquire enough sewing skill to do the simple tasks required of a homemaker. There are always hems to adjust, seams to be let out or taken in, collars to be turned, or some household article to be made. There are still many women who need our help in learning to do these simple things. We feel that Relief Society has a definite responsibility to see that every woman is encouraged to participate actively in the sewing program of the society that her skill may be increased and that she may be of service in helping others. We suggest that special instruction be given in sewing again this season. A course in making children's clothing is outlined with the idea of meeting the needs of many of our young mothers. There is great satisfaction in being able to make clothing for our children both from the creative and the financial standpoint. The designing and making of children's apparel has come to be a specialized field. The chubby child and the more slender one wear very different models. What mother does not look with longing eyes at the exclusive models featured in children's shops? The purchase price, however, is more than most family budgets can allow but, with a little instruction in basic sewing, we can make things just as becoming and usually better fitting. What mother's heart does not thrill to hear her youngster boast proudly, "My mother made this." We hope that the membership of this class will not be limited to younger women. 'Those who have sewed for families now grown can be of great help to our younger sisters if LESSON DEPARTMENT 48] Lesson >. Layettes ang Baby Sewing them to make an 4pPreciated gift for Lesson 3-Play Clothes a beloved grandchild, Lesson 4, Underwear and Nightwear e -_ Possibilities for the wards in follow. Lesson 5- Girls Clothing ing this course, and we hope that Lesson 6, Boys' Clothing enthusiastic work meeting leaders,; Will make the MOst of these lessons, Lesson 7: Coats and Stowsuits The titles of the lessons for 1949- Lesson 8 Display of Children's 5° are as follows. Clothing, In the extreme that women under. Interferes jn any Way with the welstand and apply the Ptnciples jp. Fare of the child, volved in the Proper selection and The style Of dressin a child COnstruction of @Pparel for oyr Changes as he grows older, but the young people underlying Ptinciples of Selection te havior of g child. Dull, drab, ugl child's Personality, His Physical clothes are likely to reflect their uglicharacteristics of coloring and type Téssing a sturdy youngster in Pale blue or the pale, delicate, timid Character building. A child dressed out the in simple, serviceable, Comfortable, child and artistic clothes naturally de. Velops an appreciation of these qualfies but of just nough difference to call attention to the child, 482 late and sits around with not too much activity. Her tomboy sister is sturdy and active and would be out of place in the same soft clothes. She is better suited with sturdier, plainer, more durable dresses. The pattern or design in the material itself should also be becoming to a girl. Delicately flowered designs become the smaller children, while bolder prints would be appropriate for sturdy types. It is often difficult to obtain the exact pattern size for children. To avoid losing much time making alterations when sewing, carefully RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 take the child's measurements and compare them with those of the pattern being used. Always take measurements of chest, underarm length, and back length. Even after buying a pattern that presumably fits your child's measurements, it is wise to compare the actual pattern pieces for size with a garment that is made and fits. Make pattern alterations for size in the pattern itself before cutting material. Time spent in careful consideration of choice of pattern and material to suit the child and his needs is time well spent. > SS ioraeneo— Ve Literature of England Preview of Lessons for 1949-50 N considering the course in literature for 1949-50, the general board has deemed it advisable to postpone the study of Latter-day Saint literature of the pioneer and contemporary periods. Instead, it has been decided to undertake a course of study of English literature beginning with the earliest English literature and progressing on to American literature in chronological sequence. One of the important objectives of the general board, in presenting this year's literature course, is to point out the characteristics of great literature and, from a study of some of the best in literature, to gain a greater appreciation of its value. Today the market is flooded with quantities of inferior reading material. What to read presents a real problem. A good basis for selection is needed. It is hoped that this course will help to give Latter-day Saint women a sense of discrimination, that they may not only recognize and know the best in literature, but desire to read the best, as well. Just what is great literature? How can it be recognized? What are its essentials? Literature might be defined as a "mirror that walks along the highway," reflecting our own selves and the story of man's probing of mind, heart, and spirit. One writer says, "There are three essentials to great literature: first, the idea worth expressing; second, the technique to express it beautifully; and third, the sincerity to express it convincingly." Beginning this year, we will focus our attention on a study of English literature, which will be useful in LESSON DEPARTMENT the study of any literature. Our procedure will be sufficiently chronological to establish a sense of continuity. This approach will correlate the historical background with the written expression of the people. We shall see expressed the influence of Christianity upon early pagan beliefs, and the merging of the two, (noting some of the signs of the apostasy), and then pass on to great literature of a later date. In the words of our author, "Our course objective is: to earn and share that high pleasure which only literature and a sense of the past can give." The recommended textbook (The Literature of England, volume 1, Scott, Foresman and Co.) is one which would be a welcome addition to any library. It is a large book and, as stated in the preface of this third edition, "in planning the book it was not to be just another collection of... Readings but a carefully articulated interpretation and representation of English culture as expressed in English literature." The textbook for this two-year course begins with Beowulf and concludes with James Boswell and Richard B. Sheridan. The cost of the book is $4.50 ($4.75 postpaid) from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City. The text is rich in maps, each one of which is executed in a style characteristic of the period it represents, and the graphic illustrations, moreover, have been selected from contemporaneous sources, showing the life of each period of English history as it was seen by artists of the time. 483 There will be many gaps in this study of the history of English literature due to the brevity of time for the Relief Society course; however, the book provides excellent material for anyone desiring to round out her own appreciation through studying the text. From the first year of this survey of English literature, beginning with Beowulf and ending with 17th-century poetry, will come a greater appreciation of what is great in literature and a greater knowledge of the growth of literary forms. Certain authors and works which are considered in this bird's-eye view may be amplified further as the course continues. Material may also be found in encyclopedias, The Book of Knowledge, etc. The April 1949 National Geographic Magazine contains many beautiful pictures portraying incidents and characters in English life which will prove valuable for use by the class leader. Stake and ward class leaders and mission Relief Society branch class leaders are urged to see that their textbooks are ordered soon to ensure satisfactory delivery. The titles of the eight lessons for the first year follow: Lesson 1. Early English Literature Lesson 2. Legends of Chivalry Lesson 3. Shakespeare Lesson 4. Francis Bacon Lesson 5. The English Bible (through the St. James Translation ) Lesson 6. John Milton Lesson 7. John Bunyan Lesson 8. 17th Century Poetry 484 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 Sf iterature—Tthe Literature of England Introduction Briant Jacobs S Robert Louis Stevenson reminded us as children: The world is so full of a number of things, I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings. One of these happiest "things" of life is to share with others that which we have found to be good. For us the best in life is to share the best; this, in part, we are about to do. And if, in bringing this literature to you sisters, you maintain some fraction of the joy we feel in assisting you in this magnificant task, our desires shall not have been in vain. Now, a word about method. There are many trails through this rich wood; how you get within doesn't matter so much as that you do. If, in grazing this lush slope, we suggest that you eat only the tangy huckleberry, while in your own meanderings you have found some delicate grasses or aromatic mountain flowers—don't _ hesitate. On this range, bewilderment comes not from sparsity of feed, but from the very richness and variety of choice. Because a year's Relief Society course in literature is less than eight hours, sometimes we might appear to be in a hurry. Don't let us hurry you. Should we suggest you read four authors in an hour and, in discussing the first selection, you succeed rather well in making him come alive to your group until their faces glow as does yours—don't stop abruptly and feel you must hurry on to discuss the other three. Literature lives through creating and sharing a few intense experiences. Once you have caught some of the power, the beauty, the individuality of an author because you have been successful in enabling him to speak for himself with a part of his original force and freshness, you have accomplished something singularly worthwhile. But now it is time we begin—together. Lesson 1—Early English Literature Briant Jacobs For Tuesday, October 18, 1949 THE thrill of discovering an arrowhead beneath a sagebrush or a stone includes within itself these questions: Who last held this flint in his palm, as now it rests in mine? Who was he? How did he talk, and laugh? What, for him, was joy, or greatness, or fear? In what did he believe? Whatever sunken hulls or weapons, whatever cliff dwellings or castles the past has kindly preserved, LESSON DEPARTMENT these tell us relatively little. Until we can share with a people their words, or thought-symbols, we can know only a fraction of their most intimate and real selves. But once we are enabled to understand the writings of any age, its thoughts are ours and, at once, we possess the key to whatever mysteries, beauties, and beliefs motivated that culture. Beowulf It is fitting that the richest of all national literatures (the English) should begin with Beowulf, the earliest known sustained piece of writing in any modern language, and one of the important epics of all time. Although written by an unknown Anglo-Saxon poet about 750 A. D., Beowulf strictly belongs to no one nation. Its materials and tone brand it as a saga of the ancient Germanic heroic age, a pagan culture which had flourished in northern Europe and the Baltic Sea area since prehistoric times. Comparable to. Various Norse and_ Icelandic sagas, Beowulf nonetheless differs from them in two important respects: (1) the author grafted onto the original many expressions of Christian virtues; (2) his brilliant and original use of language gives to Beowulf a sustained loftiness and dignity of tone which only great literature possesses. This greatest of all Old English poems is the outstanding example of the blending of the pagan and the Christian traditions. It also mixes history with legend: alongside such real episodes as funerals, 485 fights, and court banquets, appear Grendel, a supernatural mythical monster, and examples of epic exaggeration which to the literal-minded reader, might seem only preposterous. While the poem accepts God as ruler of the world, and mentions heaven and hell, the creation, Cain, and the deluge, it is dominated by Wyrd, pagan Goddess of Fate. Another pagan element is cremation. The payment of blood-money* is recounted and the worship of worldly glory and physical prowess. It reveals the 'Teutonic mind as moody, somber, and stubborn. Yet, despite a rough, savage existence, life was good, and courage, bravery, generosity, justice, and loyalty to clan and master were virtues most important in their vigorous code of life. The poem is divided into two parts. The first occurs at Heorot, the great hall built by Hrothgar, King of the Danes. Beowulf, a young Geat (probably from lower Sweden), fights the monster Grendel, who rises at night from the seamy moors to kill Hrothgar's warriors. Beowulf tears off Grendel's arm, then later, when Grendel's fiend-mother returns to the hall, Beowulf pursues her to her den far beneath the sea where he slays her with a charmed sword. The second episode portrays the later years of Beowulf when, as King of the Geats, he attempts single-handed to slay a fierce dragon which threatens the welfare of his subjects. Mortally wounded in the struggle, Beowulf is rescued and defended by Wiglaf, one of his men. *This shows the early introduction of the false doctrine of doing penance by the payment of money, in place of the true doctrine of repentance taught by Christ. See Clark, J. Reuben, Jr., On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, page 232. 486 In deep mourning and devotion, the people bury him and honor his name. Note to Class Leaders: For the wealth of additional background material which cannot be included here, consult our text, The Literature of England, by Woods, Watts, and Anderson, particularly pp. 3-6, 9-10, 16-18, 19. The strength of language in Beowulf, and its exalted tone, can be imparted to your group only by reading aloud excerpts from the poem itself: the first 150 lines contain much that is both valuable and typical, as do lines 2205 to the end. It is obvious that your own exploring of the poem itself will prove a most fruitful investment of your study time. Use your own pronunciation of the proper nouns as they are not found in the dictionary. Bede (673-735) We might well be justified in saying that the Middle Ages was the Catholic church. For more than a thousand years during the dark days of the Great Apostasy, when men's minds were bound by ignorance, guidance flowed forth from the monasteries, the fountainheads of intellectual learning. From Jarrow (see map, opposite page 3 of the text) came the Venerable Bede (rhymes with seed), one of the greatest minds of the medieval world, and one of the great scholars of all time. Entering the monastery as an orphan of nine, Bede spent his entire life there. Largely because of him, Jarrow became the center of learning for all western Europe. The best mind of his age, a master of strong, clear prose as only one can be who devotes his life to reading and writing, Bede did not aspire to create nor to entertain in his writings; like all religious writers of the Middle Ages, he desired only to reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 cord events accurately and to teach the beauties of Christianity as understood in medieval times. Yet the beautiful prose style in which we read his Ecclesiastical History of the English Nation, most important of his numerous works, is not entirely Bede's. Had not this work been translated from the Latin by Alfred the Great (849-901), the "presiding genius in Old English prose," it would not belong to this age so completely, nor would it mirror so precisely the literary and religious philosophies of these two genuinely great minds. As it is, these two scholars seem to have blended their personalities and skills most happily. From that day to the present, Bede's great literary style, characterized by simplicity, directness, human warmth, deep reverence and insight, and beauty of word and phrase, has been a model for historians and for all who would see life truly and who would write well. And the Venerable Bede is at his best in the Parable of the Swallow (page 64, lines 50-72), one of the loveliest parables outside the Bible. Primarily this parable is memorable because the image of the sparrow expresses with aptness and precision the mystery of this life and its relationship to immortality. The harmony between what is said and how Bede says it makes such writing literature. As we read further in Bede's Ecclesiastical History, more completely do we begin to understand why Bede has served as a model of English prose. "The Story of Caedmon" (pp. 65-67) proves once again Bede's ability to tell a story simply and purely. Immediately, we come to LESSON DEPARTMENT know Caedmon, not as a tender of horses, but as a modest soul humbly grateful to God for his power to praise him by re-creating the familiar stories of the Bible into poetry so beautiful and appealing as to ensure Caedmon's fame. As we witness Caedmon's receiving his poetic power, and when at death he expresses his feeling of "perfect charity" toward his fellows (page 66), we recognize the serenity of a soul at peace with self and God. The restrained telling of Caedmon's death gives us greater insight into Bede's own mind and beliefs, and hence tells us more about the Christian Anglo-Saxon's attitude toward God and this life than do volumes of facts. And this brief acquaintance with Bede and his depth of soul, as preserved for us in his prose, introduces us to an age which, because of such literature, can never die. Note to Class Leaders: If time permits, read "The Conversion of King Edwin" (pp. 63-65) aloud to your group, noting the humility of King Edwin, and the restraint of emotion and statement as we see Edwin, who "used to sit several hours alone, and seriously to ponder with himself what he was to do, and what religion he was to follow." Lines 50-72, page 64, at least, must be read aloud to your group. If for any reason you spoil the first reading, feel free to read it again, until at least part of its power has been communicated. For background study the text, Introductions to Chapters I and II, particularly pp. 12-17, 82-85, 101-103, as time permits, Geoffrey Chaucer (1340-1400) Study text, pp. 97-100, 209-211) With Chaucer the literature of the Middle Ages ends, and the literature of modern England begins. For centuries before Chaucer, and 487 during his own lifetime, writing was influenced by the Catholic church, which regarded literature as a tool useful in teaching religion, morality, and the virtues of the other-worldly life. While this tradition gave us a comprehensive and valuable body of religious writing, from Bede through Piers Plowman, English literature had never yet focused itself upon the realities of this life, while at the same time being free from the necessity of paying first honors either to religious, romantic, or legendary values. Likewise, the English language had never before been manipulated and shaped by a great literary artist; the language of the theologian and the scholar had been Latin. Not only did Chaucer liberate English literature and language from serving values other than its own, he also knew and loved and portrayed his fellow Englishmen so superbly that in a sympathetic evaluation of human nature only Shakespeare surpasses him. Despite whatever high seriousness his writing might lack, no exclusive list of the greatest English writers could ever exclude him. The son of an English wine merchant, Chaucer began his life at court as a page. While still a young man, he began making journeys to the Continent as a representative of England. Throughout his life he served the Crown substantially and well. His travels enabled him to know the cultures of France and Italy at firsthand; his lifelong love of French literature and the medieval romance proved to be a rich and deep vein from which he drew a sensitivity, a delicacy, a sparkling eye, and a deep-surging love of life which the English imagination and 488 tongue so desperately needed. Ovid, Virgil, Petrarch, Dante—the writers of the classic age were known and used by him in his various writings. But he was not merely a bookworm; he also enjoyed being an acute, penetrating observer of the human comedy which has continued throughout all ages, both before Chaucer and after him up to the present. So far as we can know, Chaucer wrote only because he enjoyed it. Like all writers, he could not help. Seeing the world, its illogical contrasts, and its rich variety. Seeing thus, and knowing, evidently he could no longer contain himself; his refreshing view of his own age, and of ourselves, if we can but see and be honest, is the result. That he enjoyed his writing seems proved by the obvious enjoyment of portraying human nature which is the warming essence throughout his works. Tolerant, gentle, good humored, and delightfully whimsical, he is capable of satire and irony, but never does he lose his sanity and balance. As he chides and teases his characters for their all-too-human weaknesses, never does he become bitter; instead, his sympathy and understanding make us feel that of all great writers he most nearly becomes one of us, here on our "common-as-dirt" level. Most men he loves; in all events and persons he finds qualities which excite his eternal curiosity; only the hypocrite receives his censure. As summarized by one writer, "No one can read Chaucer and not be glad to be in the world." Nor does Chaucer know but one segment of life. He is capable of humor always; he also has a genius RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 for wit, drama, and pathos. He includes the same enormous scope in his subject matter. In both prose and poetry he wrote on science, religion, philosophy, ethics, and rhetoric. In various earlier works he celebrates marriages of royalty, talks of the emptiness of fame, chides woman for her gossip and small talk, and reaches exalted grandeur and pathos in the portrayal of a great love. But all ingredients of Chaucer are ideally combined in his comprehensive masterpiece which he left unfinished at his death: The Canterbury Tales. In this collection of stories we have Chaucer at his richest and his best. His plan was to pretend himself a member of a group of thirty pilgrims traveling from London to Canterbury to visit the religious shrine of Thomas a Becket. After Chaucer described each person in the prologue, the host of the Tabard Inn was to act as something of a master of ceremonies, calling on each pilgrim to tell four tales, two on the way to Canterbury, and two during the return journey. Chaucer had written only his magnificent prologue and less than a quarter of the stories when he died. The prologue itself is a masterpiece of characterization, just as the stories excel in their narrative qualities. As he describes the knight, squire, doctor, lawyer, miller, plowman, and cook, among others, we realize that here is a cross-section of all humanity, intimately known and intensely portrayed until the characters become almost more real to us than they would be in actual life. Before we catch a brush stroke or two from this mural, a word about LESSON DEPARTMENT language. Chaucer wrote in Middle English, which is not familiar to our eyes nor ears, although it has many resemblances to modern English, so many, in fact, that with a minimum of effort, Chaucer can be read in the original (see pp. 104-105). As orginally written, Chaucer's poetry is filled with a delicate music, and while we can get much of his beauty of content as he describes nature and humanity, the larger beauty of his lines is lost unless it can be heard. Realizing the severity of this loss, it must nevertheless be faced, since it seems better to lose part rather than all. With this in mind, note how much of the "knight" Chaucer gives us in a very few lines, here translated into modern English, but to be compared with the original in the text (lines 68-72): And even though he was valiant, he was wise, And in his manner as meek as a maiden. He had never uttered any vileness In all his life, to any kind of person. He was a truly perfect gentle knight. The Prioress, a nun (lines 127- 135): At meals well taught was she withal; She let no morsel from her lips fall 489 Nor wet her fingers deeply in her sauce. Well could she handle a morsel, and be careful That no drop ever fell upon her breast. Courtesy was her particular delight. Her upper lip wiped she so clean, That in her cup was no trace seen Of grease, when she had drunk her draught. The Merchant (lines 270-277): A Merchant was there with a forked beard, In motley array, and high on horse he sat, Upon his head a Flemish beaver hat His boots fastened tight and elegantly. His ideas he delivered most solemnly, Connected always with the increase of his profits. He wanted the sea safeguarded at any price Between Middleburg and Orwell. So we take but one brief glance; would there were time for more. Questions for Discussion 1. Beowulf contains both Christian and pagan elements. Isolate and identify examples of each. 2. Assign a sister to give additional material on the life and character of Bede. 3. Have the Parable of the Swallow read slowly and effectively and make comments on its literary value and modern application. 4. Give instances which illustrate the universality of Chaucer's characters in The Canterbury Tales. Field Artillery Ora Pate Stewart Green swords Marching in rows, Clank in the wind, Glint in the sun. They guard my gold, Ripening corn. A Memory Shirley Redd I saw a painted sky And you were near; I heard a song, a sigh, And felt a nameless fear. I see a star-fringed moon And can't forget; I hear a gay tune, And find my lashes wet. 490 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Preview of Lessons for 1949-50 G. Homer Durham "THE social science lessons for 1949-50 are based on "The Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General," section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants. The lessons follow, naturally, the previous year's study of "Latter-day Saint Political Thought." Whereas the lessons of last year were, of necessity, somewhat abstract, the new series has the advantage of relating to concrete scriptural verses in the Declaration of Belief. Each is explained, together with its significance for the problems of current political life. The seven preceding lessons attempted to portray some aspects of Latter-day Saint thinking with respect to the nature of government, constitutionalism, and public affairs, including international relations. The Declaration of Belief is a specific statement of an official position taken by the Church, in August 1835, with regard to law and government. It is one of the most unusual sections of the Doctrine and Covenants. 'The first lesson attempts to tell how and why. Each lesson will be accompanied by suggestions for class projects to the end that every member and class may arrive at a more complete understanding of what the various provisions of the Declaration signify. As the gospel is a way of life, and as modern life involves political processes at nearly every point, it is most important that all of us enlarge our understanding of the position of the Church in such matters. Students of the subject will be delighted to know, in advance, that the Declaration is a most liberal yet practical, simple but farreaching, platform. 'The same general references and helps listed for last year's study will again prove to be very beneficial and helpful. To come to a knowledge and appreciation of the position of the Church with regard to governments and laws is no mean nor simple task. The various statements issued by the leaders of the Church from Joseph Smith to the present day are most helpful in gaining this knowledge. Of course, the Doctrine and Covenants itself, with its useful cross-references and index, will be of constant assistance. Alert class leaders will also watch for illustrations and examples to be found in current Church and other literature. Society is most complex. Social science lessons dealing with important relationships of the Church in society require, and are worthy of sincere study and effort. The titles of the seven lessons for 1949-50 and their accompanying objectives follow: Lesson 1. "The Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General" Objective: To study and appreciate the preamble of The Declaration of Belief. LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 2. The Significance of "The Declaration of Belief' for Modern Government Objective: To consider different types of government in the world today, and to appreciate the basic principles con: tained in the "Declaration as the culmination of the experience of the race. Government Instituted for the Benefit of Man » To show that governments i man when founded on the free exercise science, tight and control of property, and protection of life. Lesson 4. Public Administration and Good Government Objective: To point out the need for 491 electing government officials who will uphold freedom. Lesson 5. The Obligations of Citizenship and the Responsibility of the State Objective: To show the responsibility of the State to enact proper laws and of the people to uphold them. Lesson 6. The Conditions Achieving the Kingdom of God Objective: To show that civil and religious liberty must be maintained for the establishment of the Kingdom of God. For Lesson 7: Achieving the Kingdom of God Objective: To demonstrate that the Kingdom of God will be achieved by preaching the gospel throughout the world. Lesson 1—"The Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General" (D. & C. Section 134) G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, October 25, 1949 Objective: To study and appreciate the preamble of the Declaration of Belief. Political Attitude of Church Toward Society GECTION 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is well known as "A Declaration of Laws in carries the and was "adopted vote at a general assembly.--- hel at Kirtland, Ohio." It may be said to have three great purposes: 1. It declares the attitude of. The Church towards the rest of society, im SO far as society functions a> a politically organ szed community. In other words, Declaration provides the basis for what might be called "the foreign policy" of the Church, that is, the relation of the Church to the various governmenta systems of the world. >. It provides the basis upon which individual members of the Church may adjust their lives to the demands of citizenship, satisfy the requirements of effective citizenship, and at the same time maintain religious freedom.. It sets forth certain great political principles as the standard of conduct for the members of the Church, for the d as the Church as an organization, am 492 basis for understanding and evaluating the conduct of the governments of the world. As a result, the Declaration may be said to contain the principles which Latter-day Saints should strive to uphold and maintain so far as governments and laws "in general" are concerned. Practical Values of the Declaration The Declaration has great practical value to the Church, to the State, and to the individual. When is a government a good government? When is a governmental policy worthy of criticism? Which candidates for office should be supported? What should our attitude be towards the public officials, local, regional, national, and international, who serve us? When should they receive support? When, if ever, should we deny them support? Is disobedience to law or a public official ever justified? The Declaration affords a practical basis for determining the answers to these questions which arise daily in our lives. Shall we support the United Nations and its officers? Shall we support our local officials in a policy to provide a new sewer, bridge, highway, or dam? Shall we choose this man or that one to represent us in our national assemblies? Mankind stands in need of criteria, guiding principles, standards of judgment. Section 134 contains standards of judgment which are time-tested and which have received the support of the most enlightened men, women, and societies known to civilization. How little most of us RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 appreciate this section! How grateful we should be that our people and our Church have adopted such principles. If we needed to dig a garden, and we were provided with shovel, plow, and tractor, most of us would know how to do it with the tools provided. The modern world needs to "dig a garden," a garden of good politics and good government, to replace the wasted lands of war and corruption. The Declaration of Belief provides the tools for this task. The principles available are basic and fundamental to world peace and prosperity at home. Let us see, briefly, what they are. Some Principles of Successful Political Life Here are some of the great principles of successful political life assetted in the document of August 17, 1835: 1. Governments exist for the benefit of man. 2. As well as being responsible to the people, governments, through their officials, are responsible to God for their actions, and God holds men responsible whether or not they, in turn, are willing to accept their share of the contract. 3. The "good and safety" of society are the principles which should guide, alike, lawmakers and the administrators of the law. 4. Freedom of conscience for all men. 5. The right and control of individual property. 6. The protection of human life and its preservation. 7. Freedom of organization, including religious organizations. 8. Separation of Church and State as a principle essential to religious liberty, freedom of organization, and good society. G. Active citizenship to sustain and uphold all governments that protect "inherent and inalienable rights." LESSON DEPARTMENT 493 10, Honor, Tespect, even deference, for studiously Considered the matter, the Public Officials, Tevelations yw Ich een Previously 11, Sedition, Tebellion, and Ordinary Selected by the Prophet Joseph Smith crime should © Properly Punishable g¢. WETE accepted as th € Lord cording law, said | Cgnizing basic the unanim US Vote Of the conference Plivate rioh and were ordere Printed OCCasion 2. Th Bat of selfg nse is justj of this onterence, Joseph Smith 5 liams, Were not Present, to maintain Sound ciyj] Sovernment and They Were on a brief Mission to the saints I to prevent the breakdown of orderly Proin Michigan, and because of thi S Were n Cesses, amiliar with Proceedings of this 13. The Tight to Proselyte ang advance Conference After the conference had ac. One's opi ions or ¢ Ose of hi Toup is Cepted the evelations, 4N article 9 Mar. Essential] d mu antained How.- nage, Whic ad be Titten by Oliver ever, the ght shoulg t be Msisted Coy, » WaS read er William Ww Upon to the Point that its becomes Phelps, nd Ordered Punted in the Obnoxioy t els, or the extent boo with the revelat that huma life ang lib ty J€opar. En S action ha fen taken dized Oliver Y atose and Nother Ciples to be tudied N the s Cla] atticle the Conference also ord Ted printed Science ] Sons this year. The dis arene a -— ye COvery ag € b an Of these "cause these 3 ticle 4PPeared in th Ptinciples have ked he Progress Octrine and Covenant » Teadily concluded Ol civilizat; For le, when that a " me through the ~ "a Osep: Ce WEI to be Sous the ércat nian teformer, Teceived Par with Other parts about 94 > €Xpanded the of the book Tevelat; cause of freedom of Conscience, "the good Published from time to time declaring and safety of Society," the develop. That these Words on Government and Ment of democraiin governmen t Laws have Come to ys with the force of: Tevelation having been from the mouth became Possible. Of the Phet Joseph Smith. Th; article and ne on "Marria a [. Onger pri ted, eing supplanted ya History of the Declaration Tevelation th Subject of eternal Wha Istory 9 this re marriage] were not considered as Teve Markab] documen}? Ho does lations 5 he confer ce, ere e €Claratio eg ding Politics and _lisheq a PTession of belief of the cevernment fing Its way into the (Prowet® 3 one "e 8) ce or Icia] ~ a ae anh of also Serene History of th Church e€ e ay Sain S €r Jos » Pp. 243 eph Fielding Smith has written on © subject as fol]o The preamble to the Declara. Iq ton, also dopted h he general in 'Ki ect August chute on aacmbly August 7> 1835, makes Octrine and Covenants Was Presented this portant statement; 494 be misinterpreted nor misunderstood, we have thought proper to present at the close of this volume our opinion concerning the same. The phrase, "this volume," refers of course to the Doctrine and Covenants. 'The words, "our opinion," should also be carefully observed in the light of the statement quoted from Elder Joseph Fielding Smith. In many respects, the Declaration has a unique value in that it is the "opinion" of the Latter-day Saints, accepted from the pen of Oliver Cowdery. Although Oliver Cowdery was the Second Elder of the Church and stood next to Joseph Smith, yet the Declaration is given for what it really is, a declaration of belief. It does not purport to be a revelation from God. As such it had unique value to the infant Church of 1835, whose enemies would be inclined to scoff at a "revelation," but might take seriously the declarations and resolutions taken in a conference of record. Moreover, it is of great interest to find, in a Church designed to offer the restored gospel to all peoples, popular expression side by side with revealed word. The 134th section demonstrates the reality of the law of common consent in the Church. We should never forget that the law of common consent has _ been revealed as a principle of Church government with the principle of divine authority.' In many respects, the book of Doctrine and Covenants would be incomplete without such a "covenant" and expression as section 134. But lest there be any doubt as to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 its importance, President Heber J. Grant said in 1938, commenting on the principles outlined in section 134: These principles are fundamental to our belief, fundamental to our protection. And in the providences of the Lord, the safeguards which have been incorporated into the basic structure of this nation are the guarantee of all men who dwell here against the abuses and_ tyrannies and usurpations of times past (Gospel Standards, page 134). The principles embodied in the Declaration are based on abiding religious realities. They are expressive of an absolute standard of truth, without which, men resort to force. The study and application of these principles today will further prepare the way for the fulfillment of mankind's aspiration for peace on earth. Questions for Discussion and Lesson Helps Special Project: Assign a member of the class to prepare a ten-minute report on the material found in volume II, chapter XVIII (pp. 243-251) of the Documentary History of the Church. The Documentary History of the Church, published in seven volumes, is available in many homes, especially volumes I and II which have been used as Melchizedek Priesthood manuals (1947- 49). This material (pp. 243-251 of volume II) contains the historical background, with minutes and documents, of the general assembly of the Church, August 17, 1835, which adopted the "Declaration of Belief." 1. If a new, rapidly-growing church moved into your community, its members purchasing lands, buying businesses, nominating and electing members of your school board, city council, and so forth, would lSee Doctrine and Covenants, sections 20:65; 26:2; 28:13 for typical statements revealing the law of common consent as a binding procedure in Church government. LESSON DEPARTMENT you, as their neighbor, appreciate a declaration of their belief regarding "governments and laws in general?" 2. What would be the practical value, to this new church, of issuing such a statement? 3. What would be the practical value to you as an old, established inhabitant of the community, of such a statement? 4. Having answered questions 1-2-3, what are some of the practical values to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints of the "Declaration of Belief?" To the people of Utah? California? To the people of Ohio in 1835? To the governments of France, Switzerland, or Canada today? 5. What are some of the practical values the Declaration has for you as an individual today? 495 6. What are some of the principles of successful political, i. E. Community, life set forth in the Declaration? Do you agree that they are principles upon which a sound community life can be based? Obviously, the list embodied in the Declaration was not intended to be all-inclusive, even in 1835. Can the class think of any additional principles that could be added to the list? Could any items on the list printed in the lesson be omitted? Additional Projects: Assign individual members of the class to look up and report the content and meaning of the following terms: citizenship; inherent tights; sedition; rebellion; _ proselyte; Church and State. Have another member report on Doctrine and Covenants 20:65; 26:2; 18:13. <-- Optional lessons in Lieu of Social Sctence—The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) Tue Preswency A Unrr—THE THreE ARE ONE Preview of Lessons for 1949-50 T. Edgar Lyon URING our studies last year we learned of the activities of the five First Presidencies of the Church that served from 1833 to 1901. These studies should have taught us two fundamental concepts. The first is that in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with no professionally trained Priesthood, there is need for presiding quorums. In our studies we learned that the Lord had established the First Presidency of the Church as the Presidency of all of the Priesthood and Church members throughout the world. Functioning as a unit, the members of this Presidency have directed all the many different types of Church activities, both in times of stress and in times of peace. The second idea presented to us was that the Lord raised up men at the various stages of development and growth of the Church who were able to give the Church the leadership it needed at that particular time. We sing, "God moves in a mysterious way, his wonders to per- 496 form," and we see this made a reality in the study of the accomplishments of the various First Presidencies of the Church. So unified in purpose and devotion have the members of these Presidencies been, that it is almost impossible to designate or classify the accomplishments of an_individual member of a Presidency. Through counsel and co-operation, they have worked to accomplish those things that were needful for the welfare of the kingdom of God on earth. Unselfishly, each member of a Presidency has worked for the good of the whole Church, not for position, honor, or power for himself. No great man has ever achieved success entirely alone. He may be singled out for his accomplishments and his aides remain unnamed, but they were nevertheless important contributors to his success. So it is in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The President is recognized as the leader, but he leans heavily upon his counselors. It should, therefore, be remembered that although we speak of the administration of a President of the Church, we are aware of the great assistance rendered by the unnamed counselors in the First Presidency, without whose aid the President might have been seriously handicapped. The Lord has stood by and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 blessed those who have served in the First Presidencies of the Church. They have accomplished great things in the earth. Just as the early leaders were blessed, so have been those who followed them. Individuals selected to this presiding quorum since the beginning of this century have been equally blessed with those who preceded them. Each has filled his position with honor and efficiency. This year we shall study the administrations of Presidents Joseph F. Smith, Heber J. Grant, and George Albert Smith, and see how God utilizes mortals to accomplish his purposes. The following are the titles of the lessons for the coming year: Lesson 8. President Joseph F. Smith Lesson 9. The Counselors to President Joseph F. Smith Lesson 10. President Heber J. Grant Lesson 11. The Counselors to President Heber J. Grant Lesson 12. The Counselors to President Heber J. Grant (continued ) Lesson 13. President George Allbert Smith Lesson 14. Review of Two-Year Course — What grandeur of thought is suggested by the association of strong, majestic trees, by stupendous and lofty mountains.. The clinging tendrils of some luxuriant vine... What exquisite tenderness and gentleness by.. These lessons which nature teaches alike to all, open up avenues of thought that carry us backward to past ages and forward as far as the vision of the mind can extend. —Woman's Exponent, July 1857, page 31. LESSON DEPARTMENT 497 Lesson 8—President Joseph F. Smith (1901-1918) (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, October 25, 1949 Tue PrREsIpENcCY A Unir—TuHE Turee ArE ONE HEN the passing of President _ Lorenzo Snow disorganized the First Presidency in 1901, the man chosen to succeed him as President was well qualified for this highest calling. He was Joseph F. Smith, a son of Hyrum Smith, the martyred patriarch of the Church. He was born at Far West, Missouri, on November 13, 1838. He passed his early years in Nauvoo, Illinois, and remembered well the departure of his father and his uncle, the Prophet Joseph Smith, for Carthage, that fateful June day in 1844. After the exodus from Nauvoo in 1846, he remained at Winter Quarters, Nebraska, with his widowed mother until the spring of 1848. Then, being still in his ninth year, he drove an ox team across the prairies and mountains to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, arriving there in September. He participated in the usual hard work of pioneering in a new land, and had the tragic experience of losing his mother when only fourteen years of age. At the age of fifteen he was sent on a mission to the Hawaiian Islands (Sandwich Islands) which was the beginning of his active service in Church leadership. From that day until his death, sixty-five years later, he was almost constantly engaged in full-time service to the Church. He was ordained an apostle in PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH 1866 by Brigham Young and also as counselor to the First Presidency. In 1869, at a conference in Juab, Utah, Wilford Woodruff introduced Joseph F, Smith, and then said to the young people present: Look at him, children, for he resembles the Prophet Joseph more than any man living. He will become the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints (Wilford Woodruff, page 536). This prediction was ultimately realized, but not until many years later. During those years, however, he was an earnest worker in the Church. In the former lessons we learned that this man of unusual ability served as a counselor in the First Presidency to Presidents John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, and Lorenzo Snow. In this capacity he 498 traveled extensively throughout the wards and stakes of the Church and in the mission fields, giving counsel concerning temporal and spiritual matters, and exercising supervisory control over many phases of Church activity. When the First Presidency was reorganized in 1901, there thus came to its Presidency the first President born within the Church. We learned in the lessons last year of the serious financial condition which faced the Church in its pioneer period and later in the days of its long and intense struggle with the Federal Government concerning its political, civil, and religious rights. President Snow had already called upon the people to rededicate themselves to the temporal salvation of the Church, and had them pledge themselves to observe the law of tithing. President Joseph F. Smith had been closely associated with President Snow in this work, and continued to emphasize this teaching. It appeared to him that setting in order the temporal affairs of the Church was a most pressing need, and he gave of his strength and vigor to place it on a secure footing. So well did he succeed in this that, by 1907, he was able to announce that the bonded indebtedness of the Church had been paid off and the Church could meet its current obligations. Under his able leadership, the Church then commenced an extensive building program. Many ward chapels and stake tabernacles were built and mission homes and chapels in the mission fields were purchased or erected. President Smith was a man of great feeling and sentiment, and he turned his attention to the task of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 securing some of the locations that were closely connected with the eatly history of the Church. The old Smith homestead in Vermont-— the birthplace of the Prophet Joseph Smith—was acquired, and a great symbolic monument was erected there. Other sacred or historical shrines were acquired in New York, Missouri, and Illinois. The first hospital was erected by the Church in Salt Lake City—the forerunner of the large number that now dot Latter-day Saint communities. The beautiful Church Office Building was commenced in Salt Lake City and the Presiding Bishop's Building was completed to house the temporal offices of the Church and the rapidly expanding auxiliary organizations. Land was also acquired and dedicated for the temples in Hawaii and Canada. The Church school system was also expanded. President Smith had a broad vision of the destiny of the Church. He was aware that if the Church was to grow and increase in the earth so that it could fulfill its destiny, it must be firmly established not only in the hearts of its converts and members, but also in the eyes of non-members, His inspirational insight led him to see that the Church must acquire the respect of the world and become a dynamic force for righteous leadership and thereby "come forth out of obscurity and out of darkness," as the Lord had commanded that it should (D. & C. 1:30). President Smith declared: It has always been a cardinal teaching with the Latter-day Saints, that a religion that has not the power to save people temporally and make them prosperous and happy here, cannot be depended upon to save them spiritually and to exalt LESSON DEPARTMENT them in the life to come (Heart of Mormonism, page 158), In this statement he was reiterating the teachings that the Prophet Joseph Smith had given to his people in Missouri and later in Illinois. The Latter-day Saint, according to the first Prophet of this dispensation, is living in eternity each day of his life, just as much as any day that is to follow either after death or following the resurrection, Therefore, the temporal and the spiritual Phases of life cannot be separated, nor should an attempt be made to view them as distinct entities. The tremendous energy that President Smith exerted to accomplish these many achievements was strongly supported by those able men who stood by him as his counselors in the First Presidency. We shall learn of them in our lesson next month. President Smith's time was not all consumed with attention to the temporal well-being of the rapidly expanding Church. He gave to the Church an era of powerful spiritual leadership. In 1906, the saints of Europe tejoiced in the presence of President Smith. This was the first time the European Mission had been visited by a President of the Church while holding that office. As he traveled up and down the Church, visiting at conferences, Preaching in the annual and semiannual conferences, talking at funerals and public gatherings and writing short articles for the various Church publications, he set a pattern of great spirituality. Everywhere he went he bore testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ and the validity of his atoning sacrifice. 499 Many people had become so busily engaged in everyday activities that they and their children had commenced to lose sight of the fact that one cannot work out his salvation alone for, without the atonement, one's efforts would be futile. Presjdent Smith devoted much of his spiritual teachings to calling this essential doctrine to Church members' attention. Another item of great importance for which the Church js indebted to him relates to his knowledge and statements concerning the work and character of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum, who was President Smith's father. He never tired of bearing testimony of the divinity of Joseph Smith's work. His personal Teminiscences of his father and martyred uncle also held his audiences in tapt attention. The accounts he related of the Prophet's humanity, his forgiving spirit, his sense of humor, his utter devotion to the cause of the Lord and his unselfishness, are among the literary treasures of the Church. It is related that sometime before his death he made the observation that, unlike some of his predecessors in the First Presidency, when he passed into the hereafter he would leave behind no written volume of theological expositions, no scriptural contributions or no poetic literature or hymnology. Some of those who heard this questioned that his life had been so devoid of literary productiveness, and they set themselves to the task of gathering his spoken and printed works. To their astonishment they found a vast amount of material and from this selected and arranged the volume 500 50% Wool Batt 72 x 90-inch $1.79 Blend of soft. Long-fibered wool and fluffy cotton, makes up into lovely comforters. Sane FEA CLASS LEADERS here are your reference texts... Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman $2.25 Dr. G. Homer Durham Life of Joseph F. Smith..........$2.50 Joseph Fielding Smith Gospel Kingdom John Taylor Presidents of the Church......$3.25 Compiled by Preston Nibley Essentials in Church History..$2.75 Joseph Fielding Smith BOOKCRAFT 1186 So. Main Salt Lake City 4, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 known as Gospel Doctrine. This book is highly prized by Church members and is a printed testimony of the spiritual strength and leadership of President Smith. A study of the topical arrangement of this book indicates that he not only preached doctrines that dealt with the more formal phases of religion, but that he had a deep understanding of the intimate needs of people. He spoke of love, courtship, marriage, family life, rearing of children, training in habits of good living, character development, the evils of divorce and unchastity, the need to preach the gospel by example as well as by precept, generosity, forgiveness, and many other subjects. 'These he related to daily gospel living. Not only did he preach on these subjects, but he manifested the realization of them in his own daily living and in the lives of his family. There are many people alive today who can still bear testimony of acts he performed which exemplified these qualities. He loved his family and stressed the responsibility of parents to win the love, confidence, and admiration of their children. When he met members of his family on the street, in a public gathering or in any other place he embraced and kissed them. Children were to him, as Jesus said, akin to the kingdom of heaven and he loved them all, his own and others too. It is related that at one time during an important meeting with business men from the eastern part of the United States, the door opened and a little child walked into the office. President Smith took the child on his lap and talked to it in sub- LESSON DEPARTMENT dued tones, kissed and held it until it desired to slip to the floor and leave the room. 'The eastern visitors were astonished. They asked if it were his youngest child. He replied that it wasn't his. He did not know whose child it was. It had apparently come with its mother to the Church office, and wandered away from her while she was busy. A man of his greatness was not above the humility to manifest love and kindness toward one of God's little ones, even though a stranger to him. During a portion of President Smith's life he was the subject of vicious opposition by anti-Mormon papers. He was lied about, maliciously cartooned and _ slandered, | and his family ridiculed. Through this era he manifested a Christ-like attitude of self-control and forgiveness. Before he died most of his former opponents who had once bitterly maligned him had come to know his great integrity and value to the community and the Church. At his death many of those who once abused him paid him eulogistic tributes. President Joseph F. Smith's administration came to an end with his death on November 19, 1918. His life span had seen the Church grow from the days of a comparative- |, ly small membership in Missouri | and a few scattered saints in other | parts of the world, to great num- | The Church had come forth bers. Out of obscurity into a great organization, dedicated to the eternal sal- | President Smith, | DESERET NEWS PRESS vation of man. Through his long years of service in the First Presidency, contributed greatly to the advancement of the Church. 501 "Know Your Utahns" Listen to Golden Memevery Sunday 9:45 a. M. On Station KDYL. And read about them in Sunday "Desories eret News." * Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 No. Main Salt Lake City AUTAGUAOLVOGDOTUDGADELSULGDDUDDSDULSTORUALDURNOUISONNCUCSOOUDSOUEOUUEOONCOCCUREOOTEEGORTOREOCUSER OBS ECEr Professional ave Seal "se tionery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah OCUELULULECU LECCE COE CRUG LUO CURL OL EULo 502 QD LDVLIVAP OVID LD LO VAP OLP LPS LADIES 3 PART SECULAR CHORAL MUSIC Especially Selected for Ninging Mothers Dear Land of Home—Sibelius......15 God Bless America—Berlin..........20 The Green Cathedral—Hahn _........._.18 I Heard a Forest Praying—De Rose.20 1 Love a Little Cottage—O'Hara....15 Land of Hope and Glory—Elgar....15 The Little Old Garden—Hewitt...15 Lullaby and Good Night—Brahms.._.10 One Fleeting Hour—Lee...............15 A Song Remembered—Coates......20 The Sweetest Story Ever Told— Stults 10 To a Wild Rose—MacDowell —......12 Write for information on music for all types of L. D. S. Choral groups. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We pay postage. We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records. FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY Daynes SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAN PROUD OOD LPL PLP LDAP VLDL Vt RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 Topics for Discussion and Study 1. How do you account for the stress President Smith placed on the eternity of the family relationship? 2. Name some dominant ideas which characterized the teachings of Joseph F, Smith? 3. If the Life of Joseph F. Smith (pp. 441, 442) is available, relate some of the incidents that show his kindness toward children. 4. What constitutes an ideal Latter-day Saint home, according to President Smith? (Read Gospel Doctrine, pp. 378-380). 5. Make a list of some of the outstanding achievements during the administration of President Smith. References Roberts, B. H., Comprehensive History of the Church, VI:368-388; 418-421; 433, 434, and 476-478. Smith, Joseph F., Gospel Doctrine, especially pp. 341-399 and 538-603. Smith, Joseph Fielding, Life of Joseph F. Smith. Smith, Joseph Fielding, Essentials in Church History, pp. 623-625 and 631-637. <_< Upon the Bluebird s Wing Margaret B. Shomaker When I see beauty all around I feel it with an inner sound. It lies upon the bluebird's wing Or on the lowly crawling thing; It hides in brown seeds that we sow, Life's secret deep in embryo; And in the tiny buds I see New beauty on the barest tree; And when the clouds are all compact I see new loveliness imtact. When I see beauty all around I feel it with an inner sound. Auerbach's Makes It Easy For You To Knit Yourself A Dress Knitting is an easy and fascinating hobby. Auerbach's gives FREE knitting lessons with all yarn purchased. Minerva Yarns MONTEREY, all wool knubby-yarn ere Peer... Ie....80c ounce VELVEEN, 71% wool, 29% rayon, shiny rayon thread.....80¢ ounce Cost of handknit dress pictured..$21 Minerva pattern book containing a marvelous collection of dress patTEMS 22222. Ee eee eee eee eee eee eee.25¢ ART NEEDLEWORK AUERBACH'S FOURTH FLOOR Hhaeladfs Auerbach's, State and Broadway Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me book..25c. Please send me.............-...... Ounces of Minerva Velveen or Monterey Yarn. Color.2....2...0....22-.22-s--ccenseneneeeeeeeeneeeeees NOMe o. Oo eeeeeeeeeceeecececeeecccecececenncececsencececceccseeceesscnseeeeeeseensseeeeresecee AddreSS............2.000..0.2-ccceee conse eeeceeeeeeeneoeeeeeeee City........-. E eee Side) ee. Please add 25 cents to cover mailing and insurance. Utahns, please add 2% sales tax. ties, refer agazine for ebruary; Deone R, Sutherland, author of "Th Jumpher Family," Now lives in Salt Lake City, 4 busy Young wife and ther, she has Many other interests, including dr, Matics and Writing, A note giving further Information about Deo € and her work Ppears on Page 576 of the M4 gazine for € he d the Magazine with me as [ hope to Continue. It ig 4M Inspiration always, —Zarg Sabin, Bountiful, Utah Want to miss the °PPortunity to thank You very much for the same, Steat joy over the SPiritua] food and the Wonderfy] Contents to uplift our lives, We May be Preached with. N ame, with its happiness and aS Dlesseq us times we are Short of €verything, yet we have Not suf. Ion, g We are gratefy] for —Annga Mordas, Poland at family stil] living, Ur years old. There Is no Magazine that I prize any more than iful Relief Society Magazine. —Alice Keeler Hatch, Mant, Utah T have oved from San Bruno and live aWay in the Mountains, [ enjoy The Relief Oclety Magazine, and out here, away Tom here, | can follow the les. Sons, and [ Seem to be with al] my friends at the meetings, —Annie S. W. Gould, Hayfork, Califomig Keliof Society | ail Sarvillies Taine TEXT BOOK "The Literature of England" by Woods, Watt and Anderson (Third Edition) $ 450 PER COPY by mail, $4.75. AVAILABLE NOW we DESERET BOOK COMPANY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City 10, Utah JUNE A Beneficial Life Insurance Policy is your Declaration of Financial Independence for you and your family. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE (CO. Home Office Beneficial Life Building _ Salt Lake City 1, Utah George Albert Smith, President THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 36 AUGUST, 1949 No. 8 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Tasks of Modern Citizenship G. Homer Durham 507 Relief Society Building News. 512 Rugmaking in the New England Mission S. Dilworth Young 519 What The Relief Society Magazine Means to Me Alice Morrey Bailey 527 Suggestions for a Work Meeting Luncheon Christine Eaton 54] FICTION Music in the Home Norma Wrathall 513 The Jumpher Family: Part I]—Randy Deone R. Sutherland 522 Words and Music = Bernice Brown 529 Joanna—Chapter 8: Margery S. Stewart 537 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago:: 530 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 531 Editorial: Television in the Home Marianne C. Sharp 532 Notes to the Field: Relief Society Handbook of Instructions Ready for Distribution................ Duplicate Lists of Contributors to Relief Society Building Fund............. 533 Notes From the Field General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 544 From Near and Far wecceccccccssccsssccccesescsesecsseseseeeceveceveceveeevaeesseneeeeeees. 576 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Table Settings and Flower Arrangements Mary Grant Judd 534 Glamour Weeds Frances Aveson Wiscomb 534 A Circus is Always Fur ooccccccccccccccsccssscssccecesssoeeeseeeees Rachel K. Laurgaard 542 Theology: ''Our Lord's Ministry in Perea and Judea' Don_B. Colton 550 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''Behold, I Stand at the Door and Knock"........ Mary Grant Judd 555 Work Meeting—Sewing: Layettes and Baby Sewing 0... Jean Ridges Jennings 556 Literature: Legends of Chivalry Briant S. Jacobs 558 ocial Science: The Significance of the Declaration of. Belief —................. G. Homer Durham 563 Optional Lessons: The Counselors to President Joseph F. Smith......... Cc.. Ccccssescom--T. Edgar Lyon 568 POETRY Sand and Flame—Frontispiece -Anna Prince Redd 505 Immortality Jessie M. Robinson 511 More at Peace onan eee eececcseseccsccneeeeenneeeens Christie Lund Coles 512 Getting Acquainted...... Ee eeMary Rigby 521 re Nebo—at Nephi eet ee eeeGeorgia Moore Eberling 526 nphitheater ow. I.. Ora Lee Parthesius 526 Wisteria Blossoms occ Grace Sayre 536 pong ice Deep Summer oie cccccccccecceeteeceeeeeceeeeeeeeeee Dorothy J. Roberts 543 3 we ing Bic ne nn eeEdna S. Dustin 543 Bina arm Blues.; a Wanda Green Nielson 557 = pa".:; seaseseene aJo Adelaide Stock 573 oem for a Washday —_ - Miranda Snow Walton 574 =. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY iditorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1 tah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subseription Price: $1.50 as foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied, Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Aet of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned uniess return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Sand and Slame Anna Prince Redd Twilight, dark above the desert, Banks the embers of the sun, Close against the sand dunes Now the tawny day is done; Spikes them sharply down arroyos, Spreads them hot and furnace bright Over beds of twisted lava, Where they smoulder through the night. Lizards, shadowless as shadows, Lie with round, unlidded eyes, Watchful of the tufted hummock Where the hidden rattler lies. Darkness falls; the night begets Fantastic shapes with ghostly arms, Weird and lonely silhouettes, A frenzied breed with human forms. Coolness comes. Light-winged as moth, The heavy yucca scent is thinned; The desert sands lie still and wait Tomorrow's resurrection wind. The Cover: "Eardrops for My Lady," Photograph by Josef Muench VOL. 36, NO. 8 AUGUST 1949 Willard Luce BEAR RIVER, UTAH The Tasks of Modern Citizenship Dr. G. Homer Durham Head of Political Science Department, University of Utah Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's (Matthew 22:21), HE incident calling forth this statement of Jesus may be forgotten. But the force of the message involved carries down to modern times, What things shall be tendered unto Caesar? What loyalties? What demands may modern government make upon the individual in the name of the State? What things are due only to God? Conversely, what are the tights of the individual, if any, in the State? In the Church? What demands may the Church Properly make upon the individual, with what methods? Should religious organizations, the' churches, set the example for modern governments in dealings with the individual? Men would agree that an ideal Teligious institution should properly set the example, not only by precept, but by living institutional Practice. The eleventh article of faith declares: We claim the Privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same Privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may. The twelfth article of faith says: We, believe in being subject to kings, Presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law. The Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General (D. & C. 134:2) suggests that the following human tights should be held inviolate: 1. The free exercise of conscience 2. The control of property 3- The right to life These doctrines require respect for God and Church, for the State and government, and also for the individual. The worth of the individual soul and its free agency receive the highest of all values in the gospel. As God tespects the tights of man and "will force no man to heaven," so the restored Church claims no prerogatives of social action over the minds or bodies of men. The Declaration on Governments and Laws TeServes to the Church a single sanction or enforcement power—the power of excommunication, And as Thomas Jefferson once wrote, such action "neither picks my pocket nor bites my leg"—although serious social, economic, and physical consequences may follow spiritual loss. Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants says "Amen to the priesthood or the authority" of any man who undertakes to exer. Cise unrighteous dominion over the souls of men. The Church, in. Its Own 'government, not only respects the individual tights and testimony of the membership, but in applying tules of Church discipline and govPage 507 508 ernment, utilizes the doctrine of common consent as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. (See D. & C. 20:65, 67, 81-82; 26:2; 28: 10-13; 41:2; 107:12, 27, 32, 82-84.) Thus, properly developed, the restored Church respects the individual rights of man, individually, and collectively. Although the Priesthood is restored and could function as Priesthood, the Church as a Church, moder revelation makes clear, cannot function as a church without the law of common consent and the free, voluntary support of its members. This doctrine provides an excellent example and parallel for the tasks of modern citizenship. For, without individual rights, there could be no effective citizenship. A_ totalitarian church could not qualify as the true church, respecting the free agency of man. Similarly, a totalitarian State substitutes abject obedience and slavish consent for intelligent, active citizenship. The probation of man, the gospel plan, requires freedom of conscience as the basis of both Church membership and citizenship. The Lord's respect for the things of Caesar is only another way of indicating his divine respect for the free agency of man as a fundamental truth. HAT shall be rendered unto Caesar? Can Caesar command anything? And then, must we obey? 'The answer is that the State cannot, if the rights of man are respected, require men to do anything and everything. The tights of individual freedom of conscience, property, and life should RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 be held inviolate by the State. Beyond this, with the implication that governments rest on the consent of the governed, we are obligated to obey the laws of the land —provided (D. & C. 134:5) that they meet two tests: (1) conformance to the public interest; (2) respect for, and holding sacred, the freedom of conscience. The tasks of modern citizenship involve, therefore, two fundamental considerations: First, the citizen must have sufficient discernment to understand the true sphere of the State. He must see that governmental activity always respects freedom of conscience and meets the public interest. Lawmaking, or any political activity, contrary to freedom of conscience, for any child of God, should be opposed. This is a citizenship task of preventive, negative character. 'The second, or positive aspect, is to see that laws are framed and administered "for the good and safety of society" (D. & C. 134:1). This positive, affirmative aspect leads to a related major task of modern citizenship, namely, "obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." In order to influence and positively use freedom of conscience, we must learn our rights and duties as citizens. President John Taylor taught that it was as important for us to study political principles as to study religion, "to know and comprehend the social and political interests of man, and to learn and be able to teach that which would be best calculated to promote the interests of the world" (The Gospel Kingdom, pp. 297-298). THE TASKS OF MODERN CITIZENSHIP How might this be done by a member of Relief Society? Membership of the Relief Society is international. The following retferences to American practice, therefore, though local, are typical of practices in other nations. First, it is the duty of a member of the Relief Society, if pos: sible, to qualify as a voter. In the American states the qualifications vary from state to state. In Utah the basic requirements include age, residence, and registration. One must be twenty-one years of age or upwards, have been a citizen of the land for at least ninety days preceding the election, have resided in Utah for one year, in the county four months, and in the precinct sixty days. Property qualifications are expressly forbidden by Article IV, Section 8, of the Utah Constitution. Many people fail to qualify as voters, usually by failing to register. Then many fail to exercise their franchise on election day. In the Salt Lake City municipal elections as few as twenty per cent of the voters sometimes participate. This means that a mayor and city commission may be elected by an organized minority of as few as ten per cent of the qualified voters! In general Presidential elections, Utah leads the forty-eight American states in the percentage of qualified voters who go to the polls, around eighty per cent. But in municipal affairs, school board, and other by-elections, interest often lags. This often means great power for those groups which have the foresight and initiative to orThe | 509 ganize behind the candidates of their choice. Secondly, after qualifying and participating as a regular voter, an active citizen needs to consider the question: "How can I influence the nomination of persons seeking election?" It is one thing to go to the polls. It is another thing to determine whose names get on the ballot in the first place! In states having the direct primary and a simple filing system, as few as five people can nominate a person for public office. In other cases, a simple designation of candidacy by a single individual does the work, providing a filing fee is paid. In Utah the filing fee is onefourth of one per cent of the total term-salary of the office sought. Thus the filing fee for the United States Senate is $187.50, for Congressmen, $62.50, for Governor, $75, for a member of the State Legislature, $5. HERE are many ways to influence the nomination of officers. The oldest, perhaps most certain, and most influential in the long run, is to actively affiliate with one of the major political parties in your community. Someone has to decide who runs for office. Fundamentally, this is the work of the political party. But friendly groups can also wield a strong influence. Organization is the keynote to success in all political activity. 'This leads to a third suggestion. In many communities, outstanding women have formed non-partisan or bi-partisan civic councils. In Utah, for example, we find the Women's Legislative Council, and Perhaps women's Suffrage wil] never work "g Tevolution," Perhaps it should not be expected to do so, ut, nevertheless as the 'home, without the Relief Society, S0, too, it is clear that the Political com. Seeking necessary Changes and In securing —_ public Improvements. This is g Political worig and we live in 4 peculiarly Politica] age. The Prophet Joseph Smith saidIt is our duty to concentrate all our in. More members of the Relief Sofluence to make popular that which jg ciety, whether Republicans or DemSound and good, and "nPopular that which Ocrats; as wel] as other rightls unsound, "Tis night, Politically, for 4 man Otis women everywhere, should Who has Influence to use it. |. Joseph.. Smith: Prophet-Statesman, Page 105), Woman Suffrage has been justified, among other T€asons, in the ommenting, a leading American degree, every _ modern woman we on public questions, What,. For og nha 2, PE aes es volved in of the family tells them, many 60 to the gestions May be mentioned here. 510 This has not text has this to say; very different from vigant and intelligent, many are unin RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE—Augusy 1949 been tealized, ized Politica] activity of desired should attempt to keep informed voters. Some are the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949? 1€ search for information on THE TASKS OF MODERN CITIZENSHIP OULD you like to know the requirements and procedures for voting and holding office in your state? Stance, a letter to. The-secretary of state at your state capitol will bring you a voter's handbook, a copy of the state election and suffrage laws, — or some other convenient pamphlet. Your state university, in nearly every instance, has bulletins which will be of some service. National, state, and local headquarters of the major political parties can always provide applicants with materials. If no other address is known, one may write the "Democratic National Committee," or, "The Republican National Committee," Washington, D. C. The above information is putely technical, and once learned, has little value except for ready reference. Do you read a daily newspaper? If so, what in it do you read? 'The news of public policy, as well as the comics, the women's page, and the dollar-day advertisements? 'Ten minutes each day with the front pages will keep you informed about the United. Nations, foreign policies, national, state, and home affairs. Always "wade through" important documents, like the text of the North In nearly every into "Is'selecting a radio news broadcast- 511 Atlantic Treaty, a presidential message, an important speech. Then you can make up your own mind as to its worth. Also recommended er of your choice, not the editorializing, sermonizing variety (although they have their own uses), but one of the factual, concise, type. What comes in the news may affect your pocketbook and your children's happiness. It will pay you to listen to a good newscast regularly. Our Church maintains, in the Intermountain Region, one of the finest daily newspapers and one of the best radio services in the world. They are worthy of our patronage as we seek for information and pursue the tasks of citizenship. Moreover, our Church magazines increasingly are giving space to questions and discussions of modern factual problems. Usually, too, they contain a basis for evaluation and critical judgment of the issues of the day. If we are to be saved as fast as we gain knowledge, we will need to include knowledge pertinent to the tasks of citizenship. May we all be good citizens and make worthy use of our nghts to free conscience, property, and life in the modern world! [This article may be used as supplementary material for social science lesson 5, February 1950, which will be published in the Magazine November 1949—Ed.] — i o — Immortality Jessie M. Robinson Light comes from distant worlds, And air vibrates with sound. With faith, I too, shall find A far-off place, where light And sound abound. Relief Society Building Tews HE names of the following missions and branches in missions have not previously been published in The Relief Society Magazine as having completed their Building Fund quotas: Norwegian Mission Swiss-Austrian Mission Aalesund Branch, Norwegian Mission Larvik Branch, Norwegian Mission Arendal Branch, Norwegian Mission Luzern Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission Basel Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission Moss Branch, Norwegian Mission Bergen Branch, Norwegian Mission Narvik Branch, Norwegian Mission Bern Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission Olten Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission Biel Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission Oslo Branch, Norwegian Mission Burgdorf Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission Pratteln Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission Chur Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission Salzburg Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission Drammen Branch, Norwegian Mission Solothum Branch, Swiss-Austrian Frankenburg Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission Mission Stavanger Branch, Norwegian Mission Fredrikstad Branch, Norwegian Mission Trondheim Branch, Norwegian Mission Haag Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission Halden Branch, Norwegian Mission Haugesund Branch, Norwegian Mission Tonsberg Branch, Norwegian Mission Wien Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission Horten Branch, Norwegian Mission Winterthur Branch, Swiss-Austrian Interlaken Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission. Mission Zurich Branch, Swiss-Austrian Mission <_< lTlore at Peace Christie Lund Coles I shall go out beneath the sky, Shall walk with winds, hear song of birds, I shall come back more wise and more at peace Than from multitudinous words. Page 512 Music in the Home Norma Wrathall 66 HAT boy! Tooting that horn again!" muttered Mrs. Finley, as she jerked the west living-room window shut with a bang. "If his folks can stand it, that's their business, but as for me—well—!" She switched into the kitchen, her round face glowing with more heat than had arisen from the cook stove. Mr. Finley sat by the kitchen table, finishing his good hot dinner preparatory to going on afternoon shift. Mrs. Finley addressed the newspaper that was propped up in front of him. "I'll declare to goodness, T''ve had enough of music to last me for a long, long time. And to cap the climax, the other day Professor Ernesto sent me a card, saying that I had been honored by receiving the appointment of head of the summer band committee." She opened the oven and, in spite of her agitation, gently removed a cake, leaving the oven door open. "Again! After three summers of it. Going from house to house, enlisting students, and then checking up on the ones who don't show up for practice, getting dates for programs, worrying about uniforms, worrying about funds. Well, I'm not doing it again. For once, I'll be firm with him. I'll say, Now that my older children are out of school, and I have no one taking lessons, I find that my interests are along other Jines—something like that, I'll say. Doesn't that practicing bother you, Pa?" Mr. Finley had momentarily emerged from his newspaper, and was placing his shoes on the oven door, "What—oh, you mean that Peterson kid? No, never even notice it. Ought to be used to it by this time. So ought you, Clara. Your own kids practiced enough. Jerry on his sax, Ida with her violin, and Ruthie on the piano. Seemed like Ruthie made the most noise." Mr. Finley was a mild little man, a steady worker, a good provider, who had long since left the details of the family's education to his wife. "That was because Ruthie had to practice in the living room all the time." Mrs. Finley sighed, and went on clearing the table. "Yes, but our children had some talent for music, if I do say so. | remember the last time Ida played in Professor Emesto's recital, every note in perfect tune, and such beautiful expression! Ruthie accompanied her at the piano! It was lovely, and you'd never have guessed how they'd fought while they were practicing together.". Mrs. Finley wiped her eyes furtively on an apron corer. "But, as I've said before, you g° through all that, and what happens? The girls get married, and Jerry goes away to medical school, and leaves his sax in the basement. So—my nerves the way they've been lately, I'm just as glad that Carl shows no talent whatever. All he's interested in ls rabbits, oF pigeons, and_ baseball." Page 513 514 RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE _augysr 1949 She was Speaking of their youngest, Paper, put on his warm Shoes and a Student at Eastlake Junior High, Picked UP his lunch bucket, "Did t. Finley hag finished teading Cay] €ver get Measured for his new the editorial] Page, and was hurrying suit?" 0 finish hj Pie. His only response "No, he Idn't that's. An. O his wife' Marks was an indis other thing," Teplied Mrs Finle tinct Mumb] "I ordered t tw ks ago, and every afternoon after Schoo] J'y, as she dj 80, taking bites Over the a Ways has € excuse, and sink. She Was small, and Neat, and next thin » he's Over to Pet. Plump, and 'Y Movement wag ""0ns with Amie Precise and ustling, as she moved aybe he's Pent some of his aout the kitchen with short, quick money kid tha 48¢, who works Steps. She was telling herself, as hard g Carl delivering pa Course, if Caz] had any talent, Why, PErs every Horning —wel] you couldnaturally she'd Jet him take lessons nt blame him jg he spent some of and loud in the Kitchen. He will take better Care of his It had been Worth it, worth Countclothes " or | met tWo-and-three-an" for Work; but she Was Pleoccupied, In her dreams, -— She had to hurry to frost the cake, had been Worth sitting at the because she had to attend g ParentPiano Playing "Ccompanimen ts for Teacher Officers meeting gt four ' ad been Proud of them, too, Tt, doesn't he? J Was 80ing to ask very one had become 1 good PlayYou if you'g send Car] home now, t Was a relief I'm Sing out, and I want him to— a € Peter. WEIe several Shades Pinker as she Son, next door, Started taking leshung u Sons on the Sax, She had h Ss. Mr. Finley suddenly folded his "Gladly_j, 4n undertone. igh schoo] Some Imes, she Wished son " Her Ones beca € more at she wa » With nothing to formal, y, bering heir Conversa OMO8E £0 tompoy cvely day, year in tion of th fternoon, « hat will be and year out. It had been Very annice, for Arnie to play tomorrow noying when Professor Ernesto night, Oh, that's too bad. | - yes, Phoned tha Morning, "specially you May, if I can find it." considering his earlier Message about She limped toward the bedroom, the ban Committee. It seemed Changed her dress, ang Came back for the P. T. A, meeting the very next "Carty Car-ul!" evening had disappointeg him at Presently, he ambleg in through Inute, "P or.: SO much experience With music. And bits ate out again. Now, I know ee: > em." Is smooth brow, unmarred drifted in through the open window, by the freckles which covered the So Mrs, Finley sUegested that Arnie lower Patt of his face, Puckered with Play g 'Solo. The Professor was annoyance. Dubious, bye Mrs, Finley saig that "Carl, dig You go to the tailoy'so" the | students should have first "Well, no, Mother. Not today, | Chance, shouldn't they? Besides, she didn't haye time." Rearly dusk, bit that didn' matter, when he's Practicing, Tp the future or when vey Was on after. F-don' ant ° 80 over there the. Tulips, The phone Was Tinging. 0, you haven't, Now let's get € house wags unlighted, and she this other business decided, Tomorstumbled: over Carl's: bat and bal] Tow, I'll go with - you, Tight after 516 school, and we'll get your suit measured, so it will be sure to be finished in time for the school's closing exercises in May." "Look, Mother, why don't I get a ready-made suit? It'll be cheaper, and no bother." "T explained it to you before." Mrs. Finley's voice bore an edge of patience. "I want you to have a tailored one, because this man knows how to make it so it can be let out in the fall, in case you grow. Which of course you will. And it will look better." But he had already slipped out the door, muttering about the rabbits. Mrs. Finley sighed. She moved the soup to the back of the stove, and went down into the basement. Sometimes, it was hard to get a boy that age to do things when you wanted him to. Mrs. Finley was quite sure she had put Jerry's sax in the small enclosure back of the water pipes, where she had put her empty fruit jars. Although the basement was tight, Mrs. Finley always suspected such corners of harboring mice. She screained at the sudden rustling back of her. "When'll supper be ready?" "Scare a person to death! It's ready now. Carl, have you seen anything of Jerry's sax? Mrs. Peterson wants to borrow the reed, because Amie has broken his, and has to play tomorrow night. I can't imagine where it could be, unless someone has borrowed it in my absence." She brushed the dust from her apron. Carl started suddenly toward the stairs. "Why would I know where it is? Anyhow, Arnie was practicing all tight this afternoon." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 He went so quickly to the bathroom to wash that his mother wondered fleetingly if he had been up to something. Well, she would just have to call Mrs. Peterson and explain. Surely Professor Ernesto would have an extra reed around. N the following afternoon, Carl disappeared for several hours, and didn't come home until supper time. But Mrs. Finley was so busy getting her husband off to work, pressing her dress, and finishing her notes for the little speech she had to make that night, that she decided she wouldn't have time to go to the tailor's, anyway. It could wait one more day. On the other hand, Carl might have gone by himself, although it seemed unlikely. That evening, she called for Mrs. Peterson. Mr. Peterson, it seemed, had a committee meeting of some sort. Usually a calm, reserved woman, Mrs. Peterson's sallow face was tense with a strange irritability. She was tall and angular, and her long legs took such strides that Mrs. Finley, puffing along beside her, kept explaining that they had plenty of time. "It was good of you to let Arnie play his solo on such short notice," she began breathlessly, by way ot pouring oil on troubled waters. "Oh, Arnie isn't playing a solo," Mrs. Peterson flung back over her shoulder. "He's to play a duet, with another boy. And this other: boy didn't show up to practice this afternoon. So I don't know...." "Don't worry about it," panted Mrs. Finley, kindly, "Arnie will be sure to know his part. He practices so faithfully." "Well, part of the time it's this MUSIC IN THE HOME other kid there practicing. Sometimes, I think I'll go crazy. Neither of them can play worth anything." Mrs. Peterson spoke bitterly, her pace increasing with her annoyance. Mrs. Finley said, "I know just how you feel. I never did think a saxophone was human. You'd think this other boy would practice in his own home, though. Not bother you." Mrs. Peterson strode along for a moment of silence. "You would think so, wouldn't you?" she replied presently. A little breeze had come up. Between keeping her hair tucked under her hat at the side, and keeping up with Mrs. Peterson, Mrs. Finley had no breath for conversation until they were comfortably seated in the auditorium. Then Mrs. Finley made cheerful remarks about things in general. But Mrs. Peterson kept her lip in a thin line, and had little to say. The only trouble about sitting by Mrs. Peterson was that she kept nudging you whenever something happened, and her elbow was so bony. Suddenly, she nudged Mrs. Finley. "There comes Professor Ernesto. Don't let on that I said those kids didn't practice this afternoon. I only wish I could help them, it sounds so.... Oh, good evening, Professor." Mrs. Finley thought that the professors thin shoulders, under his pepper-and-salt suit, were even more hunched and tired than usual. But he wore an affable smile. "So glad Arnie could play tonight, Mrs. Peterson. It will give the boy such valuable experience. And he's improving! Yes he's improving. And you, Mrs. Finley, you have such 517 a talented family, Do you think Carl has the musical ability of your other children? Sometimes I think the boys enjoy all that blowing, even if it doesn't seem to make music. It sort of relieves their feelings." "Why, yes, I suppose so," said Mrs. Finley, looking a little annoyed. "Of course, Carl isn't much interested in it. He likes...." She fell silent under Mrs. Peterson's prodding, as the professor moved away. HE musical part of the program was ready to begin. The business meeting would come later, so that the students could go home. Mrs. Finley began quietly sorting the cards on which her notes were written, so that she would not lose her place in the speech she had to give later on. She was only half listening to the program, although she applauded each number enthusiastically. As the last number was announced, there was a little commotion at the back of the stage. She looked up absently. Mrs. Peterson dug mercilessly into her side. Then the room seemed to swim before her eyes. There on the platform, ready to play, were Arnie Peterson and this other boy. And this other boy was Carl, clad in his school cords and a polo shirt, and even now raising Jerty's sax to his lips and puffing out his cheeks. The professor, at the piano, played the opening measures and smiled encouragement. The halting strains of "Swanee River," slightly off key, floated out over the restless audience. "Oh, dear, to think he didn't even 518 get cleaned up," thought Mrs. Finhe had them last, so people would not be listening too I should have told you, I thought poor Mss. How, she made her way to the front Carl looked up, 4 wide grin split kles. "Gee, Mother, you mean, you liked it? I just wanted to Mrs. Finley leaned against the piano. "Yes, very: Professor Emesto hurried UPp- "Qh, you mean Carl was to play °. A boy, wanting to surprise his moth- "? Mrs. Finley said to Carl, "Did you use some of yout money fot lessons? Is that why you didn't order your suit? Why in the world?. -- Well, T'll give you some money, tomor row." "Don't worry, Mother. Til have the money. I sold my rabbits. Ag geons are less bother, anyway." Her throat constricted at the sacrifice. "Oh, Carl you shouldn't have. Carl's placid face bore no signs of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 Mrs. } the professor, after a moment, "Professor, yOu make me feel ashamed. When I think of all the practicing you have listened to—l, well, 1 don't know what to Say, only that I want Carl to keep on taking lessons. He needs all the help he can get." The professor beamed at her and went on with his work away the music. She stood there @ moment. She looked at his thinning gray hair, and at the long, sensitive fingers sorting the music. I who had made the countless wrinkles toll of the promise of his youth. It was their lack of consideration, the jangle of wrong, notes they played, flats falling willynilly from hapless fingetswas grinning. At our place. Ou're gonna be head of the band committee again. Can I have 4 uniAmie's mother can't play, _ Finley nodded mutely- "As. The boys walked on out of the audii prepared to face het audience, but Professor Ernesto's words kept ringing im her ears, "Ah, music in theshome. - 2" Unconsciously, she straightened her shoulders, bracing herself. Rugmaking in the New England Mission President S. Dilworth Young Member, First Council of Seventy President, New England Mission AVE you ever hooked a rug? Don't sniff! Rug hooking is not 'the lost art of the pioneers—a makeshift, used only until the railroads could arrive with the cheaper woven articles. It is something else. It is an art that every woman can easily learn, in which she can express her artistic inhibitions, use up old scraps—of no. Use for anything else, create articles of varied use for the home, and sell the products of her skill for sums of money to. Purchase personal finery, or a new suit for little Jimmy. -A group of women working in a Relief Society will always have several souls of the right temperament to turn out articles for the annual bazaar which will be one of the most profitable sources of income imaginable. — There are hooked rags, and then. There are hooked rugs.. Sometime ago, Sister Young and I stopped at 4 fisherman's cottage on the south shore of Nova Scotia. Mrs. Murphy lives there, and could hook rugs, we 'were told. So we went in. Mrs. Murphy was a delightful lady of Scotch descent with the "burr" still in her inflection. She showed us _ the rugs she was making, the homemade frame on which was stretched the burlap back which formed the base of the rug, and a finished rug, which looked "right nice." Would she sell the rug? No, this was not tapestry. For sale. It was made by "Grammy." Grammy died last year, and this is all that she left to be remembered by. She was a "good hooker," was Grammy. 'Thus was the supreme compliment paid to one, old and dear, who had gone on before. She was a "good hooker." Later, at Cheticamp on Cape Breton Island, we entered a little shop conducted by a French woman. Hanging on the walls were rugs depicting scenes in the island, executed with such refinement. That they seemed finer than old world Inquiry revealed that these were hooked rugs, only, instead of cloth being used, wool yarn was the medium. As we journeyed about in 'the Canadian portion of the mission, we inquired among the country folk for the people who were rug experts. We couldn't find them. On'Prince Edward Island in a little fishing village, there is a general store at which we managed to buy a hook. The cost wasn't much, thirty cents, orso, but the storekeeper said that it-was machine-made and wasn't as good as those made by hand by Angus McDonald. Angus was a farmer, so we went out to his farm,. The quaint buildings were neat and clean and the wife of Angus was obliging, but Angus had been sick, hadn't made any hooks for a long time, and at the present moment was out on the Page 519 520 Banks of Newfoundland on a fishing cruise. All of these excursions among the simple folk of the countryside made us all the more anxious to introduce this age-old craft for the use of the mission Relief Society. Examples of hooked rugs, created for sale to tourists, hung on clotheslines handy to the road. Most of these were far from artistic, no matter what could be said of them as rugs, but still people bought them. They could be made for a small outlay in money, and they would give our sisters another outlet. Sister Young was deRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 termined to revive the art in the New England Mission. And then she heard of Mrs. Pearl J. McGown of West Boylston. In a charming section of Massachusetts, Mrs. McGown lives and works at Rose Cottage. Certainly there is nothing else like it in New England. As we entered the front door, an assistant greeted us and began to show us around. On the floor was a rug of intricate design, with the warmth of an expensive Persian from the Near East. Our guide assured me that it was hooked. I couldn't believe it. "The stair runners are hooked," she ELIZA HARRINGTON OF BURLINGTON, VERMONT Sister Harrington, eighty-three years old, is an authority on hooked rugs and colonial quilts. In Vermont. She has one of the most complete collections of quilt-block patterns Interested in preserving for the future the patterns and designs of early New England handicraft, Sister Harrington finds great interest in this valuable hobby. She has an individual quilting frame, which permits her to complete a quilt without help. RUGMAKING IN THE NEW ENGLAND MISSION said. These were of a pattern and style in perfect taste, in pleasing color. As we went from room to room, the variety of uses for the hooker's art became apparent in seat covers, purses, wall medallions, tapestries, and in floor rugs of all sizes, shapes, and descriptions. We saw chairseat covers done so delicately that they rivaled the finest needle point. ME. McGown, a charming woman, supplies a good portion of the United States with both the incentive and the materials. She designs the patterns, dyes the cloth, supplies the dyes, frames, cutters, and general instructions for a host of women (and some men, I was told). She issues monthly bulletins on the newest discoveries and acts as the source of supply and inspiration for her enthusiastic followers: Her instructors, living in about twenty of the forty-eight states, are busily engaged in training women in the art and distributing the supplies from Rose Cottage. The crowning event in the Rose Cottage year is the exhibit of hooked rugs at Worcester in May. Here women enter for exhibition the finest examples of the art. Some rugs, only a foot or so square, are delicate enough to hang on walls as framed pictures, while the largest examples run up to ten feet square, rivaling the finest the professional carpet weavers can produce. 521 In this exhibit is found the true art of the New Englander. When we visited the exhibition, about 300 rugs were shown. Some were so well done that it is hard to believe that they were woven from strips of cloth, so natural and realistic were their flowers. Others, in addition, had great charm of combinations of colors. Delicate shading is the secret to be mastered. I am told that seven shades go into the making of one rose design. The art of achieving this delicacy is the secret which all strive to learn. I was told that one extremely beautiful rug, about four-by-six feet, would easily bring one hundred dollars, at a sale, and that it was not unusual for the large eight-by-ten feet sizes to bring from $500 to $1000, if well done. One woman regularly sells her two-by-four feet rugs for seventy dollars. While I wandered around in the great crowd of women, hearing comment, criticism of pattern and design, words of approbation, and general good chatter, Sister Young was getting a short lesson on dying, and another on how to hook. Our sisters can become expert in this art; she thinks. With it, they can beautify their homes, help their pocketbooks, and bring new cash to the coffers of the little Relief Societies scattered over the mission. I think so, too. — Getting Acquainted Mary Rigby The funny thing about a smile, You wear it for a little while, And soon the strangeness all is gone— It seems to fit the face it's on. The Jumpher Family Part II—Randy Deone R. Sutherland HAT my sister Randy was going to be a glamour girl, or thought she was, as Richard put it, was very trying at times. "Especially since she is so young," said Papa. "She has never even been to an evening dance," said Richard, who is even younger than Randy, but older than I. "T never thought that I would produce a butterfly," said Papa one evening when Randy was practicing creative dancing on the living-room floor. Papa was listening to the radio. "I thought I was getting bad static," he said to Mama, "but it was only Randy bumping the floor." "Hugh!" Mama said. "Father!" said Randy. She had taken to the name Father about the same time she had taken to putting on lipstick.. "You sure do miss your lips a long ways," Richard would tell her. "Well, it's hard to do it when I'm already late for school and I have to keep walking," Randy explained. It wasn't until Papa's job had let him move home again that Mama found out about the lipstick. Mama always thought that that was why Miss String had acted so odd when Mama visited the school. She had said something. About expecting Mama to be different—to be more— well, flashy. Mama kept wondering about that until Papa said he guessed Mama was hurt that she wasn't Page 522 flashy. But anyway, Randy did look changed with all that lipstick on at school. Sometimes the teachers would make her and the other older girls wash it off, but Randy was very persevering. "Father," said Randy, "Father, don't you think you should read something else in the evening besides the paper?" "Why he does," said Mama; "he reads—" "I mean literature. You ought to be reading great literature." Randy reached one arm over her head in a great swinging arc that ended in another jump and bump. "Why don't you read a little more in the evening?" Papa asked, folding back his paper. "T do have an art to work at," said Randy. "You should be more artistic, Father." "Tl try," said Papa. We all took dancing at the Weston Studios. It was recommended so that the children at our school could get acquainted and acquire social graces. Randy and Richard took ballroom dancing. Richard had to take it because the first day, everyone had chosen partners and nobody chose Randy. Randy cried all the way home. But after Papa talked to Richard, Richard told Randy he wanted to take it, and they could dance together sometimes until she got to know more people. "You!" said Randy with great THE J UMPHER FAMILY hair, do you, darling?" "No, and you don't either," said "Well," said Lillian, "it's because I already have the kind has something," Suess she's felt plen a hat's she suffered Over?" T was Curious. "She won't tel] me," said Randy, "but she's older because of it. You So Rand kept Working at jt. It Was very hard the week she decided that nobody danced. With her be- 523 "Lillian js shocked because you're ama, "Lillian Says to be "She says she tead that vas something dif "tent about you But what | used to 2 said Randy, "be nat- 524 Oleson," Randy would say, "Oh-h-h, Ferg Oleson." At dinner Randy told us all about it. "He sort of hates women, but all the girls are crazy about him. He wants to be a cowboy. Ferg Oleson!" Richard knew more about him than Randy did. "He lives in the apartment house just down the block. They're just here like Papa, on business, not forever. Who'd want to live in a big city forever?" Randy didn't like Richard to know more about Ferg than she did. But Ferg Oleson never talked much when they danced. "He just goes red, and it's hard for him to answer anything," said Randy. "T guess he must be very crazy about me all right." "He's not crazy about her at all," Richard told me. "I just gave Ferg my old cowhide. I couldn't go on dancing with her forever even if Papa paid me a million dollars." 1 looked in Richard's room. He was telling the truth all right. The cowhide was no longer hanging on his wall. "You better not let Randy know," I told Richard. "She wouldn't like to know about the cowhide." "What about the cowhide?" said Randy coming into Richard's room. I got out the door, but Randy got Richard, so he had to tell. ANDY went into the living room and lay down on the couch. "a cowhide," she said, "he danced with me for a smelly, old, moth-eaten cowhide." Mama tried to comfort her, but Randy refused to listen. She went over to the big window in the living room and sat on the window seat. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 She stared down into the street below. "I'll never go out again. I'll never go to another dance again, not even the matinee dances at school. ['ll not even go to school again. How can I face him?" I tried to console her. "He must have liked you a little," I said, "or he'd have made Richard give him more than a cowhide. Why, he could have held out for dozens of other things." But Randy only moaned and stared down into the street. "I guess I don't even want to eat again," she said. "I feel funny. I don't even feel hungry." "Randy," Mama said, "come help me with Martin. I want you to give him a bath." Randy picked up Martin. Mama began setting the table for dinner. "Randy," Mama said, as she passed the bathroom door, "Randy, maybe you tried too hard. Maybe if you'd just be happy and be yourself—maybe if you liked the boys without trying to make them dance with you— maybe if you talked about what they wanted to talk about—" "Tt doesn't matter," said Randy. I'm not going to try anything any more. I'll join—I'll join a monas: tery or go to Tibet or some place." "Tibet—" said Martin very distinctly, and then he put the soap into his mouth. And Randy didn't go to any more ballroom dancing classes. Richard said he was glad, but he didn't play as hard as usual on Saturday, and he came in early and asked me where Randy was. "She's reading," I said. "She didn't even practice her dancing." It made everything quieter, but it THE JUMPHER FAMILY | e Psychologically ad to leave s of us out We heard the teachers talking about it. I Was glad because I and Randy al] 525 hind Cardboard figures of and butterflies andy, who gave in. NOW, said we' Stay for while. To us more Just a little g and | thought She was Prettiest that Way. €n the dance ended, they came e. The boy Stood there very quiet, he said, «] fave Richard Whide a long time ago, his feet an "Miss 526 smiled very slowly. "Well, Ferg, I guess I'd like awfully to dance." And right in front of me she put her hand on his shoulder and he put - his on her waist. Then he looked at his feet and they began the steps of the dance. But Randy kept smiling all the while, and it was as if we were home and she was smiling at Martin or Martha Jane or me. And I watched because she looked so different from the way she used to be. I saw Ferg look at her, too, "She's my sister," I told the kids from my class. We stayed for the whole afternoon, and Ferg walked home with us. Another boy wanted to also, but RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 Ferg made us hurry and we missed him. Randy kept smiling and when she'd look up teal suddenly, I noticed how dark her eyelashes were. Like Mama's, I thought. Why Randy looks like Mama! My throat went tight, because there was Randy al] different, all older, "Randy," I said, and Randy smiled at me. She's nice, J thought. She's nice like Mama, too, | looked at Ferg talking to Richard and staring at Randy. It was so €asy now for Randy, she wouldn't even remember how it happened. I looked at the cracks in the sidewalk | was trying to miss, and then [| looked back at Randy. She was very nice to look at, and Id never even noticed before. —0<-o— Mount Nebo.... At Nephi Georgia Moore Eberling The purple shadows drift across your face ith wisps of fog as delicate as lace. The sunny meadows dreaming at your feet Are emerald, and redolent with sweet Red clover, and the mauve alfalfa blooms, And wheat fields nipple bronze and tawny plumes. I never raise my eyes to where you lift Your mighty head above the clouds that drift Across the sky, but that I think of him ho rests upon another Nebo's dim, Lone height, on far-off Moab's lonely strand, This side of Jordan and the Promised Land, Mount Nebo, calm, eternal vigil keeps Above the unmarked Btave where Moses sleeps, Amphithea ler Ora Lee Parthesius Clouds peer over the mountain, Balcony-bare at its Peak; Then peopled with Pine-tree shadows, Balsams in rows at its feet-— Spectators, all—of the yellow Dotted with lush willow-green, Stage of tawny hay-wilderness, € actors the hawk and the crane, What The Relief Society Magazine Means to Me Alice Morrey Bailey (Address delivered at The Relief Society Magazine department of the annual general Relief Society conference, September 30, 1948) WELVE years ago I came to Salt Lake City determined to do something about my ambition to become a writer. I studied short story and poetry and joined groups that gave me help. Eventually, I took some of my poems to the editor of The Relief Society Magazine, who was then Sister Spafford. It would be difficult to tell you how timid I felt, full of hope one minute and overwhelmed with fear the next. I know now that this was a very unprofessional approach to a magazine, but Sister Spafford was very patient and kind with me, and took the trouble to look at my work and to evaluate it. I left her office with an understanding of the needs of the Magazine, and with the faith that I could produce work that filled them. In a short time some of my work appeared in The Relief Society Magazine and in The Improvement Era, and then it became published quite consistently often. Sister Spafford and I had a working agreement that I have always been proud of, and a fine relationship that encouraged me to do my best. Since then I have had many thnilling experiences, many great occasions of happiness connected with it that I should like to tell you about, but time will not permit. When Sister Spafford was placed in the general presidency, I was selfishly dissapointed. I thought there would be an end to the lovely relationship I had built up with the Magazine, but that was not the case. I found that it countinued with Sister Sharp, and with Sistgr Crawford, that it is the spirit of Relief Society and of the Magazine. I am grateful for this relationship, and for the outlet for my writing that the Magazine affords me. I know now that it is one of many aims—to develop the talent of Latter-day Saint women, and I am grateful to Eliza R. Snow, who was a gifted leader in this field. I have found that the Magazine literary standards are high, and that its make-up ranks with leading magazines. I have heard publishers comment on this. I am proud to have my work in it, and feel that it goes all over the world to the most select audience that could be found —the Latter-day Saints, and not only to women, either. I have found that many men read the Magazine with interest. I do not feel that any better poetry is published anywhere than is published in The Relief Society Magazine. Page 527 528 Writing was not my introduction to The Relief Society Magazine, however. Most magazines are published with a view to make money. The Relief Society Magazine is an expression of vast amounts of work in many fields. It is impossible to think of it without thinking of Relief Society work and its many phases. I have taught and worked in Relief Society in the city and in the country whenever I could. I have seen the lessons bring strength and courage to women everywhere. I have seen them impart knowledge and culture and increase the talents and abilities of women, help them to cope with the problems of everyday life, marital problems, parental problems, and social problems. Eseveral years ago I was returning from Sun Valley, Idaho. The bus to Shoshone was crowded with women who had been there holding a YWCA convention. There was only one seat left when I got on, and it was beside a very brilliant and cultured woman. We fell into conversation and when she found that I was from Utah, and a member of the Latter-day Saint Church, she began bombarding me with questions that had been burning within her for many years— questions she had asked of many religions, for many years, without once receiving satisfactory answers. Fortunately, our religion has these answers, and I gave them to her to the best of my knowledge—for more than two hours. At the end of the trip she said: "I am so thankful that you sat beside me. It seems a miracle, but tell me, you must be older than you look, to have so much knowledge, to speak with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 such wisdom and authority. How long have you felt this way and known these things?" I could not remember a time when I didn't have a_ testimony of the gospel, or understand the nature of God, and the working of his plans, and I told her so. But I thought about it afterwards, and I realized that this testimony had been gained gradually, by having my questions answered almost before I asked them. My mother was a thorough Latter-day Saint, and she subscribed to all the Church periodicals. I had access to them all. She never threw away a back issue of one of them, but stacked them in the attic hoping to have them bound. Our family was large, and privacy was not always possible. 'To gain it I sometimes went to the attic to think and read. I sorted out those magazines and read all the stories in all of them, faith-promoting incidents, and anything of a narrative nature. I learned the stand of the Church on the important principles of the gospel as they were illustrated in these stories. I never forgot some of them and their lessons became part of my thinking. I should like The Relief Society Magazine to be available to every Latter-day Saint. I should like my stories to carry the great messages of the gospel, and I should like them to do for others what these pages have done for me, for they have helped to give me the most precious thing I have in my life—a testimony of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. ad Of this householg didn't, geet me either, "et me tel] you what h © was still a appened Pusoner of War in En you don't gee that = sy didn't People shoulg talk less and sj Te,. 'ay more than th with sentence j; 1 Mine back home; America, ate into 4 sm ave, too, xcept that the daughter, findin NO solace in Was outside. Began strumming idly mM atmoson the keys. Phere and Conversation. Fue Was Y chance, she pickeg 2 melody then. OSt of it was aS dear to € as it was to her, an was now householg £ wo n, the Words j German. His wags ar from sim le pro- "using to he daunted, | Warmed educated woman, ha Just returned Nica] standpoint, it Sounded hoy nees, Scrubbing out certain Uniteg Soon, eve ne was clustered around ates army villas € Plano. Th two ali tongues € sight of Me, well-fed and re. (Continueg Page 574) obtained by £0ing to Where it STEW, ageless folk tune, h Cutting it' q wn and ack to th Catthside, "A, this cedure, The m Tom a da Spent on hands and €d as much ageing it on THY side of the Atlantic as It was — ee began singing P My voca] hords on the Yankee T, an intelligent, Wellversion f the same. From a tech - But it Oke a Iot Of ice Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1889 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL Nations" COMMENTS: The golden moments in the stream of life rush past us, and we see nothing but sand; the angels come to visit us, and we only know them when they are gone.—George Eliot Our brains are seventy-year clocks. The angel of life winds them up once for all, then closes the case and gives the key into the hands of the angel of the resurrection. EDITORIAL NOTES: When in Brigham City attending the Conference in June, Prs. Harriet A. Snow took the writer out to see the Sisters' granary, and it was a very great surprise to see how energetic the sisters had been, in building, and saving grain. It seemed such a model granary that we felt perhaps the sisters would like to have a description of it given to them in the Exponent. Mrs. Emilie D. Madsen has furnished some particulars. The dimensions of the granary are 432 feet long and 21% feet wide, 12 feet high, built of bricks and covered with an iron roof. It is divided into apartments so that the grain can be moved from one to another. The sisters have a considerably large quantity of grain stored, and prospects of more and it is to be hoped other settlements will take pattern from them and build substantial granaries and fill them with grain for it will surely be needed. JUAB STAKE: The forty-fourth Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society of the Juab Stake of Zion was held in the Nephi Tabernacle Friday June 21st, 1889. "We should cultivate our faith in the gospel and confidence in the Priesthood. No one should think her own example is unfelt or unnoticed. We should use the best of language, exercise as much or more faith and patience at home than anywhere. We are rewarded as we go along in the consciousness of doing right, besides the great reward we expect when our work is finished. The Lord has wonderfully blessed the Relief Society since its organization." Spoke of the storing of grain, and of the calamities that were coming upon the inhabitants of the earth. 'We know the prophecies are being fulfilled, and we should be prepared to render aid temporally as well as spiritually." —M. E. Teasdale, Sec. Little by little the torrent said As it swept along its narrow bed, Chafing in wrath and pride. Little by little and day by day, And with every wave it bore away A grain of sand from the banks which lay Like granite walls on either side. EDITORIAL NOTES: Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, General President of the Relief Society left the city on Wednesday, August 7, on a tour through Beaver, Panguitch, and Millard Stakes. Aunt Zina remained over night at Springville on her way, to visit her brother Oliver Huntington who resides there, and resumed her journey the following day August 8 having been joined by Mrs. Minerva W. Snow. These sisters proceeded direct to Milford, where they were met by a carriage from Beaver, and held meeting Friday Aug. 9, at Minersville, and afterwards meeting on the way to Greenville and Adamsville, arriving at Beaver, Saturday night where they expected to remain about three days, and from there go to Panguitch. Page 530 J < P evan a Steesen =F & ey THE National Mothers Committee of the Golden Rule Foun- _ dation chose Pearle Owens Gillis as the American mother of the year. Mrs. Gillis, a tiny, Kentuckyborn woman, sixty years old, is the wife of a postal. Worker in Fort Worth, Texas. She reared six children of her own and helped to rear and educate eight others. They are engaged in many responsible positions, including some in radio and college teaching. OF the more than 1500 graduates of the University of Utah for 1949, only one student, a girl—Betty Glad—qualified for both the national honorary scholastic society, the Phi Beta Kappa, and the Utah honorary scholastic and activity society, Beehive. Betty was one of three girls and four men to be inducted into Beehive, and one of eight girls and fourteen men to be accepted into Phi Beta Kappa. CLARA LEISER is the organizer of the "Youth of All Nations" group, which now has a membership of 18,000 young letter writers. Young people exchange ideas with individuals of different nationalities, and clear up misunderstandings and try to further the cause of harmony and peace in the world. All countries except Russia participate. (<<) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon AB3IE REES MADSEN, of Brigham City, was chosen Utah mother for 1949. She. Is the mother of fourteen children, thirteen of whom are living. All have had some college training. At her peak of activity, Mrs. Madsen baked fifty pounds of flour into bread every week and canned five hundred quarts of fruit a season. Mrs. Madsen did Red Cross work during the recent war and took a course in polio nursing. She served fifteen years on a Relief Society stake board. RACE SAYRE, of Pasadena, California, a popular contributor of poetry to Church, as well as national publications, has a book of poems just off the press entitled, Remembered Aprils. These poems are principally sonnets and nature lyrics, with considerable heart appeal. ENNIE CAMPBELL, director of elementary education in Utah, was greatly honored in being elected international president of the Association for Childhood Education at its convention in Salt Lake City. The association aims to promote peace through international education and mutual understanding. It numbers fifty thousand educators from all countries. Page 53] Noted 10 THE FIELD Relief Society Handbook of Coatnactibas Ready for NHistribution THe long-awaited Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be ready for distribution July 15th. This handbook contains official instructions om Relief Society policies and procedures and a detailed index for ready reference. It will be invaluable to stake, ward, mission, and branch officers. Send orders to the General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, 60 cents each, postpaid. Appreciation for Duplicate Lists of Contributors to He general board wishes to express appreciation to the stakes, wards, missions, and branches for the duplicate lists of contributors to the Relief Society Building Fund which have been received in the office. They have been carefully and beautifully written and great credit is due those who 'ascribed the lists. When the bound volume of contributors' names is 00 display in the Relief Society Building, the appearance of the volume will be a source of gratification to all members of Relief Society throughout the world. B= sure to. Watch the expiration month printed on the address label of your Magazine. All subscriptions whether new 0 renewal must reach the office of the Magazine one full month in advance of the issue with which the subscription is to begin. Table Settings and Flower Arrangements Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board [This is the fifth in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. In the coming months Sister Judd will present other suggestions suitable to particular subjects.—Ed.] UESTION: When is a weed O not a weed? Answer: When it is glamourized. Technically speaking, a weed is any one of those herbaceous plants which are useless, especially those which are positively troublesome in a field, orchard, or garden. The application of this general definition is, however, somewhat relative. The exotics of cool countries are sometimes weeds in the tropics. Handsome, but pernicious plants, are weeds to the agriculturalist, flowers to the aesthetic. It all simmers down to what you see in a weed and what use you make of it. It is my pleasure to introduce to you this month Frances Aveson Wiscomb, a woman who has discovered for herself that the lowly weed can become a thing of exquisite beauty. From an interesting personal hobby, Mrs. Wiscomb's decorating of weeds has grown to such proportions that, within the last few months, she has opened her own florist shop. Mrs. Wiscomb likes best working in dainty pastel colors, although, at Christmas time, she adds festive reds and greens, both of which combine nicely with the more delicate colors which she enjoys for most of the year. I feel sure that many of our readers will become interested in atPage 534 tempting some of these "Cinderella Flowers" after reading the following article. Glamour Weeds Frances Aveson Wiscomb OST of us pay very little attention to the weeds we pass along the highway and in the fields, and yet "Fairy Flowers," "Snow Flowers," or "Glamour Weeds" are indeed descriptive and appropriate names for these seemingly uninteresting plants, once they have been dried, dipped, and brushed with cold water paint, and sprinkled with "artificial snow," "diamond dust," or the like. Plants to be painted should be gathered in the fall, after they have gone to seed, dried, and turned brown. It is hard to imagine the interesting forms and shapes found in dried plants. Many change after ' seeding beyond recognition and become even more interesting than when in bloom. Some weeds, which look as if they would paint up beautifully, prove very disappointing, while others, which at first look doubtful, turn out to be exquisite. Some varieties of cultivated garden flowers and grains can be painted TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS with most satisfying results. However, it is mecessary for all plants used in this process to be sturdy enough to hold the paint. It is this experimenting with the different forms that makes this a very interesting hobby. Many people have been attracted by the cattail and milkweed, and have brought them into the home to enhance the corner of a room Ot to fill an odd vase. The brown, velvety cattails, both small and large, combined with golden or biege stalks of ripened wheat or barley, make an unusually attractive display. Wheat barley, and grass are soft and wavy. Few people, however, Tea lize their warm beauty, when painted gold and arranged in figutines or long, low bowls. The milkweed, with its cradle pod that curls in various shapes, is particularly interesting in a bouquet. The sturdy thistle, or burr, with the long prongs painted in either pastel or gold, provides a vety fine focal point, while the common sunflower, Swensen 535 with its dried sepals and dried center, becomes an interesting unit in the arrangement. THE tumbleweed is a delicate piece when painted. It is very prickly to separate and paint, but re wards you for your effort by providing a pretty background for an arrangement. Fine, lacy plants, such as baby's-breath, dill, or mustard grass, painted in pastel shades, and combined with wild barley and wheat, make fragile, delicate bouquets. Dill is extremely fragile, but gives the appearance of tiny stars and is beautiful when used in a table centerpiece. It should never be crowded so that the beauty of its form is lost in the bouquet. Another of the finer plants is the rattlesnake grass. This grows about as tall as June grass, turning tan OF beige when dry. Although sealed when painted, there are little rattles on the end of each stem which, when dry, blow in the wind and re- 536 semble the rattle of the rattlesnake. When you are in the canyon this summer, look for small, odd-shaped branches or long, well-shaped pine cones. The pine cones can be tipped with silver or completely dipped, and can be used in many clever ways at Christmas time. In displaying painted weeds, ei ther flat or deep containers may be used. A little wallpaper cleaner provides an excellent frog, as the sterns can be secured without breaking, and when the base hardens, the display is permanently placed. The base may be covered with silver tin foil, or small, colored pebbles, or even weathered stones. Many of the same rules that apply to floral arrangements can also be effectively applied to these glamourous weeds. Their combinations with each other are numerous, or they can even be combined with a few fresh flowers from your garden or some blooms from the florist shop in the wintertime when prices make a large display of cut flowers prohibitive. This, again, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 Swensen opens up another field for expertmentation. There is a great deal of satisfaction to be derived from fashioning decorations with materials one has collected and preserved. Not only are they appropriate and practical, but they provide casual, economical and—yes, indeed—glamorous decorations. — ~~ = Wisteria Blossoms Grace Sayre How may one keep this opaled sheen When fragile sprays will bloom? How may one keep this beauty whole And perfect as a feathery plume Upon a trellis, lifted up Against the sun's bright spell? How may one keep its fragrance pure But in the heart's deep well? For here each waxen bloom will shed A lilac-petaled grace— And here, beneath these arbored flowers, Hold back time's speeding pace, Remembering all the rainbow hues In early summer's night Where, pendant in the fragrant dusk, Wisteria sheds its light. Joanna 6 Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 8 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to support and care for. Courageously, she takes inventory of her meager resources. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans for sale. Another neighbor, Abigail Smith, offers to help with ideas and_ transportation. From a slow and unpromising beginning, they build a profitable business. Joanna decides that she must have a better home. Kent Taylor, acting temporarily as a salesman, shows her a house on a hill, which Joanna cannot afford to buy. Unexpectedly, however, she is offered $5,000 for her recipe for Boston-baked beans, and she buys the roomy, comfortable house. In order to attend a P. T. A. Meeting where her son is going to sing a solo, Joanna breaks a date with Kent Taylor just before he leaves town. Joanna and Abigail open a new store and Joanna finds her life entiched with many new friends and the abiding love of her children. For a famous young pianist, feeling richer than Croesus in gold and love. Her partner for the evening was Jordan Palmer, a teacher of English at the University. He was a solemn man who wore hornrimmed glasses and talked a good deal about the war in Europe. The conquest of Norway had filled him with a hot impatience. The group around him grew larger, their arguments warmer. Joanna listened, a chill creeping around her heart when he said, "We cannot stand aside and see small nations devoured. This is our world. |W went on to the party What good is it, if we are strong or tich when the rest of the world is hungry and exhausted? What men are we, if, being free, we stand quietly in our strength while weaker men are enslaved?" "Oh, it's all very well for you to talk," Joanna said hotly. "But our sons are the ones who must do the fighting. My David is cighteen...." He bent his gaze on her. "That is the tragedy of this day." Joanna looked impatiently away from him and into a pair of eyes that smiled into hers in delight and welcome. "Kent!" she said, and her heart began a thick thudding in her breast. "Why, Kent!" "Joanna!" He stepped forward and took her hands. "I never dreamed of such luck, just running into you, my first night home." He smiled easily at Jordan Palmer. "You don't mind if I walk off with her? Joanna and I are very old friends." He drew her out of the group, smiling his easy, arrogant smile, to which people responded so quickly. She had forgotten how red his hair was, how very tall he was, but the golden peace that flooded her was familiar and beautiful. "You were away for a long time." "Europe. Finally found a place where I really fitted." He found two chairs in an alcove and held one for her. "I'm a newspaper man now." "T know. I read about it in the Page 537 538 evening paper. They had a picture of you. It wasn't very good, or is it that only your hair Is... Beautiful?" He laughed with her. "I saw your new shop when I drove in tonight, Neon lights and everything. You are doing well." Jordan Palmer, not so easily vanquished, had followed them. He said shortly, "We're very proud of Joanna's Progress. I never pass her shop but I think of the courage that made it possible." "Courage?" Kent said. "Nothing but sheer obstinacy. Heaven help us, lf Joanna should want to be president," Palmer flushed angrily, but Joanna's heart quickened. Her mind Was a whirl of questions. How long would he stay? How did she look to him? Was the garnet velvet as be. Coming as she had thought it in the shop? ORDAN Palmer and Kent talked of world conditions. Listened. She that Jordan would take himself off to Cheyenne or India. But he stayed d, and said to Joanna, "A Taylor is like a boy scout, Tesourceful, did you know?" Joanna laughed with him, not 1 "Goodbye, Kent, it's been good to see you." She watched him thread his way through the groups of People. She felt 4 sense of loss and desolation, Jordan Palmer took a quick breath of victory, " get the overall Picture... Now my idea is..." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 heard not a word, impatient for the evening to be ended, so she could be alone and semember every instant. But it was past eleven when she persuaded Jordan that she was tired. She listened Politely while he told of his work, refused a luncheon engagement, and finally made her escape, She opened the front door with a sigh of relief and went into the living Toom.. If you can't fight a man, think of another way out. I came to take you for a ride." The completely dazzled Abigail lifted the yam from his hands, "[ could have done it by myself all along, only it always does me good to see a man doing chores." "She smiled at Joanna. "{'l] stay here all night, so stay as late as you like," "We won't be long." Helplessly Joanna wondered at the excitement hammering at her throat. She tried to look dispassionately at Kent's red hair. There were gray threads in it, she saw. She tried to examine his face as lightly as if he had been just any man. But there was something special to her In every feature, the blunt lines of his nose and chin, the crooked, sandy brows, the lines in his forehead. 'Tm a homely beast," he said, and took her arm. "Let's go." She bit her lip. "I'm sorry | JOANNA stared. I just wanted to know what the years had done to you. Years are so much kinder to men." He led her down to the car, seated her, and went around and slid under the wheel. "You will always be lovely, Joanna, good bones, and then you don't busy yourself." "Busy myself?" "So many women look busy, hair, gewgaws, make-up, like a crowded what-not shelf." Joanna chuckled, "And Mr. Palmer was saying on the way down that he loathed 'plain women,' who never wore a trinket to soften their austerity. You see, it's a wonderful thing that different men like different women." HE drove swiftly away from the house and up to the highway that hugged the mountains. "Tr's strange, Joanna, I didn't feel that I was home, until I saw you. I walked the streets I've walked a thousand times, and I felt a complete stranger. Then I went to the party and saw your face... And suddenly I was home and at peace." He took her hand from her lap and held it palm up in his own. "Tell me about the places you've been." She listened to him, the sound of his voice like waves washing over her heart. It's absurd, she thought, that this should happen to me. But it's been here all the time, this feeling for Kent... Ever since the first time I saw him. I never knew before that such things were. This is what musicians strive to put in their songs and poets into their writing. I'm thirty-seven. It's absurd. She struggled to release her hand. 539 "Don't, Joanna. This is right... Familiar. As if I had come home to a well-loved hearth." It was late when Kent turned the car in the direction of town. "Are you hungry? [I'm starved." "Pm famished." Joanna peered out at the highway signs. "'Let's stop here, 'The Green Lady.' It's a new place. I've been wondering what it's like. They use my products exclusively." "They seem to be doing a landoffice business." He eased into the parking area and after a search found a place for the car. Music spilled out of the building. They opened the door to its joyous beating, and to the quick laughter of young throats. The place was blue with tobacco smoke and acrid with the smell of beer. Joanna wrinkled her nose. "I don't think I'd like to eat here, after all." Kent nodded. "It is a dive. I'm sure we can find something better." oanna took a quick look at the dancers before she turned to go. The gitls seemed incredibly young. They wore sweaters and skirts. Their hair shone silkily in the soft lights. Kent opened the door for her. A young boy, seventeen Or eighteen, staggered in. He surveyed them blindly, stumbling into them. "Scuse me. But you ought not to get in people's way. Can't you see? I've something terribly important to do. Terribly important... If I can jus' remember what it is." Joanna's heart reached out to him. He was so young, so appealing with his thick shock of brown, curly hair, and his thickly lashed blue eyes and 540 his white, square teeth. She wanted to shake him and send him home to a hot tub and a glass of milk and a good scolding. "Tom?" 'Kent's voice was sharp. "What are you doing here?" The boy peered at him. "Why if it isn't Kent Taylor." He shook his finger. "What are you doing, gallivanting around? I ought to take care of Dad's bosom friend." Kent took the boy's arm. "Better let me take you home." The boy shook him off. "Home, he says, home! Why, why it's just the shank of the evening. You've been old too long, you and Dad. Nowadays the young folks stay up all hours." The boy flung himself away. "Sure I'm stinko, but I've got a date n' everything. I'm a grown laddie, look at me." He floundered into the dancers and was lost. ENT shook his head. "Brother! They seem to be starting younger every year." He held the door open for Joanna. She took deep breaths of the dark, star-flung night. "Let's just go home, Kent. I don't want people tonight. I don't want anything about this evening to be spoiled." He caught her hand and drew her close against his side. "You're different, Joanna, clean as wind and starlight and swift water.' In the dark shadow of the parked car he held her face in his hands. "I've wanted this moment since the first time I saw you." Joanna stood very still, waiting for his kiss. The wind ruffled her hair. She felt as though the whole night closed around her in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 beauty, as though stars were wound in her hair and clouds were scarves for her shoulders. "T love you," Kent Taylor said. "IT should have told you before. Think of me running second to a P. T. A. Meeting." "I still go to them," she warned, but breathlessly, because his kiss was still sweet on her lips. He helped her into the car and went around and slid under the wheel. Joanna watched the light glow in his hair when he turned on the ignition. When they were once again on the highway he turned to her. "I'll have six months in this country, before I have to go back. But I'm due in New York next Wednesday. Will you go back with me, Joanna... As Mrs. Kent Taylor?" Six months with Kent! Quickly Joanna thought of her children, the shops. Abigail would take care of the children, see that they were fed and clothed and washed behind their ears. There was a young girl in the shops, Betsy Flanders. She was a born executive. She would look after things. Joanna leaned her head against the seat. She smiled up at Kent's anxious face. "Six months is such a little while." He took a deep breath of relief. "Tt isn't much, but it's ever so much more than I dared dream I would have." He smiled down at her. "We're going to have a wonderful life together... You wait and see." Joanna hid her face against his sleeve. Life had given her so much more than she had dreamed of having... And now this. (To be continued ) Suggestions for a Work Meeting Luncheon Christine Eaton HE following menu was served at a work meeting in our ward during the cold weather at a very moderate cost: VEGETABLE SOUP (Serves 35-40) 10 large carrots 1 bunch parsley 1 head of cabbage 10 quarts water 2 stalks celery 8 medium-sized potatoes 3 large cans of tomatoes "2 cup alphabet noodles or rice 5 onions drippings or shortening Cut all vegetables small and cook slowly until all vegetables are tender, Add a little drippings or shortening and all but % cup of the veal stock left from the preparation of the sandwich spread, given below. SANDWICH SPREAD (For 35-40 sandwiches) 1 veal shank (about 2 Ibs.) 3 whole allspice 1 bay leaf a piece of celery 1 onion 1 carrot 2 or 3 cloves salt to taste few pepper corns Boil all ingredients until meat is very tender in sufficient water to cover the meat. Let water boil down to about two cups so as to give all the flavor possible to the meat. Take meat from bone and grind it. Season to your taste, adding a little of the stock (% cup). Mix with salad dressing or mayonnaise enough to make good spread. Add rest of meat stock to soup. CARAMEL SUGAR 'COOKIES (5 dozen cookies, 2 inches in diameter) 1 cup shortening 3 eggs, beaten 1 cup white sugar 2 tsp. Vanilla Ys cup brown sugar 3% cup flour 1 tsp. Salt % tsp. Soda Cream shortening, add white and brown sugar, sifted, and cream well. Add beaten eggs and vanilla. Sift flour, salt, and soda, and combine with cookie mixture. Chill and roll about % inch thick and sprinkle with white sugar. Bake in moderate oven 350° F-., for ten to twelve minutes. Page 541 A CIRCUS IS ALWAYs FUN 543 Wi a string atound their necks And with °pcorn and any Patty—circys— 6, Other. The Circus hasn't Come to town! Song for Deep Summe, Dorothy J. Roberts The linnet sings no longer After the Woven cy ° cradle mate and birdlings NCe Is up, His Skeins of lovely Music, Ch like a sapling tree, Awake with the dawn, IS cares leaf free, © Squashes the €arth thro ugh his firm young toes, Wiggles and Stretches to h eight—he bows € nearest breeze Tves on Pruning: his knotted knees u appeared, Peanuts ang « tackerjack » O says Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-T'reasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of matcrial for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274, RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Harriet D. Foutz YOUNG STAKE (NEW MEXICO), ANNIVERSARY BANQUET March 17, 1949 The wards of Kirtland and Farmington and the branches of Shiprock, Waterflow, and Aztec celebrated the Relief Society Anniversary with a "potluck" banquet, interspersed with a lively program or readings, singing, and toasts. The photograph shows only part of the 250 officers, members, and guests who participated. A portion of the large birthd iy cake may be seen on the table. Harriet D. Foutz is president of Young Stake Relief Society. Page 544 NOTES FROM THE FIELD - Green € Visiting teachers, With | Ously for twen -five years Or more the recorg of the Grove Thirg ard isiting teaching for the last Carro] FWells j i enty-eight years nt of Timpanogos S ciety, take Relief So oJ FALLS STAKE (IDAHO), KIMBERLy PRESIDENTS ASSEMBLED AT AN WARD RELIEF SOCIETy NIVERSARy PARTY, March 17) 1949 to right: Edith Warr; Nina Beth Cunni berly Ward Relief Society unningham entenary of Relief Society,: M; Also noted as an Glenn; Zella Morrill; Ethel Glenn; say esident Tolg E CITY, UTAY ) CIETY ANNIVERSARY 3 » SOUTH SECOND WARD R ANQUET, March 16, 1949 Seated at extreme left. Ida Terry, Standing at the back of the table 4st Counselor Fee Eghi; President Florence Wiseman. Sec UNselor Mae Wal er; Secretary Ruth Kroescher. Cated at the lead of the table: Stake Tesident A ewis Elgoren 4nd across from him, his wife, Mildred p. Elgg fated at left Side, left to ht: Lottie Gamble; former war Relief Society of ficers: Rose Spratt; Lillian R h Mary § "tson; Thelma B Y; Kate B Carter Alfreda C Seated at table, Tight hand Side, left to 4; former Stake Relief Socie Tesiden Cornelia 5 Lund; Present stake President LaNola C Driggs. First Counselor Elda Ailler; Second Ounselor Lillian B, Tsgren; Secretary Edna Pr. Re m; Eliza. Eth Felsiy ™, eighty years old, an expert quilter; warg Organist Magna Wat: NOTES FROM THE FIELD submitted by Harriet C. Leishman Photograph HYRUM STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, EASTER SUNDAY, APRIL 17, 1949 Ethelyn Carver is stake chorister, with Beulah Jensen as organist and. Reta Poppleton at the pipe organ. Harriet C. Leishman is president of Hyrum Stake Relief Society W. Fisher MISSION, DAWSON CREEK BRANCH RELIEF ERS DISPLAY WELFARE QUILT Mrs. Young; Audrey Photograph submitted by Holly WESTERN CANADIAN SOCIETY MEMB Left to right: Mrs. Schoonover; Young; Mrs. McClarity; Mrs. Shields; Elder Sonntag; Mrs. L north of the Unite This Relief Society branch, 'Its, held bazaars, @ he meeting, the meeting d not attend t ty also enjoy Relief Soher daughter. D communi ings faithfully. When one of the members coul was brought to her home. T ciety work. Holly W. Fisher is presiden t of the Western Canadian Mission Relief Society. I -4t women among them, Sis 548 PALESTINE SYRIAN MISSION, ALEPPO BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY Left to right: Leona B. Sonne, President, European Mission Relief Society; First Counselor, Aleppo Branch, Elisa indi, small branches and in Supervising Visits to the aged and homebound Sisters, "Sister iranian jg energetic and faithful, and I fee] Sure she wil] Continue her efforts to build: "; sion. Our ttip to the Holy Lang Was full of interest and rare €xperiences, * -. It is hoped that in the near future a branch of the Church will be established jn Jerusalem, This is the ambition of Brother and Sister Piranian," ' Photograph s ubmitteg by Ma NORTHER Ty S. Ellsworth N CALIFORNIA MISSION, CHOWc BRANC BAZAAR AND ALE, March 10, 1949 FOOD 5 TE AT MISSION, THE DALLES (OREGON) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETy NNIVERSARY BANQUET, March 17, 1949 sen; El], Butterfielg be mer; Mabel] Mautus; Letitia Rhod > Elizabeth Butler dred €t; Louise Genung: Velma P. > Margaret Montgom TY; Viola anor Ha 549 Fron row, Seated, left to right Secre Ty~Treasurer Hazel Selor Nita Hoffma > fresident Bac OW, stand. 8, left to tight Lillian Eastm 3 Erma ark; Second oun ladys lige td; First Counselor Edith Sorens kins; Ruby Christen LESSON ¢ Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 18—"Our Lord's Ministry In Perea and Judea" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 26, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, November 1, 1949 Objective: To demonstrate that Jesus taught a plan of life capable of saving all who will repent and obey him. His Rejection in Samaria HERE is a wide variance among the synoptic writers as to the sequence of events in the life of Christ during the last few months of his earthly life. It seems clear that, after the events discussed in lesson 17, he went into Perea and possibly into a small part of Samaria. This time, however, racial prejudice overcame their hospitality, and the Samaritans rejected Jesus because he was going toward Jerusalem and was a Jew. On his previous visit he had been gladly received and entreated to remain. James and John, the Sons of Thunder, resented the disrespect shown their Master and wanted the Lord to command that fire should come from heaven and consume his enemies, "even as Elias did." (Read II Kings 1:10-12.) Jesus rebuked them saying: "... Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of. For the Son of man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them..." Page 550 (Luke 9:55-56). Let us remember that thought. The purpose of Jesus is to save. Leaving the Samaritan village with no bitterness, the group went to another, as the Lord had instructed the twelve to do. This was one of his great lessons on tolerance, charity, patience, and longsuffering. He had the power to avenge a wrong, but, instead of using it, he chose to forgive. It may be parenthetically observed that most of the soul-touching incidents of this and other journeys were recorded only by Luke. He was a physician and has been called the humanitarian of the synoptic writers. Every miracle of healing recorded by the other synoptic writers in the New Testament is also recorded by Luke and, in addition, he records many not mentioned by the others. Luke gives the incident of the three men who wanted to become disciples of Christ on conditions. One hesitated to enter the ministry because of the Copyright, 1923 by Eugene A. Perry From a Painting by Hofmann (1824-1894) CHRIST IN THE HOME OF MARY AND MARTHA Page 551 552 hardships entailed; one wanted first to bury his father; and the other wanted to bid his loved ones farewell. Jesus taught each of them a great lesson. Service in the kingdom of God supersedes other duties. The Seventy Charged and Sent About this time Jesus called the seventy to assist the twelve in the ministry. He sent them: "two and two before his face into every city and place whither he himself would come." (Read carefully Luke 10:1-12.) With the calling and sending forth of the seventy, the work of the ministry was greatly expanded. They were not restrained, as the twelve had been at first, from going to the towns in Samaria or even to the Gentiles. Jesus himself began going into Gentile territory. His plan provided for taking the gospel to all the world. He must make that plain before he finished his mortal career. He gave. Us proof by sending his authorized ministers to non-Jewish people. The Lord's work is progressive. At first it was confined to Israel but, during his lifetime and immediately following his resurrection, he inaugurated a plan to have the gospel preached to all the world. "For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call" (Acts 2:39). The Seventy Return When the seventy returned and reported their labors, Jesus rejoiced at their faithfulness. They had exercised in righteousness the powers RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 he had given them. He told them to rejoice because they were accepted of the Lord rather than because they had power ovet evil spirits. Jesus always turned to his Father, whether in joy or in sorrow. Who Is My Neighbor? Probably soon after the return of the seventy, an incident occurred which drew from the Savior one of his most valuable and appreciated parables. Luke tells us that a "certain lawyer" asked a question to tempt Jesus. It was probably done to embarrass the Lord. He put this question: "Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?" The great teacher replied with a counter question—often the most effective way. "What is written into the law? How readest thou?" 'The man readily showed that he was familiar with the law and replied: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself' The answer was correct and Jesus said: "This do, and thou shalt live.' Then the lawyer made further inquiry: "And who is my neighbour?" (Luke 10:25-29). The Savior then gave him and all of us the Parable of the Good Samaritan (Luke 10:30-37). It should be carefully read. It is not only a great story but is rich in precious lessons. (The story can be made more graphic by use of a map showing the location of Jericho and Jerusalem and the account of how the road between them was infested with robbers.) Many priests and Levites lived at Jericho. Picture the victim of the robbers as being a Jew; LESSON DEPARTMENT +t ig almost certain that he was. A great lesson can be taught by this parable showing how prone we are to find excuses for not doing the right thing as did the priest and Levite. However, the "essential difference between the Samaritan and the others was that the one had a compassionate heart, while they were unloving and selfish." Jesus taught the world one of his greatest lessons—that those who are kind, charitable, and righteous consider all men as neighbors. Martha and Mary An incident occurred during one of the Lord's visits to Bethany which has occasioned much discussion. He went to the home of two sisters, Mary and Martha. Jesus loved these two sisters and also their brother, Lazarus. Martha was concerned with the physical welfare of their guest while Mary sat at his feet listening reverently to his teachings. Martha soon complained and said: Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me. And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things: But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her (Luke 10:40-42). The lesson is not that the practical things of life are not essential, because they are essential, but that in every home time also should be found for cultivating that better part—true spiritual development which comes through study and worship of God. 553 Ask and It Shall Be Given You Criticism of Pharisees and Lawyers Jesus took occasion to teach more about prayer. We have heretofore, in connection with the Sermon on the Mount, discussed prayer and particularly the Lord's Prayer. We will not repeat this discussion but recommend the reading of Luke 11:1-13. In fact, we may study with profit all of Luke, chapter 11. The Lord gave a scathing rebuke to the Pharisees and lawyers but space will not permit here a detailed study of this denunciation. The Disciples Admonished and Encouraged Let us turn rather to a study of his encouragement and advice given to his disciples. He warned especially against hypocrisy. Jesus refused fo take sides in petty quarrels and especially in matters involving legal administration. Any other course would have involved him in useless discussion and might have given color to the charge that he was arrogating to himself functions of legal tribunals. (Repeat the 12th article of faith.) During the progress of his Perean ministry, Jesus reiterated some of the wonderful truths he had given in the Sermon on the Mount. He repeated for 'the sake of emphasis. He told his disciples that if they would truly seek the kingdom of God all needful things would be added. They were taught in the Parable of the Foolish Rich Man to lay up their treasures in heaven, that the wealth of earth would all. Their leaders should especially be faithful. More had been given to them and 'more "Except Ye Repent Ye Shal] All Lik lkewise Perish" event that ha immediate area, in which Many had leans but added: "| but, except ye repent, ye shal] all likewise perish" (Luke 13:3), Is to judge. Years. Jesus again silenced his adversaties, and Is believers Were made happy. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—Augusy 1949 who had been impressed by his doctrine asked: "Lord, are there few esus » Section 76, ) Jesus Warneg of Herod's Design S Jesus approached Jerusalem, © was warned of Herod's designs, continued his Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What great lesson did Jesus teach to his disciples who wanted to wreak vengeance on the Samaritans' Village which re. Jected the Lord? 2. Give an account of the calling of the seventy. Discuss their duties and tel] What powers were given to them. References jn the Gospels Matt, 28:19, Luke 3:95 9:51-62; 11:1-54; 72:1-12, 14-31, 11-35; 18:1-5, John 44-42; 10:23) 49; 11:5; 11:54. 10:5-42; 15:24; 18:21,22. 23; 10:1-19, 25-42; 35°575 13:1, LESSON DEPARTMENT 555 Visiting Seacher Mlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 2—"Behold, | Stand at the Door and Knock" (Rev. 3:20) Mary Grant Judd _ For Tuesday, November 1, 1949 Objective: To point out that Christ is ever ready to enter our hearts, if we but prepare the way. MANY of the utterances of our Savior are figurative in their nature. So with this one. If we consider the quotation in its entirety, we shall see that the complete statement, in order to be made more forceful, is clothed in metaphorical language. To quote the expression in full: Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me (Rev. 3:20). If Christ is not speaking of an actual door that we may open, if he does not mean that we may truly sup with him and he with us, then just what does he imply? He is pleading with us to hear his voice and accept his message. The door we are asked to open is that of our minds, our hearts, our souls. The bread he desires us to partake of is the bread of life. And if we open the door to him and bid him enter, the result will be pleasant even as it is when friends break bread together. Unfortunately, the call of the gospel falls, at times, upon deaf ears. We are too busy with the ordinary affairs of life to heed it. We are like those of whom the Lord spoke in the Parable of the Marriage Supper when he said: A Perry Picture Schonherr "LO! I STAND AT THE DOOR AND KNOCK" A certain man made a great supper, and bade many: And sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come; for all things are now ready. And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it: I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them: I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. 556 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUgysy 1949 So that Servant came, and shewed his We fee] at home With Ose who lord these things (Luke 14:16-21),. Are we not sometimes like the with Whom we have Much jn comsuests who were bade to the MIR cr, Accordingly, if the Man of yet who, by making "xCuses, de. Galilee is to be a welcome guest, 'THE modern Mother, when planAllowance for "xercise and growth, ning the layette for her baby, 2. No bulky fullness to Jie on. (A little Puts greatest emphasis op baby's extra fullness can become very uncom. Comfort, Protection, freedom for acortable after long periods of lying in hivity, and allo nce for growth. Be. « same place. Mg a practical Person, she Selects g 3. Flat, Smoothly finished, loose fittin minimum layette 4 minimum fe e ee — very: «5, She realizes aby will bulky Colas rol ya ett the face vely soon Outer hese garments and the corners are Pushed into the nants become Writable and aby's mouth. ) da fully analyze their conduct they handling og the baby, (For everyday would usually fing that the Teason Wear, éarments with full-length OF Crying and fretting can be traced be Openings that lap g el to clothin to prevent ugly 84ps are Practica], S-, Otherwise, Wide Openings - should be ence, baby's clothes shoulg have allowed so that the garments ean oe the following characteristics. Ily be slipped on.) LESSON' DEPARTMENT 5. Fastenings easy to manage and not troublesome to launder. (Be sure fast- 6. As few seam lines as are essential to good fit, (Simple workmanship js always preferable. Seams should be narrow and smoothly finished. ) 7- Hand finishing for softness and flexibility of workmanship, 8. Easy and quick to launder neatly. (Materials must be durable enough to Stand up under frequent launderings. ) 9. Economical and simple to make at home. 10. Materials of very soft, fine texture; Tie fastenings of vely narrow cotton, twistless tape are generally pref. The tapes wear well, are casy to manage, and washing and For daytime wear, dresses should be no longer than toe 257 than straight-cut slips, have certain advantages, They spread in whichever direction there is need of room and require no set-in fullness. So that they do not bind or pull and thus cause discomfort. Sleeves should be loose enough at the bottom and at the armhole to allow freedom of movement, White materials stand the necessarily repeated launderings of the baby's clothes much better than colored materials, Dainty pastel colors French seam' when finished. Dainty handwork and decorative stitching make lovely trimming and are easier to launder and less bulky for baby than too much applied ruffling and lace. —o-<-o—_ Dry-Farm Blues Wanda Green Nielson A lake would be a lovely thing to see, ancing in the sunlight, asleep beneath the moon; A creek would be a happy thing to hear, Singing, as it spilled along, a carefree little tune. I'd like a garden full of roses, A lawn, a lilac hedge, and ivy on a wall; I'd like a Tugged mountain towering near me, And trees that dress for spring and dress again for fall, Wheat and sage and cedars have a beauty of their own, But, oh, I do get lonely for other things I've known! 558 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 SA tention We Literature of England Elder Briant S. Jacobs Lesson 2—Legends of Chivalry For Tuesday, November 15, 1949 FTER their conquest of England in 1066, the French stayed. The Normans ruled; the Anglo-Saxons were enslaved under the feudal system. French was spoken by the polite and the wealthy who were, of course, the ruling class. Latin was the universal language of scholarship employed by the clergy and by all secular writers who dreamed of permanence for their works. AngloSaxon, which gradually evolved until it became what we now call Middle English, was spoken by the common, conquered people. This language was a badge of crudeness, a necessary evil to be ignored, or, when acknowledgment was forced, to be acknowledged only with contempt. The passing centuries mellowed this relationship fundamentally. Gradually, as these Frenchmen became Anglo-Normans, then Englishmen, both the language and the content of their culture were absorbed by the masses of English people. Finally, the versatile and powerful English language and literature were born from the wedding of ancient Celtic and Teutonic legends to French culture and literary romance. At the Battle of Hastings in 1066 a victorious Norman poet sang a song commemorating the death of Roland, the great French hero and nephew of Charlemagne, Emperor of France. From such origins grew the chanson de geste or "song of great deeds," of which The Song of Roland became the outstanding example. These metrical songs praising the virtues of loyalty, courage, and physical strength in battle, provided a rhyme-scheme and a tradition from which the chivalric romances evolved, particularly in Southern France. When, in 1152, Eleanor of Aquitaine, a strong admurer of French literature and song, became the wife of Henry II of England, she brought the latest fashions in French literature directly to the English court. Similarly, Eleanor of Savoy again reinforced the popularity of the chivalric romances when she left France to marry Hen- - ty III in 1236. Thus the ideals of chivalry, as praised in poetic lines of exquisite beauty, at once achieved even greater popularity with the most select court society. The word romance was first used to designate Old French, a language derived from Latin, or "Roman." Soon it came to designate a tale in French dealing with the marvelous adventures of a great hero who excelled in ideals of chivalry, a word derived from cheval, French for "horse." For many centuries the code of chivalry was almost a religion among the aristocratic classes. As page, squire, and, finally, as a knight, the noble youth was taught to love and obey its high principles. Truly, Chaucer's knight received the highest praise of the chivalric LESSON DEPARTMENT Parfit, gentle" knight, "anti-tomance " © Most of th © Powerfy] Vogue of chiyal love of ly were: Werte add &entleness. Love and love of God | and the Green Knight about 4 370 by the "Pearl Poet") ir Teen Knight," We Conjecture that Nn Morte Darthur by the the author wa telationship between Queen Guine. Vere and Launcelo t home both in Court circles and in the Open fields. Have seen Previously, the OVE correct moral Principles, Most important, he was 4 artist skilled © love of God. In observing life and e Popularity of Is above-men}; €S€ Tesources he has Tecteated the ed. Ureligious ACtualities of life int zed poem characterizeg by vi he was described as a Tee of the Central Concepts in ven tions of t. Moral romance" Or the valrj hile Probably not 4 monk 560 and delicacy of statement. For the modern reader its plot is reasoned and well-balanced, its description is vivid and colorful, and the dialogue shows both subtlety and finesse. If the rhyme-scheme, the gay language, and some of the plot betray a French influence, the name of the hero and the incidents of the beheading game are drawn directly from Celtic lore. Here, true to his Celtic origins, Gawain is not a weak-willed quarrelsome playboy as he has been painted by 'Tennyson and others; rather he combines the bravery of the French Launcelot with the purity of Galahad to approach being the ideal knight. Yet never is he "goody-goody" nor artificial. He has about him the flavor of a normal man. His courage and loyalty in the face of fear, his essential honesty and restraint mark him as a man excellent among his kind. But when the huge axe swung out at his neck, he winced, and when Morgan le Fay tempted Sir Gawain to make love to her while her husband was hunting, he was genuinely tempted. Synopsis: On New Year's Day a giant knight, dressed in rich green, boldly rides his charger into King Arthur's banquet hall, challenging any knight to defend the honor of the Round Table by giving the Green Knight one blow with the axe, then taking one from him in return, a year later, at the Green Chapel in North Wales. When all become silent in fear, King Arthur finally rises to defend the honor of all. Sir RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 Gawain then accepts the charge, and with one blow of the massive axe whose head is about four feet across, he cuts off the Green Knight's head. To their astonishment, the group sees the knight pick up his own head and ride off, calling back to Gawain not to forcet his appointment. Next Christmas Day Gawain finds a castle in a lonely forest and asks directions to the Green Chapcl. The lord of the castle says it is nearby and asks Gawain to be his guest until the appointed day, the two men to exchange what they earn from each day's hunt. Then while the master is hunting, the lady of the castle goes to Gawain's bedchamber and tempts him to become her lover. Through artful dodging and argument he evades her advances, accepting only her formal kisses which, he in turn, gives to the lord as he returns from each day's hunt. On the third day, the lady gives him a green girdle which will preserve him from harm; this Gawain keeps and weats on New Year's Day when he meets the fierce Green Knight at the chapel. The Knight swings the axe twice but each time a little short of Gawain's neck, The third time he barely nicks Gawain and then reveals himself as the lord of the castle. He tells his name, Bernlak de Hautdesert, and that of his wife, Morgan le Fay, and how the two had plotted to dishonor both Sir Gawain and King Arthur. Since Sir Gawain had resisted all temptation except the green girdle, his life is spared. He then philosophizes to the Green Knight how from Adam to Samson to David man has been LESSON DEPARTMENT made foolish through the wiles of woman: "If a knight could love them well and believe them not, it were a great gain." Returning to Camelot, he tells his story before the knights of the Round Table, blushing in shame as he shows the wound on his neck. And I must needs wear this as long as I live. For none can hide his fault, but some mishap will reveal it; for if it once has clung to thee, it will never be severed from thee. The poem ends with the excellent motto, "Evil to him who evil thinks." Note to Teachers The introduction to Chapter 2, pp. 74- 105 will enrich your background for this literary period, pp. 77-84, 94-96, 100-103 apply most directly to our lesson. This poem is brimming over with good food and fellowship (pp. 168, 177, 188), the loveliness of nature (p. 172 contrasted with her dismal moods pp. 174-5, 189-90), the excitement of the chase (pp. 179, 183, 184, 186, 188), skillful, intense dialogue (180, 183, 187) and excellent realistic, descriptive phrases throughout. For example, "Ladies laughed aloud, even when they were overlooked" (168:4), the description of birds sitting unhappily upon bare twigs, "piping piteously for pain of the cold" (175:56), the Green Knight's description (168-169), the returning hunters blowing their bugles, "the noisiest uproar that was lifted up in jest for Reynard's soul" (188:46), "mist hovered over the moorlands... Every hill wore a hat and a huge cloak of haze" (190:26), "'the clouds seemed... Grazed by the cliffs" (191:27). The vivid moods, the realistic, poetic language, and the skillful uses of contrast make delightful reading. Morte Darthur (The Death of Arthur) 1469 The hundred years following the Pearl Poet and Chaucer were bar- 561 ren of any significant literary production. The silence was broken by Sir Thomas Malory, the "last outpost" and most successful admirer of medieval chivalry In the period of unrest preceding the bloody War of Roses (1455-85) Sir Thomas Malory was convicted of multiple crimes.. Apparently he spent the last twenty years of his life in prison for these purported crimes and for sedition. How guilty he was we cannot know; perhaps his definition of himself as "the servant of Jesu, both day and night" might not be so ironical and hypocritical as was once supposed. Morte Darthur was composed during his long years in prison. The ideals of morality and bravery and chivalry which he so loved were being buried beneath the cruel distress of the civil war which raged about him as he wrote. The flower of knighthood had passed, and surely, in writing of yesterday's golden age, Malory hoped to point a better way of life to his own tormented world. In 1485 Morte Darthur was printed by William Caxton, printer of the first book in English. His two great services to literature were his stabilization of the language and his printing of seventy-two works in English, among them Chaucer's Canterbury Tales and Troilus and Criseyde. A businessman who loved reading and literature, he edited Malory and others, somewhat to their detriment. His sense of style and grammar was not good; hence his own prefaces were predominantly practical, though sometimes they betrayed humor and good nature. Regardless of his er- 562 RELIEF society MAGAZINE AUgysy 1949 Tors, his Tole in the evelopment unified and interesting If he left nglish literature Was invaluable. Out some j POrtant Incidents and Since he } Ptnted myths and clouded ove Such, fundaméntal egends of ¢ teek Romans, concepts the cony, ntion of Some of his Critica] countrymen Courtly' Joye, we must remember asked why he hadn't Printed. Somethat Malory's Morte Darthu; Is the thing to 'honor English traditions, only " Middle English Tomance i:; alory's Morte 'hur, thereby Grai] the unity o¢ Content ang initiating th idespread Popularity of plot jg Weak Ose, We must of the hurian yc] f romances remember that Morte ur is a We cannot be cettain that Ar. Ttansports US to a Never-never land thur (derived from the. Roman Where there are Bo "vetyday mo. Knowledged 4s being largely the oes with Such exactness the tone Creator of the Arthurian legend, and Charm Of the Content. The Save for one English Poem, the logues are "ay and natural, yet ladfourteenth century alliteratiye a with Overtones of meaning and orte Arthure, Maloty's Source was emotion, Finally, we must Temema French POS€ Version, Probably — ber that Maloty was an idealist, Just LESSON DEPARTMENT. Comprise Morte Darthur, only the last is included in our text. Arthur returns to England and in combat slays Sir Mordred for coveting his kingdom and queen, but himself is mortally wounded.. His sword is returned to the lady of the lake, and Arthur is taken away in a mysterious ship by three queens. In penance for her sins, Guinevere becomes a nun and forsakes Launcelot before she dies.. He in turn becomes a monk and soon dies. Finally Constantine is appointed King of England. | "In the Morte Darthur, poets, painters, and 'composers have found many of their noblest themes— Spencer, Tennyson, Morris, Rosetti, Watts, Burne-Jones, Wagner. In the field of English art the highroads lead to Camelot. No other work in any literature has called into being such a library of poetry. If Malory had not brought together the. Arthurian tales, English literature might have been deprived 563 of two of its great masterpieces: Edmund Spencer's Faerie Queen and Alfred Tennyson's The Idylls of the King. Yet Morte Darthur is far more than a great source book, it is in itself a great story, and holds its high place in literature by its own literary merits. Questions for Discussion. 1. What were the important points in the code of chivalry? 2. What is a "moral romance"? Examples. 3. Why do you consider Sir eas to be a good man? 4. Discuss the Pearl Poet's attitude toward nature. Did Sir Thomas Malory live in the age of chivalry? Discuss. Was King Arthur a real man? Why is it important for us to know William Caxton? Discuss the importance of andl gs style of writing. G. Give a brief account of the life of King Arthur (Reference: The Relief Society Magazine: September 1932, pp. 554- 557+) 'Give 2 SS Ye pe Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 2—The Significance of the Declaration of Belief — for Modern Government Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, November 22, 1949 _ Objective: To consider different types of government in the world today, and to appreciate the basic principles contained in the "Declaration of Belief" as the culmination. Of the experience of the race. A The Sphere of Modern — ODAY modern government provides protection, regulation, control over various groups such as labor unions, banks, business. Establishments. Of all kinds; it regulates. Prices, the quality of goods, business. Prac: tices, railroad rates, airline rates; it provides assistance in the. Form of subsidies to the farmer,-to the un- 564 fortunate, the aged; it confers franchises on bus, air, rail, and shipping lines; it gives charity and assistance and relief; it provides schools, libraries, postal service, electric light plants, running water, sewage systems, sanitation systems; and, above all, modern government today determines the questions of war and peace in society—the conduct of international relations, including foreign policy and diplomacy, the shifting of armies and navies, the transfer of C-54's and B-29's, destroyers, cruisers, battleships. All take their part in the work of modern government. "Governments" Within the United States The United States Bureau of the Census in 1942 attempted to count the number of "governments" operating within the single American system. The table is as follows: U. S. Government So | 48 Counties:........<": a«977. 3,050 Townships or Towns.......... 18,919 American government, with its written constitutions, both Federal and state, the Bill of Rights, the principle of limited government, pressure groups, elected representatives, and independent judiciaries— all these institutions affecting the functions listed in the foregoing paragraph through the 155,116 units totaled in the table—indicate that government is a very complex business, indeed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 Types of Government in the International Field In the field of international relations, we perceive the outline of three or four significant international groups. They are: (1) the British Empire system, (2) the Soviet system, (3) the American system— which is linked with the British Empire system, and (4) the overall, loose, confederation of national States called the United Nations. These four prominent, overlapping, international organizations _ represent the chief political groups found today. Among the sixty-odd national States, these main groups and the great powers within them determine the course of war or peace, depression or prosperity. The British Empire is perhaps the oldest existing "international organization." It represents the skill, ingenuity, daring, and genius of the British people. Its territories are not integrated. They are far-flung in the seven seas and throughout the globe. Yet, the dominions of the British Empire represent a significant grouping of mankind into a political organization generally known as the "British Commonwealth of Nations" which is a significant factor in world stability. The Soviet system embraces not only the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, but also the various areas under Soviet influence, such as Poland, Czechoslovakia, Roumania, Bulgaria, Outer Mongolia, and other States. Whereas, toleration, good will, liberty for political differences are nurtured and cherished in the British Empire system, even to the extent of granting independent status Municipalities -........2..-....----- School Districts...............--- Special Districts...............-.- Total 16,220 108,579 8,299 155,116 LESSON DEPARTMENT to India and Pakistan (the richest portions of the Empire), the Soviet system is dominated by the desire for world revolution and the world dictatorship of the Communist party. Its objectives are well-known. This system may be said to date roughly from 1917 and the Russian revolution. The American system consists not only of the United States and its island and Alaskan possessions, but also may be said to include the western hemisphere system of twenty-one American — republics. This western hemisphere system is, next to the British empire, the oldest international organization now in existence, having political significance. Modern International Affiliations Since World War II, the American and British systems have been linked together by means of wartime alliances, lend-lease, joint military staffs, the British loan of 1945, and more recently and more significantly, the Marshall plan and the Economic Co-operation Act, passed by the United States Congress in 1948. This bill, called the Foreign Assistance Act of 1948, has resulted in the creation of a sixteennation committee in Western Europe, which has, for its object, co-operation with the United States. This committee is called ""The Committee for European Economic Cooperation." It is a very unique international organization, inasmuch as it has been called into being by an act of the American Congress. Nevertheless,. The organization itself is a voluntary association of the 565 sixteen States composing it. Within this sixteen-power association for economic co-operation, there has emerged what is called "Western Union." Western Union is a military alliance between Great Britain, France, Holland, Belgium, and Luxembourg. When the French, British, Dutch, and Belgian colonies are taken into consideration, for example, the rich Belgian Congo in Africa with its uranium deposits (the source of atomic energy), we see the strategic significance of Western Union. When it is realized that Western Union is_ linked through its British member to the United States by means of the "joint chiefs-of-staff," a military arrangement, not to mention the fact that the other four members of Western Union are part of the Marshall plan, we see how the British and Amertican systems have linked themselves into a form of international organization. All the principal States of the world, except the defeated powers, are members of the United Nations. The charter of the United Nations is an effort to create a general international organization for the maintenance of peace. The hopes that attend its functioning as well as its strengths and weaknesses, are matters of daily concern to all the peoples of the world. International Organizations In addition to the mesh of local governments such as those found in the United States, and the great political groupings of international importance, there are many other, small specialized _ organizations "which help carry on the work of 566 modern government. The United States, alone, for example, belongs to 102 international organizations in which we participate actively, This number was listed in the United States government manual for 1947. For example, we belong to four international Organizations in the field of agriculture, such as the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations. We _ belong to eight commercial and financial organizations, such as the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We belong to ten international Organizations in the field of commodities, such as the International Wheat and Sugar Councils; then we belong to dozens of educational, scientific, cultural, political, legal, social, health, transport, communications organizations such as the Universal Postal Union, the International Labor Organization, the Permanent Court of Arbitration, the Pan-American Union, and so forth. All of these governments, the peoples they serve, and these various international organizations, have for their Purpose, at some 'point or -other, the maintenance of peace or some phase of human welfare and benefit. How can they be used to bring about a safe, sane world? Significance and Value of the Declaration of Belief It is amazing that a group of Latfrontiersmen meeting in Ohio in 1835 would adopt a Declaration of Belief regarding government and laws in general which would contain basic Principles Capable of motivating human behavior _ now, as then, through a rather comRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 plex maze of political organization. As one of the foundation aspects of Latter-day Saint political thought, the Declaration of Belief should be more thoroughly studied and appreciated. It has great significance for the national modern State Syspeace, men must have ideals to guide them. The Declaration of Belief constitutes a "spelling out" of practical ways and means to utilize human government in such a way that they may 'reconcile their activities with the great ideal of a kingdom of God upon earth. It is a problem of the peoples involved, and particularly ourselves, to understand the Ptinciples and to utilize them, through these various governments and organizations which have been listed. Erever theChurch of Jesus Christ itself and its Priesthood exist, the Management and direction of the Church, its func tioning in its wards, stakes, and missions, its Program and its mission. Ary work throughout the world, all must understand the Declaration and uphold its Principles wherever human liberty makes such action Possible. No one need fear to advocate these Principles, They are sound. They Tepresent the culmination of the experience of the race. The highest ideals of Greek, Roman, and English political ex. Perience may be said to be crystalized in the Declaration of Belief. It is for us to know and understand and appreciate these Principles as 4 people and as citizens, In upholding them, we will find common ground with our neighbors, whatever creed or religion, so long as LESSON DEPARTMENT they recognize freedom. Of conscience, freedom of religion, and the great principles expounded in the Declaration. Responsibility of the Individual Where the individual himself is concerned, each one for himself must recognize that he has persuasive powers. We must all feel free to use these persuasive powers after understanding these principles, as each of us is potentially either an advocate of slavery or liberty. And governments and laws have everything to do, nowadays, with the peace, happiness,- and even the temporal salvation-of mankind. Questions for Discussion and Lesson Helps Special Project: Assign a member of the class to go to the local public or high school library, borrow a recent copy of the United States Government Manual, and bring it to class. Have the individual assigned read the "purpose" and "functions" of a few selected Federal agencies, such as (consult the index) "The Council of Economic Advisers," 'The' Atomic Energy Commission," "The Securities and Exchange Commission, " the "Federal Security Agency," etc. Additional Projects: 1. Bring a convenient (preferably in color) map of the world to the class. (Again, the local public school or library can be of assistance.) Point out the various territories that fall within the orbit of British, American, Soviet power. 2. Assign three, two-min- _ Could this function be handled by 567 ute reports to members of the class as follows: (a) Greek ideals regarding government and. Citizenship; (b) Roman ideals regarding government and law; (c) the idéals of English liberty. (See "Our Political Inheritance," by Elder Durham in The Relief Society Magazine for April a Oy ) Of the many units of government (nator, state, local) existing in our land which ones deal with the following matters: conferring of bus franchises; regulation of banks; building of highways; provision of schools? (The answers are not printed in the lesson! How civicminded is your class? Do they know. Or can they find out the answers?) 2. Have the class think this through: what units of government control the balloting and election~ processes? © Who,: or what unit of government, prepares' and prints the ballots used at election time? The national government? (Think this through very carefully: what would be involved? Have someone look up the number of election districts in your county, in your state. There are approximately 135,000 such in the United States altogether. All of these have to have ballots on election day!) Can the principles of the Declaration of Belief be applied at all levels of government? 4. What does the phrase, " 'persuasive powers" mean, as used in the, closing paragraph of the lesson? 5. How should man's persuasive powers be used? So far as the Declaration is concerned, can they be used "in ignorance" of the complexity of modern government? 6. Does 'this lesson throw additional meaning on the maxim stated by Joseph Smith, that no man can be saved in ignorance?? There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this woild, upon which all blessings are predicated—And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated (D. & C. 130:21, 22). 568 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 Optional olessons in oLieu of Social Sctence—The First Presidencies Lesson 9—The Counselors to President Joseph F. Smith (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions ) Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, November 22, 1949 Tue Presipency A Untr—THe THREE ARE ONE John R. Winder Anthon H. Lund N lesson 7 we learned that President Snow had died suddenly in October 1901, just four days following the close of the October conference of the Church. Last month's lesson related that Joseph F. Smith was Called to fill the vacancy caused by the death of President Snow. In this lesson we shall learn of the men who ably assisted President Smith in his long administration and presided with him over the Church from 1901 to 1918. Seven days following the passing of President Snow, the First Presidency was reorganized. President Smith selected as his first counselor John Rex Winder who had been serving, since 1887, as second counJohn Henry Smith Charles, W. Penrose selor in the Presiding Bishopric. For his second counselor he chose Anthon H. Lund, a man of great vigor and conviction who had been a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles since 1889. 'This was a most fortunate selection of coworkers as each brought to the office of the First Presidency capacities and characteristics that were to be of great service to the Church. A special conference of the Church was called to convene in the Salt Lake Tabernacle on November 10, 1901, for the purpose of presenting the new Presidency to the membership of the Church for a sustaining vote. This was done by each quorum of the Priesthood voting separ- LESSON DEPARTMENT ately and then by a vote of the entire assemblage. The vote gave unanimous approval to the three above-mentioned men who were to constitute the First Presidency. Men are largely the product of their previous experiences and surroundings. In order to understand these men who were to serve President Smith, it is necessary for us to become acquainted with their backgrounds and previous history. John Rex Winder John Rex Winder, the first counselor, was nearly eighty years of age when called into the First Presidency. Today most people would think that a man of his age should have retired from active service many years before, but men are not so retired in the kingdom of God. President Winder was a man of great physical vitality and sound judgment. Born at Biddenden, England, on December 11, 1821, his early life was spent in preparation for clerical service, a vocation which he pursued until he came in contact with the restored gospel. Brother Winder was working in a retail store at Liverpool, England, in July 1848 when he first heard of the gospel. One day he picked up a scrap of paper on which were the words "Latter-day Saints." He asked one of the clerks what these words meant, and the clerk informed him that this was the name of a strange American religion whose representatives were holding meetings in the neighborhood. Out of curiosity, Brother Winder attended a meeting already in session. He crept up a back stairway and peeped through the banister. The sermon being giv- 569 en appeared to be directed so particularly to him that he could not resist its message. "God moves in a mysterious way," and sometime later he felt impelled to join the Church. In September of 1848, being in his twenty-seventh year, he and his wife were baptized. With fervor he labored as a local parttime missionary for about four years and, in February 1853, set sail for the United States. It was not until the following October that he and his family reached the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, at the close of an eight-months journey. President Winder found that the Lord blessed him and he, in turn, used his talents for the promotion of the kingdom of God. This was a period in which there was need for making the Latter-day Saint settlements in the Intermountain country self-sustaining, as it was almost impossible to haul needed commodities with wagons from the Missouri River or the Pacific coast. Brother Winder became one of the vanguards of this movement, and engaged in so many varieties of industrial establishments that the space allotted for this lesson is insufficient to give even a short account of them. He became a partner of Brigham Young in establishing a tannery near the mouth of Parley's Canyon, from which came first-class leather. This, in turn, led to the establishment of industries to produce shoes, boots, saddles, and harnesses. He was active in the promotion of the manufacture of domestic sugar, both from beets and sugar cane. There was great interest in the possibility of establishing an iron industry in Utah, and he was one of the leading 570 figures in this activity. Lumbering, brick-making, dairying and livestock raising also engaged his attention, and he was one of the leaders in the Deseret Manufacturing and Agricultural Society. Ever alert to the possibilities of progress, he was active in railroading; and when the commercial use of electricity became a possibility, he was one of the leaders of the Pioneer Electric Company. Later he helped organize and became president of the Union Light and Power Company, now the Utah Power and Light Company. These many activities made him financially independent and he found himself called to many positions of public trust. For a period of fourteen years he served as assessor and collector for Salt Lake City and also served as city watermaster for many years. Ina semi-arid country such as the Salt Lake Valley, the position of watermaster was a responsible one, demanding a person of sound judgment, one in whom the public had confidence, and a man with a sense of justice. These characteristics were possessed by Brother Winder and he was greatly respected. The great physical strength of Brother Winder is further made manifest in the fact that, in addition to his private interests and his public service, he was a bishop's counselor, later bishop of the Fourteenth Ward and, in 1887, was called to be second counselor to Presiding Bishop William B. Preston. In 1892, when it had been determined to rush the completion of the Salt Lake Temple so that it could be dedicated the next year on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 the fortieth anniversary of its commencement, President Woodruff gave him the special assignment of raising the necessary funds for this purpose and supervising the completion of the work. He personally donated very liberally to this cause and after its completion was given the added responsibility of serving as an assistant to President Snow in the temple presidency, in addition to being a member of the Presiding Bishopric. Faced with the choosing of counselors, President Smith selected this aged man, who had a wealth of experience in temporal as well as _ spiritual matters. He was a captain of industry and an empire builder, both in a material sense and for the kingdom of God on earth. President Smith was determined to have the Church brought forth from obscurity into a new era of expansion and economic security, and' President Winder was a man capable of giving counsel and leadership in this regard. For nine years he served his President faithfully and passed from mortality on March 27, 1910. Anthon Henrik Lund At Aalborg, Denmark, on May 15, 1844, a baby boy was born who was destined to play a great role in the lives of countless people before his life closed in Salt Lake City seventy-seven years later... This child was Anthon Henrik Lund. He had a remarkable mentality and gave promise of becoming a scholar of great renown. His mother died when he was quite small, and he was reared by his grandmother who, in time, accepted the restored gospel and was LESSON DEPARTMENT 57] Young ~ the attempt to raqty week-day, nthon had tead the Bible by th '810us education to Ime he wag eight years old and ipurch, -] vestigated the [. © -atter-day Saint faith thoroughly While stil] very young. On his twelfth birth ay 0 Characterist Vigor took oy, T the Wtiday he was ba ulles Of this "IY Tesponsible Office hen only thirteen years Of age tober 17, he was Called on. 9] |? 1901, he was 4 Worthy ad. Ocal mission and dition ¢ e Presiding Council of or four and a half years Served in the Church, the Danish Mssion "wij S th WOTK of the Church, OF scrip, had acquired a knowl. Its Istory and its doctrine, ere edge of Fn lish and tendered valuneeded In. This Counci] of the First able Assistance ¢, the Ission in P Fesidency can and glish hurch Periodicals lesson uring th Inistra Or the Scandin Vian saints, Ap SIXtion of President Smith the hurch C€n years of he was Presiding made gteat 5 Over the Aalbo Branch of the mis OF activities | unty and 'Y Were so much unity that al] Missionary in the Candinayjan Mis Spiritual or te Oral matters of each Sion d, in 1883, a5 President of Contributed € great erg of. Inthat Mission, creased Prestige that the Church he ACtiVities of g ch a dynamic entered at this '< Personality ¢g Id not tema;: "noticed and time. - In is © Was given the "sPonsibility of ha under of the Near Coun eligion Classes of the cil Bluffs, Towa, on Seputch jn tember 18, 1848, dur; Zz tized, against the OPPOsition of Tela tives and schoolmates tanslating aterial from the Amer; Ived in arious Communities In cen tral Utah. In 1871, he Served as 4 Presiding oye; the Pales i en Presiden Smith selected him as his second Counselor on Oc € have elated in the Previous hree Shared in these FsPonsibilities € wisdom and Particular gifts in Young. John Henry Smith was 'born 572 "Satisfaction Guaranteed or Your Money Back" You can't lose at Sears! In the first place all Sears merchandise is first quality... Tested in our laboratory, specified at the factory, then field tested under actual "in-use" conditions. Nothing human is infallible. So, just on the long chance that some time something might slip through, we say to you in all sincerity and good faith: "If anything you ever get from _ Sears doesn't make good—SEARS WILL!" Main or State at 8th South Salt Lake City Dial 5-665! FREE PARKING does it bet faster and at low gost Oo hl Llccte A Utah Power & Light Co. Message RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1949 ward migration of the saints. He was brought to Utah in 1849 and grew up in the pioneering era of the Church. Upon reaching manhood he engaged in various activities connected with the construction of railroads. He was employed in the building of the Central Pacific Railway in California. When his work ended there, he was offered a good situation in Sacramento, California, but returned home at the request of his father, who had employment for him. In 1874, he was called on a mission to Europe, and, on April 27, 1880, he was ordained an apostle. From this time until the close of his life John Henry Smith was very much in the public eye. He served in various Civic positions of leadership, particularly being active in the efforts to secure statehood for Utah. He was president of the last constitutional convention that drew up the constitution for the State of Utah when it was finally admitted into the Union. He was president of the 'Trans-Mississippi Congress, and served as building chairman of the Utah State Capitol until his death in 1911. As an apostle, he showed great strength in visiting the wards and stakes of the Church, effecting divisions and re-organizations of the same. He was a man who had friendship and love for everyone—Church members and non-Church members alike. When President Smith chose him as a member of the First Presidency, John Henry Smith was highly qualified to fill the vacancy in this presiding council, bringing a wealth of experience and judgment to the office. He did not long survive the appointment, however, for death re- LESSON DEPARTMENT moved him from this office a year and a half later. His death occurred October 13, 1911. Charles William Penrose To fill the vacancy in the First Presidency caused by the death of John Henry Smith, a man was chosen who was a convert to the Church. He was another man of English birth, Charles W. Penrose, who was then seventy-nine years of age, but alert in body and mind. He served President Smith for seven years as second counselor. We shall learn more about him in a later lesson, as he served in this same capacity to President Heber J. Grant. Topics for Discussion and Study 1. What influences do you think caused such men as John R. Winder, Anthon H. Lund, John Henry Smith, and Charles W. Penrose to rise to positions of leadership in the Church? References Jenson, Andrew, L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia, Vol. 1. Articles on each of the members of the Presidency. Smith, Joseph Fielding, Essentials in Church History, pp. 623-637. <_< Blind Jo Adelaide Stock I have a friend who never saw Night silver or a bird at dawn, For over his kindly brown eyes A coverlet is drawn. "He cannot see for he is blind; He cannot know the joy of day," They cry, but oh, my sightless friend Is not as blind as they. They see his eyes, but not the flame, Nor hear the golden psalmody That lives within his spirit when He says with faith, "I see!" 573 Professional ae Social Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Plan to enroll for FALL T = R: M Tuesday, September 6 Fully qualified by staff. Equipment, and experience, the L. D. S. Business College can give you the best possible training for a promising business or civil service career. L. D. §, Business College 70 No. Main Salt Lake City e laughing as much 4S We were singing. And there was Wisdom and new-found nowledge. 7 Our laughter For we in that Specia Ily Selected Toom kney that the Cynics were wrong, fi There jg 800d reason Why the or Ord has not Ceased Struggling with e ° Mankind ou haven't yet Sin I Mothers Ound the Words with Which to in voke a Ja Ng Peace, we all have the musi¢ " Our hearts Dear Land of Home—Sibeting ll 15 God Bless America—Berjin ~~ 20 en The Green Cathedral_tap,, a 18 Heard a Forest Praying—_p, Rose Love q Little Cottage—o-y ra Parag, for a Washday Land of Pe and lory—F} ar The Little Og Garden—Hewit, Miranda Snow Walton ullaby 9nd Goog Night—Brahms Song Remembered—Coaieg A Out the flowers and trees, Stults se Oems fluttering lm the breeze. ° 4 Wilg Rose—MacDowel) —— € used suc &ay, embroidereg Words of L. P. Chora] Stoups. Music sent on ap &T Cottage was 4 shrine, with love Proval. Mail Orders 'till, Prompt] We Pay A daily Titual, We ha a complete Stock of Popular W, OSe care wa "acred, and Classic] Music for © church and Schoo]; Steinway dL and orchestra MStruments an Tecords, P ester Pianos; band an er every joy? Accessories, oming home at night, a And there Were tiny, dainty Words HIRST oF ALL — antiaairy That looked like fairy Wings, oft, Cuddly words for lullabies D a n e Ss new-made mot €F sings 43-47 soury 7) 4 1, NO, she Could not wn MAIN Stpeey Wtitsi: SALT Lany CY 1, rag ne Fleeting Hour—log = Y The Swee est Story Ever Told Write for information °2 music for al] types 7 She could Not write a Poem, she said ut on her washday line, T saw That B assers-by could fell She told of happy hearts Within Auerbach's Makes |t Easy For You To Knit Yourself: MONTEREY, all wool knubby-yarn i. Ae -80c ounce VELVEEN, 71% wool, 29, rayon, shiny rayon thread... -80c ounce | Salt Lake City, Utah a Please 'opdme Copies of the Minerva Pattern book. -25¢, Please send me or Monterey Yarn Name Utahns, Please add 2: Please add 25 cents to oo Auerbach's, State and Broadway vrol{y. And insurance. From Near and Sar I think the two stories: "Young Hearts Are Fragile" (by Olive W. Burt, June) and "A Family's a Family" (by Estelle Webb Thomas, June) are very good stories, much better in construction than the average story published in The Relief Society Magazine. I liked Olive Burt's especially and the humor in the other was refreshing if a little overdrawn. I wonder though, if anything about a family can be overdrawn. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson, Boise, Idaho I am happy to have a poem "Roses Wet With Rain" in the June Magazine. The cover is indeed beautiful and fitting for summer. —Grace Sayre, Pasadena, California At a recent union meeting I had as my guest a young French millinery designer who gave us all many useful tips on veils, contours, trims, colors, types, etc. We were every one "picked up" by her talk. On the way home Sister Roskelley (our stake president) rode with one of our councilmen. He asked, "Well, what did you learn in Relief Society today?" She replied, '""We learned how to wear hats becoming to us, how to make an old hat into a pretty new one—and lots of good things about hats in general." "How different," he replied, "from the time our mothers and grandmothers went to Relief Society! In those days they learned how to care for the sick and bury the dead." "Well, nowadays," answered Sister Ros- ~ "we get them a new hat and they iue."" —lIda L. Edwards, Fair Oaks, California May I be allowed to congratulate you on such a fine Magazine. From cover to cover, we never miss an article. The material may be written for women, but it certainly has plenty of messages for men also. —Jack K. Clark, Dearborn, Michigan Page 5/6 I am a missionary in the Central States Mission, and I can say that I know what a wonderful Magazine you put out, even for the Priesthood of the Church. I wish to subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine for one year for a saint who has been my "Mission Mom" for the past eight months. She took care of me last summer when I was ill, while traveling without purse or scrip. —Elder Hyrum B. Ipson, Hot Springs, Arkansas Please continue my subscnption for another year. I always enjoy the Magazine. With all good wishes to the staff on this wonderfully inspirational Magazine for their excellent work. —Mrs. John Gardner, Encino, California It is my privilege to be theology leader in our Relief Society and teacher training leader in the Sunday School. I am a convert to the Church and have had much studying to do, but have always found the work wonderful and inspiring. Teaching Relief Society lessons has helped me through the years with my family and is helping me now with other children, Our lessons are always of the greatest import and worth. We should be grateful to those who plan them. May the Heavenly Father bless you and your co-workers in giving us the fine material each month in our Magazine. —Lillian R. Johnson, Turlock, California I wish to thank you for the lovely Magazine you send our way each month. I enjoy every word in it from cover to cover. —Mrs. Von L. Peterson, Hamer, Idaho Thank you for the wonderful Magazine. I wouldn't like to be without it. My whole family enjoys reading it. God bless you all, —Kitty J. Smith, Johannesburg, South Africa Keliof Society Literature __ TEXT BOOK The Literature of England" by Woods, Watt and Anderson (Third Edition) $ 450 PER COPY by mail, $4.75 AVAILABLE NOW. DESERET BOOK COMPANY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City 10, Utah frunts a iaew"s CHURCH 3 S OFFICE U. S. POSTAGE PERMIT No. 690 SOOPER Pe OTe RD eer PCy treats & nce @ %. If it's wt a CANNING. NING > = o » - w » 7) amd oe om UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR j 47 £AST SOUTH TEMPLE CITY 1 2¢ Paid | SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Lessons for December SEPTEMBER 1949 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 36 SEPTEMBER, 1949 No. 9 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES The Mormon Handicraft Shop...... Ccecsccec-cssssecsneeceseenecneetsncnscsssnserssssesssensensnneenessnaseecesEthel C. Smith 580 Relief Society Building News - 586 Better Photography 2... Willard Luce 591 Suggestions for a Work Meeting Luncheon.....-Christine Eaton 603 FICTION Tempered—Part Join. Nen. Acee-esecscsceceseenencnenesseceeeeseseseceececonececuseseseseseneessenetesenesesnensesnseeesereesGladys I. Hamilton 587 Martha, Papoose of the Great Spirit 2. Cee cceececcecceceececeeeece cece eee eeeeeneeenenneeeeeeeeJames C. Young 605 Joanna—Chapter 9 on. Ceceeccecececcceeceseseeee Margery S. Stewart 608 Sixty Years Ago veces 096 Woman's Sphere oe:: Ramona W. Cannon 597 Editorial: Women Who Sew Together 2......... C:: ccsccccceesssncsesessesesessesseeveeveveneeeeeeeeVesta P. Crawford 598 Notes to the Field: Annual General Relief Society Conference... 599 Buying Textbooks for Relief Society Lessoms..2.2...::: ccccecscccesecececeseeeeees 99 Annual Report—]948.00 eeGeneral Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 610 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Patchwork Quilts Alice Whitson Norton 585 The Making and Use of Decorative Candles Mary Grant Judd 600 Edith Bunn Makes Unique Wagon-Wheel Rugs o. Cccscoc. CccsvessssssscsssesssveessovsssenereseneesMirinda Knapp 602 Wastebaskets Where You Want Them ooc. C-cccccccccecocsesseouwescsaeee--Rachel K. Laurgaard 604 4; LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: ''Continuation of the Perean and Judean Ministry!'.... Cccccccsscso--Don B. Colton 633 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''These Things I Have Spoken Unto You''... Mary Grant Judd 638 Work Meeting—Sewing: Children's Clothing Jean Ridges Jennings 639 Literature: The Poet Shakespeare Briant S. Jacobs 640 POETRY Poplar Magic—Frontispiece.. -Ruth Harwood 579 Tranquility | coseesenee sesnceseorcocsvenseceseuestteeeeaeCelia Van Cott 585 Autumn Winds.. Dorothy J. Roberts 585 Autumn oon ceseceececneene Margaret B. Shomaker 586 That He May Know..... LeRoy Burke Meagher 590 Reunion Sylvia Probst Young 595 Invocation Jessie M. Robinson 601 Hill Hunger Grace Sayre 604 ind Helen Gee Woods 607 — 626 Evelyn Fjeldsted 637.... Hilde Wittemund 647 Jeanette P. Parry 647 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance, Single copy, l15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, givng both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicted manuscripts. Reprint of Shakespeare's Sonnet 7] There Is Joy A Friend Like You............... INiteyiat) eee ee ashionacked at a udget Price! Fashion is not a price tag at Z. C. M. I. --:: These smart 100% pure virgin wool covert coats by Pat Allen take you stylishly and warmly through the frostiest days—at budget cost. Two-season lining of luxurious rayon satin.- adjustable 'cuffs! Grey, Exclusive ity Salt Lake in our DY WEAR DEPT. -- ° DOWNSTAIRS STORE Ps (Fs, " ye i rare de oy Sf i ey v * ° Willard Luce POPLAR TREES THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 36, NO. 9 SEPTEMBER 1949 LP. Oplar Magic Ruth Harwood One tall golden taper of a poplar tree in autumn! With sudden magic, the long years vanish And I am once more in my own loved homeland, In the valley of the high, snow-covered mountains, My childhood home again, all glad and safe around me! My blessed little mother, courageous and s0 wise, Cheerily singing as she weaves her household patterns, How good to hear her Precious songs after long silence, Here, too, my kindly father smiling upon me once more, The great gentleness of him poured forth in love of beauty, To let him know, at last, how much his mountain-crest ideals And splendid artist workmanship have beaconed me Through all the years of my own faithfulness to heights! Honeysuckle, delicate, sweet fragrance of remembering, Swaying goldenglow, tall banks of it. Now blooming, And evening Primroses, with dusk dreams soft around them. Oh, all beloved flowers are blooming here together In the gracious tender season of the heart's remembering! Rich treasures to behold through the magic portal Of one tall golden taper of a poplar tree in autumn! The Cover: The Mormon Handicraft Shop, Photograph by Hal Rumel. The Mormon Handicraft Shop Ethel C. Smith Member, General Board of Relief Society THE beautiful new face of the Mormon Handicraft Shop smiles a welcome from the front cover of this Magazine, and bids us enter through its wide, sparkling glass door. Come in with me and see its newly decorated interior and the lovely handmade articles that can be glimpsed through the modem windows. As the door closes noiselessly behind us, we find ourselves surrounded by exquisite handwork of all descriptions. The soft, warm tones of rose and green on the walls and ceiling make a perfect background for the displays on the center tables and in the shelves and cases lining each side of the room. If it is your first visit to this unique store, I know you are wondering where all of these beautiful articles came from and why they are being sold here. So, before we make our tour of the shop, let me tell you what the Mormon Courtesy The Deseret News Fye-catching arrangements of gaily colored pot holders, hot pads, tea towels, monogrammed beach bags, lamps, and dolls of many kinds. One popular item in this display is a set of hot pads made by a young man who is bedfast and unable to move from his back. By means of a mirror suspended above the bed, he weaves these attractive pads, thus bringing to himself a small income as well as the joy and satisfaction of accomplishment. Page 580 THE MORMON HANDICRAFT SHOP Hal Rumel 581 XZA a « * gtk.. € Poe Cite tet ie Chet ns 8 A center display of lovely baby things—a snow-white blanket of feathery softness, every thread of which is woven by hand; a pale pink and blue crib quilt with hundreds of unbelievably tiny stitches nestling among its folds to outline a dainty pattern. There are dresses and bonnets for girl babies, rompers and visored caps for boy babies; and bibs and bootees of all descriptions. Many of the beautiful crocheted articles for babies sold through the shop are made by an elderly woman, who relives, with each one she makes, the joy she had with her own babies, at the same time she is helping to maintain herself financially. Handicraft Shop is, why it was started, and how it operates. The Mormon Handicraft Shop is a medium through which those persons having skill in the handicraft arts may offer their work for sale, and where others, desiring to beautify their homes, or seeking gifts for the enjoyment of friends, may purchase such art work. It stands as a symbol of the compassion and love carried in the heart of a beloved general president of Relief Society for those women affected by the depression of the "thirties." It is a monument to the culture and industry of our pioneer grandmothers, whose skills and crafts have been preserved throughout the years in Latter-day Saint families. In 1937, under the direction of President Louise Y. Robison, with the approval of the Presiding Bishopric, the Relief Society organized the Mormon Handicraft Shop for these purposes: to provide an outlet for the handwork of women desiting to supplement the family income by working in their own homes; to preserve the handicraft arts of Latter-day Saint women of many nationalities; and to develop and increase appreciation for fine workmanship. The work of the shop is carried on under the direction of the general presidency of Relief Society and is furthered by a committee of general board members and an advisory committee composed of 582. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Hal Rumel Featured in this display, in the foreground ss a crocheted afghan in many shades of red, its rows 0" rows of even stitches giving mute evidence of innumerable hours of patient, painstaking Jabor; an attractive hand-embroidered sewing bag, Toomy an well-lined; and an exquisite crocheted lace table cover of intricate design perfectly executed. On one end of this table stands a velvet-lined, two-tiered case. Through. Its glass front can be seen a striking display of beautifully designed si i and necklaces. This unusual jewelry is handwrought by an artisan who came from Norway as 4 convert to the Church. Each design is original and is never duplicated. Selected women who have an inThe worthy purposes for which terest in, and a knowledge of such the shop was started have, in large work. Measure, been fulfilled. Latter-day During the twelve years of its exSaint women have been encouraged sstence, the business of the shop has to preserve and develop their handicontinued to grow, and exquisite craft skills; a high standard of workhandmade articles have been sold. Manship has been established; and The list of contributors has grown hundreds of contributors have obuntil it now contains three thoutained funds through this medium sand names. Articles are sent to the with which to supplement their shop from all parts of the State of incomes. By selling her handwork Utah, and from many other states; through the Mormon Handicraft and homes in man different parts Shop, many 4 mother has helped of the world have been beautified 4 SOP or a daughter through school by lovely handwork that is tepora mission; emigrants from foreign resentative of the industry and artis Jands have been able to add to try of the Latter-day Saints. Their limited funds; women left as THE MORMON HANDICRAFT SHop widows have been able to feed and clothe their children more adequately; and indigent elderly persons have non-profit store. In order to continue as a going business, however, it must be self-supPorting. Overhead expenses are met mainly by charging contributors a yearly membership fee of one dollar, and by retaining twenty-five per cent of the selling price of each article sold. During the summer tourist season, sales are usually sufficient to allow the shop to support itself, However, during the remainder of the year when the shop 583 must depend largely on local trade for its Support, it is regrettable that such trade is not always of adequate volume to provide the funds neces. Sary to meet operating expenses, HIS brief review of the history of the shop and its worthy purPoses should bring to us the tealization that we, as members of Relief Society, are actually stockholders in this business. We have a personal 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Hal Rume! White and some ecru, al] different in desi Next to this is a display of Tugs in a variety of sizes and shapes—some braided and some woven. One Particularly attractive, evenly braided Tug ls a sample of many that AS we descend the Stairway, we self, I hope you will remember the can see in the main Toom of the worthy purposes for which the shop shop many other beautify] things Was started, and those whom your Which we have not had time to ex. Purchases wil] help, amine. I know you will want to As we leave the unique Mormon come back again soon and see them Handicraft Shop and Pass once all. And whenever you come in to more through its wide glass portal, Purchase a gift for 4 friend or to I am sure you feel, with me, a choose something lovely for yourdeeper appreciation for this fine THE MORMON HANDICRAFT SHOP 585 Relief Society project and for those mine to show our appreciation by who have been instrumental in doing our part to keep the shop developing it. Let us all detergoing and to help it grow. Tranquility Autumn Winds Celia Van Cott Dorothy ]. Roberts These hills, like a sweet old lady, The roots of solace, shared, go deep Wrapped in a paisley shawl, Under layered time, to keep Composed at the end of a day of rest, A glad return for those who stand, Are our Utah hills in the fall. Together, on remembered land. The mountains are veiled in purple, But a sad return it is to stray, The hills wear a halo of light, Alone, upon a memoried way, As soft as the blue in a patchwork quilt And lonely they, who shared no sowing, To tuck them in for the night. In fields when autumn winds are blowing. <o+ Patchwork Quilts Alice Whitson Norton ['s out of style, my home-folks say, to make a patchwork quilt today, nobody wants it when complete, it's just an object obsolete, a waste of time, a sign of guilt, and poverty—a patchwork quilt. Yet, when I let myself look back, to youth's glad day, in humble shack, a picture rises sweet and fair, of mother in a straight-back chair, her face aglow with joy—not guilt, while cutting pieces for a quilt. To keep the pattern true and right she balanced shades of dark and light, and I remember one design she made was called "The Friendship Vine,' and when each vine was stitched in place, to her it meant a friendly face. Sometimes I ponder in my heart, how human eyes can view such art, and fail so utterly to see in it the true affinity of life a patchwork quilt may prove, when splashed with shadows, sun, and love. There's bric-a-brac around my place, and bits of linens edged with lace, and yet the thing I love the most, and of it frequently I boast, without embarrassment or guilt, is, strange to say, a patchwork quilt. Relief Society Building News The names of the following stake, ward, and mission districts and branches have not previously been published in The Relief Society Magazine as having completed their Building Fund quotas. Bic Horn StTAKe Lovett Warp Eastern Savaii District, Samoan Mission Mission Malaela Branch, Samoan Mission Mission Pesega Branch, Samoan Mission *Through an oversight this branch was not listed, as it should have been, in the Magazine for September 1948. ——- Autumn Margaret B. Shomaker A strange enchantment lies upon the land, As leaves from green to golden yellow turn And nature smiles to touch with magic hand Emollient balm to leaf-thin tree and fern. And in the blue sky overhead is swung A golden harvest moon to lead and light The way for shoals of tiny stars among The cool, gray shadows of the autumn night. Encircled low, the bending meadow grass Is tiny flutes, with music liquid clear To catch the sparkling sunbeams as they pass. Bright symphonies of earth and sky cohere Until each flower, bush, and tree is told To wrap the autumn day in fragrant gold. Page 586 Azalea City Branch, Southern States Mission* Eastern Upolu District, Samoan Mission Tutuila District, Samoan Mission Western Savaii District, Samoan Western Upolu District, Samoan Tempered PART I Gladys I. Hamilton ARNET BLENDALL tried to appear natural as she stood on tiptoe to kiss her husband, Lee, goodbye. Then, quite casually, she plucked a minute speck of lint from her father-in-law's rough whipcord coat. Her blue eyes were sad, and within herself was a cold numbness, overlaid with a sincere regret and an aching weariness. Only she knew that her kiss was to be a final one as _Lee's wife. Her marriage had failed and she was running out! Senior Blendall, known to his associates as "Old Granite," cast his fierce gray eyes skyward and remarked, "A weather-breeder, Lee, sure as you're born!" 'Then he turned to the quiet woman in the wheelchair, put his hand tenderly on her shoulder and pressed gently. "Well, so long, Mother." "Be careful, Grant." His wife's thin voice quavered slightly, then her eyes turned toward her tall son. "Take good care of your Pa, Lee. He's always so careless of hoof and horn when he goes to the stockyards," "T will, Mom," Lee promised, "but you and Garnet are the ones to take care of yourselves while we're away." A worried look flicked across his fine bronzed face as he bent to kiss his invalid mother. Then again, with 'almost an air of shyness, he caught Garnet up to him in a great, crushing bear hug. "We'll only be gone three ae Honey. Smith'll look after the chores for you. You won't need to worry about any of that." But old Grant turned at Lee's words and glared at his daughterin-law. "Don't you forget to remind Smith about that special feed and clean bedding for those new cows." "T won't, Father," Garnet promised for the fourth time since the men had planned to ship the yearlings to Denver. The new cows in question were Shorthorns, and the small beginning of still another sideline on the broad acres of the Blendall Ranch, two registered females and a very young calf, from one of the nation's foremost breeders. 'They were valuable, and very dear to the elder Blendall's heart. Most of the three thousand acres of "Wheatlands" was utilized for raising wheat and feed for the beef cattle. Lee and his father managed the entire ranch with the help of a hired man, Smith, who lived with his family at the far edge of the ranch. After they left, Garnet went about her work as usual. Mother Blendall talked little when her men were in the house, but she spoke scarcely at all when she was alone with her daughter-in-law. Her great brown eyes were the most alive thing about her, and at times they seemed to speak volumes that the unaccustomed lips could not voice; then again, they were blank and unreadable. "How can I make her like me?". Beat incessantly in Garnet's mind. Page 587 588 "What is she thinking? Why won't she let me show her that I really want to be one of the family?" OTHER BLENDALL was not entirely helpless, for she had the use of her hands to sew, knit, or prepare the vegetables each day. Moving about in her chair, she worked hour after hour in silence. "A weather-breeder.... What did Father mean by that?" Garnet spoke with an interest she did not especially feel, but anything was better than this silence, broken only by the incessant clicking of those steel knitting needles. "I never saw a more beautiful December day! It's as warm and clear outside as a crystal ball. Why, the mountains seem close enough to touch." Garnet looked out at the blue-white day. The needles clicked on. A log in the fireplace broke with a snap. The old-fashioned striking clock ticked loudly. Garnet had about decided that the older woman would not be drawn into trivial conversation. Then, finally, Mrs. Blendall spoke. "There's weather coming. I feel it." There was another silence, then she continued, "A still, toowarm day in winter means wind or snow... Or both, here in Colorado." "The expression was new to me..." Garnet said. "I'm sure it was!" came the short teply. Garnet could almost feel the words she knew her mother-in-law was thinking. What would a frilly, city doll know about weather-breeders, or Shorthorns, or spring wheat or any phase of farm life? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Garnet smothered the sigh of defeat that rose to her lips and went into the large, sunny room that was her own and Lee's. It was the only place where she ever felt the least bit like her old self. She pulled the heavy calfskin cases from under the bed and finished the packing she had started earlier. She planned to leave about two hours before the men returned. That way Mother Blendall would not be alone for very long. She would also ask Mrs. Smith to sit with her for awhile. These first months of her marriage had been so difficult and bitter, yet very sweet, too, for she loved Lee with all her heart. But even that love could not help her endure the gruff insults of her father-in-law, nor the impassive, antagonistic silences of Lee's mother. Mother and Father Blendall had been shocked when Lee married the little Southern girl whom he had known but two short weeks. Just a "thrill bride" they called her, but Lee and Garnet both knew that two weeks—or two years, it would have made no difference, it would still have been the same tender, enduring love. They were happy and carefree when they went home to Wheatlands, but the scene which followed her advent into the Blendall family would be a hard one for Garnet ever to forget. During the course of words and burning looks, she learned that Lee's father and mother had fondly dreamed that he would some day ~ marry "Micky" Donaldson, a sturdy, capable neighbor girl who rode broncos like the wind, and handled TEMPERED her tractor as expertly as her coupe. She even owned her own plane! Micky was a marvel of efficiency, while Garnet was as inexperienced and inadequate as a singing canary! She might be pretty, and sweet, and happy-natured, but she wasn't made for vigorous farm work. "You need a wife and a helpmeet... Not a little, deep-South, sho' nuff belle," old Grant had roared. She remembered how Lee's mouth had set, and his chin squared out at his father's words. "How do you know that she isn't both, Sir? Give her a chance to show you what she can do, before you condemn her. She at least is willing to learn!" "Please, Mother and Father Blendall," Garnet cut in, "I love Lee, and I do want to make him a good wife. And you a good daughter." The explosion ended then and there, but she had only been patiently endured, never accepted wholeheartedly into the family. Lee's position was far from comfortable, she knew, torn between two obligations, as he was. And as time went on the breach would widen until he would be forced to take sides, a difficult thing to do. Lee's parents had been married for ten years before he was born, the only child of their union; and then they were no longer young. His mother had been a cripple ever since. So they had relied upon him and his young strength for everything. The two long years that he was in the army, were times they never spoke about, and only Smith saw and knew the loneliness they endured. 589 Some of it Smith told to Garnet. She felt like a guilty interloper. So, before she caused any more unhappiness, she intended to take herself out of Lee's life, before their love for each other turned to bitterness and disrespect. And she would keep her child, the baby that could, by the very laws of nature, hold them all together by that one common bond, regardless of mutual love or admitation! The child, who had so recently made its existence known to her and of whom, as yet, Lee was entirely unsuspecting. Garnet drew a mental curtain across the painful memories, the resentment and dislike, which she had never been able to overcome. She tried to shut out the recollections of happiness which she and Lee had found in their love. Perhaps, later, things would be different. But now, she must carry out her plans. She must leave Wheatlands. She fastened the cases and shoved them back under the bed. Over by the window, gazing out across the golden stubble of wheat toward the blue expanse of mountain peaks, she realized how very much she had grown to love this country of the plains. The ever-changing mood of clouds and shadows on Pike's Peak to the north, the brilliant sunshine gleaming all around her on the golden fields. ART of the sky was darkening. Great, ragged clouds rolled over the saw-edged peaks like tumbleweeds in a gale. By four o'clock, the wind was sharply cold. Within another hour the country was gripped in an icy blizzard, with the 590 wind shrieking around the corners of the house, whistling in the eaves like a lost banshee, and rattling window panes dangerously. Snow fell in hard, little ice pellets. It was all that Smith could do to make the distance up the hollow to do the chores. He coughed hoarsely. "It's a very bad night, sure, Mrs. Lee," he offered as he gave Garnet the warm milk to strain and cool. 'Just give me a ring if you an' Mrs. Blendall need any help." "T will,' Garnet promised, glad that the phone was a link with people who knew and understood this beautiful, but sometimes terrifying country. "By the way, Smith, did you bed down old Chub and Buttercup and little Wobbly-legs? We must make sure, you know," she ended with a meaning little smile. Her unoriginal cow names were even new to him. "You mean the Shorthorns?" he asked. Garnet nodded. "T sure did!" Smith said, "just like Mr. Blendall told me to." "Thanks. Father is particular where his stock are concerned." They smiled together at old Grant's idiosyncrasy. "Take good care of that cold, Smith," Garnet called after him through the storm. The women ate their lonely supRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 per before the open fire. Garnet sat on the hassock at the older woman's feet and wished that Lee were home. She wanted his strong, hard arms around her shoulders; she needed his understanding companionship to quiet her fears, his lips on her hair, telling her he loved her. ° "Like this new gingerbread recipe, Mother? I used a new brand of molasses. It's milder." Garnet was always trying new, tempting dishes to please the mother whose days seemed so monotonous. But beyond a few words or nods, Garnet never knew whether her mother-in-law approved of her cookery or not. Her sincerest overtures were almost always ignored. Once Garnet had walked two miles to pick strawberries from a neighbor's garden so that Mrs. Blendall might have a shortcake, and her only comment, after Garnet had gone to all the trouble, had been, "Plain food's best." The wind continued to howl its fury, and did not lessen. Garnet was afraid. The big walnut bed was cold without Lee, cold and empty. She reminded herself that she might just as well get used to the loneliness, used to the fact that only a smooth expanse of cold sheet would greet her arms each night after she severed the bond of her hasty marnage. (To be concluded) Shat He May Know LeRoy Burke Meagher Autumn, loose the amber leaves, Make bare the frosted limb; Let wind and waves convey this bit Of beauty out to him. There is no autumn where he lies Upon a cross-rowed hill, And transient leaves would let him know He shares my autumns still. Better Photography Willard Luce the number-one hobby in America today, possibly in the world, And Pethaps it should be so; for €y ate recorded fractions of time | The peowill never Anyone can - Anyone can time, a little more thought, and a little less film. If film cost And you don't need an expensive camera! For the average Petson, most effective anyway, erica, there are far, far more sunny days than cloudy ones, some of the new color films can be used in box cameras but, J am afraid, not ye satisfactorily since the exposure of L iti Before tryin enlargements, but for the average Person Wishing snapshots for his Page 59] 302 Willard Luce CLOUDS AND TEMPLE SPIRES Infra-red film and a red filter create dramatic cloud effects. Regular panchromatic film with a red filter will also give a very dark sky and white clouds, but the foliage remains dark, Panchromatic or orthochromatic film, with a yellow filter, will give you normal sky correction. There is, however, one quite serious limitation of the box camera— that of exposure. The exposure of the camera is so calculated as to get a picture in sunlight, but there is a great deal of difference in sunlight. At high altitudes, for instance, the sunlight is much more intense than on the coast. For that reason a film can be exposed in high altitudes a much shorter time. As a result, a great many negatives taken with a box camera are badly overexposed, which burns out most of the details and the beautiful gray tones. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 This, however, can easily be corrected by using a yellow filter which will also darken the sky and bring out any clouds which might be there. If you haven't a yellow filter and one seems too expensive, a piece of yellow cellophane held over the lens will do just as well. Very dramatic cloud effects can be created by the use of infra-red film and a ted filter. This gives a black sky, black shadows, and white foliage. A fairly long exposure, plus the need of a slightly longer Willard Luce NIGHT OVER ZION This night photograph was taken with a box camera. The slight distortion here was caused by pointing the camera upwards while making the exposure. Taking the picture from across Main Street and enlarging only a section of the negative helped make the distortion less noticeable. The camera was placed on a mailbox while making the exposure. Fo ace 021 OD Willard Luce A FRAME OF FOLIAGE Note the effect of the foliage in the picture. Proper framing greatly enhances any photograph. 594 distance between the lens and the film, makes infra-red photography unsuited for the box camera. I have seen, as I'm sure you have seen, hundreds of pictures having a person standing facing the camera with a building or a mountain in the background. Here you have not one picture, but two, the picture of the person and the picture of the building or the mountain. The center of interest is divided, and both fight for attention. With an expensive camera the background can easily be thrown out of focus. But if the building in the background is going to be fuzzy and distorted, why have it there at all? Why not, instead, photograph the person against a smooth wall, or, better still, against the sky. Either makes an excellent background for a personality shot. It isn't fair to the person or to the scene to attempt to give them both equal importance within the framework of the same photograph. Excellent pictures can be made including both, if the person is looking at the scene and not at the camera. 'This actually directs the viewers eyes to the building or the scene, giving it more importance. Photographing a building when close to it creates what is called distortion. 'This is caused by the fact that the bottom of the building is much closer to the camera than the top, which causes the building to appear to be leaning or falling backwards. This is often used by top-ranking photographers to create an effect. In a salon print, properly mounted, it is often very effective. In most album-sized prints it is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 usually only distracting and disturbing. It is well to understand the trick and to use it with caution. This same principle of distortion can be used effectively in framing a picture. Small objects close to the camera can be made to appear as large as a building farther away. This may give a feeling of depth to a photograph, as well as creating a striking composition. An arch, a gateway, a window, or a tree can be made into a frame for the scene proper. But once again all this must be used with a certain caution. HEN, of course, there is night photography. Many buildings at night, especially the Latter-day. Saint temples, are beautifully lighted, but few people have night photographs which they have taken themselves. And yet it is very easy— even with a box camera. Whatever camera you use must be set on time, placed on something solid, and the shutter left open from five to fifteen minutes. That's about all there is to it. A tripod, of course, is best to hold the camera as it can be moved in order to get the best composition. It is also solid and will hold the camera during the exposure. If you haven't a tripod, the top of a car, a mailbox, a window sill, or even the sidewalk will do. If someone walks between the camera and the building during the exposure, it will make no difference. If a car drives between, it won't matter, so long as no direct light shines into the camera lens. These are only a few suggestions. There are hundreds more, thousands. Study the photographs in the maga- BETTER PHOTOGRAPHY 595: €Y ate by top ethaps; time we can make tanking otographers ho have Photograp Not on] America's normal part of th Nnterest from the sc, le Square c ¢€ Scene, hene e ne to themselye Ould be a he house to tel] Although I left Jess than Spent time and mo Y learning their Number on trade. Thei; Ideas can be adapted Production 4 and used y in quantity of also in quality o¢ Production. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1889 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ZION AND THE RicuHTs oF THE WoMEN oF ALL Nations WOMAN The central flower divinely white Is Chastity! So pure it greets the sight, And drooping modesty, so true and rare, Her charms enhance, and make all traits seem fair. —E. RS. HOMESPUN TALKS TO MOTIIERS: Mothers, you and I cannot afford to slight or neglect this home-truth. Our daughters, giddy, happy, restless creatures that they are, will learn more lessons from the theatres they visit, the books they read, than from all the sermons or rebukes they may hear. Much that has been taught them in their childhood of truth, morality, cleanliness and even faith will remain indelibly fixed in their minds. But you have forgotten or overlooked the fact that with most women all these things are swept aside if her love happens to be placed on an unworthy object. Love is a most powerful agent in any woman's mind. And when it comes to the mind of a young, thoughtless, inexperienced girl, it is an agent that enters in as it were and possesses the whole being.—1 lomespun A FALSE STEP: Perhaps you have made a false step, and have lost hope in consequence. You probably exaggerate the evil done. Don't fancy that everybody is talking about it. People have plenty to think about, and they will not be interested in you very long. "Try again." Choose a new path, and cut down the briers, and subdue the obstacles, which, after all, are only there to test your strength. You will be happy in doing this, and you will be respected by all the other plodders in their respective pathways.—Mattie W. BEAVER STAKE: The stake conference of the Relief Society convened August 12th, in the L. DS. Meeting house, Beaver City. President Lucinda Howe presiding. After the opening exercises the presidents of the various branches gave their reports, showing that a portion of the sisters are alive to their duties and helping to care for the poor and sick. Sisters Zina Young and Minerva Snow being present addressed the conference both forcnoon and afternoon. Sister Zina Young was happy to meet with the sisters. "It is a duty to meet together and if we wish to live happy we must make our duties our pleasures. We are the daughters of God and we must acknowledge His goodness and mercy. We must be filled with integrity toward Him for it is worth more than the riches of this world as it will lead us back into the presence of God. We must be united and make our homes happy and pleasant." —Louisa Jones, Stake Sec. THANK GOD Thank God for dreams, in which our loved ones come From fairer homes, and make less burthensome Life's weary longings, and its weight of care, Which we must carry till we join them there. —Lula Page 596 N connection with the M. I. A. June conference, the six famous King Sisters, originally of Utah, sang in the Tabernacle in the sacred Book of Mormon cantata composed by their father, William King Driggs. Particularly outstanding was their beautiful sextet number, "Daughters of Ishmael." These handsome and talented young women are: Maxine (Mrs. La Varn Thomas), Louise (Mrs. Alvino Rey), Alyce (Mrs. Sidney d'Azavedo), Donna (Mrs. James Conkling), Yvonne (Mrs. Robert "Buddy" Cole), and Marilyn, seventeen and unmarried. They came, at their own expense, from California and New York to participate in this excellent musical event. Of the married daughters, Donna has three children and the others two each. All are active workers in Church organizations. MBS. ANNIE KING, of Brantford, Ontario, Canada, has passed away at the age of one hundred and ten years. After turning one hundred, she still did her own housework, cooking, laundering, and shopping. ITTLE GOLD PIECES by Juliaetta Bateman Jensen (Mrs. Christen Jensen) is a story of the life and courage of the author's Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon mother, in a setting of pioneer times. Details have authenticity, scenes are vividly recreated, and the story is told simply and honestly. All well written, the book contains frequent passages of rea] beauty. CARRIE LARSON ERIKSEN died in Salt Lake City in July at the age of ninety-eight. She came to the United States from Fyn, Denmark, at the age of twenty, and married Joseph S. Eriksen in Chicago. The Chicago Branch of the Church was organized in her home there. MARTHA C. EARNEST, a woman of great courage and renown, widow of "Boney" Earnest, famed Indian Scout, died in July at the age of ninety-seven in Alcove, Wyoming. She was a_ personal friend of Wild Bill Hickock, Buffalo Bill, Calamity Jane, and other frontier characters. She fought Indians, herded cattle, and hunted with her late husband. NE of the ninety-eight United States memorial stamp issues honoring private individuals was printed to pay homage to Susan B. Anthony, the noted worker for woman suffrage. Page 597 ©—_ EDITORIAL COD VOL. 36 SEPTEMBER 1949 anton Who Seow NO. 9 Sogether She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. (Proverbs 31:21-22 2 Fr is a friendly and pleasant custom for women to sew together. Ever since the long ago when the soft wool and the Strong flax and the yielding cotton were first spun and woven into cloth, the busy hands of women have fashioned beauty and utility. While their fingers have deftly threaded intricate designs or stitched seams for plain clothing, their thoughts, pethaps, have wandered from the work in hand, and as the poet says, "they were stitching life instead." The modern woman, supplied with a sewing machine and perhaps a hemstitcher or buttonhole maker, a hemmer, or a gatherer, still goes back across the path of centuties to fashion exquisite designs with her own hands, to take the purple and the fine linen and weave them into her dream of beauty. Us the woman of today is one with her sister of ancient Israel whose hands held the spindle and the distaff. The woman of today is one with many housewives, who took the thread' and the looms and the fabrics of their native lands and looked well to their households by Providing clothing and linens and ormamental tapestries. From these women we have inherited more than physical appearance, our mental abilities, or our talents and gifts, Page 598 She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple we have inherited their love of beauty and industry. They were our spiritual ancestors as we ' € women of the New World, the ambitious, untiring, New Englanders who made their varied rugs and their patched quilts have handed down to us a tapestry of handwork and sewing that makes a delightful and unified composition of various strands of usefulness and decorative design. In the mountain valleys of the pioneer West, knitting and crocheting, netting and embroidery, spinning and weaving, cutting and stitching, patching and mending occupied afternoon hours and the evenings into twilight and continued by candlelight and by embers of the fireplace. And, as women sewed and seamed together, they developed love and understanding and deep companionship. Two friends traveling by wagon from St. George to Salt Lake City, knitted all the way and made the winter stockings for their families. And they made a closer knitting of lifelong friendship, Many of us recall tag bees and quilting bees and the women who comforted, consoled, and encouraged each other between quick flashings of needles and the looping of the thread. Many of us remember long afternoons and the time between meetings more than a century ago sunset and twilight when we sat in Nauvoo, have been experts with with our mothers on shaded porches needles and crochet hooks, and embroidered pillowslips and quilting frames and looms for rugs. Table linen and settled, in our way, They have sewed together and have the problems of womanhood, and woven friendships and attitudes of charted ahead the long days that charity and compassion, giving genwould lead far away from home and erously from full hearts and busy its protecting walls. Hands to the loom of years. Vv Relief Society women, since the. P. C Votes 10 THE FIELD Annual General Relief Society Conference THE annual general Relief Society conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 28 and 29, 1949. On Thursday afternoon in the Tabernacle a meeting will be held to which the general membership of Relief Society and the public are invited. The attendance at the meetings Wednesday and Thursday mornings ls limited to stake and mission officers. Buying Textbooks for Relief Soctety Lessons ROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The educational counselor: n both the stake and the ward should prewhich will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. The educational counselor should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the educational counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it is recom: mended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase the textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3- because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook. Educational counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. EDITORIAL 599 The Making and Use of Decorative Candles Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board [This is the sixth in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. In the coming months Sister Judd will present other suggestions suitable to particular seasons.—Ed.] N Phe to June, September is the most popular month of the year for weddings. And weddings and candles just naturally go together. Though science has been able to give us far superior lighting from the standpoint of efficiency and brilliance, it has never been able to duplicate the soft glow of candlelight. For this reason, dinner tables, as well as background effeets for weddings (to mention only a few of many uses) turn to candles for just the right touch. This month I would like to tell you of some interesting and beautiful decorations that can be made from new or partly burned candles. So, after the wedding dinner, don't throw the used candles away, but store them, to be brought out later, particularly at Christmas time. For individual candle favors that may serve, if desired, to support place cards, melt candles in a saucepan. Pour the melted wax into very small molds to the depth of about half an inch from the top. When the wax is cold and has hardened, place the mold in warm water until the candle can be released. In the meantime, slice a ready-made candle into one and a half-inch pieces and push one of them into the center of each mold, thus furnishing a wick. You may like to use contrasting Page 600 colors for the outside and the center. For the center of your table make the same sort of candles, half an inch only in depth. As you remove them from the mold, shape the edges to make them resemble an open flower like a wild rose. For the centerpiece use a low container with small pin frogs holding lilyshaped leaves. Float your wax flowers among the leaves. Just as your guests are to be seated, light the tapers at the individual places as well as those in the centerpiece. They will "oh" and "ah" at the lovely and unusual effect you have achieved. To make the lovely Christmas candles such as those illustrated, take tall cans in the forty-six ounce size, such as those used for grapefruit or tomato juice. Be sure to choose cans with no ridges. After cutting out the top of the can all the way around, make a circle of cardboard the size of the top. In the center of this cardboard make a small hole into which insert a ready-made candle. It is placed upside down and projects above the cardboard about six inches. This ready-made candle supplies the wick for the large candle and furnishes the base around which the conical top of the finished candle can be molded. When ready to pour your wax DECORATIVE CANDLES into the can, melt it in a saucepan, being careful to let it get warm but never hot, for hot wax discolors. The pouring process is done in three stages. First, fill the can to the top under the cardboard; allow it to harden thoroughly, when you will notice that there is a vacuum around the inserted candle. Your second step is to fill in this space with more warm wax. Remove the cardboard and, when the wax has hardened once more, take a spatula and build the candle to a conical shape by adding small amounts of soft wax and molding it with your fingers. (Note the candle at the extreme right in the illustration and you will see the smaller candle protruding from the top of the nearly finished one. ) Allow the wax to harden for the third time, then warm the can in a pan of water until the candle can be taken out. The sides will be soft, allowing you to score them with a fork for a pretty effect. Now comes the most fascinating part of all, when your own artistic ability is given free play and you decorate the candle according to the use you want to make of it. Notice the illustration and _ the Christmas bells, colorful balls, and ribbon that are about to be used. One woman takes sprigs of live 601 holly and attaches them to the candle with bits of wax, tying a final bunch at the top with a red bow. Artificial flowers, such a poinsettias, are effective and the silver leaves one finds at Christmas are always good. But keep the candles simple. Besides being so lovely, these candles may be used season after season. As they burn down, build them up again by adding more wax. Sometimes you may like to drip one color over another for an unusual effect. Ai med Ynvocation Jessie M. Robinson I would not be curtained from beauty— Let loveliness linger with me: The mystical blue of the evening, The hyacinth gleam of the sea, The filtering gold of the sunlight That shines through the green of a tree, The lavender isles of the morning— Let loveliness linger with me. new hobby, With a Pioneer flavor, She makes attractive and us "8S, using a 260n whee] for her loom ller w » OF various Pes, ma d for mak; § smaller TUS. Suitable Materials great Vanlety—olq Cdspreads, draperies blankets, Ose, h usedresses, or any discard d fabrics which stil] ve some wear left in th m ull Or faded eo Ors ma ved amonize with a efinite ¢ Cheme, or 4 hit-an ™ss design ma be made Ongest pieces of Material, cyt thr fou inches in th, depend; Upon the stre sth an Weight OF the materia] Should be used for the dation st across the ] © wheel loom is placed upon three chairs and ls marked with req fingernai] Polish intg eight €qual sections. Four long Strips of cloth make the eight spokes of the whee] and form the founda. Tion of the Tug's design, These Strips are Securely tieg to the rim of the Wheel, The fifth long Strip should be tied to the adjacent tg One of the eight Onginal Strips of material, This point Constitutes the "place of beginning" during the com. Pletion of each phase 4s the 'Ug lS Woven, The fifth Strip js taken to the center of the Wheel and held with one hand While Weaving js begun with the remainder of this Strip, Circle the center about five to Seven times, adding more Material of the i ary, t the co Pletion of this initial Weaving, anoth T Sttip of the same color js fastened to the same place On the rim of the Whee] and taken he cen €t, where j lS Woven twice around Center and brought bac the rim Jacent to the Next one 1€ eight "ginal spokes f the w eel, whe t is tied en a new Plece of cloth lS tied to th, Next to 8inal spoke and this taken ¢, e and tied. When finished, "ch spoke of the rug wil] have five Strpis, xcept the Onginal WAGON. WHEEL RUGS 603 Spoke, which Will have six his is y will not Show UP in the finished Tug. A Striking design is ma e I Strips to begin With, which © Tug look like the hub of ' pleted, baste the end of @ Wago each Stnp to hold the Wheel 4; a dges aving on the s Mg Machine so that the Come apart When it js Washed. T: €s€ directions are for very large Wheels, On smaller wheels y © each; Bauer Ranch South of unn ary Ann 1 Lougy, Her &tandfather are the parents Ce) children, I Married, 5 Mr. N is kept 5 Y with Church work, housekeepj handwork' d demonstratin h king of her 'unj I rugs, Salt to taste Onions sliced % tsp. P 1 cup Margarine, bacon fat h Or chicken £. MUK, Rub Potatoes through a Melt the fat and add flour, st; Stirring al] the time into thickening, then return to k ) € not potato mixture ettle and Cook 5 mj Parsley and Serve, SANDWICHES 1 Pint jar Mayonnaise Chives Grate oy Shred Calrots, Mix With Mayonnaise Mixture on the bread. And add a little Chives, OATMEAI, COOKIgs Spread 1 cup shortening % CUP sweet milk 2 eggs beaten 4 tsp, soda 2 cups flour % tsp. Salt 1 tsp, cinnamon o 1 cup chopped Taisins 2 cups Oatmea] Cream shortening and sy cinnamon bakin d the beaten gs. Sift together flour, E & Powder, Soda, and salt, then add | first mixture. Add the Taisins and milk (j on baking sheet about; 'inch apa &Y Was one o the six families ho settleg Tooele in 184 4 qts. Of mij 1 cup flour 3 OF 4 loaves of bread CUP sugar € Bunns tbsp Celery salt a little cayenn 3 large bunches of Carrots 1 tsp, baking Powder Wastebaskets Where You Want Them Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustration by Elizabeth Williamson = boxes—the large size—can be transformed into convenient little wastepaper baskets by means of a bit of colorful paper, paste,. And scissors. The big wallpaper sample books which paint stores discard every so often, supply a neverending choice of handsome papers. Some of the pretty new shelf linings, even a bright piece of calico, will make a fanciful cover for a little scrap receptacle in kitchen, bathroom, or bedroom. Tuck one in the closet to catch soiled hose and handkerchiefs that get lost in the family hamper. Don't forget the children's room—in just the spot where the most scraps fall. Maps make interesting wastebasket covers beside the desk in the den, and many magazine pictures are worth preserving for awhile, pasted on those useful oatmeal cartons. Le Full Hu nger Grace Sayre Once I knew fleet, laughing waters And the talking wind in the tall pine tree; I reveled in pungent wild sage blowing Over the hills that stretch to the sea. Now I know hunger for the stream's going And sorrow is in me—my feet are bound, My heart's song buried, away from my mountains. Oh, let me again hear the plaintive sound Of a night bird singing a twilight song To his lone mate nesting near the ground. Oh, let me hear again the stream's gay laughter And follow its song in my dream—thereafter. Page 604 Martha, Papoose of the Great Spirit A True Story James C, Young T was the summer of 1861, and to Martha Granger Young, wife of William Goodall Young of Grantsville, it seemed unbearably hot in the dirt-floored cabin, but she had been gone so long tending the wounded Indian and chattering with old Sister Davis she couldn't stop to step outside for a breath of air. William would be coming to dinner any minute. Perspiration rolled off her temples as she slowed her bread kneading and reached over to stir the wild mustard greens on the stove. Then she caught the Perspiration with a Comer of her apron and quickly resumed kneading. A few more punches and the dough was gathered in a smooth, flattened rol] in the bottom of the pan. She laid a clean white cloth over it and set it on a chair close to the stove. It must rise again as soon as possible and be teady so that she could pinch and cut off some to fry for William's dinner. She lifted the teakettle to check whether or not it was full. It was nearly empty, and she filled it with the last water in the bucket and stepped out through the door under the willow-covered shade that William had built for her. She was the only woman in Grantsville whose husband had been thoughtful enough to erect such a shade. A great surge of gratitude rushed Over her as she plunged the bucket into the lizard-mounted barrel* and stepped back over the threshold. William was good to her. Only last week he had brought her two yards of curtain material from the city to hang over the new window he had cut in the west wall. She put the bucket on the wood box, which also served as washstand, and with a careful, almost reverent hand, adjusted the curtain so that the two sides were more nearly the same in shape. Going back to the door, she looked out and calculated the time from the position of the shadow cast by one of the posts supporting the shade roof, She judged the time to be nearly one o'clock. William, punctual whenever possible, was late today. A shadow of fear flitted into her bosom, but she quickly expelled it. Surely the Indians would not have come raiding again so soon after having been so severely beaten only a little over three weeks ago. No, William was probably having trouble with the new ditch the men had made that spring. The ditchbank had not had time to settle and sod down yet, and one clay point had given trouble all spring. Or 606 perhaps someone had come to see the bishop about some matter that needed William's immediate attention.. Maybe she would have time to start sprinkling the floor. If she could get the bed end of the room done before William came that would be that much of her afternoon work finished. She lifted one end of the bed and set it over a little and then the other the same until she had uncovered the full width of the bed. She poured some water into the washdish and, going to the corner, she stooped down and splashed the water with her hand out of the dish onto the floor. When she had all the area the bed usually covered well wet down, she checked the condition of the greens on the back of the stove and cast an appraising eye at her dough. In a few minutes it would be teady for the dripper. At one end of the stove a board about twenty inches long and six inches wide leaned against the wall. With this she patted and pounded the dampened piece of floor until the surface looked as smooth and hard as stone. She carefully teplaced the bed and smoothed and pounded the wet clay where the bed legs had disturbed it. She next cleared the Temainder of that end of the room of its chair and a cupboard made from a large wooden dry goods box and sprinkled and pounded the dirt there. TILL William did not come. A _ little nagging worry lay on her mind; but it was time to put the bread in the dripper. She cleared - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 the table top, sprinkled it sparingly with flour, cut off a piece of dough from that in the pan, placed it upon the table, and expertly rolled and kneaded it into a loaf. Then she realized she had not warmed nor greased the dripper. She was hungry, but she would not stop to fry a cake now. She preferred to eat with William. She ladled a little soft deer fat from a bottle into the dripper and set the dripper on the stove. Working close by the stove, she began now to perspire freely again. A little drop escaped her frantically catching hand to land in the hot grease and cause an instant spattering which caught her before she could remove her hand. Several spots began to pain severely, While the bread baked Martha worried, and dampened and pounded the rest of the floor, with water dripping off her nose continually. It seemed to her the bread should almost bake without being in the oven, but there was a dampness in the air also. She hated to cut the fresh bread but she did cut off two large slices which she spread with deer fat and with black molasses and wrapped in a cloth. The sky seemed to be low and very black but there was no letup to the heat. Donning her denim bonnet, she carried her Cape, pieced from leg backs of William's wornout trousers, in one hand and the hot bread in the other, and hurried up the street to the tithing office, casting fearful glances at the black sky and worried glances down the toad toward the field. Where is William? What can be keeping him? She wondered. _ _» She stilt-had a half block to go MARTHA, PAPOOSE OF THE GREAT SPIRIT When a sudden jab of lightning zig- 2agged out of the black ] - William the door gtinning at her, suddenly happy, Uli here? Dinner?" She de- 'T knew YOUur patient Would like I brought him some Wind— t he meant by Ou Great Spirit Papoose?' e thinks you are a daughter of the Great Spirit, or God. An you truly are," Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 9 Synopsis: Joanna, widowed when her children were small, courageously works into a profitable business selling Bostonbaked beans and bakery goods. Her neighbor, Abigail Smith, as a partner, gives much hard work and good advice. Joanna, placing the welfare of her children first, buys a comfortable home from Kent Taylor, a writer, acting temporarily as a real estate agent. In order to attend a P. T. A. Meeting, Joanna breaks a date with Kent before he leaves town. Joanna and Abigail open a number of new shops and Joanna finds her life enriched with many new friends and the abiding love of her children. Kent Taylor returns from an assignment in Europe and asks Joanna to marry him. BIGAIL brought in the Monday breakfast of scrambled eggs and Sunday's leftover rolls, toasted. She eyed Joanna's unfinished orange juice, and guiltily Joanna drank it. "You need it, all the gallivantin' you're doing. Wreck your health. That's what you'll do. Won't be able to travel come Wednesday, be planesick." Joanna flushed. "I'm engaged, Abigail. An engaged woman doesn't just sit in a corner and sew." Abigail nodded and passed salt and pepper to Joanna. "He certainly ain't one to do his courtin' in the front parlor. Doesn't he believe in homes?" Joanna ate her toast without butter. "He likes to go places, and he knows so many people. There's only another two days until our wedding, then we'll be out from underfoot and you can run the house the way you want it." Page 608 "And after your marriage will you be settlin' down?" "Why..." Joanna paused and stared into space. "I'll settle down, until he gets back, and then | think I'll never know what each day holds, Abigail. 'They'll be like Christmas packages, a surprise in every one." She lifted her fork and put it down. "That's what it has been like for me, with Kent here. Christmas. Every day there have been silver and ribbons and holly and parties... By the way, we're having an extra, super party tomorrow night, Kent's sister is giving it. You're invited, I think I'll get a new dress for it, a white dinner dress and highheeled, gold slippers." Abigail snapped her fingers. "I knew there was something I had plumb forgot. Penny. She wants a new dress." Joanna lifted her brows. "T just bought her a wardrobe." Abigail looked pained. "If you would stop going through us as though we were smoke, you would find out something about your family... Something like Penny is in love." "Penny? She's a baby!" Abigail said paticntly, "Sixteen is no baby. The child drifts around like a zombie. Tom. Tom. That's all I hear. She wants a black satin creation she saw downtown." "Black satin? At sixteen?" Abigail patted her beautiful hair. "She's afraid she's not grown up enough. 'Thinks she needs some fixin' up for this Tom person." JOANNA {jc ele tose and gathered up her dishes. "Bless the child. I know what I'll do. I'll call the school and tell them I want her to meet me downtown on important business. We'll go shopping, Penny and I, for something really swishy and appropriate." It seemed to Joanna that everything that happened these days assumed a special importance. It meant a new tale to tell Kent, for his deep interest and his laughter. She told him about the shopping expedition. "You should have been there, darling. It was funny. Penny, so grown-up and patient and tactful, trying to steer me into buying her an impossibly glamorous dress, and myself, being very young-point-of view and patient and tactful trying to steer her into buying something young and becoming." "Who won?" He reached for her hand. Joanna chuckled ruefully. "A tie, I would say. She did get a simple dress, black velveteen with white collar and cuffs... And her first lipstick." Kent roared with laughter at Joanna's dismay. "But she's way behind most girls in the matter of lipstick." "This is the first time she's wanted to be grown-up. Oh, Kent. It's hard to let them go." He turned out to avoid a truck. "That's what ''m here for. When your children have repaid you by going away... I'll still be around. We two. Not lonely... Not lonely, ever." She caught her breath and turned to him. "Let me look at you. Some- 609 times I can't believe that we are going to be married. That I'm not going to walk all alone into the years ahead. Oh, Kent! I love you so." "Not as much as I love you. You're all I have. You're... My world." He drew up before her house. "I'll call for you tomorrow, around eight. My sister has taken the town apart for food and flowers... It's going to be nice." "T can hardly wait." She lifted her face for his kiss. "Tomorrow night, Kent." * * * * OANNA knocked for the third time on the bathroom door. "Penny, do hurry. I'm supposed to be ready by eight." Penny's high, clear voice, "But Mother, I have to be ready by eight, too, and I can't get my hair right." "Fix it in your room." A deep sigh of resignation. "Oh, all right, Mother." The bathroom door opened and Penny came out. Joanna caught her breath. The lipstick had done something for Penny, taken her out of childhood, into the mysterious land where young girls live. The bright color brought out the beauty of the clear, childish skin, the brown eyes, the dark cloud of her hair swinging silkily on her shoulders. Joanna felt a sudden shyness before this lovely stranger. She wished, fleetingly, that she could run back to the past and find again the little girl Penny. Sally, with her curly blonde hair and her big blue eyes, would be pretty, but she would never own her sister's sweet, dark loveliness. Penny gave Joanna a (Continued on page 624) SELECTED DATA annual reporti—1948 yang annual report mirrors the accomplishments of Relief Society in advancing its program of education and welfare in the stakes and missions during 1948, its 106th year. It is a record of achievement reflecting the teamwork of women from all walks of life and in all parts of the world, banded together in one great cause. The activities of 172 stakes (all the organized stakes of the Church as of December 31) and 37 missions are reflected in the report. The reports were especially well prepared; 25 stake reports and four mission reports were perfect, while 125 stake and 22 mission reports required only a few minor corrections, and the narrative sections were both interesting and informative. For the first time since the war, reports were received from all foreign missions that had been deeply affected by war, and we are pleased to note the strengthening and expansion of these sister societies. An increase of 3,843 members in 1948 brought the total membership to 115,686, exceeding by 671 the membership of 1941, previous high mark, attained through an intensive membership campaign in anticipation of the 1942 Relief Society centennial. Some members did not continue their activity after the centennial year and war conditions were responsible for a further decline until the end of 1945. The recovery shown in the 1948 report, therefore, represents a steady and wholesome growth since the close of World War II. A Church-wide average of 37,644 members (32.53%) attended the regular weekly meetings and benefited from the educational program. Theology and testimony meetings continued to attract the largest attendance, with literature holding second place, social science third, and work meeting fourth, although the most notable increases occurred in work meeting with an increase of 2,295 (6.76%) over 1947, and social science with an increase of 1,946 (5.66%). The most outstanding achievement of 1948 was the gathering of the fund for the erection of a Relief Society Building in Salt Lake City. Women from all over the world, many of whom will never see the building, gave generously of their time, talent, and funds to reach the goal of $500,000, which was oversubscribed. Compassionate service continues to increase, indicating that the society is ever widening its friendly and sympathetic attention to the alleviation of human suffering. The extent of these services is revealed by the following figures: 1,592,434 monthly visits made by 37,528 visiting teachers in 21,752 visiting teacher districts, in which inspirational and comforting messages were delivered; 5.910 initial family visits and 9,349 follow-up visits made by ward presidents to needy families; 163,408 visits to the sick and homebound and 19,636 days care of the sick. Beyond the facts and figures cited here is something bigger—a testament of faith that the world sorely needs—a great, practical demonstration of brotherly love. The general board is deeply grateful to all who have contributed to the advancement of Relief Society during the past year, to officers and members alike, for their tireless and devoted service to the betterment and enrichment of human life. General Secretary-Treasurer Illustrated by Dorothy Platt Handley. Page €lC 3,843 NEW MEMBERS,. A noteworthy Proportionate t - + While this js 947, it is not in the number of L. D. S families, which was 25,470. Increased in the missions js 8.76 Stakes 2.39%. The total membershi 51.30% of ich i 1947 1948 R. S. MEMBERS IN LEADERSHIP 22 GENERAL OFFICERS 365 MISSION OFFICERS IN MISSIONS 9,827 LocaL EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 4,764 OTHER OFFICERS 8,490 cLass LEADERS 37,528 visiting TEACHERS Page 611 membership IN STAKES i 1,939 stake OFFICERS organizations s members DECEMBER 31, 1948 Gg) - Ceogr ap2hte Littithukiome ALASKA [Frm i 194 DrsrRicr OF COLUMBIA ( ] NUMBER OF ORGANIZATIONS IN STAKES > NUMBER OF ORGANIZATIONS IN MISSIONS NUMERALS OUTSIDE OF SQUARES AND CIiRCLES INDICATE RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP. 1 f y7, 906 EAST GERy iv 542 West GERMAN 179 SWITZERLAND & aHtendance 77/ 4,223 iS 1947 1948 gg 1947 1948 AVERAGE 1947 1948 MEETINGS ATTENDANCE MEETINGS IN STAKES OF V. T. IN MISSIONS Note the V. T. Meetings increased 1,136, but the average attendance decreased 2.187%. EN PURO: PUR SNS a 82,954 REGULAR MEETINGS 47,409 34,545 7Q, 7 77 IN STAKES 10,533 WORK 10,553 LITERATUR 7.510_ IOC. SCr. 6.949 THEOLOGY 11,315 THEOLOGY LITERATURE 11,00S 67 G66 IN MISSIONS PM eee \ 9,269 IN MISSIONS TUT UI eee 32,584 —— 1947 1948 ' TOTAL ¥ MEETINGS HELD 19,550 ALL OTHER MEETINGS 12,936 6,614 IN STAKES IN MISSIONS Page 614 MEETINGS IN STAKES MEETINGS IN MISSIONS _ 37099 Over j 947 is aie tributed, in Part, to t e Severity of the Winter j; n Many areas, which mad Visits im Possible. BB 2 SOO nD pr ng R asp sI ROO DS assis Get eM Ss eM So ao SSG On on Onaio cc 20000838300 53p0 000° o60GcCc ja Son aBoee 6 one 6555050500205) 25 junbe 35 o5cocG% C3 aa o 4: TOTAL IN STAKES IN MISSIONS AVERAGE ATTENDANCE 1947 1948 1947 1948 1948. 1947 coins BEBE! A/ Ca 36.55 % 42.65% 1947 ° £ Total average attendance show- = cd a decrease of.28%. In the see. TOTAL AVERAGE stakes, it decreased at all except ~\ ATTENDANCE the work meeting, which ina creased.10%. The missions 37,644 showed gratifying increases at all regular meetings Poae 616 Meceseletesersaeaelescesconccscstcocsreccec sie: orsteeceseeeasssncassescesceeeeeDe OSs ae eCOEeDOSOSSSELOSOESDEL CSO SL EL OSe stele net et ences terete ETT ieee sent tess telese gels a a a a TD Ta TT ST TR DD TORS OS OR a OD Dd VISITS TO SICK | 163,408 AND HOMEBOUND 138,895 1947 1948 DAYS CARE OF THE SICK (@vovRS=spay) 19,636 —_—_ 1947 1948 An increase over 1947 of 24,513 visits to the sick and homebound and 4,163 days care of the sick, is praiseworthy evidence that Relief Society members are heeding the admonition to "cherish one another." NUMBER OF FUNERALS AT WHICH R. S. ASSISTED. 5,513 DRESSING ONLY FOR BURIAL ooo. Ooo cecccoceeeee Page 617 289,189 ==] ARTICLES ==] COMPLETED " =| IN crease in the types of articles requiring more time 190.184 — ARTICLES COMPLETE IN 1,154,218 HOURS OTHER 'CHILDREN'S WOMEN'S MEN'S —_, MISCEL. A a 1947 1948 TOTAL ARTICLES = a °o oo o no =lis] |slis| e & ~ ad =) So Slig al ~ = et 47 48 47 48 ("47 48 FOR FOR FOR CHURCH RELIEF ALL Page 618 The welfare sewing budget for 1948 was 60% less than for 1947 and accounts for the main decrease in the total articles completed. The increase in hours is attributed to the into complete. 79,195 UTS BEDDING CLOTHING CLOTHING CLOTHING ARTICLES WELFARE SOCIETY OTHER ARTICLES COMPLETED 952,222 HOURS = == = = == % OF R. S. MEMBERS PARTICIPATING 549,412 HRS. WOMEN RECEIVING AID % BY ALL OTHER R. $. WOMEN 90.17%: given to Church Welfare é 304,625 HRS. 2°,, wg py RS o 3 4), to reduced service requirements z= @ 83.28% and a lower sewing budget asc; 3 signment. Toa) wn 180,041 9.83% 53,963: 50,957 16.72% 1947 1948 1947 1948 ' CHURCH WELFARE MEETINGS (NOT AT R. S. MEETINGS] _—— FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE DIRECTION OF THE BISHOPS, INCLUDES ViSITS BY WARD R. S. PRESIDENTS AND 15S OF SERVICE RENDERED BY R. 5. TO THE THIS SERVICE, GIVEN UNDER THE FAMILY INITIAL AND FOLLOW UP IN ADDITION TO OTHER TYPES WELFARE PROGRAM. NUMBER. OF WOMEN SO VISITED INITIAL VISITS |. SEWED FOR WORKED ON CHURCH THEMSELVES VISITS TO WELFARE PROJECTS =A XCLUSIVE OF WORK MEETINGS AND FAMILY FAMILIES. MEETING SEWING Page 619 " " TOTAL HRS. OF SERVICE 5. WOMEN FOR The decrease in hours of servand in articles completed is due TOTAL ARTICLES COMPLETED FOR CHURCH WELFARE AT R. S. $598,363.43 CASH BALANCE Jan. 1, 1948 © *These figures include contributions of $494,739.33 to the Relief Society Building Fund, transferred to the general board, making a total of $549,784.33 held in trust by the general board as of December 31, 1948. $1,135,672.26 CASH RECEIPTS~ § ==> $422,912.22 Se $122,22798 _ $368.69 ery WAR BONDS Et =~ ACCOUNTS arn 2 PAYABLE rer $149,080.50 <=> ae REAL ESTATE er SE $359,474.61 i Se: FURNITURE BA $1,108,744.21 Bi We CASH Sweet $111,945.20 Ra DISBURSEMENTS* cute OTHER ASSETS te: ORS NET ASSETS $1,790,563.30 LIABILITIES $1,109,112.90 $2,899,676.20 Poge 620 WHEAT FUND & See ANNUAL REPORT Comparative Financial and Statistical Data 1947-1948 621 1948 1947 Changes 1947 to 1948 Number Number Number Per or Amount | or Amount | or Amount | Cent STAKES AND MISSIONS, TOTAL 212 207 +5] +2.41 Organizations Stakes 172 168 +4] +2.38 ORGANIMissions 40 39 +1} +2.56 ZATIONS Local 2.648 2,524 +124| 44.91 Wards in Stakes 1,473 1,420 53] +3.73 Branches in Missions 1,175 1,104 71] +6.43 Membership, Total 115.686 111,843 +3,843/ +3.43 General Officers and Board Members 22 20 +2] 4-10.00 Stake Officers and Board Members 1,939 1,872 +67] +3.57 Mission Presidents and Other Officers 365 310 +55] +17.74 MEMBERS Ward and Branch Executive Officers 9,827 9,907 —80} —.80 Other Officers 4,764 4,208 +556] +-13.21 Class Leaders 8,490 7,774 +716} +9.21 Visiting Teachers 37,528 34,878 +2,650| +-7.59 All Other Members $2,751 52,874 —_ —. LD. S L. D. S. Families, Total 225,499 200.029 +-25,470) 4.12.73 FAMILIES In Stakes 193,938 178,008 +15,930] +-8.94 In Missions 31,561] 22,021 $9,540] +.43.32 MEETINGS HELD, TOTAL 117,902 104,545 +13,357 | 4-12.77 In Wards and Branches 114,159 100,750 +13,409 | 4-13.30 Regular Ward Meetings for Members 82,954 74,108 8,846 11.93 March Sunday Night Meetings §,613 4,231 1,382) +32.66 Visiting Teacher Meetings 11,655 10,519 +1,136 | +10.79 Ward Preparation Meetings 10,255 8,312 +1,943] -+23.37 Ward Conferences 2,382 2,095 +287 | +13.69 Ward Conference Preliminary Meetings 1,300 1,485 —185 | —12.45 In Stakes and Missions 3,713 3.763 —50}; —1.32 Stake and Mission Dist. Board Meetings 2,170 1,940 +230} +11.85 Stake and Ward Officers (Union) Mtgs. 1,543 i +87} +5.97 MEETINGS Meetings in Lieu of Union Meetings 3 AND General Board Meetings Held 30 32 —2} —6.25 ATTENDANCE visits TO WARDS BY STAKE OFFICERS 13,750 12,999 +751 +5.77 AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS For Members 37,644 36,166 +1478} +-4.08 In Stakes 28,375 28,423 —48; —.16 In Missions 9,269 7,743 +1,526}| +-19.70 PER CENT OF MEMBERS REPRESENTED BY AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS 32.53 32.33 +.20 In Stakes 29.73 30.49 —.76 In Missions 45.72 41.54 +4.18 VISITING TEACHING Number of Visiting Teacher Districts 21,752 20,388 +1,364) +6.69. Family Visits, Total 1,592,434 1,458,000 134,434; +9 22 ACTIVITIES Home 1,097,552 995 820 101,732] 410.21 Not Home 494 882 462,180 +32,702| +-7.07 Per Cent Home 68.92 68.30 No. Communications in Lieu of Visits 23,949 20,850 +14.86 622 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA (Continued) 1948 1947 Changes 1947 to 1948 Number Number Number Per or Amount | or Amount | or Amount | Cent EDUCATIONAL SERVICE Average Attendance at Relief Society Tt oul peel talus or ewing; 0 295 6.76 ACTIVITIES Literature 36,779 36,474 +305 +5 (Continued) Social Science 36,294 34,348 +1,946] +5.66 SEWING SERVICE AT MEETINGS Av. No. Of Women Sewing Monthly 32,271 95,559 —3,288] —9.24 Number of Hours Given in Sewing 1,154,218 952,222 +201,996] 4-21.21 Articles Completed 190,184 289.189 —99,005| 34.23 For Relief Society 94,940 99,143 —4,203| _423 For Church Welfare 60,756 180,041 —119,285| 66.95 For All Others 34,488 10,005 +24,483] 4.94470 Kind of Articles Quilts 15,520 14,040 1,480 Other Bedding 5,698 5432 +266) +054 Children's Clothing 36,315 79,195 —42,880) 54.14 Women's Clothing 34,800 56,300 —21,500] _38 18 Men's Clothing 5,595 9,772 —4,177| 42.74 Other (Miscellaneous) 92,256 124,450 —32,194] _ 95 96 COMPASSIONATE SERVICES Visits to Sick and Homebound 163,408 138,895 Number of Days Care of Sick 19,636 15,473 arr T2650 Bodies Prepared for Burial 872 615 +257 -+-41.78 Complete Preparation 517 109 +408] 4374.31 Dressing Only. 355 $06 —151} —29.84 No. Funerals at Which R. S. Assisted §,513 4,754 +759] 4-15.96 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICES (In Addition to 60,756 Articles Completed at Relief Society Work Meetings) Hours Church Welfare Projects 304,625 $49,412 —244,787| —44.55 By Women Receiving Aid $0,957 $3,963 —3,006} —S5.57 By All Other Relief Society Women 253,668 495 449 —241,781| —48.80 FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE Number of Initial Family Visits Under Direction of Bishop 5,910 Nigaiear of Subsequent or Follow-Up — isits, (Report inaugurated 1948 Number Visited Who, Gave Service on =e | Church Welfare Projects ie) SS ee ee Number of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Meeting 1,440 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed for Themselves and Families 1,644 Cash Receipts $1,135,672.26] $§ 699,494.92) +$436.177.34| +-62.35.. FINANCES Cash Disbursements $1,108,744.21] § 676,458.29] +$432.285.92! -++63.90 Net Assets $1.790,563.30] $1.681,683.02] +-$108,880.28|, +-6.47 MAGAZINE Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions 80,978 —3,2371/,| —3.99 Oe Lome 77,7403/. 2,648 115,686 114,159 37,644 1,549,434 37,528 163,408 19,636 190,184 60,756 15,259 ORGANIZATIONS MEMBERS MEETINGS HELD AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS VISITS TO L. D. S. FAMILIES VISITING TEACHERS VISITS TO SICK AND HOMEBOUND DAYS CARE OF THE SICK TOTAL ARTICLES COMPLETED IN SEWING SERVICE SEWING ARTICLES COMPLETED FOR CHURCH WELFARE, and 304,625 HOURS ON OTHER CHURCH WELFARE PROJECTS FAMILY WELFARE VISITS: Page 623 Joanna (Continued from page 609) brief hug in passing. "Oh, Mother, isn't life simply magical?" "I must see this paragon you're dating," Joanna said. She rushed in and out of the tub and dressed swiftly. The white dress was the most becoming thing she had ever owned. She put on the gold slippers and went downstairs. Penny whistled. "You look out of this world, Mother." She was sitting on the hassock, her slim hands clenching and unclenching on the velveteen skirt. Joanna bit her lip. How well she remembered the pangs that went with a first date, the clammy feeling of inferiority. "Rest assured, Penny, you'll look as swish as any of them. Where is the party to be held?" "I don't know. It's just... A party, I guess. Mother, are you sure I don't look babyish in this collar?" A car stopped. Penny sprang to the window, her face flushing. "It's Tom! Quick, Mother. How do I look? Is my hair right?" She did not wait for an answer but ran to the mirror above the little table in the hall. She opened the door on his ring, Joanna sat very straight, trying to beat down the chuckles. I must look very friendly, she thought. The poor lad is probably in stitches of fright, too. Penny brought the boy in, her eyes dwelt on him, soft with adoration. "Mother, this is Tom... Tom Nichols." Page 624 "Oh!" Joanna felt as if she would be sick. She stared at the boy, his dark, curly hair, his clear, thickly lashed eyes, his clean young mouth. Incredible that this should be the drunken boy who had lurched into her at the "Green Lady." The "Green Lady!" She had a swift vision of dancing girls.., Penny's age, and the smoke and the raucous laughter. But surely this was dif. Ferent. She wet her lips. "Where do you plan to spend the night hours?" Flippant, not the frightened mother speaking. The boy shrugged a gray tweed shoulder. "Here and there. The crowd has things planned." "Til run upstairs and get my coat," Penny said. She had spent hours wondering if she should have it ready in the living room, or if it would look as if she didn't teally care whether she went or not, if she left it upstairs. OR a wild moment Joanna thought of fainting... Of putting her hand to her heart and complaining of a sudden devastating pain. She said dully, "Wait a minute, Penny. I don't believe youll need your coat." "Mother!" Penny came close, her eyes large with anxiety. Tom stirred impatiently. "The gang is waiting for us, Penny." Joanna said dully, "They will have to wait. Penny cannot go." "Oh, Mother!" The young agony was like a knife hurled into her heart. Joanna turned to Tom. "You JOANNA see, I was with Kent Taylor, at the "Green Lady." You were... Well, intoxicated. I... I... Can't let Penny go to such places. She means too much to me." She saw Penny's white, imploring face lifted to Tom's. They were against her, youth, laughter, the sweet, hot call of adventure allied against her age and experience and her love. Tom — shuffled uneasily, "Aw, gosh, Mrs. Niels. We were just having fun. We didn't mean anything. I promise not to touch anything tonight. What will the bunch say if I turn up without my date?" "What will they say about me?" The cry was tom from Penny's heart. Joanna ran her fingers through her hair. What to do? If she sent Tom away, it would take years before Penny would trust her again. She might not bring her friends home, she might tell them to meet her elsewhere. It was obvious Penny was in love with the boy. First love, but real enough. Joanna lifted her face. Tom said, "Gee! I wouldn't let anything happen to Penny." "T can't let anything happen to her," Joanna said and_ smiled. Suddenly she looked at them. "Listen, would the gang mind changing places to go? I mean, how would they like to come here. We've a brand new batch of records, we can roll up the rugs, and I'll make you all a lunch you'll never forget. What about it?" They looked at each other, Tom and Penny. Joanna read their faces. They knew she would not let Penny go. To go without her meant loss 625 of face to Tom. The only solution was to make the best of a bad bargain. "We'll stay. We'll make the gang think we thought the idea up ourselves." Joanna was weak with relief. "Good for you! And by the time you get finished with one of our patties, you'll not be able to wait for the next one." "Okay! [ll run and get the others." He grinned at Penny and patted her arm. "It's all right," he said. The doorbell rang. Joanna turned to it. Kent. Kent! She went to the door and opened it. His eyes deepened when he saw her. "Beautiful," he said. "Are you ready, darling?" "Kent... I can't go." She drew him with her into the kitchen and explained. He waited patiently until she had finished, but she saw his eyes growing colder and the sharp lines that came when he was angry springing up on his forehead. "Can't you come with me, and let the youngsters have their own party?" "No. No, Kent. I have to stay here... See that it is a success. A terrific success. So they will want to meet here, again and again. It has to be more fun than the 'Green Lady,' or any of those places." HE slapped his hat against his side. "Second place. I'll always take second place to the children. I'll be glad when we are back East, so I can have you to myself for awhile." Joanna straightened her shoulders. 626 She felt bowed to the earth under the weight of this burden, and though Kent stood before her, she was already lonely, the chill of it on her heart. "I'm not going back East with you, Kent. I can't leave Penny now." He dropped his hat and put his hands on her shoulders. He shook her. "Not going with me? What stupid thing is this? Of course you're going with me? I need you." "Penny needs me." "You promised you would come." He dropped his hands. "Joanna, you can't give your life to your children. Your whole life. You have a right to happiness." Joanna said heavily, "Only if it doesn't interfere with their lives. Oh, Kent, believe me, this is hard to say, but you don't really need me, not as Penny does. There wouldn't be a moment of peace for me. This is my job." He said savagely, "Your jobl What pay will it give you? They'll leave you, Joanna. Every one of them will leave you. Penny is going now. She's running away into her own life. You can't stop her." "No," Joanna said. "I wouldn't want to stop her. But I must help her into the kind of life that will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 be rich and rewarding. Oh, I've heard about interfering mothers. I've read that we have no right to interfere in our children's lives, but I don't believe it. Should I spend sixteen years perfecting a thing of beauty and then close my eyes while the world takes over? Did I leave her alone when she learned to walk, or did I help? She's in love, Kent. To go away and leave her alone now would be like giving her a stick of dynamite to play with, hoping she wouldn't find matches." Kent picked up his hat. He said wearily. "I can see that staying would be utterly useless, and talking even more so." He looked about him. "A home. Well, I'll be too busy for a home for a long time to come." Joanna watched him go, his head held arrogantly and high. Then she turned and went heavily upstairs. She took off the gold slippers and the white jersey gown and found a blue dress and an apron. Penny was waiting alone for the return of Tom and the gang. Joanna went to her and held her close, feeling Penny stiffen against her. "It's going to be all right, Penny. Believe me. It's going to be all right." (To be continued) > Sonnet "4 William Shakespeare No longer mourn for me when I am dead Than you shall hear the surly sullen bell Give warning to the world that I am fled From this vile world, with vilest worms to dwell: Nay, if you read this line, remember not The hand that writ it; for I love you so, That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot, If thinking on me then should make you woe. O, if, I say, you look upon this verse, When I perhaps compound am with clay, Do not so much as my poor name rehearse, But let your love even with my life decay; Lest the wise world should look into your moan And mock you with me after I am gone. FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. ANNIVERSARY PARTIES, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ivie H. Jones SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION, DEL RIO (TEXAS) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY CONDUCTS A SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR Left to right: President Carolina Aguirre; First Counselor Gregoria Sandoval; Second Counselor Casta Soraiz; work director Rita Hernandez; Antonia Aguirre; Ester Aguirre. These six women are very proud of their latest achievement in preparing an unusually successful supper and bazaar. They sold $31 worth of tickets for the supper and made $150 on the bazaar. This was a unique achievement since the branch is exceptionally small and there is no American branch in Del Rio from which the Spanish-Amenican branch might receive co-operation. Ivie H. Jones is president of the Spanish-American Mission Relief Society. Page 627 a " Photograph submitted by Vivian R. McConkie CALIFORNIA MISSION, CHINO VALLEY (ARIZONA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY FIRST PRIZE BOOTH AT YAVAPAI COUNTY FAIR September 1948 Lucille Bates Bunker and Dorothy Bates Scott supervised the arrangements of the booth, aided by Nello Scott, Leah Langford Sommers, Ita Hunt Turley, and Keith Bunker. The prize was $100, and all of the articles were made by the seventeen sisters in this branch. Note the beautifully designed quilts, crochet work, hand-embroidered pillow cases, and the numerous decorative articles. Vivian R. McConkie is president of the California Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Lola M. Shumway PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA), RECENTLY APPOINTED STAKE BOARD OFFICERS Seated, center front, President Lola M. Shumway. Back row, left to right: Counselor Jennie Engstrom; Secretary-Treasurer Irene Pratt; Counselor Lola Green. 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 629 Photograph submitted by Lela M. Bailey SAN LUIS STAKE (COLORADO), ALAMOSA WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1949 Standing at the head of the tables, dressed in pioneer costume, President Mary Haynie and her counselors Cleone Berthclson and Clara Nissen, are holding the birthday cake. This delightful party was enjoyed by a large number of sisters who participated in a special prograin and luncheon in honor of the 107th birthday of Relief Society. Lela M. Bailey is president of San Luis Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mue Matis FINNISH MISSION, RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AT CONFERENCE IN LARSMO PRESENT DRAMATIZATION OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY Left to right: Counselor Viola Ronnkvist; President Anna Stromberg, both of Larsmo Branch; Elsa Bloomquist, Secretary, Jacobstad Branch; Vera Nyman, President, Jacobstad Branch. Mae Matis is president of the Finnish Mission Relief Society. 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Photograph submitted by Lorena W. Anderson TEMPLE VIEW STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), JEFFERSON WARD HONORS PAST OFFICERS AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1949 Left to right: former ward presidents: Lida C. Prince; Althera Farnsworth; present president Zina Mayland; former president Della Curtis (cutting the cake); Karren Anderson, a counselor to the first president of the ward Relief Society. Alice Davis (now deceased); Alice Graves, former ward president; Ida VanCott, secretary to former president Alice Davis; Lorena W. Anderson, President, Temple View Stake Relief Society. This enjoyable entertainment commemorated twenty-five years of Relief Society activities in Jefferson Ward. A history of these years of growth, composed by Mabel Jones Gabbott, was read by Gwen Jensen. An inspirational address was delivered by Bishop J. Donald Gabbott, representing the Priesthood. Lorena W. Anderson is president of Temple View Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Rhea F. Smurthwaite LIBERTY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), LIBERTY WARD PAGEANT "AMERICA, THE LAND OF PROMISE," March 6, 1949 Front row, at left, directly back of the piano, President Rhea F. Smurthwaite, and at her left Second Counselor Grace Foutz; at the right, seated against the railing, stake NOTES FROM THE FIELD 631 chorister Winnifred Smith, and next to her, First Counselor Theresa Weiss, author of the pageant (in co-operation with Karl Weiss). The pageant depicted the epic story of the American continent, told through _characters representing the attributes of womanhood, such as motherhood, faith, service, love, chastity. The costumes were made in lovely pastel colors which added much to the effectiveness of the pageant. The Singing Mothers rendered music appropriate to the theme, the spirit of liberty. LaNola C. Driggs is president of Liberty Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Laura B. Bradshaw GRANITE STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS ENTERTAINED AT SPRING LUNCHEON, May 26, 1949 Front row, seated, left to nght: Emmaretta G. Brown; Myrtle B. Latimer; Agnes M. Bolto; Vauna S. Jacobsen. Standing, left to right: Beth C. Cannon; Ida M. Dean. In addition to the stake Relief Society presidents, other guests were the ward class leaders and ward and stake officers, members of Granite Stake presidency and their wives, a member of the high council, and representatives of the stake boards of all the other auxiliaries in the stake. Sister Blanche B. Stoddard of the Relief Society general board also attended the luncheon. President Ida M. Dean welcomed the guests and introduced the former presidents. A delicious luncheon was served, followed by a program of music, speeches, and readings. The table decorations were particularly attractive and significant for the occasion. Along the table were low white picket fences covered with climbing roses, through which arched gates swung open. At each gate stood a beautifully dressed doll. The favors at each place were small arched gates, decorated with pink flowers. At each gate stood a dainty miniature paper doll. Carrying out this artistic and thoughtful idea, Sister Dean read a poem which she composed. Parts of the poem are quoted below: "Dear friends, may we take you in fancy, down a pathway strewn with flowers Into an enchanted garden, and there spend a few happy hours.... Xe k *€ So enter the open gateway, and rest beneath cooling bowers, But over your garden keep vigil, and refresh it with love's gentle showers." 632 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Photograph submitted by Reva F. Wicker SOUTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH), ORCHARD WARD SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR CANTATA "EASTER SUNRISE SONG," April 17, 1949 Grace Porter, director of the chorus, is seen at the left in the dark dress, and at right, in black dress, Edna Lunt, reader; Cherry Brown, the accompanist, at left, in print dress. Reva F. Wicker is president of South Davis Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Zelma S. Muir BEAVER STAKE (UTAH), OLDEST AND YOUNGEST MEMBERS OF BEAVER WARDS RELIEF SOCIETIES Seated, left to right: Frances L. Jones; Dorothy Williams. Standing, left to right: Colleen S Shelby; Betty June P. Oakden; Ida Messinger. Harriett Yardley, third oldest member, had to leave before this photograph was taken. The occasion for honoring these women was the 17th of March Anniversary party. Phylis S. Warr is president of Beaver Stake Relief Society. LESSON f= Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 19—"Continuation of the Perean and Judean Ministry" up to and including "Parable of the Pharisee and Publican" Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 27, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, December 6, 1949 Objective: To continue the unfolding, by his matchless teaching, of the great gospel plan as taught by the Lord Jesus. In the House of One of the Chief Pharisees es by the marvelous lessons he taught, the trip through Perea was one of the most important taken by the Savior. He did not hesitate to show his power, if thereby he might give to the people a much-needed lesson. While he was a guest at the home of a prominent Pharisee, a man afflicted with dropsy was healed by the Lord on the Sabbath day. He asked, "Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath day?" (Luke 14:3). No one ventured to answer. 'The answer was obvious. They had been taught to rescue an animal in trouble. Who would deny the blessing to a human being? Jesus did not hesitate to instruct in the matter of observing good manners. When guests at a dinner sought high places of honor, he stated an enduring moral law: "For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted" (Luke 14:11). This especially applies to workers in the Church and kingdom of God. A careful study should be made of the significant Parable of the Great Supper (Luke 14:16-24). It might be well to compare this with the parable relating to the marriage of the king's son (Matt. 22:2-14). Evidently, prior notice had been given in ample time to the chosen guests. It was to be a great event. Note carefully the excuses given by the invited prospective guests. It is so easy to find seemingly plausible excuses when we do not want to do a thing required of us or which we are invited to do. The man who had done the inviting was plainly angry because the guests invited first had not come. He commanded that the poor, the blind, and the maimed should be brought to the feast. This action indicated determination, but at the same time a disposition to do good and extend charity where needed. The lesson is plain. Israel, or the covenant race, was the specially invited guest. The children of Israel had been invited for a long while. Now they had been invited by the Messenger—Jehovah or the Christ, sent by the Father. They refused Page 633 634 the invitation and now the gospel would be carried to the Gentiles. Jesus declared of those who rejected his invitation, "For I say unto you, That none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper" (Luke 14:24). Counting the Cost The teaching of a profound lesson is recorded in Luke 14:25-35. During the journey we are considering, multitudes of people were attracted to the Lord wherever he appeared. When a certain scribe offered to become a disciple, Jesus explained the hardships and the self-denial that would follow, and the man's ardor soon cooled. The Master then applied a real test of sincerity. 'The genuine disciple must give up his wealth, his loved ones, and everything dear in life and follow the Savior. How many can and will do it now? Before one agrees to such an undertaking one should count well the cost. Salvation for "Publicans and Sinners" — Illustrative Parables Both Pharisees and Galileans had criticized Jesus because he had extended his ministry to the "publicans and sinners." He responded by giving them the well-known Parable of the Lost Sheep, somewhat modified from its former presentation to meet the needed lesson (Luke 15:2-7). In considering the application of this and the Parable of the Lost Coin, it should be pointed out that Jesus did not defend the evil ways of wicked people. He sought only to teach that we should rejoice when there is genuine repentance RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 on the part of the sinner. Jesus is the Good Shepherd. Of course he rejoices when a lost sheep is found. He rejoices also, however, over the good sheep who remain faithful within the fold. Let us next consider the Parable of the Prodigal Son (Luke 15: 11-32). It has been so much misunderstood. The action on the part of the younger son in demanding his portion of the father's estate while the father was yet alive was an instance of deliberate and unfilial desertion. He went into a far country and spent his substance in "riotous living." Only when he suffered in abject poverty did he repent. A forgiving father was glad to welcome him back home. The father expressed his gratitude in acts of kindness. 'The son, counted as dead, was now alive. The older son, mistaking the father's joy on the return of the prodigal son, was angty and refused to enter the house. The father explained to the churlish older son: "Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine." No portion of the older son's patrimony was taken from him. We must not extol the repentance of the prodigal son above the faithfulness on the part of the older son. Surely the sacred joy over the faithful here and hereafter exceeds the joy over the return of a sinful soul, even though the repentance on the latter's part is sincere and genuine. It was clearly a great lesson for the Pharisees. They must have taken its application unto themselves. They were following the letter of the law, but were unwilling to extend forgiveness to a truly repentant son. The lesson is not only for THE LOST SHEEP Page 635 Copyright, 1929, by Eugene A. Perry From a painting by Soord 636 the Pharisees but for all people anytime, everywhere. There is and always will be joy for the lost soul who repents and comes back, but it does not supersede the joy for the souls who remain true and faithful. The Disciples Instructed by Parable The Parable of the Unrighteous Steward (Luke 16:1-8) was given primarily to and for the disciples. The steward in the story was the authorized agent of the employer. He was acting within the scope of his authority. Careful men do not fail to make provision for their future years. Some are surprised to learn, while reading the parable, that this man's apparent dishonesty was extolled. This is not the case. "His prudence and foresight were commended." Derision of the Pharisees Met; Another Illustrative Parable More than passing attention should be given to the Parable of the Rich Man and Lazarus. Our Lord had given the hypocritical and scoffing Pharisees lessons on the right way of administering wealth. They thought, what does the poor Galilean know of such things? The Pharisees were crafty manipulators and yet were so successful in justifying their deeds before men as to appear honest. The Lord knew their hearts, and their practices were an abomination in his sight. He gave them an additional lesson by an unforgettable parable (Luke 16:19-31). These verses should be read. The rich man had fared sumptuously while on earth. He had been clothed in "purple and fine linen" while Lazarus, the beggar, "was laid at his gate, full of sores" and ate RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Dogs shared the lot of Lazarus and, when he died, he was probably buried in a pauper's grave. The nameless rich man also died. It is recorded that Lazarus went to Abraham's bosom signifying the paradise of God. The rich man died and went to a place of torment. As a Jew, he had doubtless often boasted that Abraham was his father. Now he was asking only for something to soothe his suffering, which he thought Lazarus, the onetime beggar, might bring. The conversation is enlightening. It was possible for the righteous to converse with the wicked. However, Abraham explained that it was impossible to grant the rich man's request because between the abode of the righteous Lazarus and that of the wicked sufferer "There is a great gulf fixed." Passage between the two abodes was forbidden. Even by parable, Jesus taught truly concerning the conditions in the hereafter. That righteous and unrighteous dwell apart during the interval between death and resurrection is clear.... The parable teaches the continuation of individual existence after death, and the relation of cause to effect between the life one leads in mortality and the state awaiting him beyond. Unprofitable Servants Jesus also taught his disciples by parable when he could thereby impress the lesson more forcibly. The apostles, realizing the whole-souled service required of them, implored the Lord, saying, "Increase our faith." On one occasion the Lord repeated to them instructions previously given: "If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say LESSON DEPARTMENT unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you" (Luke 17:6). Their faith could best be determined by their obedience and service. The Parable of the Unprofitable Servants is given in Luke 17:7-10. It teaches that those who engage in the work of the Lord should give all their time and attention to him and even that would not repay him for all he had done. The apostles were not to complain at their tasks. The best they could do would only be their duty. Ten Lepers Healed Following the lesson mentioned in the preceding paragraph, Luke alone records the miracle of the healing of the ten lepers (Luke 17:11-19). He thereby also taught a great lesson on gratitude. Only one of the ten remembered to turn back and thank the Lord for his great blessing. That one was a Samaritan. Truly Jesus was preparing the apostles for the great lesson that the gospel was for all who were obedient. The Pharisee and the Publican The Parable of the Pharisee and the Publican was spoken "unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others" (Luke 18:9-14). It was not addressed to any particular 637 class. It may be used to condemn the Pharisaic spirit of self-complacency wherever found. The Pharisee was grateful that he was better than the other in his own estimation. However, it is interesting to note that he prayed "with himself." Such prayers do not avail much with God. The repentant publican humbly asked for forgiveness and for mercy. The Lord summed up the lesson when he said, "For every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted." Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Apply the Parable of the Great Supper to our day. Why do our missionaries sometimes request applicants for baptism to wait for a while before joining the Church?: 2. What proof may be cited from the Parable of the Rich Man and Lazarus of the conditions hereafter? Are spirits separated in paradise? 3. Discuss the Parable of the Unprofitable Servants as it applies to us. Are we willing to give more than is required of us in the service of the Lord? 4. What was the sin of the Pharisee who went up to the temple to pray? Show the danger of Latter-day Saints partaking of this spirit. References in the Gospels Matt. 8:19, 20; g:10-13; 12:10; 19:3- 12, 16-30; 18:12-14; 20:1-16. Mark 10:13-31; 2:15-17. Luke: 5:29-32; 9:52-56; 10:25; 14:1-35; UG:11-325 16:3-3%; i9:1°37, "Selo 18-30. Shere Js Joy Evelyn Fjeldsted There is song in the wind as it flies Through the willows and trees near a stream, There are lessons in mountains and fields; There is joy in a hope and a dream. 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 Visiting Teacher Mlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 3—"These Things | Have Spoken Unto You, That in Me Ye Might Have Peace" (John 16:33) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, December 6, 1949 Objective: To affirm that through conforming our lives to the teachings of Christ, we may possess peace in our souls. CHRIST came to prepare men's hearts so that they, as worthy subjects, would develop characteristics of the kingdom of God. A righteous kingdom cannot be established by unrighteous subjects. It follows then that the more closely 'ndividuals conform their lives to the teachings of Christ, the more nearly are they fitted to be his subjects. If they live according to his laws they will have peace in their hearts, for his is a peaceful kingdom. Love is the foundation of his teachings. Faith in God and service to fellow men, justice, tolerance, and forgiveness are characteristics of the true followers of the Master. "These things I have spoken unto you," he said, "that in me ye might have peace" (John 16:33)- Not all wars are waged on fields of battle. 'Turmoil as tempestuous as that of actual war can sometimes rage in human hearts, but peace that passeth understanding can be had by those who have learned the way of peace. Never has there been a time when more people were confused and troubled and seeking for that great blessing, peace of mind. And yet how simple it would be for them to obtain it through righteous living. They are like the youthful characters in Maeterlinck's Blue Bird, who set out from their home 'n search of happiness only to find, after wandering far and near, that it had been within their reach in the familiar surroundings of their own home all the time. In his book Unto the Hills, in the section titled "Peace Within and Without," Elder Richard L. Evans has made some significant statements. He defines peace as belonging: _., to an attitude of mind which leaves the windows of the soul open to all truth and the will to live in accordance with that truth.... Peace is more than mere absence of war. It is a mode of living, a state of well-being; a condition of self-control and social balance..- - He who has mastered self has found peace, even though there be no peace around him (Unto the Hills, page 123 i). What are the spoilers of inward peace? Elder Evans answers:.. Vanity and self-love, greed, unholy ambitions, crooked thinking. -- - the memory of things that should never have been done; the confusion that lurks in the human mind when the line of demarkation between truth and error is obscured; the consciousness of time's passing quickly by without our having freighted it with a full measure of achievement.... In short those things which LESSON DEPARTMENT, 639 destroy our peace are the things which in age have proved, obedience to gill that the all times and in all ages have been forbidLord has commanded, and obedience to den to men by the Lord God and the wis all of those finer things that men already dom of experience «© _ The price of peace know in their inmost hearts (Ibid., page Work Meeting—Sem"s Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) dren's lives js spent at play, they are easy to put on and off. For clothes fot play assume an impor younger children, choose the self buy, they can be made at little cost placket room and long enough open structive Of careless. But, on the othsevere strain, hard wea? And launex hand, we certainly do not want dering: The stitching ghould be adto dress them in such a mannet justed for the fabric and the thread that they are too conscious of theit should match the fabric in strength. Clothes and thus hampered in TR for play clothes are numer P Material for these garments ous and fabrics almost unlimite 'aust be appropne e to their put Denims are sold in an endless va ose ey sho id be durable an riety of colors and designs Some 0 very stut y And they should the heavier weigh s of spun ayon made of fabrics that can easily DS and cotton are } eal for this use Jaundere For the tiny tob the coverall type Play clothes should be quite com: of garment is easy and most satis: fortable for the wearer. They should factory for boys and girls. As they allow ample zoom fot activity and gtOWw older, sturdy dresses, OF pedal rowth. If a child's clothes restrict pushers with gay shirts or jerseys; him or are jrritating, this. Will likely ate nice for gitls. Make gay flannel be reflected in his actions and dis) °F cotton print shirts for boys to 640 is strong and durable as well as flat and neat looking. It serves equally well for trousers or slacks and shirts. Plackets should be ample in length and extra strong. Zipper closings are always good, as are continuous bound plackets. Either should be double stitched at the bottom. Buttons need a reinforcement behind them. Woven tape, patches of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 material, or stay buttons on the wrong side of the garment help prevent them from pulling out. Stitches of worked buttonholes should touch to make a firm edge and the thread should be sturdy. Commercial gripper fasteners make an ideal closing for play clothes. They are easy to apply and give excellent service. <> ol storaume— Wie Literature of England Elder Briant S. Jacobs Lesson 3—The Poet Shakespeare For Tuesday, December 20, 1949 VEN while our world continues to worship sensation, science, and the new model, Shakespeare endures. Despite the weaknesses of youth and the busied indifferences of maturity, there are those within each generation who arise to call his name one of the sweetest and strongest in the language. Increasingly each year his works are taught and read and performed, surely to feed a constant hunger for that which sustains. Now, as always since he wrote, Shakespeare is known and loved; it is Our present concern to ask why. In this short space it would be high presumption to attempt an evaluation of William Shakespeare, the supreme English author and dramatist, as revealed in his thirtyseven plays. Setting aside, then, a study of his plays as a course to be anticipated in future years, let us attempt to learn for ourselves who Shakespeare was and is, and why the literary and poetic values of his writings are unsurpassed. Although an immense accumulation of conjecture and opinion about Shakespeare's life now exists, actually we know precious little about him, and never has the little been more precious. In 1564 he was born in the country town of Stratford, located on the Avon River some eighty miles northwest of London. His parents were of the prosperous middle class, his father described alternately as a butcher, a wool merchant, and a dealer in gloves. At the age of eighteen Shakespeare married Anne Hathaway, a farmer's daughter eight years older than he, who bore him three children. In his early twenties he went to London. We are led to believe that he was employed in various minor jobs in one of the two London theaters, but by 1592, in his twentyeighth year, he was known both as an actor and as a writer of plays. Soon after this date he further established his popularity among the nobility by dedicating two poems, Venus and Adonis and the Rape of Lucrece to Henry Wriothesley, Ear] LESSON DEPARTMENT of Southampton, who seems to have been his intimate friend as well as his patron (a wealthy art-lover who financed artists and musicians who in turn dedicated their works to him). Most of his sonnets are believed to have been written during this period, from 1593 to 1596. He began writing two plays each year, and directed his own company of actors. At age thirty-three he purchased the largest house in Stratford; he also maintained a home in London where, save for periodical visits to Stratford, he spent most of his time. In 1611, at the height of his highly successful career, Shakespeare suddenly severed active connections with the theater and moved to Stratford. Here for the next five years he lived the life of a respected gentleman. He continued his friendship with various actors until he died at the age of fifty-two, presumably of the dreaded plague. About all these sketchy biographical details prove to us is that, so far as we can verify historically, his life was a simple and conventional one. He must have received no more education than the average town school offered, nor do we learn of any great mind which, during Shakespeare's most impressionable years, stimulated his genius. How, then, are we to account for the emergence of this man who, more than any other, molded into our language the strength, the flexibility, and the maturity which characterize modern English? From whence came this master dramatistactor-poet who, it has been said, exerted more influence on _ the growth of British traditions, even on the growth of the British Empire 641 itself, than any other person? Perhaps in the temper of the times, the most creative and vital in English history, lies at least part of our anSWeT. If Shakespeare was the flower of the Renaissance (rebirth), as he is generally acknowledged to be, the plant which produced such a bloom itself could have been no mean creation. Politically, economically, socially, and religiously, "the spacious times of Elizabeth" were epoch making. The strong, autocratic Tudors —Henry VII, Henry VIII, Elizabeth —defied any and all powers which seemed to endanger the unlimited expansion of everything English, and the emerging English middle classes but loved them the more for their courage and audacity, and for the wealth and intellectual freedom which resulted. Out of the confusion and uncertainty of the Hundred Years War with France (1337- 1453) and the English civil war, known as the Wars of the Roses (1455-1485), the Tudors built a vigorous, unified England. Following the discoveries of Columbus and others, England, through her fleet and her maritime skill, made herself the crossroads of the world. After the defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588, the military and commercial supremacy of England was assured, particularly so because of Queen Elizabeth's aggressive leadership. The resulting wave of nationalism gave further growth to the "pride of the English"; Shakespeare echoed it in his historical plays glorifying the English traditions. Henry V, for example, has been aptly described as an English national epic in dramatic form. 642 Inspirational 3-Part Music Women's Voices All in the April Evening—Diack._._.15 Bless This House—-Brahe......_§-____.15 The Bridge Builder—Dougall. 18 Come to Me—Beethoven._....___.._.16 He Smiled on Me—O'Hara. —_— 20 Hold Thou My Hand—Briggs...._.....15 How Beautiful Upon the Mountains —Harker 16 How Lovely Are the Messengers— Mendelssohn 12 I Shall Not Again Pass This Way— Effinger 18 If with All Your Hearts—Mendelssohn 15 The King of Glory—Parks.....________.. -20 The Lord's Prayer—Gates____._______. 18 Write for information on music for all types of L. D. S. Choral groups. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We pay postage. We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records. 45-47 a' PIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 When Henry VIII directed the passage of the Acts of Supremacy in 1534, England was freed from the domination of the Pope, and Hen became head of the English Church. A year later the power of the printing press became more evident when Miles Coverdale printed the first complete English Bible, and since reading and writing rapidly became common, each Englishman soon learned to read his Bible for himself. Inevitably a new freedom characterized the realm of the intellect as well. In contrast to the other worldly Middle Ages, scholars concerned themselves with man and the immediate world about him. They sought to explain their environment as perceived by the senses. As a result of the use of the inductive scientific method, the sciences of chemistry, physics, and medicine began to emerge from the realms of superstition and quackery. Literature followed the classical Greek models, and borrowed profusely from Continental literary fashions, particularly those of Italy. Written by some Oxford scholars, but largely by gentlemen of the court and the middle classes, the literature became experimental, word conscious, and purely lyrical, so filled with natural melody and song that poetry might seem to be the common speech of Englishmen. The "spaciousness" of the age was surely not in physical London, which to us would in part be smelly, dirty, unsanitary, and cruel; instead, as Englishmen walked her narrow streets, it was their imaginations which soared without testraint. They saw visions and dreamed dreams of "brave new LESSON DEPARTMENT worlds," and, to describe what they Saw and felt, they wrote for us the incredibly rich Elizabethan _literature, brimming with virility, naturalness, and originality, It is in probing this vein that we may enjoy the richest ore literature has produced: the writings of ShakeSspeare. However, we must remember that literature is never the sum total of whatever biographical details, sources, and influence were drawn upon in producing it. Literary excellence is not dependent upon the materials of 4 work of art, but upon what use is made of the materials. This observation Is particularly pertinent in studying Shakespeare, who borrowed the plots of almost all his plays. Wherein, then, does his Originality lie? Like Chaucer, Shakespeare knew all classes, types, and characters of humanity. Neither condemning nor Praising, neither concealing unflattering reality nor sighting the humorous or lovely, he looked into the heart of all humanity and wrote of what he saw with a Piercing, lyrical freshness, and a deep-probing intellectual intensity which by their own stamp of excellence are peculiarly his. He has been halfway defined, almost too often, as a master in the use of words. As if one's literary excellence invariably increases in djTéct ratio to the size of one's vocabulary! We must remember Henry Ward _Beecher's thought, _ that "Words are pegs to hang ideas on." Not to deny that Shakespeare's word list is both large and pure: it is phenomenally so. But the beauty and the power of his style are produced, not by the isolated words he uses, but by his power of combining 643 SEARS ROEBUCK AND Co. CANYON COOL For YOUR SHOPPING COMFORT Spend a few comfortable, cool shopping hours at Sears! Clean, water-washed, pollen-free Gir, gives you relief from hot summer days! Main or State at 8th South SALT LAKE CITY Joseph Wm. Taylor UTAH PIONEER Mortuary Organized 1882 Since then there have been held 134 CONFERENCES LISTEN TO KDYL SUNDAY 9:45 A. M. Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 North Main Phone 3-7824 SALT LAKE CITY ST For BEAUTIFUL Spring Flowers Bulbs, Plants and Seeds must be Planted This Fall Call or Write for FREE BULB and SEED Catalog Giving Full Details Everything for the Home Grounds At Our New Motor Mart Garden PORTER-WALTON C0. 550 South 6th East Salt Lake City, Utah Plan now to enroll Sent. 6 You can qualify better for a business career with the thorough training you'll receive at L. D. S. Business College. Inquiries welcomed at any time. Write for free literature L. D. S. Business College 70 North Main Salt Lake City words to force them to express precisely the idea or emotion he would convey to his audience. Shakespeare is a lyric poet, two terms equally difficult of definition. An attempt to define poetry is doomed to no more success than an attempt to define music, beauty, love; it is much easier exemplified than defined. Originally with the Greeks, lyric designated that which was to be sung with the lyre; the lyric is still to be identified by its melody and song-like quality, but it is a melody more of manner than of form. Any intense personal emotion—religion, love, grief—may be the material of a lyrical poem; all the emotions provide the subject matter of Shakespeare's lyrics. Pertinent here, both for manner and content, is Miranda's speech from The Tempest: O wonder! How many goodly creatures are there here! How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world, That has such people in't. If Shakespeare is the universal poet, we should find at once that his imagery attracts us; a reading of Shakespeare should clear our minds and souls of the trivial and the artificial, and from the truth and intensity of its content make us feel vibrantly aware and alive. Not only can Shakespeare perceive the truth, but he catches its essence and hands it to us for the taking, condensed in a nutshell. For example, "Tender inward of the hand" delicately catches the assence of an almost intangible, yet very real, sensation, "liberty plucks justice by the nose" tells far more than it says. The list of such 644 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT Jlustrations in Shakespeare is endless—as vast as Shakespeare himself. Because his phrases and epigrams are uniquely apt and therefore memorable, Shakespeare has lent many of them to our language, from "Brevity is the soul of wit" to "Something is rotten in the state of Denmark." Probably more of his phrases have been used as book titles than those of any other writer; throughout the centuries the music and intensity of his lines have found a sure audience. Consider, for example, the following, but a few of his best known: Use every man after his desert, And who should 'scape whipping (Hamlet). Thus conscience does make cowards of us all (Hamlet). How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child (King Lear). Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! Rage! Blow! You cataracts and hurricanes, spout Till you have drenched our steeples, drowned the cocks! You sulphurous and thought-executing fires Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts, Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder, Smite flat the thick rotundity o' the world! Crack nature's molds, all germens spill at once That make ungrateful man!... - Rumble thy bellyfull! Spit, fire! Spout, rain! (King Lear). Nothing in his life Became him like the leaving it (Macbeth). If music be the food of love, play on (Twelfth Night). What's in a name? That which we call a rose By any other name would smell as sweet (Romeo and Juliet). Night's candles are bumt out, and jocund day 645 Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops (Romeo and Juliet). 'he quality of mercy is not strained, It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath: it is twice blest; It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes (Merchant of Venice). How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank! Here will we sit, and let the sounds of music Creep in our €als; soft stillness and the night Becomes the touches of sweet harmony (Merchant of Venice). Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once. Of all the wonders that I yet have heard, It seems to me most strange that men should fear; Seeing that death, a necessary end, Will come when it will come (Julius Caesar). Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate jewel of their souls: Who steals my purse steals trash; "tis something, nothing; "Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; But he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him, And makes me poor indeed (Othello). All the world's a stage, And all the men and women merely players. They have their exits and their entrances, And one man in his time plays many parts (As You Like It). The music of Shakespeare's lyrical note is found pure and undefiled in the songs from the plays, which actually were sung. Most of his plays contain a few such songs, while The Tempest contains so many that it approaches opera. For a natural freshness and charm, for simple, memorable word music, his songs are CONFERENCE VISITORS... Delight in coming to our store to see the newest things in GIFTS An advanced showing of oustanding and distinctive PERSONALIZED Christmas farts... You will find it a pleasure to browse among these displays of Cards of newest design and beauty EVERYTHING IN OFFICE FURNITURE Pembroke' 24 East Broadway Professional and Siaal Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah unrivalled. For example, read aloud from our text, pp. 429-433 those which most appeal to you, whether it be "When icicles hang by the wall" for its strong, everyday imagery and skillful use of contrast; "Who is Sylvia?" for its music and pure lyrical beauty; "You spotted snakes with double tongue," for music and realistic imagery of nature; "Tell me where is fancy bred" for its unusual thythm and intellectual surprise; "Under the greenwood tree" for its lilting, carefree praise of nature; "It was a lover and his lass" for sparkling love music; "O mistress mine," for its serene, lyrical praise of innocent love; "Hark, hark! The lark" for its music and imagery; "Full fathom five" for its mood of eerie mystery; and "Where the bee sucks" for the simple but unrivalled charm of nature. Let us sum up some of the qualities of Shakespeare's greatness. He is the poet in whose writings all the separate elements that make up poetry have been combined in greatest beauty. Perhaps the first of these qualities is his portrayal of humanity. He possessed a profound and sympathetic knowledge of mankind and created characters with individuality that yet are typical and subtly like the people you andI know. Second, he is the master in the English language in the use of words for the beauty in themselves and as the servants of thought. Third, the beauty and power of his style are produced by his ability to make words express precisely the idea or emotion he would convey. Fourth, his use of the whole scale of emotions from tragic pathos to rollicking jollity with a middle range 646 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT rhyme, Verse, ability to va every shade of thought charactetsze all his works. Ossessed of mellow wisdom and understanding. And eighth, his appreciation of nature and the undescribable lightness and grace as well as the deep thundering force of his descriptions are memorable. These things, as well as the very personal appeal to each of us, are the great ness of Shakespeare. Note to Class Leaders: For background read the introductory essay, PP- 279-305) particularly 279-290 299-305» and "William Shakespeare," PP- 423-424: In reading the best of his sonnets, pp 424-429 you will find they hold ou and reward you and you will want to present some of them to your group, since i i and the sonnet form at their best. Numbers 18, 33> and season. X in these departments, 647 116 are favorites. Unfortunately sonnet 71 has been omitted from out text, but may be found on page 626 of this Magazine. Present each sonnet aS 4 unit by reading it aloud, then discussing its values and difficulties. Speare's genius in any way? 4. If tous Elizabethan London might seem cramped and dirty, wherein was the orign of the "spaciousness" of this most important age in England's history? 5. Discuss Shakespeare as 4 lyric poet. é. Bring to class some titles of books taken from Shakespeare's phrases. 7. Be repared to cite favorite passages from Shakespeare. Suggestion: Correlate music with the lesson by the use of such Shakespearean songs as "who Is Sylvia?" as specia music. SOCIAL SCIENCE AND OPTIONAL LESSONS No lessons are planned for Decembe due to the holiday ~_ > a Night Jeanette Pp. Parry Llove the night, the magic night That settles soft and still, And beckons to the rising moon That peeks above the hill. I love the night, deep purple night, When cares of day are gone, I love the night when shadows break— For it reveals the dawn. A Friend Like You Hilde Wittemund I do not ask for silver or gold, _ Not for a palace oF lands, But I do ask for a friend like you, A friend who understands. When stormy clouds of trouble come When you need helping hands, Then let me be the chosen one— It is a dream so sacred, true, A dream that never ends, If I can have a friend like you— A friend, who understands. From lear and Sar Since the death of my husband The Relief Society Magazine has been a second companion to me. Countless times I have found answer to my problems from its fine, down-to-earth editorials. I enjoy the stories that leave one better for having read them and the interesting, stimulating articles that enrich my household. —Flossie Caldwell, Monrovia, California The Relief Society Magazine has long been a part of my household. As time goes on it seems to take on added interest. I enjoy very much the beautiful and spiritual editorials, Just the other day the July number, with the preview of the coming year's lessons, came. The first installment of early English literature, by Briant S. Jacobs, is especially interesting. The lesson is portrayed so beautifully and in such an understandable way that I couldn't lay aside the Magazine until I had read the lesson all the way through. —Ann W. Beauregard, Salt Lake City, Utah I appreciate the inspiring lessons we have had and receive so much benefit myself while I study. When we had our last lesson in May the sisters expressed themselves as to how much the lessons had strengthened their testimonies and they related incidents where stories and readings had helped them to understand the gospel more fully. —Mrs. Myrtle G. Olson, Cardston, Alberta, Canada I am receiving the Magazine every month and I look forward to its coming. It is a very interesting little book. It is spring weather here in England and the trees and hedges and shrubs are coming out beautifully. With kind regards, —Lizzie Redington, Hastingwood, Essex, England I have thoroughly enjoyed every issue of your Magazine and all the Relief Society lessons, too. May you have continued success. —Jean C. Martindale, Hailey, Idaho Page 648 I appreciate receiving The Relief Society Magazine as it contains many things that are helpful in starting conversations with the women we meet while out tracting. I also find that the Magazine is a missionary within itself. Most women in general are interested in the part the women play in the Church. —Elder Richard L. Sisam, Schenectady, New York Once again it is time to renew my subscription for the most wonderful Magazine in the world! May I tell you how I enjoy the Magazine and my mother and my grandmother in the Deep South also express their feelings on how much the Magazine has helped them. —Dorothy B. Moon, Hanna, Utah The poetry in the Magazine is of such fine quality it makes me happy to have an acceptance from you. I also enjoy the entire Magazine, but read the poetry first. —Katie Harris Lewis, Malad City, Idaho What lovely stories you publish. I do enjoy the Magazine. —Grace Savre, Pasadena, California Truly saying, if each woman who takes this wonderful Magazine would share it and its teachings with her neighbor, how much more love could be given and that is what the world is in need of today. —Orpha B. Nally, Lordsburg, New Mexico How often have I wished for some impressive way of expressing to you my keen appreciation and love for our Reliet Society Magazine and for the help and inspiration its many departments have brought to me during the last thirteen years that I have labored as a literary class leader. —Cleopha J. Jensen, Brigham City, Utah I love your Magazine. My little daughter and I read it together, setting aside time each day to do so.; —Iris Taylor Connolly, Salt Lake City Keliof Society Literature ie TEXT BOOK The Literature ~ of England" by Woods, Watt and Anderson (Third Edition) $ 50 PER COPY by mail, $4.75 AVAILABLE NOW * DESERET BOOK COMPANY Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers 4A East South Temple Salt Lake City 10, Utah Wren you use U & 1 Sugar for preserving, canning, or freezing of this summer's bounteous crop, you Wy can depend upon its quality as the. Finest, purest, whitest sugar you can find anywhere. There is none better. Always buy U &! VOL. 36 NO. 10a. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford = Marianne C. Sharp - Velma N. Simonsen - Margaret C. Pickering - - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 36 OCTOBER, 1949 No. 10 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Making Our Homes More Livable. Christine H. Robinson 65! Suggestions for a Work Meeting Luncheon Christine Eaton 679 FICTION You Can Learn—Part I—A is for Adult—B is for Bride 22...0...2..0.: ccccceccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesKatherine Kelly 660 Tempered—Part II Gladys I. Hamilton 667 Joanna—Chapter 10 2... -Margery S. Stewart 681 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago: 672 Woman's Sphere. Ramona W. Cannon 673 Editorial: 'The Best of Friemds') 2....... CccccccccccececcsececcssesesseseseesesseseeseetesteceeveeseneeeeMarianne C. Sharp 674 Notes to the Field: Relief Society Handbook Obtainable Only at Office of General Board.... 675 Notes From the Field: Bazaars, Singing Mothers, Socials, and Other Activities 0.0.0.0... General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering a From Near and Far FEATURES FOR THE HOME The Interest and Beauty of Fruit Mary Grant Judd 676 A Halloween Spook Table Rachel K. Laurgaard 678 Crocheting Is Her Hobby. O......0.. C. Cccccccccssccssseesesseeene 686 Home Safety—a Family Affair Nellie O. Parker 685 Let's Do Better Embroidery 0.000. 0. Cccceccesedescceeeeeee Doris Feil 687 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: ''The Perean and Judean Ministry'' and ''The Last Winter'........... Don B. Colton 695 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''Lovest Thou Me?... Feed My Lambs'........ Mary Grant Judd 700 Work Meeting: Underwear and Nightwear....... Jean Ridges Jennings 701 Literature: The English Bible =... Briant S. Jacobs 702 Social Science: 'Governments Instituted for the Benefit of Man''............ G. Homer Durham 708 Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science: President Heber J. Grant............ T. Edgar Lyon 713 POETRY Time for Sorting—Frontispiece. Eva Willes Wangsgaard 649 Mosaic........ Oe enae ss Christie Lund Coles 659 Just Naturally........ Ee. Iris W. Schow 671 A Sidewalk Sketch. PorteseneElaine Swain 680 SCG LS eens; Elizabeth Johnson 686 Opportunity ee... A. -Evelyn Fijeldsted 699 Against the Years......... Ae ee. Dorothy J. Roberts 712 Bride's Illusion for a Piome@er oc... Ccccccsecssssesoccsecsessssnsssseseseesecsvecseseesesssessevssaeeseeee aLael W. Hill 719 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 38-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, givng both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Adoption of Childrem on... Ccc cecceccceccssecsenencceseneeeeneossenecscoeesssnnsceceneeeeeneereoees Mary L. Dillman 664 Josef Muench NAVAJO LAKE, SOUTHERN UTAH Making Our Homes More Livable Christine H. Robinson Member, Relief Society General Board HERE is my heart, my happiness, my home. Here, inside the lighted window, is my love, my hope, my life. Peace is my companion on the pathway winding to the threshold. Inside this portal dwells new strength in the security, serenity, and radiance of those I love above life itself. Here will I build new dreams— dreams that tomorrow will come true. The world over, these are the thoughts at eventide when footsteps turn ever homeward. In the haven of the hearthside is rest and peace and comfort, Thus, Abraham Lincoln summed up the true spirit of the ideal home. This is the kind of home we as Relief Society members want for our families—a place where consideration, kindliness, and happiness glow. We want our families to grow up in homes which are havens of security, builders of spirituality, stabilizing forces in an uncertain world. Rich and lasting pleasures come from creating a livable home. There are deep satisfactions in taking a mere house and _ building beauty, comfort, and charm into it, and in endowing it with the imprint of our personalities. Decorating a house is an exciting and challenging experience. It has ever been one of the deep inner urges of mankind to seek to make his place of abode more beautiful. Even the ancient cave men felt the need to make their shelters more than mere dwellings. They beautified their caves by etching and painting pictures and designs on the bare stone walls. Similarly, we today seek to enrich our homes with beauty. We strive to make them not only more pleasant places in which to live, but we want them to express the true personality of our families. Houses have personalities just as surely as do the people who live in them. The first principle of effective interior decorating consists in making sure that the personality of the home expresses the personalities of those who live in it. We cannot possibly be at our best in a house that conflicts with our personalities any more than we can be completely at ease with clothes that are illfitting and in poor taste. The more nearly our home expresses the personality of our family the happier and more contented we and our loved ones who live in it will feel, It is when we step out of role and try to pattern our homes after the Joneses that we set the stage for a feeling of frustration. Recently, I was in the home of a well-to-do Salt Lake family. I was surprised to find it to be a small, unpretentious apartment. However, it had been decorated in such a manner as to give it a friendly, homelike, and gracious atmosphere. I commented about the decorative scheme and the family told me that for the first time in many years they were truly happy in their surroundings. Previously, they had lived in a large house which had been decorated in the formal manner. Page 651 652 They had lived in this large house for seventeen years, but had never really been contented. Their elaborately decorated living room was used solely for entertaining and when they ate in their spacious dining room, they were almost afraid even to speak to one another. They hastened to assure me that they were always very proud of this house, that it was decorated in a grand and authentic manner, but they had never really been happy in it. They are fundamentally quiet, home-loving people and a formal house conflicted with their personalities. WE want to create a home background in which we will be happy and at ease. 'The feeling we wish to create will influence the selection of the room's color scheme, and the choice and arrangement of the furniture. If yours is a quiet family which likes to read a great deal and listen to the radio, you will naturally prefer quiet, restful colors and furnishings. A home expressing novelty and sophistication would be out of place and disappointing. On the other hand, if your family is definitely the outdoor type, loving active sports, you will want your home and its furnishings to be colorful yet sincere in lines and type. In your decorating you will want to express the feeling of free, open informality and not fill your rooms with delicate frills and fragile knickknacks. However, if yours is a conservative family, rich in tradition and genealogy, you might be quite unhappy unless your furniture and furnishings are of genuine period RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 design and your rooms are tastefully decorated with rare old china and glass. It is only when we get the true personality picture of our family firmly fixed in our minds that we can take the first step towards making our homes mote livable. To make our homes more livable we need not make them pretentious. In fact, if our homes are to reflect us, they must definitely stay within the limits of our spending capacity. 'This brings us to the second principle of effective interior decorating. Our homes must fit our budgets. This principle was impressed upon my mind in one of the first classes I attended in interior decorating. One of my classmates was a clever, artistic girl who had a career of her own, but who had recently married a clerk in a small store. As a class assignment, she was planning her apartment, and for her bedroom she selected beautiful white velvet draperies and bedspreads. At the end of the school term we were all surprised when the instructor gave her a low grade. She had prepared a considerable amount of artistic work for the class, but the teacher explained that she had not learned one of the cardinal tules of decorating, namely, that our homes must be in keeping with our financial status. A third important principle of effective interior decorating is planning. Many of today's homes, like Topsy, "just grew." I suppose that all of us, at one time or another, have bought items for our houses without any clear idea of what we were going to do with them. If we repeat this error too often we may not only undermine our budgets, MAKING OUR HOMES MORE LIVABLE but we may build homes that lack personality and unity. Only by following a carefully conceived plan can we make sure that our home decorating develops in unity and good taste. Every purchase of furniture or furnishings and every decision regarding painting, wallpaper, and color combinations should be made in accordance with a definite plan. By following such a procedure, we can avoid being sold things our homes do not need and which later we may want to discard. We can keep from being influenced by high pressure salesmanship and can avoid 653 the mistake of buying things just because they are in style or because our friends have bought them. As a matter of fact, when the salesman tells us that "this is the latest style" or "this is what everyone is now buying," then is the time for us to be careful. We want our homes to express our personalities and to fill our needs. 'The fact that a particular item or color is what everyone else is buying or is the latest thing on the market is no reason for our buying it. It might be just the thing we should avoid! I know some of you are going to say, "If we could throw out everyCourtesy, C. H. Henders, Inc., Fairlawn, New Jersey Wallpaper is a decorative note in this small hall. By using the same paper in the living room and in the hall they are unified. 654 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 Courtesy, C. H. Henders, Inc., Fairlawn, New Jersey Space has been used to good advantage in this small breakfast or dining room. Thing we now have in our homes and start over, or if we could buy a new this or a new that,. Then we could have the kind of home we want." But, as we have said before, it is not the expenditure of large sums of money which guarantees a well-planned and well-decorated house. It's how we spend what money we have, and the thought and care we put into arranging and decorating that which we already have that brings the greatest satisfaction. BECAUSE a piece of furniture is old doesn't necessarily mean it must be dull. The use of a little imagination and some good hard work can completely transform characterless furniture. If we strip off the gingerbread from some of our pieces and apply a fresh coat of paint, for example, a semi-gloss black which is used so extensively these day, we will be amazed at the new life and beauty that may be brought back to these old pieces. Old furniture and furnishings should not be discarded until they have been given most careful appraisal and consideration. Often, drab, uninteresting pieces, with a bit of work and imagination, can be made into things of beauty and distinction. Those of you who have rejuvenated old pieces know the thnll that comes from creating something new. Simplicity is the fourth impor- MAKING OUR HOMES MORE LIVABLE tant principle of effective decorating. Simplicity must be the keynote of all interior planning. Simplicity, however, is net easy to achieve. It takes a great deal of thought and planning to create a room which is comfortable, beautiful, yet simple. Comfort, beauty, and simplicity, however, are closely interdependent and interrelated. Beauty does not mean mere prettiness and ornamentation. Beauty means "that quality or combination of qualities in a thing which gives pleasure to the senses or pleasurably exalts the mind or spirit." Beauty uplifts us both mentally and spiritually and gives that quality which we learn to love rather than to tire of quickly. 655 After having considered the four fundamental principles of effective interior decoration: (1) Expression of personality, (2) Appropriateness to family needs and budgets, (3) Planning, and (4) Simplicity, the next step consists in using properly the tools with which these principles can be put into effect. Color is the first important tool we can use to give life and interest to our homes and a "lift" to those who dwell in it. Color is considered to be the number one element in decorating. It is the first thing we see and feel when we enter a room. We have all been in homes which impressed us as being beautiful. In attempting to explain them later, Courtesy, C. H. Henders, Inc., Fairlawn, New Jersey This attractive room, through simplicity and harmony, expresses a feeling of quiet restfulness. 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 Courtesy, C. H. Henders, Inc., Fairlawn, New Jersey The proper choice and hanging of pictures in this bedroom help to add interest and unity in the decorating. We have found ourselves unable to describe what was in them, yet we know the over-all effect to be beautiful. The proper use of color, in most cases, is the real reason for this effect of beauty. Color can change a dull home into one sparkling with personality. It can give us a feeling of peace or a sense of restlessness. When we have little money to spend, color can make up for the lack of good furniture. Color can also divert attention from bad architectural features. Small rooms can be made to look larger by the use of light colored walls and cool shades, and by painting the wood trim the same color as the walls. Large rooms can look more compact through the use of deeper shades of warm colors, or by using wallpaper of a bold design. Sharp contrasts can be employed in large rooms. 'They tend to diminish size as well as add interest: High ceilings can be made to look lower if they are painted a deeper shade than the walls. By the opposite treatment, low ceilings can be made to look higher. If a sofa or chair looks too large in a room, its size can be minimized by painting it or covering it with a color which blends into the walls. On the other hand, if we have something which we wish to emphasize, such as an interesting mantel or piece of furniture, it can be drama- MAKING OUR HOMES MORE LIVABLE tized by the use of a sharp contrasting color. OST of us have good color sense but we are afraid to express our tastes. If we are to decorate interestingly, we must not be afraid of color. Color is fun and challenging to work with. It is the one tool with which we can express our individualities. A wise combination of imagination and _ practical application of color will add vitality to our interior decoration. It will give a feeling of zest and vigor to our homes. Color, of course, must be used with discrimination. 'Too many 657 colors in a room produce an effect of confusion. In your decorating, you should confine yourself to the use of three or four main colors and employ them in balanced proportions. For example, in a fairly large living room, you might choose a floral drapery with a gray background with shades of green and pink with yellow accents. The walls and wood trim might be in deep gray, the ceiling pink, the floor carpeted in blue gray. A sofa in this room might be in chartreuse, two chairs in deep green and one covered in the drapery material. With green lamp shades, this would be an attractive color scheme. Courtesy, C. H. Henders, Inc., Fairlawn, New Jersey Both a focal point of interest and a conversational grouping are created by thoughtful furniture arrangement in this room. of your Main color gs to the TOooms and thus ma Snerous with he make your en. Erals used Is does not Mean tire house a Complete unjt by tying to be &Nerous in m ney, but rather all the Colors together. H yarda ©. Full, inexpensive, €Té is an j portant Suggestion Well-chose aterials are ar more Nn your decorating always start with effective skimpy €xPensive 4 Color a few sh des brighter than draperies or best effec Curtains you ultimately ant it to be. Colors shoulg be hung fy] Nd just clear ave a quick Way o mellowing ang the floor toning down SO that wj e §00d 1009 aTange. Hat dul] and faded ment. Hom S are made Invitin and Comfortab] hrough conven Just as you should avoid the use lent aiTangemen f fu Iture pieces of too many colors, 50 you should We have al] had the ¢ Perience of © Careful not to e 00 many entering °oms which © spot Patterns jn your roo Here again, _lessly Clean byt Which lef US With simplicity jg keynote. Too a Celing of nfusion © may not many patterns jn 'OOM Produce a be ur ve tO sit down onfused and yp sy feeling, hree Although th, furniture May be 'stinct patterns are all that should placed ymmetrically, the toom € used in th verage smal] toom, lacks ch individuality and one these should be a stripe Ominess 4 Toom has Poor or d urniture ar s€ment Pictures form a Important Part Of our decorating c P n furniture alTange., ment consists In selecting the and interest a Too ©Y need spot or 41a which we Want for not be e Pensive, Th Y can be the Tamatic focal Center of the colorful] Prints clipped from Magaroom. For this focal center, we zines and oPPropriately Mounted May wish to use the Teplace, g and framed. Pictures, however, Must large Window, or even a long wal] € chosen Carefully so that the atever snot We select, our furave the sam basic Colors as are niture altangement Should begin at eing €mphasizeq in the room, Is point. Pictures Jo k best hun € are al] familiar with the Over furniture 6Toups. They should decorating T™m, "conversational be hung close enoy h to the top froup." This term means exact] Of the uniture so 48 tO create 3 what it Says, a gtoup of furniture unit, ide expanses f wall space which enables t between ) he People using it © converse With each Other in MAKING OUR HOMES MORE LIVABLE comfort and friendliness. Small, as well as large rooms, can be decorated with single dramatic conversational furniture groupings. It may take a little more ingenuity and imagination, in a small room, to plan such a group, but by the use of a strong accent color on the piece we wish to dramatize and the grouping of the furniture around the focal point, we can achieve a center of interest which will attract all who enter the room. With such a grouping, our friends will not need to pause and wonder just where in the room they should go. Another obvious point to keep in mind in furniture arrangement is that care should be taken to avoid placing pieces where they might disrupt normal flow of traffic and make it difficult for people to move around in the room. Doors and main travel lanes within a room should be kept free from furniture obstacles. Obviously, in a short presentation of this type it is impossible to discuss all of the details and methods 659 that are important in creating livable homes. However, the principles of personality expression, appropriateness to family need, planning, and simplicity, plus the tools of color and room arrangement, if properly followed and applied, will do much to lay the foundation upon which pleasant and satisfying home surroundings may be built. Our homes are the focal points upon which a strong and spiritually minded society may grow. The home is so very important that even the devil himself, through the ideologies which he is now spreading throughout the world, is constantly trying to undermine it. As Latter-day Saints, we must do all in Our power to preserve and promote family unity. Anything we can do to make our individual homes more charming, beautiful, and livable will help to build the family unit and enable it to grow on a more solid spiritual foundation. The home reflects the heart and spirit of those who make it. It is potentially the greatest spiritualizing force on earth today. > Mosaic Christie Lund Coles Mauve and bronze and crimson hills, Lying in the sun, Here is the mosaic © Saying summer is done; Here is golden proof that though Winter will be white, There has been a harvest For the longest night; There has been a pattern In stalk, in flower, in seed, Bread and beauty mingled, To satisfy each need. A Ge for Adluh,@ Le for Bric, Katherine Kelly » and I had always been MS as I sat IS girl, Th SoNe with him every oment on the Step watch summer to th dty farm and he ing the path hrough the felg for said | could handle team better © approach of MY sister-in-lay, Who than any boy. He sed to point "Ss Coming over this afternoon tO out the Wild flowers to me and toa kitchen w, I] e little like the man Steen to gold. "Biscuits," We called Who is lord o 1€ surveys, My the Wheat, laughing}; » I was €yes traveleg "PProvingly ftom the from Pioneer Stock, and 4 love of ue of the Mountains that circled the land yw, born in me, Our little valley ¢ the fielg that Ig N fact, there Werte a few things at the foot Of the w Ite clay hills 4bout this fa hich might be re I could SC€ a little Cloud of aged for the better, All the dust that Mar. Slow plod of fences and ditches Where the wil € horses as husband WOUed ion. And weeds Stew, bothereg me aying off the lucerp > 80 he could Oved th take the Teminded Myself, we * Lhe words &4ve on the dry farm the year around Me€ a thril] Just to think them. We we had j had be | Y eyes traveled on down Past ito his eyes the intervening Tailroad tracks and when he lookeq at the land € Way | n hi Y gaze 7 Ue eyes and Came to rest lovingly On the trees he Ind, stron hd °m who we had Planted the week before. Oves me and °M understood that J Just had Was true I qj not have to be to have trees and had taken time out Jealous or aftaid of © °m's love of som the sp Ing work to help me the lang Was 5 Cthing we Plant the atolina Poplars they Shared in mon. My father was Were, like the trees by ou; home in Page 660 YOU CAN LEARN 661 town, and they woulg STOW tall and Out of the bucket? © tree prob. Beautiful Irds Would build their bly needed extry ter now that nests in them an dreams Would it was hurt ang there was no tim Ive among the glistening leaves and to go t the river. €s, I told m the darker Shad "cams that are conscience, | know OW far we ult in Stalwart trees are Close to ave to & but this Is an od and make you look UP into the emergenc blue of the sky. I dasheq P all three sp PS at a Teady, in MY mind's Ye, those time an Carried out th half-filleg trees were Il against the 5 Y and water bucket fro table in the came back the present With a corner, J Poured at Jeas} tWo quarts Start 48 Wrong about half. Of the Pl€cious water Into the little Way to the top of the most Precious holly, we had made at the foot of Sttipling of all? Tp flash | Was the tree. Then ] took andfy] olding the slender willow Which, of the wet mud and carefully plas. 4 few minutes before in iMaginatered it ove the wound d twisteg tion, ha become full-grown tree. The whit loth aroung tound found the bark broke and the both below and little tree MOst chewed In two, hose horses! And above the break to 8ive the little tree Upport, Temembered that Tom had left th ad tied the last knot em standing there and patted the banda While he came to the Ouse for a drink. Aly's voice "What In the World are you WHat could doing?" It was MY sister-in law who lived Ido? | Would just in the house US Who ha ave to bing UP the woun come over to help with he oilcloth some way or al] the sap would tun "Did you White cloth to be out and my little free would die I sure the 5 8¢ would be Sterile?" dashed nto the Ouse and found she laughed | © sack of Tags mother had given That whit cloth dig look awfully me. Mothers ale 09 thoughtfy] "Nspicuoy But Ma Was comBut | Suess if | dn't an forting, 4S usual, and assured me other banda oF Id have torn that mud © Very best thing to one of my new sheets, | elected a use When the bark of 4 tree had 800dly length ftom the Tags and been broken, a Piece of ine siting to tie It on Poor tree hurt, comforted m With. By Now, what Could I use new] acquired niece Who was al for salye? Ould the litt] Teady he dar Ing heart She tree like to heal | wound? Hy, Was Just two years old mother earth, Course, | scooped "Aunt ake Oves you," I said UP some of th 4MP earth at the and Swept her "PN my arms aS we Oot of the tre und it was Teached th Porch steps. Already rd, thoug It looked damp She alled "Aunt ke," and it ha been Watered Only that Which, after all, is »omething kind morning, f nice, and Pretty close to Kate, Dated ] take just 4 little Water "T swiped Joe's ka] SOmine brush 662 to put the paste on with. We can clean it well afterwards, and he will never know the difference," Mary confided as we opened the screen door that was so new it squeaked. _ Then I remembered my bread! I opened the oven door in a hurry, but the bread was baking beautifully and the smell was gratifying. I was really proud of that bread. I wasn't like most girls of eighteen, for, being a member of a large family at home, I had learned to cook besides cooking for the hired hands on the farm during the summers. I knew how to cook, or so I thought. "What in the world are you going to do with all that bread?" gasped Mary. "Why, eat it, of course," I replied, puzzled, as I looked at the eight beautiful loaves. "Why not?" "But that will last you and Tom, just the two of you, a whole week! I never bake more than five or six loaves at a time for all my family." Well, I'll admit I wasn't averse to not having to bake again for a week, The longer it lasted the better. But a little bell rang somewhere in my consciousness and I remembered the beautiful, fresh loaves Mary baked practically every day. And I remembered how well Tom liked fresh bread. It was lesson number one, and the first one on that long road which began with... "Well it's pretty good, but it's not like Mary makes." you see, in my case it was changed from "like mother used to make." Tom had lived with Mary and Joe there on the farm for years and Mary was the best cook in the world. She was also the most tactRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 ful one and more than half of the recipes in my cookbook today are hers. She was always helpful, too. Today she was helping me put oilcloth around the lower part of the kitchen wall. Oilcloth was so easy to keep clean. So we set to work with a will. We measured and cut, plastered the glue on the wall with Joe's kalsomine brush, and fitted the oilcloth in place. We smoothed the oilcloth on with a cloth and rubbed it hard to make it stick. It was fun and it looked pretty. I had painted the woodwork white, in spite of the warning, "It will show every speck, it just isn't practical for a farm." I had made sheer white curtains for the windows, too, and stenciled bluebirds on them. At school they had said that I was artistic and I was pretty proud of myself. It wasn't every farmer who had a wife who could do that sort of thing. Mary said, "The blue in this oilcloth just matches that in your linoleum and the bluebirds in your curtains." I smiled happily, "Yes, in spite of Sister Rass. Did you hear her the other day when she was giving the house the once over and she said, "Will them things wash?' " Sister Rass was a distant (thank goodness) neighbor who grew to represent everything I didn't like about farm life. It was she who had said my white paint wasn't practical. Well, goodness knows, she was. The bread was done before we had finished and we stopped work to eat hot bread and honey. YOU CAN LEARN "May Kathy have some, or shouldn't she have hot bread yet?" "Oh, give her some of the to crust, she loves it and, after all, she "Yes, it does taste good when it's hot. I know it's Not like yours, but if you could use a couple of loaves, it would help me remember not to make so many at a time. You know, at home it wouldn't have lasted too long. My two brothers could eat a loaf apiece when it was hot like is," Just then we heard a faint "Maamaa." Mary jumped. "What on earth was that?" "Just a lamb," | laughed. "Daddy brought me three more last night, is one seems sort of weak so I brought it in box now. It isn't very lively, but I think it will liye." "Maybe you will get rich with your sheepherd yet, You know [ don't see how People could have thought you wouldn't make a good farmer's wife," I caught my breath. "Oh, did— did—people think ] wouldn't make 4 good farmer's wife?" "Well, a—a, you know how my brother 1 ] 663 has. She can Pitch hay like a man. He even hinted that she had a Sister Who wasn't married yet. Tom told him he wouldn't have Marthy if she could stack the hay." Her tone was apologetic and | knew she hadn't intended to Say a word about all this, it had just slipped out. € idea! "Oh, but I'm not sickly, just beCause I'm little! 1 can tramp hay and I can drive the derrick horses. I often drove for my father on the dry farm. I even drove under the elevator on the header when we cut the grain!" "Well, you know how they say a farmer's wife should My head was swimming and [| was really angry as we finished the oilcloth and [| carried Kathy back Kathy's little arms were warm and comforting; she seemed to sense that something was wrong. "Love you, Aunt Cake," she whispered. "Now don't you worry about what I said, guess | shouldn't have said it. I know Tom wouldn't trade you for anyone else in the world." No, Tom wouldn't trade me for anyone else in the world; he had Matried me in Spite of all this advice. He didn't want a woman like Marthy, he wanted me! And— and I would be a good farmer's wife! Ee Adoption of Children Mary L. Dillman Former Director, Relief Society Social Service and Child Welfare Department N the United States, throughout the world, and throughout history, the adoption of children by foster parents, by relatives, and by friends of the parents, and by strangers, has always had its place in the life of society. During recent years in this country there has been a tremendous increase in the number of adoptions carried on through the courts. Adoption has taken on a new importance in the welfare of children. The reasons for adopting a child are many and varied, and sometimes they are not clearly recognized by the prospective adoptive parents. Motives are often a mixture of emotions, conscious planning, self-interest, and altruism. The basic reason underlying many adoptions is that bringing a child into the home will make a richer and fuller life for both the parents and the child. There are persons who wish to have an heir to carry on their names or to carry on their special activities, or who wish to have someone to rely upon in later years; others feel the need of an interest in life or crave the satisfaction of expending their emotions on a child. Interest in a particular child or a child of a relative is another reason for adoption. Persons who wish to adopt a child should recognize their own motives and the possible effect of these motives upon the child. Consider, for example, those parents who desire a child to take the place of one they Page 664 'parents. Have lost. 'Their expectation that the child will resemble their own in personality may lead to unfortunate comparisons between the two children. Parents who cannot have another child of their own may wish, through adoption, to provide companionship for an only child. Adoption should never take place unless the child is more than a means of meeting the needs of the adoptive A child is a person; he has needs of his own, and he has rights. In order to safeguard the welfare of the child, the rights of the natural parents, and the security of the adoptive parents, social agencies are set up and authorized by law to handle adoption. The legally authorized agency endeavors to set up every precaution to insure the welfare of the child. Adoptive parents are carefully selected and children are not placed in their homes until a complete investigation has been made, consisting of a visit to the adoptive parent's home, checking references, a doctor's statement, and a discussion of the motives and desires of adoption. Generally, agencies do not place infants in homes where the parents are over the average, natural, childbearing age, usually forty years of age. Experience has revealed that adoptions of infants in homes where the husband and wife are over forty are not as successful as where the ADOPTION OF CHILDREN couple js younger. Religious back. The Conditions that wil] affect the child's health—goog Placed for adoption come from many sources. They the children placed by agencies are chilh she and her become social outcasts. SENCIEs assist the unmarried mothties. Some children are like plants they can't be moved from place to place The Waiting lists for children in agencies are long. Doctors, lawyers, friends, and relatives too often by-pass the agency in placement of children and, hence, many children Who should go through an agency in placement never reach jt. Heartache and unadoptive parents the independent 666 placement where no knowledge of the child's background or his physical or mental capacity is available. 'Take, for example, the tragic story of one couple who chose the easy black market way to adoption. This couple were physically unable to have children of their own. They heard of a person from whom, for a fee, they could receive a child for adoption. 'The couple contacted the person, paid their money, and received a beautiful baby. For a time they were extremely happy, but several months later they discovered a serious heart condition which medical science could not cure. The child died, and the adoptive parents were far more lonely than they were before receiving the child. An experience such as this could have been avoided if this couple had worked through a licensed adoption agency. DOPTION is a legal process and is, therefore, controlled by laws and procedures that are intended to protect both the prospective parents and the child. The adoption laws of many states recognize the importance of delaying the final adoption for a long enough period to satisfy the court that the adjustment is a happy one. It is frequently impossible to judge the mental capacity of a young infant, and this period, before final adoption, affords an opportunity for the child to be studied and for the adoptive parents to have reasonable assurance of his normal development. The laws of a number of states require that the child remain in the adoptive home for six months or a year before the adoption is made final. Agencies of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-—OCTOBER 1949 recognized standing, even in states that have no such legal provision, require such a trial period; and many of them advise that the final adoption be delayed until the child has been in the home for one or two years. Moreover, if the adoptive parents have the assistance and advice of such an agency during this period, the progress and development of the child can be studied; and if situations of an undesirable nature arise, the adoption plans can be terminated. _ The law in Utah, as in many other states, prohibits placement of children for adoption outside the State. Therefore agencies in Utah are unable to place children in homes for adoption outside of the State. Operating under the direction of the Relief Society General Board Association in Salt Lake City, is an agency licensed for the purpose of placement of children for adoption and foster-home care in the State of Utah only. The general policies and procedures for this agency are the same as those previously pointed out for all adoption agencies, with the exception of the eligibility requirements of religion. In order for a couple to be considered eligible to receive a child for adoption, they must be active Latter-day Saints, observing and adhering to the standards of the Church. Staffed by professional personnel trained to handle the problems of adoption, sound adoption principles are practiced and every attempt is made to meet the needs of the child, the real mother, and the adoptive parents. 'Tempered Part II Gladys I. Hamilton Synopsis of Part I: Garnet Blendall comes to a Colorado ranch from her home in the Deep South, hoping to make her young husband happy and to adjust to the ideas and home life of his elderly parents. After several months she feels that she has been a failure and plans to leave the ranch while her husband and_ his father are away on business. Y morning the landscape, what could be seen of it through the driving snow, was eerie and unending; the storm gave no promise of ceasing. Two strands of the fourwire fence surrounding the house were covered. At times the snow fell with such density that the fence, a few yards away, could not be seen. For years after, the natives were to refer to this storm as "the big snow." Even if Smith was at the barns doing the chores, Garnet couldn't see him. It was like looking into a. Wall of feathers when she tried to see out. The phone rang. "Mother," Garnet relayed the message, "Smith is ill. His wife says that he had severe chills all night, but will try to come up later...." | Mrs. Blendall's stony look rebuked Garnet as she hung up the receiver. Mickey would be out there caring for the stock. Mickey would know what to do! But all Garnet could do was to pace the floor and watch in vain for Smith. The whole day passed and Smith did not come. The cows weren't fed or milked. The old hens cackled dismally as they sat on their perches and peered foolishly around in the darkened houses. It was still snowing steadily when night closed in early and blotted out any possible vision of the trail or barns. Garnet cranked the handle of the Phone briskly to call Smith, but the phone was lifeless, like an inert body in her hand. She rushed frantically to the older woman. "I can't get Smith's! They don't answer! The phone sounds dead!" Mrs. Blendall rolled herself closer to the fire, her great eyes dark and brooding. "I'm not surprised," was all she answered. During the night the wind would lull, only to gather new strength for another shrieking gale. Fine snow sifted in around the window frames and filled the corners of the sills with little heaps. The snow outside was nearly three feet deep. Garnet slept scarcely at all that night. She shuddered with fear as well as loneliness in her big bed. Rain and floods she understood, but not western blizzards. The mother cow called incessantly for her calf. The night seemed years long as Garnet's heart beat time with the clock in the darkness, millions of ticks and frightened beats, she thought. No movement nor restless sound came from the stoic farm woman in the front bedroom. By the second moming, the wind had died to a whisper. Milling clouds separated slightly to reveal Page 667 668 tiny patches of glorious blue sky. By ten o'clock, Smith had still not arrived. The half-milelong path to his house lay smoothly unbroken. Farm buildings, corrals, sheds, and chicken houses were but half visible and strangely unfamiliar. Only the big barn raised its broad head above | the white sea of snow. Gamet's head buzzed with worries. She couldn't meet the steady questioning glance of her motherinJaw. Mickey Donaldson would have handled a situation of this kind with never a worry! Mickey, with her capable hands, and the strength of a man. And her father-inlaw's cyclonic temper would be heard as far away as Kansas, Garnet reflected, because his precious old cows had been neglected. Poor things! They were cold and hungry. Little Wobbly-legs was still crying, but getting weaker all the time, penned away from her mother. Poor baby! "T can't let them starve!" she sobbed against the window curtain, "or freeze..." Ov on the back porch, Garnet measured the distance with her eyes through that three feet of wet snow barrier to the barn. She could never wade it, and it was too soft to hold her slight weight. Could she shovel a path that far? Well _.. She could try! If she were made of the right sort of stuff she could do anything! That is, if Dad Blendall's favorite expression proved true. "A blade that's properly tempered, won't break!" she had heard him say time and again. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 She rummaged in the closet for warm clothing and began to pull it on. "Where are you going?" Blendall asked sharply. "The bam. I.... 1 can't let that baby calf starve, it's crying so pitifully... And those poot bewildered chickens! I'm going to try to get to the barn." Did she detect a glint cf approval in those old eyes? She wasn't sure. However, her only thought now was to help the animals. "Well... Be careful... Girl," Mrs. Blendall said unexpectedly, and her tone was almost tender. Garnet worked with methodical movements, so as not to tire herself too rapidly. She raised shovelful after shovelful of snow and emptied it along her path's im like the fluted crust of a pie, but the shovel was about as effective as a teaspoon in that vast ocean of snow, and it taxed her strength to lift even its small weight after a time. It seemed that she moved at a snail's pace. Slower and slower, as time went on, the shovel lifted and emptied, lifted and emptied.... She had to rest more often now, and her breath came in little gasps. A tearing, gnawing pain. Tortured her side. Her back ached unmercifully and her toes tingled. The soft palms of her hands in Lee's huge gloves stung and burned. And she seemed as far away from her goal as ever! Tears of exasperation ran down her frost-kissed cheeks, and she was fast losing her brave determination. What was the use? Another hour passed. She could hardly drag one numb foot after the other. Clumsily shod in Lee's Mother TEMPERED. 669 er hands and knees between the said, "No! G sculptured Walls of her €ars of exhaustion trick] ad, "Take Cate of those Cows!"' 4M a weakling! Why.. |. Why aside each time she tried 'to ac a baby dol] Could do 'better than complish some difficult task, be ' doing, and, | and what's Cause Dad BI » OF... Or Mickey, But they weren't here now! Qni udde » Needed her. And at her jaws ached little Wobbly-legs = and the mother cow answered with got Painfully and stiff] Tee lou » a stupor of Misery, finished ngrily along the Path, j; MOve, ever again? Overshoes, one foot slipped suddenY under her, throwi & her down on Dad Blendall's tight! She thought, Little Wobbly legs cried weak] - Sleep, and never wake a eeble Pounding in her brain at if she had been Pushed ith a stupendous effort, Garnet Uk, s0; Was str Ctly up to Gar Wheel chaj e's5 ther had net to relie he called hey daughter) tears of 00, Chub NICe cow!" happiness d tigue wet the ingerly, she sat Wn on the threeveined hands OF the inyalig er ged stool] Placed a 5 cket be. Overshoes little Puddles of een he knees 3 She hg seen Lee Water on the hard Oor, and ° and began her ¢ > her sweet et knees. In th veralls, print Ted lips set iN a Straigh ermined ed 4 Wet pattern by hair In Iv utes elapsed before _ didn't do SO well, but she coy] ven aim the Stream of §0t there: > they are al] milk toward ucket, J went fed and wa Ope Dad "verywhere else) The cow's bag will Overlook it if 7 haven't don it Was tight and "MWwieldly at fist, but quite as wel] as Smith uld haye." atter a e € more PtogTs. Blendal] Picke UP her knit. Tess tng, "yy ale a go girl, Gar nery y and the pail of milk jiggled and alchores. MOst spilled under the Patient cow. Al last she Was done! But before "You 8° right back — to she could Taise herself from the bed!" Garnet ordered, "J can manstool, old ™mnocently stepped 48¢ things here You take ack and Put her 5 arp hoof Squarecare of yOurself. But. But could Y on Garnep' Numb, hal] fozen your wif, come up MOrrow and foot as the last s 'aw on her sit with Mother Blendal] While yo Pile of Mlserie © Pushed the ake me 8Eage to the OOr With Sob, too Weary to care Smith looked Puzzled. "Sure, | 4 Suess $0. You 80ing home for a Precious cow, were bedded down Garnet', throat tightened. "Yes, for the hight, Garnet limped to the of Suess you could call it that." TEMPERED HE was a long time doing the chores that night. It was dark in the barn and she hung the lantern on a crossbeam so she could fish her work. She fed the chick. Ens and gave the cows an extra portion as a farewell Supper. It was a solemn rite as she measured the grain for old Chub and Buttercup. She had earned her right to live happily at Wheatlands, and she didn't want to leave. She knew that she could learn to be every bit as capable as Mickey if they'd just have a little patience with her. Down on her knees, with her arms around Wobbly-leg's neck, she whispered a silly little farewell to the calf. Her tears fell unchecked. The door opened suddenly with an angry screech of cold hinges and old Grant stood framed in the door, Lee behind him. Then the older man was pushed aside and Lee had her in his arms. "Are you hurt, honey? Are you all right?" Lee kept asking as his eyes devoured her. "Drat Smith, anyhow!" old Grant sputtered. "He had no business gettin' sick! This's no kind of work for you, daughter!" The word slipped out as easily as though he'd been saying it for years. He didn't even notice that he'd said it! "But... But I thought you 671 wouldn't be home...." Garnet tried to say. Lee explained, "We came back a day earlier because of the storm. Had a bad time getting here, too." "We stopped by the house," old Grant said, patting her shoulder awkwardly, "saw Mother and Smith, too." There was something like tenderness in his eyes as he said, "They both told us how hard you'd worked. Now get in the house and get your wet things off or you'll have pneumony!" His tones were gruff, but his eyes held admiration. And Lee's eyes were saying things, too! Sweet, lover-like things, then a frown overshadowed them. "Why were you going away? Smith said that you were going on a visit." Garnet hid her eyes against his shoulder and could not answer immediately.. Old Grant spoke first. "Why, sure, boy, take her down home for a little visit—all brides like to go home! But don't stay too long, girl, we need you here where you belong!" For old Grant, that was a lengthy speech. Garnet leaned heavily in Lee's arms. Now, they'd never have to know just how long she had planned to stay! And in just a little while, as soon as she was positive, she had something better to tell them: Her eyes were shining through her tears as she kissed her fatherin-law. ——~<--— Yust Naturally Iris W. Schow The daggers of the rain are sheathed; The sky is one wide smile of cheer; So reconciliation brings A heightened, cozy atmosphere. THE DOZEN GREATEST POETs. The list of a TS; Perhaps Y be per, Itted to re Pitulate dozen English Poets whom €ntured to uote as the Manifest immortals of our British Parnassus They ar Chaucer, Spenser, Shake peare, Milton, Pe, Gray, Bur s, Wordsworth, Oletidge yron, Keats Shel It wi hat there are thirteen Names here and my Teviewer. Hat it js toriously difficult to: teenth, was; ll be S have Not failed count the Stars h | an afterthought. And I wil] is Pethaps the € fact js that Gray, WU admit that, although Gray j st imposing Single Short Cem in the language Charm, ski] and distinction to a Marvelous degree, IS Orig; ion, were SO rigidly limited that he xchange il] The winds Shall whistle chill, And Patriarch Swallows cal] their flocks together, To fly from frost and snow, © Seek for lands Where bloy, The fairer blossoms of a balmier Weather, —Selected A HAPpy OCCASION. At t Tesidence of Mts. Libbie t in the 17th Wand, in this city there Was a joyful Meeting of Sisters in the faith and fellowship, to celebrate the birth ay anniversary the nerable mother in [spq I, Mrs Sarah D. Ich, Widow o he late Postle Charle C » Who o hat Y Teached the age member of the urch 54 years and is the last one of h ather's fami] Temainin Was recommended four times by di erent person the wif, Apostle Rich before they say €ach other, and became ©ngaged to him by Correspond, RELIEF SOCIE TY CONFERENCE Pres. | vin Page 672 at, Cay ge, Utah Mrs. Ann Woodbu. S, St. George Stake, Spoke of the Scattered Condition of the Relief ficulties to "ncountered in 80INE to the farthest Places, y, fy made a PracWould rise UP and beg testimony of the truth of the Latter-day work; felt ested in the young People, spoke of the silk culture and Y the sisters there, Of 75 year Ogden, and Mrs Pratt at hose Tesidence the arty met j respected lady in Whose honor they ha convened together Ociety and the long distances the sisters Must travel] tice of Visiting al] round once 4 T daughter s tah Jane Miller was Present and Iso Ben Rich fro SO a daughter of the 'ster Rich has been g Sit branch 9 8anizations and the - She felt to shed tears OF joy when young men Woman's Sphere Ramona WwW. Cannon VUAYA LAKSHM] PANDIT, the Past twelve years president of forty-eight, Tepresenting her na. The State Bank of Richland, She tive India, has become the first was divorced a few years ago and woman ambassador to the United has no children, GEORGIA NEESE CLARK, Mrs. Josephson explains Many of forty-nine, of Richland, Kansas, the beliefs and Practices of the Lat. Is the new Treasurer of the United ter-day Saints. The book js serving States. Her signature wil] now be a Particularly usefy] Purpose among on all Unite States currency, Missionaries and tourists, be note that two "How is It that Your children know children Who have 8TOWn to ma. All about the Oman and Greek turity side by side, whose Parents Sods and 80ddesseg and heroes? Differ wide] © tichness and vathem myths when th Y Were smal] Nety of their background and as they grew Older I boy ht "S€ two children MOreover ma them B finch' Age of Fables ang SIE for years the same Classrooms the Iliad d th ey "*Posed to the « © training ang Ove th Stories." " «Op »» her yet, in gs subjects, One may re. Friend Tephed rath T blank| "T see ons of the wuitten word han the €n patents are lovers of books Other and great Teaders, they usual] hand Careful] appraisal o the two "wn the same terest to ¥¢ €ir lomes would Probably Indicate the children On young girl who had reason. While the one might 4 Ways been 4 scholar and an avid om contain g bookcase full of beautiful. Teader decided that when she had ly bound Sets of books, the only children she would tty to purTeading Material to be found chase one book a month for each throughout the rest of the house child. She Was delighteg to find Might consist Of current Magazines among her wedding Sifts a thick and the latest books of only Passing volume dealing M detail With chil. EDITORIAL Birthdays, Christmases and childish illnesses also provided opportunity for additional gift books. In this way the children had '"measle" books, "tonsilectomy" books, etc. It was well that the mother would go to make her purchases armed with a list of desired books, for, too often, a clerk was most interested in selling a book just off the press when the mother preferred to buy a book which had stood the test of time with many children. The children's most treasured books were their own books of scripture with their names embossed in gold upon the leather covers. These they used all through seminary and Sunday School, proud in their ownership. Over the years each child of this family became a well-read individual. With the many amusements offered young people these days— 675 movies, radio, television, and the great number of school activities which they engage in—it is all too easy to find children neglecting to tread choice books. Parents who read to their children and unobtrusively guide their reading habits by generously providing appropriate books, introduce them into a wonderful world wherein they may always find "the best of friends." Building an individual library for each child is a worthwhile project for any family. Then, as each child marries, he will carry with him to his new home the treasured volumes, which reflect his own growth in reading experiences, to form the nucleus of his own family library through which, in future years, he and his family may find lasting enjoyment and companionship at their own hearthstone. M. C. S. Vo TO THE FIELD Relief Society Handbook Obtainable Only at the Office of the General Board The Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society, is available only at the office of the General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, price 60 cents each, postpaid. 'This handbook contains official instructions on Relief Society policies and procedures. It includes a detailed index for ready reference. It will be invaluable to stake, ward, mission, and branch officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers. The Interest and Beauty of Fruit Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board [This is the sixth in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. In the coming months Sister Judd will present other suggestions suitable to particular seasons —Ed._] HO was it said that "Variety is the spice of life?" No matter, for though the statement has been so often repeated as to become almost trite, it is still axiomatic. What a marvelous example nature sets in the interest she gives us through variety. As I write I am at my cabin at Brighton, in Big Cottonwood Canyon, Utah, sitting on the porch enjoying the early morning sunshine. And I'm thinking: how wonderful that there are never two of those tall pine trees just alike; never two slippery rocks, in the dashing creek down there at the foot of the hill, which duplicate each other; and never two of those great billowy cloud masses in exactly the same form. I'm thinking especially this morning of the limitless variety one finds in the colors, contours, and textures, as well as flavors, of fruits and vegetables. (The latter, with their decorative possibilities, will be discussed next month). It is as if Mother Nature tries to intrigue our imaginations as she tempts our appetites with her myriad products. Does a peach produce fuzz on the surface, I'm wondering, because a peach skin is thin? Then what about an apricot? Why is a watermelon smooth on the outside while its cousin, the cantaloupe, is rough? Parenthetically, I'd like to pass on a bit from Wilham Jennings Bryan, Page 676 showing that he used his imagination as he contemplated a water. Melon. He said that while eating a piece of this thirst-quenching fruit, he was struck with the miracle of its beauty. He weighed some of the seeds and found that it would require several thousand to make a pound and yet he had been eating a melon weighing in the neighborhood of thirty pounds. One of these watermelon seeds put into the ground and surrounded by favorable conditions "takes off its coat and goes to work." From somewhere the seed gathers over a hundred thousand times its own weight and constructs a watermelon. "It ornaments the outside with a covering of green; inside the green it puts a layer of white, and within the white a core of red, and all through the red it scatters seeds, each one capable of continuing the work of reproduction." In conclusion, Mr. Byran asks: "Where does it get its tremendous strength? Where does it find its coloring matter? How does it collect its flavoring extract?" Considering the great amount of interest, as well as beauty, that fruit holds, it is no wonder that many of us love an arrangement of fruit, for a change, as a table decoration. Most people prefer a combination of several fruits, but the beautiful simplicity of one variety—such as gtapes—can be very striking. In our illustration, green seed- THE INTEREST AND BEAUTY OF FRUIT less grapes spill out of an antique brass container and are wired to the base of the container as well as to the brass candlesticks which flank it. White candles look well in this arTangement, or you may care to use yellow, to tie in with the brass, or green to harmonize with the grapes. Sometimes fruit and flowers are combined to good effect. Many of our readers may have seen, at a recent general board reception at conference time, a combination of bronze chysanthemums and leafy branches loaded with small apples. (Yes, the apples were real. I pinched one myself to find out!) Some fruits are more intriguing when cut. A few crescents of luscious cantaloupe look well when placed with other fruits. And while the deep red of the rind of a pomegranate adds color Simmons Photo Art Studio Arrangement, Courtesy Florence Williams, West Ensign Ward, Ensign Stake AN ATTRACTIVE ARRANGEMENT OF GRAPES AND CANDLES 677 to any fruit basket, it cannot compare with the interest of this some. What rare fruit when it is halved to show its tiny red globules lying so symmetnically in individual sec. Tions. A delicious ripe pineapple when halved lengthwise with the interesting leaves left on, makes an exotic addition to any fruit centerPiece (and did you know that a Pineapple is just right for eating when a slight tug at one of the leaves will easily detach it?), I urge you to use imagination in serving fruit as a first course. I'm afraid it is often too easy to pick up the faithful can opener and open a can of fruit cocktail. If you must do this, please add fresh fruits in season, such as sliced strawberries, pitted cherries, either light or dark, raspberries, or melon balls. 678 But, if you really care about your reputation as a good cook and hostess, make your own combinations. At the risk of being accused of stepping into other territory than my particular subject covers, I'm going to tell you how I like to make fruit cup. I always use as a base my own pureed apricot juice which I combine with equal parts of canned grapefruit juice. Add a small amount of fresh orange juice, also. You will need to add some sugar, depending on the tartness of the fruit you are using. Combine almost any fresh fruits—it is almost impossible to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 go wrong. From early spring until late fall I always pick four or five long pieces of spearmint from the garden and tuck them well down into the bottle of fruit cup which is placed in the refrigerator at least two hours before it is served. Just before taking it to the table, add some ice cubes and, when they have - melted, remove the mint and squeeze what juice you can extract into the fruit cup. Garnish with a sprig of fresh mint. Doesn't it make your mouth water? 29 A Halloween Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustration by Elizabeth Williamson OR a Halloween centerpiece that's fun, assemble a group of grotesquely shaped vegetables and fruits—green peppers, goose-necked squash, eggplants, pomegranates, apples, lemons, oranges, osage oranges—the possibilities are infinite—and deck them out with funny faces. Gummed notebook reinforcements, left white, or inked black, for making the eyes, are an easy medium to use. Cloves are handy, and crepe paper for hair. With a little straw sticking out here and there, you will have some really seedy-looking characters to group, leering, in the center of your Halloween table. Suggestions for a Work Ileeting ouncheon Christine Eaton SPANISH RICE (For 35-40 people) 21 cups cooked rice (about 2% Ibs.) 1 lb. Bacon cut in small pieces 6 onions salt and pepper to taste 12 cups tomatoes or tomato juice buttered bread crumbs Fry the bacon and onions until light brown and mix them with the cooked rice and tomatoes. Place in baking dishes or old-fashioned bread pans about 2% inches deep. Cover with buttered bread crumbs and brown in oven about 30 minutes at 350° F. ICE-BOX ROLLS (Makes 36 rolls) % cup Crisco, 2 eggs 1 tsp. Salt 1 cup lukewarm water 1 cup boiling water. 6 cups flour "2 cup sugar 2 yeast cakes Mix the shortening and salt in boiling water and let stand until lukewarm. Add sugar, beaten eggs, and lukewarm water which has been standing for 5 minutes with yeast cakes in it. Add flour, mix well, and place in greased bowl. Cover with wax paper. Store in ice box until thoroughly chilled. When rolls are desired pinch off bits of dough and shape into rolls as desired. Place them in a pan in a warm place. Cover with cloth and let rise until double in size. Bake 20 minutes in a hot oven (450° F.). SEED COOKIES (About 50 cookies) 1 cup shortening 2 level tbsp. Caraway seeds 2 cups sugar 3 cups flour 2 eggs % tsp. Salt % cup water 2 tsp. Baking powder Cream shortening and sugar together. Add well-beaten eggs and water. Sift together the flour, salt, and baking powder and add to first mixture, then add the caraway seeds. Roll out thin on a floured board and cut into rounds. Place on greased cookie sheet. Bake about ten minutes in moderate oven (325°). HOUSEHOLD HINT Many of the ladies have asked me how I keep my rice from sticking together. Here is all I do: I wash the rice three or more times, then I put it in boiling water, about 2 quarts of water to a cup of rice. I stir it once to get the rice from the bottom of the kettle, then I boil it without stirring the rest of the time. When the rice is done I put it in a colander and let cold water run through the grains. If you are serving the rice plain, put it in the oven to heat and to take out the rest of the moisture. Page 679 I saw them walking down the Street—her hand aS gently held in his, itish Strand Of hair Whipped from her net to brush his cheex. Quickly, he turned his head, They dig Not speak ut smiled. Was so plain and Poorly dresseq © drab and 7Ondescript, She seemed POssesseq Not one oy ard char € Was a man gaunt desig and home Y. Yet, Could I scan The World, [ Should not find More beay bared Than that I found between th smiles they shareq Page 689 Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 10 Synopsis: Joanna, widowed when her children were small, courageously works into a profitable business selling Bostonbaked beans and bakery goods. Her neighbor, Abigail Smith, as a partner, gives much hard work and good advice. Joanna, placing the welfare of her children first, buys a comfortable home from Kent Taylor, a writer, acting temporarily as a teal estate agent. In order to attend a P. T. A. Meeting, Joanna breaks a date with Kent and he leaves town. Joanna and Abigail open a number of new shops and Joanna finds her life enriched with many new friends and the abiding love of her children. Kent Taylor returns from an assignment in Europe and asks Joanna to marry him. In order to become Kent's wife, Joanna plans to leave her children in Abigail's care for six months while Kent will be stationed in New York. Just before the wedding, however, Joanna decides that she cannot leave her children, especially while Penny is going out with a young man of questionable character. That would take Kent away. She had intended to go speak to him, wish him well. But when she saw the crowd around him, she put aside the desire. She could not bear to say her farewells before their curious eyes. Kent looked thinner; he was carrying his hat and his bright hair was like a banner in the drab gray and black of pavement and trains and tracks. Joanna stood on the outskirts of a group of people seeing a girl off to school. She watched Kent shake hands with his friends. His sister was a tall, gray-haired woman, who dabbed at her eyes. J at vo went down to the train Kent kissed her and said something in his slow, teasing way. Joanna turned away. Rebellion seized her. It was like closing a door on rich, vivid beauty, on laughter, and adventure and tenderness. For a wild, anguished moment she thought she must go to him, push aside the people and cry out his name, and be held in peace against him. She wet her dry lips and went away. Abigail met her at the door. She had been crying. Joanna paused. "What is it? One of the children?" Abigail shook her head. "It's you. Come in by the fire and let me bring you something to drink. You've looked like death for the past few days." Joanna asked, "Where is Penny?" Abigail smiled. "Not with that Tom... Youll be glad to know. She's down arranging for those music lessons you promised her. Mothers have been phoning." "Mothers?" "Penny's friends. 'Their mothers want to thank you for breakin' the ice. Now they can do the same for their daughters." Joanna sank into the flowered chair by the fireplace. She looked into the slim mirror that stood above the small table on the opposite wall. She made a wry face and pulled off her hat. "SomePage 68] 682 thing's gone out of me. I look like an old woman." Abigail brought her a glass of milk and some thin, buttered toast. "Nonsense! You never looked lovelier... In a peaked sort of way. I think... I think you are a beautiful woman." "Goodness!" said Joanna, "you've never paid me such a compliment. Where's Sally?" "Rehearsing for a Mutual play. She insists that you have all the cast here after the play. If you can do it for Penny, she thinks you can do it for her." Joanna sipped her milk. "Of course I can. I will have plenty of time, now, plenty of time." She put the glass down. "Sally's a practical little thing." "She's not stardust and poetry," Abigail agreed. "But she has a good head on her shoulders. Makes me think of you." Joanna slumped back wearily. "What would I do without you, Abigail?" Abigail sat in the opposite chair and reached for the knitting that hung in the blue bag over the arm. "David wants to join the navy... Air corps." "T know," Joanna said. "If I can just make him wait another year." "Let him go, Joanna. He will come back." "Abigail? How do you know?" Abigail bent over her knitting. "I just know. Let him go, Joanna. It will be all right." * *x * « HE years that had flown so swiftly now dragged interminably. The hours in the day between the postman's visits were slow RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 agony. But, as new day obliterated yesterday, Joanna ceased to watch. There would be no letter from Kent. Typical of him, to cut with a surgeon's brutal neatness the lump of pain, lest it grow cancerous. I should do the same, she thought. She watched the papers. When they carried brief items about him she cut the paragraphs and put them in the bottom drawer of her desk. A national magazine carried an article of his. On the front page she found his picture. He looked startlingly gaunt. His hair had been cut close to his head. He had been in Poland. Joanna wondered if he had time or wish to think of her at all. She put the picture with the clippings. She had little time to brood. David went into the Navy Air Corps. Joanna's nights now included torturing dreams of a burning plane spinning to earth. But the house was alive and noisy and young with the activities of her children. Penny was enthusiastic about her music. 'The grand piano Joanna bought her was seldom silent when she was home. Sally brought the better part of her class home every afternoon, and Joanna coming home would find the living room and dining room filled with bright-eyed youngsters who were beautifully courteous and forever hungry. Michael was a boy scout and took to sleeping out in the back yard, or rising before dawn to go on never-ending hikes. He eluded Joanna and she grieved over him. She had never had time to know her youngest. She felt awkward with him, not knowing his life. It seemed secret and apart, peopled JOANNA with strange boys called "Stink" and "Clip" and "Saddy." Tossing restlessly one Saturday morning, Joanna heard Michael rise and move about his room. She rose, too, and threw her robe about her. He was tiptoeing down the stairs when she caught up with him. "Michael, where are you going?" She leaned over the railing and he tilted his head to look at her. Joanna almost cried out, his resemblance to his father was so strong. He grinned. "Just out. It's almost light." "But where?" "Got a place I gotta see. Don't worry about me, Mom. If I hitch a ride I'll be back before noon." "T can't sleep. Can I drive you?" "Say! Would you, Mom?" She accepted his delight as if it had been a gift of pearls. "Just a minute. I'll be ready." She dashed back to her room and found an old gray skirt and a black sweater and _ black, low-heeled pumps. She tossed a short red jacket over her shoulders and went downstairs. Michael was in the kitchen filling his knapsack. "We'll be hungry, Mom." They stole out to the garage and, feeling like a fugitive, Joanna switched on the ignition and eased down the driveway. "Where to?" "Up Lamb's Canyon." HEY drove down the dark, deserted streets. It had rained and the air was heavy with the smell of rich summer earth and roses and tain-wet leaves. "This is exciting," Joanna said. 683 "This isn't half of it." Michael leaned back against the cushion. It was beginning to be light when they reached the canyon, but the underbrush on either side was still black and the mountains were blacker against the pearl sky. A deer bounded across the road. Michael cried out. Joanna stole a look at his freckled, blunt little face. It was ecstatic. They reached a bend in the road and Michael said, "Here, Mother. Stop here." Obediently, she parked the car a little off the road. He was out in a moment, like a caged thing set free. "Now you just come along with me. Tl show you something." She followed him along the dewwet path, hugging her arms over her breast to keep out the chill. He plunged ahead of her, reminding her of a small puppy, sniffing the wind, reading the sky. His hand reached out to touch every tree they passed, as if they were friends. He paused, finally, beside a small, hurtling stream. "This is a good place. Now watch me build a fire." Joanna leaned against the bole of a tree and watched him pick up twigs and arrange them carefully in a wigwam effect. He lighted a match and knelt to hold it against a tiny curl of paper. There was a fullness in Joanna of tears and laughter. 'The laughter she could hold, but the tears scattered on her face. She wiped them away quickly with the back of her hand and went to kneel beside the tiny blaze. "One match," he prodded. "I saw, Michael. I think you're wonderful." He opened his knapsack and took 684 out a frying pan, two pilates, forks and knives, bacon, and eggs. By a great effort, Joanna kept from telling him that the pan was too hot for the bacon. She sat on a rock and breathed in the smell of pine and river, and listened to the small creek hurl itself over stones and around the bend. The bacon was slightly burned, but the eggs were fried to a queen's taste. Joanna ate hungrily and held out her plate for more. "You come here alone?" He smiled at her crookedly, bread making a lump in his cheek. "Every chance I get. You have it all to yourself this time of the morning. You get to see the sun come up and when it's half light, like this, you can pretend you're the only person who ever came here." He poked the fire with a stick. It crackled under his touch and sparks flew upward to the lightening sky. Joanna's fork made a little clink when she put it on the plate. "It was nice of you to let me come here." He buttered another slice of bread and spread it generously with strawberry jam. "Sometimes I pretend you're here with me. I show you things... Way up on the hill." "Oh," said Joanna, "I wish I had known." HE took a big bite of the bread. "When I'm grown up I'm going to have some land. Lots of it. Miles and miles of it, if folks haven't used it all up. Mom, do you think people will have bought up all the land? Will there be just cities all over?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 "T don't think so, Michael. What will you do with all your acres?" "Plant wheat, oats, have cattle. You can come and live with me and we'll sell the old bakeries. You can just sit in a chair all day long and look at my land." "When I am an old lady," she agreed gravely, "I'll rock in the sun and watch for you to come home from the fields." He sighed deeply. "Won't that be perfect though? I... I pray for it every night." He looked at her shyly. He cleaned up the camp and afterwards they climbed the hill and sat side by side, watching the sun come over the ridge. 'Twigs snapped around them from the feet of small hidden things, and _ birds began a wild caroling. "This has been good, Michael. Let me come again," Joanna pleaded. He rose with her and led her down to the car. "We'll do this lots. I know even better places than this, places that Stink and Saddy haven't any idea about." "What do Stink and Saddy call you, Michael?". "Henderson." "Good heavens! Why?" He looked at her and grinned, "T never asked them why." They reached home just as the others were coming down for breakfast. Sally and Penny eyed them. "Where have you two been?" Joanna was aware of Michael's tenseness. "Oh, around," she said vaguely, and was repaid by his sudden relieved clatter up the stairs. (To be continued ) Home Safety—a Family Affair Nellie O. Parker Former Member, Relief Society General Board distinguished speaker at the National Safety Congress held recently in Chicago said that the American home today needs the unifying force of religion and love; of family prayers and group projects to build strong, self-reliant, emotionally sane citizens as a safeguard for the security of the home and the Nation. A happy home where parents and children live together in love and mutual helpfulness is most likely to be a safe one too. Safety for the family depends not only upon the conditions of the house and its equipment, but also upon the physical and emotional health of both parents and children. There must be a feeling of well-being and security. Physical handicaps and emotional conflicts are causes of accidents. 'The individual who is unhappy, frightened, or worried may unconsciously bring injuries to himself or others. If he has poor muscular co-ordination, defective vision, or impaired hearing, mishaps can easily happen. Special care must be taken to protect such a one. It is important for parents to provide an environment of safety as well as creating an atmosphere of love and sympathetic understanding. They should strive to instill a feeling of confidence in each child that he may step forward unafraid. 'The learning of the right safety attitudes and habits is fundamental in establishing this self-assurance. The burden of responsibility rests with parents, but safety at home cannot be attained without the co-operation of the whole family. Teamwork is the key to success. Parents and older members of the household must practice the rules of safety. Children will unconsciously imitate their elders. If father puts his tools in a safe place and, in case there is a gun, he unloads and dismantles it immediately and then locks it securely away, the children will be set a good ex: ample and many a life will be saved. Children will usually enter into a family project with enthusiasm especially if their interest is kindled. They will take pride in keeping their clothing hung up and their toys put away if the storage places are glamorized. Incorporate safety in every activity of a child's day, his health chores and his play. Teach him to climb only as high as his age warrants, not to run with a lollipop stick or a pencil in his mouth, to hold points of scissors down and cut with a knife away rather than toward his body. Parents should use judgment in choosing the appropriate time to teach a child the proper way to use such things as scissors, knives, skates, scooter, etc. [ is wise to appease a child's curiosity. Let him see what is cooking on the stove—he will be less tempted to pull the pot on to himself. Show him how the food mixPage 685 686 er works. Let him strike the matches, under close supervision, for his birthday candles. Explain the danger of doing things the wrong way. The right way is always the safe way. Encourage children to be alert, to detect and report the hazard they find that it may be either repaired or eliminated. Teach children to be courteous and thoughtful, especially to other children. The polite child is, in most cases, a safe child. Examples of courtesy set by the parents and regard for the well-being of others will largely determine the children's behavior in this regard. Living the golden rule in the home will pay dividends. Thoughtlessness is the virus that is the insidious breeder of many home casualties. Some parents are being indicted for their thoughtlessness and outright carelessness, for poor and inadequate supervision of their children. Half of the fatal accidents to children occur under their own roofs and in their own yards. These casualties usually happen in moments of inattention or careless lack of supervision by their parents or guardians. It is inhuman to leave little ones alone in any situation where their lives could be endangered—such as leaving baby in the bathtub while mother answers the telephone, or locking him in the house or in the family car while parents shop or go to a show. A RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 Older children can share responsibility in safeguarding their smaller brothers and sisters if they are impressed with the importance of their charge. They can also bring home and apply the safety rules they have learned at school. Organized effort is needed to bring safety education to parents. It has been proved in campaigns against disease—diphtheria, smallpox—that when parents know and are shown how, they act to protect their children. National statistics tell us that home accidents—over 34,000 deaths in 1948—still remain the number one killer in the accident field. Communicable diseases have been controlled and reduced as much as sixty to ninety per cent in some fields. Accidents have become the leading cause of death among children in the United States. They also bring the greatest loss of productive life of any cause not only of adults but also in the potential contribution that the stricken children might have made to the world. Home safety means good housekeeping, keeping an orderly, smoothrunning home—a place for everything and everything in its place— house and equipment in good repair and a happy, loving family, working together to keep accidents out of their realm. Secrets Elizabeth Johnson Probe not too deeply The corners of the heart; Probe not profoundly Lest the tears should start. Let's Do Better Embroidery Doris Feil N the seventeen years that I have been a member of the Church, I have attended many bazaars and similar functions sponsored by the Relief Society and other auxiliaries of the Church and, because embroidery is my own hobby, I have handled and examined countless pieces of needlework: dish towels, pillowcases, napkins, luncheon cloths, children's clothes, aprons, and other items, large and small. Every needlewoman should realize that all needlework has two sides, the front or "on-display side," and the back, or "you're-looking-atthe-wrong-side," of the article. Wherever handwork is judged competitively, it is the neat back and not the impressive-looking front of an embroidered article that is always the criterion of its workmanship and the sign of finished skill in the needlewoman. There is no need for the back of our embroidery to be an untidy hodge-podge of knots, loose ends, long loops of thread going from one leaf or flower or stem to another. It is just as easy to do embroidery that is, to all intents and purposes, reversible. 'This takes very little longer, is amazingly easy to do, and is well worth any little extra time and effort. Let us suppose, for instance, that you are embroidering a simple spray of flowers on a napkin. You arc going to use satin stitch for the flowers, outline or stem stitch for the stalk, and a bunch of French knots for the center of the flower. Use a crewel needle for best results. These are fine and strong, yet they have large, easily threaded eyes. With two, or at the most three strands of embroidery thread in your needle, you start off on the flower stalk. On the right side of the material, about a third of an inch from the end, take four or five tiny running stitches back to the starting point. Pull until the end of your thread is barely above the surface of the material—and of course you have no knot in your thread. Then start embroidering, using regular outline stitch, directly over your little running stitches. Your embroidery will hide them completely and hold them firm. When you reach the end of the stalk, draw your thread through to the other side and on the wrong side take half a dozen more tiny running stitches back over the part you have just finished embroidering. Cut off the end. Both the beginning and the end of your thread are firmly held and completely invisible, without any unsightly knots and untidy ends. For the satin stitch petals of the flower, you do exactly the same thing. Take half a dozen little running stitches nght on the petal of the flower to the starting point, and then embroider over it until you teach the end of the petal. Bring your thread through to the wrong Page 687 688 € using, it js Not so €asy to start with Tunning Stitches ang Work over them, may be solved by h beautify] knot at '+ your Starting knot On the right Side i se d ugly, Finish another knot, also on ¢ e and all you will have Common Stitches Nows what Owels can be Made oyt of used, bleached Our sacks Prons, also, can 5 Made oyt 1 time and ef. Ort is going Into the work, it Pays mM the ] ng tO spend a little more and by est of Materials © used and quisite piece that you can use al] your life ang the time and effort spent in Working it, Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. BAZAARS, SINGING MOTHERS, SOCIALS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Mae Matis FINNISH MISSION, TAMPERE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT THEIR BAZAAR, June 1, 1949 Left to right: Secretary Emma Blixt; Counselor Signe Potjas; President Laina Lansilehto; chorister and organist Saara Potjas; work director Inez Erickson; Mae Matis, President, Finnish Mission Relief Society. In reporting the Tampere bazaar, Sister Matis writes: "I was amazed at what they had accomplished in so short a time. They had a lovely program and sold all their articles. They made 10,400 marks, about $70. The photograph shows only part of the bazaar. I am so happy working with these sisters. They are a real inspiration to me and eager to do all they can to help this work go forward." Mae Matis is president of the Finnish Mission Relief Society. Page 689 690 |: Julia [, Wyatt (1920-30). Sarah 1930-3 €ssie Jones (1938.43). Florence Brenchley (1943-49); Rhoda --), Back; Standing, left to 5; ht, Counselors and Cooper; Mary Baldwin, Presenting } €ceased Thorpe; | ray; Ellen Hj] Kerr; Melb Jones; P N 5; Haze] Al 1; mice Perk th nniversary ay party, March 1949, honoring Who have Served as fFicers since the Organization of the ward. Amet C, Le; Man is President of Ayrum Stake Relief Society, ST. TA), GLENDALF E VARD RELIEF EMBLED FORE AWN MEMoR] L PARK LOSING THEOLO LESSON, May; Second Counselor Emily Steele js Shown in the second Tow, fourth from the left; twelfth from left on th third row. Is Meeting was Specially Planned to Eve the Relief Society Sisters view the "L Supper" Window 4 h s ill UStrations fo the theology lesso Mary F. I First Counselor Mary Ethel Kear] extreme night on Second row, President Lucile Lyon NOTES FROM THE FIELD 691 Photograph submitted by Hattie Foutz YOUNG STAKE (NEW MEXICO) SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED AT" STAKE CONFERENCE The chorister, Catherine Merrill, stands immediately back of the right side of the piano. President Hattie Foutz reports that this chorus has been particularly active during the past year and has been featured at nearly all of the stake conferences. The chorister has spent considerable time assisting the ward groups. Hattie D. Foutz is president of Young Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Bessie WDayley WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD MEMBERS ENTERTAIN FORMER STAKE BOARD MEMBERS, WARD OFFICERS, AND VISITING TEACHERS, May 14 1949 At right, seated left to right: President Emily Romish; First Counselor Margaret Nelson; Second Counselor Bessie Dayley; Mary Gee; Mabel Sappington, Rita Austin; Asenath Benson; Alice Sutton; Sarah Stolworthy; Idalia Huff. Stake Secretary-Treasuret Dora Allen, seated at the table. The combined chorus of the Fifth and Ninth Ward Singing Mothers, with the director Ione Woodland and the pianist Leatha Hatch, are shown at the center back. Former stake board members are seated at the left. Over two hundred guests were present for this occasion and an excellent program was presented. Each honored guest was presented with a corsage and special gifts were also presented to each Magazine representative who has achieved 100 PS cent in het subscriptions. Emily S. Romish is president of West Pocatello Stake Relief Society. 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 Photograph submitted by Helga Pugmire POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), VISITING TEACHERS ASSEMBLED AT A RECEPTION HELD IN THEIR HONOR, May 20, 1949 Stake President Helga Pugmire stands at the left on the second row; stake visiting teacher leader Matilda Kirkman is standing second from left on the second row, next to Sister Pugmire. The program included a cantata by the stake Singing Mothers. Every visiting teacher was presented with a corsage of gold and blue flowers as a token of appreciation. Photograph submitted by Georgia R. Livingston EASTERN STATES MISSION, NORWICH (NEW YORK) BRANCH, NEWLY ORGANIZED RELIEF SOCIETY Left to right: Gladys Holt, missionary; First Counselor Mary Walters; President Margaret Van Steinburg; Secretary Betty Brunton; Frances Weigel, music director; Ethel Horspool, missionary. Georgia R. Livingston, President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society reports that this small group of sisters are very active in Relief Society work. Sister Livingston writes: "I am well pleased with the new organization at Norwich. The members are enthusiastic and going ahead in fine shape. 'There are a number of people investigating the gospel and are coming out and taking part. 'There were twenty non-members present at the meeting we held. They took part on the program, and the children participated in the Primary program." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 693 Photograph submitted by Muriel S. Wallis UINTAH STAKE (UTAH) VERNAL FIRST AND THIRD WARDS JOINT BIRTHDAY PARTY, March 15, 1949 One hundred women were present and enjoyed a delightful program and games. Officers in charge were Lela Johnson, Mildia Jones, Stella Pack, and Rose Miloicam of the Third Ward and Geneva Adamson, Doris Walker, and Verlie Stringham of the First Ward. Muriel S. Wallis is president of Uintah Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Martha W. Brown CENTRAL STATES MISSION, HANNIBAL (MISSOURI) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Photograph taken at the Relief Society Memorial Marker in Nauvoo, Illinois Left to right: Secretary-Treasurer Naomie Winthrop; Second Counselor Helen Harrison; First Counselor Fern Gardner; President Ruby Price. 'These officers have recently been appointed and they are doing excellent work in promoting Relief Society spirit and conducting the educational and compassionate activities of the society. Martha W. Brown is president of the Central States Mission Relief Society. GILMER (TEXAS) BRANCH, COMPLETES RELIEF SOCIETY FRIENDSHIP QUILT Left to right President Flossie Lindsey; from Tight, Second Ounselor [,, d this societ $194, Tepresents on] is energetic group, SSON Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 20—"Continuation of the Perean and Judean Ministry" concluded, and "The Last Winter" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, latter part of Chapter 27 and Chapter 28) For Tuesday, January 3, 1950 Objective: To prove by cumulative evidence that Jesus was indeed the greatest teacher mankind has ever known. On Marriage and Divorce O question is or can be more important to society than the preservation of the home. The perpetuity of the oneness between man and wife, and, therefore, the purity of the home, lies at the very foundation of progress and civilization. It is easy to see why the Pharisees sought to trap Jesus when they met him as he slowly made his way toward Jerusalem. Hoping that he 'would denounce the ruler, Herod Antipas, who was living in adultery, the Pharisees asked: "Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?" Among the Jews there were widely divergent views as to divorce. One school contended that divorce should be given a man on the slightest provocation. Another school contended that divorce should be granted only for violation of the law of chastity. When the question last quoted was put to Jesus, he cited the eternal law of God. And he answered and said unto them, Have ye not-read, that he which made them at the beginning made them male and female, And said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh? Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder (Matt. I19:4-6). God has provided for honorable marriage. No earthly relationship is more sacred than that of husband and wife. Jesus superseded the law of Moses regarding divorce. It is plain that only by a strict compliance with the doctrine as he taught it, can a true order governing society be maintained. In the days of Jesus, men had practically made slaves of women. By the law of God it is intended that they shall be companions and partners. Jesus is the greatest friend and champion of women the world has ever known. His gospel completely emancipates women. Marriage was instituted of the Lord and is highly honorable. It should not be treated lightly. Page 695 696 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 A Perry Picture From a Painting by Hofmann CHRIST AND THE RICH YOUNG MAN Jesus and the Little Ones In logical sequence, Jesus followed his instructions regarding marriage with a tender lesson regarding little children. Mothers brought their little children to him for a blessing. The disciples rebuked these mothers, seeking thereby to save the Savior from unnecessary trouble and worry. 'These disciples, however, must be taught a lesson. Jesus rebuked them and in sweet tones said: "... Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God" (Mark 10:14). That blessing was in no sense a baptism "... Little children need no repentance, neither baptism... But little children are alive in Christ, even from the foundation of the world..." (Moroni 8:11-12). Jesus took the children in his arms, one by one, and blessed them. "One Thing Thou Lackest" A young man came to Jesus and knelt at his feet inquiring: "Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life?" The teply was: "If thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments." In answer to the young man's further inquiry as to which commandments were meant, Jesus explained that they included particularly those against murder, adultery, theft, and the bearing of false witness. Jesus told him also that he should honor his parents and should love his neighbor as himself. The young man said: All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet? Jesus said LESSON DEPARTMENT unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me (Matt. 19:16-21). The young man had great possessions and, according to Luke, was a ruler, The Saviors words were disappointing to him and "he went away sorrowful." 'To give up wealth, social position, and official distinction was a sacrifice too great for him to make. While wealth is no insuperable obstacle to entrance into the kingdom of God, it does prevent many from entering. Willingness to place the kingdom of God above all material possessions was the one thing the young man lacked. The First May Be Last, and the Last First Following the departure of the rich young ruler, the Lord used the incident to teach one of his great lessons. Peter had asked this question, "Behold, we have forsaken all, and followed thee; what shall we have therefore?" Jesus explained to them that those who had truly followed him would "sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel." Lest those to whom such rewards were promised should count too surely upon successful attainment and become proud and neglectful of their duties, the Lord added this caution, "But many that are first shall be last; and the last Shall be first." (Read Matt. 19:27-30. ) Jesus then gave them the Parable of the Laborers. It should be read carefully (Matt. 20:1-16). It was common in those days for men seeking help, to go to the market places to hire men. While the parable 697 was plainly intended for the twelve, it is a lesson for all of us that there should be no bargaining spirit in the Lord's work. Those who were hired late in the day had been ready and willing to work. It was not their fault that they had not been hired earlier. Those who worked all day received all the master thought they were worth. After all, we should think more of the work to be done and less of the wages we are to receive. An all-wise Master will give us all we deserve. "The Last Winter" (Chapter 28) At the Feast of the Dedication Jesus reached Jerusalem in time to attend one of the later established but important feasts. It was held during a period corresponding to our December. It was the Lord's last winter of his earthly life. During the Maccabean persecution, the temple had been profaned by a Syrian king who captured Jerusalem about 168 B. C. He committed blasphemous outrages against the Jewish religion and carried away the rich treasures of the temple. The Feast of Dedication commemorated the rehabilitation of the sacred edifice. As ever, the presence of the Savior was disturbing to the rulers and high priests. The Jews asked him: "How long dost thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly." The question shows they had doubts. "Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believed not: the works that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me. But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep..." (John 10:24-28). He further explained that he had promised them eternal 698 life—the greatest of all gifts—and that he and the Father are one. "In the original Greek One appears in the neuter gender and, therefore, expresses oneness in attributes, power, (See chapter 28 of the text. ). On a previous occasion when he Proclaimed himself the "I AM" he had told them he was greater than Abraham. He made it plain that he was not the earthly king for whom they were looking. He was the true Christ—the Eternal King. The Jews were so enraged that they made an tmsuccessful attempt on the Lord's life within the environs of the temple. He calmly called their attention to the fact that he had done Many good works among them and asked ".. For which of those works do ye stone me?" — Angrily they replied: "For a good work we stone thee not; but for blasphemy; and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God" (John 10:32-33). He cited the scriptures wherein even judges empowered by divine authority are If this was written in their law, surely he who had been sent by the Father could not be accused of blasphemy when he said he was the Son of God. Again the to take Jesus, but his time had not yet come and they were foiled in their attempt. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 where John the Baptist had com. Menced his ministry, Just how long he remained in Perea is not known, He left in Tesponse to an earnest appeal from Marty and Martha who dwelt in Bethany near Jerusalem. Lazarus Restored to Life brother. When he heard the urgent appeal: "Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest js sick," he remarked: "This sickness js not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified there. By." Jesus waited two days after Teceiving word of Lazarus' illness before announcing to the disciples that he was returning to Judea. Mindful of the danger through which he had recently passed, they tried to dissuade him from going. The Lord made it clear that he would not be deterred from doing his duty and that others ought not to be. It was his duty to return and he would go. Lazarus evidently died the day the messengers left to find Jesus. The Savior knew he was dead. "Lazarus is dead," he told the disciples, "and I am glad for your sakes that T was not there, to the intent ye may believe; nevertheless let us go unto him." Jesus had evidently decided to perform a miracle even before he started. Lazarus "had lain in the Stave four days already" when Jesus arrived at Bethany of Judea. The two mourning sisters the word near apProach of the Savior. She hastened LESSON DEPARTMENT "but 1 know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of od, God will give it thee." Jesus spoke asguringly: "Thy brother shall rise again." Those who heard seemed to understand that he had reference to the resurrection. (Read John 11:25-27- "Martha notified Marty secretly and bade her g° and meet the Lord. Mary used almost the exact words that Martha used in greeting the Master. The sight of the grief stricken women caused Jesus to weep, and he directed that he be taken to the grave wherein lay the body of Lazarus. "Tt was a cave, and qa stone lay upon it." Jesus aske that the stone be removed and, after uttering a prayet of thanksgiving to his Father, 'he cried with a loud come forth." Laz d the Lord com to loose him from This was not a case of resurrection from death to immortality. The spirit of Lazarus back to his dead body and he lived again in mortality. The miracle was performed not only to assuage the grief of the beloved sisters, but also that "the works of God should be made manifest." The Hierarchy Greatly Agitated Over the Miracle The raising of Lazarus from the 699 grave by Jesus caused great excitement, and the Jews tried to get Laz arus into theit power that they might kill him and "silence forever his testimony of the Lord's power over death." Jesus in To avoid the Jewish hostility, the raim, that of the winter instructing his disciJes. When he emerged ft place it was to commence "his solemn march toward Jerusalem and the cross." Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What was the law given by Jesus regarding divorce? In what way was Jesus a great champion of women? >, Wherein should we be like little children? 3. Discuss the question "What do I Jack?" asked of Jesus by the rich young ruler. Ate we today put the position, and official distinction? _ Discuss the lesson Parable of the Laborers given by Jesus in answer to Peter's question would be their reward for en all to follow him. References in the Gospels Matt. 9:23°253 15°37° Luke: 7:11-17> 16:31- John 6:12; 8:58; 9'3% 1121-54, 573 222932?" ie — ae Opp ortuntty Evelyn Fijeldsted Who can The gentle know the kindly thoughts, sweet humility Inspired by the word, Unless he seeks the opportunity. 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 Ussiting Seacher Nlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 4—'Lovest Thou Me?... Feed My Lambs" (John 21:15) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, January 3, 1950 Objective: To point out that this admonition is equally important today. HE writer has often wondered why it was that preceding his admonition to Peter (twice repeated) to "feed my sheep," the Savior told him to "feed my lambs." It might appear that he was thinking of the spiritual food of children and that it was equally important to that of adults. Nowhere is our Savior's great tenderness shown more clearly than when he was in the company of little children. How he loved them and how at home they must have felt in his presence as he gathered them into his arms and_ blessed them! 'To call them lambs and he their shepherd was fitting, for, in ancient times, the shepherd had so small a flock that he knew each individual sheep or lamb. 'They, in turn, knew the voice of their shepherd and answered when he called. This. Entreaty "Feed my lambs" (John 21:15), should be as appealing in our day as when it was first given. A child's mind cannot remain' a vacuum. If it is not filled with worthwhile ideas, worthless ones may find lodgment there. Neither can a child's heart remain untouched. Some modem mothers have thought to let their children wait until they are old enough to decide which religion they prefer. What a mistaken idea! We _ all know that the most important impressions are made before a child is old enough to go to school. The modern mother is, for the most part, very careful about the food which she gives her growing child to sustain his physical needs. What about the food for his spirit? Is she equally careful? President David O. McKay has said that "there is an eternal part of us that will outlive the sun, the moon and even the earth itself." Just as a child's body needs food to nourish it, just as his mind needs mental exercise, so his spiritual nature needs _ refreshment and this need is equally as imperative as those of body and brain. We are but following in the Savior's footsteps when we make the child the object of our constant thought and solicitude. William Jennings Bryan contributed some significant ideas on the power of children to comprehend religious teachings. It is when we deal with the child that we get the clearest conception of faith over reason. The foundations of character are laid in faith not in reason; they are laid before the reason can be accepted as a guide. No one who exalts reason above LESSON DEPARTMENT faith can lead a child to God, but a child can understand the love of the Saviour and the tender care of the Heavenly Father.. - Morality rests upon religion and religion, taking hold upon the heart, 701 exercises a control far greater than any logic can exercise over the min. If we love our Savior, we will feed his lambs. Ee Work Mleeting—Sewing Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Underwear and Nightwear Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, January 10, 195° ONE of the important advantages of home sewing is economy. It is not always economical to make all garments at home. Some kinds of underwear are examples of this. It would be well to study carefully the problem and see which articles of underclothing are best purchased in a store and which can be more advantageously handmade. In general, knit garments, such as vests and panties, come under the classification of those that should be purchased ready-made. However, there are times when partially worn larger knit underwear can be temade into smaller articles at a Considerable saving. For all underclothing and nightwear, the first important feature to insist upon is absorbency, and, of course, after moisture is absorbed it should be able to rapidly evaporate. It is more healthful and comfortable for body moisture to be readily absorbed into clothing and as readily evaporated from it. Bird's-eye type of cotton is rated high for these qualities. Other smooth surface cot tons absorb moisture quickly. Wool, because it does not absorb readily and gives up its moisture slowly, ls not so good for underwear. Underthings that can be made at home at a great saving are slips and summer panties for little girls and night clothes for both boys and girls. When making panties be sure that the crotches are full enough so they do not bind. Seams should be firm and flat. Be sure leg bands and waistbands are not too tight. A good way to finish the waist is to have a fitted band across the front, with elastic at least one half inch wide only at the back. Underslips can be made to fit from the shoulder or may be only from the waist down. Ake them dainty and attractive. For these, a ruffle around the bottom always delights the small child. Sew these or any other ruffles on with a standing fell seam. It is neat and durable. Make it by sewing the ruffle evenly to the plain edge, right sides together. 'Trim the raw edge of the ruffle to one-fourth inch or less. Now turn in the other raw edge of comfortable while s] While Playing. Slee and therefore with imity, POssesses the valid and the One and three are | as theology or Bible jis taught only history, LESSON DE PARTMENT rts Or those who love and believe IS ag it should be. Our zea] learn jts teaching hat we might Cauty of the vessel in which Holy hile we » then, the K Is the fruit of Te-conceived in English } Scholars who in their hearts and j 703 That they Caught the Of the Bible great Vision e doubted, the Bible, it Is the Holy €come doers of the Orget to appreciat ible, Which » Often we Magical 704 darkness was upon the face of the earth" (Genesis 1-1-5. Immediately one senses a certain scope and depth, a liberating Vision of the j apart as uncommon clay. Such writing speaks not to the reason alone, but to the Moving spirit | unmistakable and its power strikes a note not to be confused with any other. Once we contrast such prose with the excellent but imperfect translations which preceded 1611, (see text, pp. 521-523), or with the flat modern translations, we understand more fully why the King James Version is read by more than ninety per cent of all English-speaking Christians, As we have already pointed out, King James Version is great literature because it excels both in conPressed, owe a great debt to the orginal authors and also to those Who finally translated the Bible into English, Ousness, a tight, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 Now let us Suppose together, Suppose your Relief Society Classroom was whisked away to seventeenth-century England, there to be transformed immediately into If your group numbers between forty-seven and fifty-four, it was a gtoup of scholars Just your size which was appointed to translate the Bible, Suppose you were one of these most learned gentlemen in England, trained in language and theology, devoutly religious, and humble at making an attempt at testating the very word of God. Fear, and suffocation under your emotional and spiritual load, might well engulf you. Yet for thirtythree months the SIX groups of scholars (two each at Oxford, Cambridge, and Westminster) worked independently and then conferred until they agreed in perfect harmony, peace, and exaltation of spirit. For nine more months two men from each group met daily as a revising committee. Finally the translation was completed in 1611, seven years after it had been proposed, You might well ask how we can know whether they worked together harmoniously, peacefully, and in exaltation of spirit. Consider the words of their translation: "Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me" (John 14:1), LESSON DEPARTMENT If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in his love (John 15:10). The Lord bless thee, and keep thee: The Lord make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee: The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee peace (Numbers 6:24-26). Here we detect the simplicity of greatness. It hardly seems possible that such serenity can be concealed in little words so common and unimpressive when arranged by pens less sensitive and sincere. As for the harmony of the Bible as a whole, it is impossible to detect lapses from the general excellence of tone which identifies the Old and the New 'Testament, and all the books therein. We should also remember that at the completion of the King James translation John Milton had been living for three years, while Shakespeare was to live for but five years more. That the three highest pinnacles ever reached in English (the writings of Milton and Shakespeare and the King James Version of the Bible) should thus overlap is not to be counted mere coincidence. They were written when England was fearless, aggressive, and Godfearing, and her language expanded in pace with the great hopes and loves of her mighty sons. The richness of invention can be measured in part by the phrases which were turned with such aptness and precision by the translators that they are seemingly forever a part of our daily speech. To attempt a listing of all images in our language which had their origins in the King James 705 Version would be out of place here; however, a few such familiar terms might well be listed: Still small voice—labor of love—broken reed—widow's mite—apple of his eye —powers that be—clear as crystal—salt of the earth—handwriting on the wall— a "Judas," etc. While undoubtedly we take such terms for granted, we should acknowledge that someone must receive the honor of creating them, and once more we must acknowledge our debt to the Bible. The Authorized Version of 1611 was by no means the final translation. From its first edition until the Revised Version was published in England in 1885, nearly a hundred translations appeared, each attempting to correct existing inaccuracies. From 1900 to 1925 more than twenty-five versions of the New Testament appeared, many apparently justified by new findings in the growing field of Bible archaeology. In 1936, however, when the book The Bible Designed to be Read as Living Literature appeared, it was found to be almost entirely in the King James Version. Never before nor since 1611 has the sympathetic, creative art of translation come near approaching the culmination of English prose which then appeared. Earlier English Translations If the Authorized Version's literary supremacy has never since been challenged, neither should we imagine that it suddenly bloomed into being beneath a mysterious gooseberry bush. Actually the socalled King James Version of 1611 706 was the third "authorized" version, since both the Great Bible of 1539 and the Bishop's Bible had been authorized by the King of England to be read at public worship services of the Church of England. The desire of the King James translators was not at all to create a new Bible, but really to revise many revisions, to make good translations better, "or out of many good ones [to make] one principal good one." The Bishop's Bible (1568) was accepted by all scholars as the main guide, but all other available translations were consulted, not only in English but also in Chaldee, Hebrew, Syrian, Greek, Latin, Spanish, French, Italian, and Dutch, or German. The Bishop's Bible itself was a revision of the Great Bible (1539) which was a revision of Matthew's Bible (1537) which was a combination of Tyndale's New Testament (1526) and Coverdale's Bible (1535), the first complete Bible to be printed in English. Preliminary to all these were the translations of the first great English Bible made from the Latin Vulgate in 1382 and 1384 under the guiding spirit of John Wyclif (see text, pp. 85-86), the first great writer of English prose. Writing solely to make the Bible available to the common people, Wyclif used a blunt, vigorous style which was sometimes clumsy, but occasionally it soared to such perfect phrases as "the deep things of God." Every one of these early translators was raised on the Latin translation made from the Greek and Hebrew in 383 by the great scholar Jerome. Known as the Latin Vulgate, this translaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 tion was the sole translation of the Bible for more than a thousand years. Thus the sonorous music and dignified cadence of the Roman sentence was absorbed by the translators into all English versions. The editors of the Revised Version in 1881 pointed out that eighty per cent of the New Testament was still best expressed in the words of William Tyndale, who had _translated and printed the first English New Testament in 1526. Fired by an all-consuming love of God, and determined that "the plowman would sing a text of the scriptures at his plowbeam," Tyndale warmed his style with his own earnestness; his resulting style possessed a charm and deep spiritual tone which ideally fitted him to translate the Bible. He died at the stake, a martyr and an exile, because he believed in the common man's right to read the Bible. Likewise forced to print his translation on the Continent, Miles Coverdale also had a delicate ear for the proper phrase. "Loving-kindness" and "tender mercy" are his. In his many years spent at translation, he re-stated the basic spirit of the Bible with such excellence that the English Bible owes more to him than to any other save Tyndale. Thus we see the English Bible as the product of many men who loved deeply the words and spirit of God. Rising magnificently to meet the challenge, these Englishmen created a language worthy to express the spirit of God to all ages. Truly man has surpassed himself in writing the Bible, "the noblest monument of English prose." Note to teachers: Our text offers 3. How can the Bible be emotional, and twenty-five pages of the best Bible literatrue as well? Ture. Re-read all this material; then read 4, Inasmuch as there are many modern aloud one or two selections, as lesson time translations, why is the King James permits. If necessary to cut the printed Version still read by most people tolesson in order to read from this source day? Matenial, by all means do so. 5. Did the translators of the King James Version hope to create a new Bible?. Why is William Tyndale so important 1. Discuss the reasons why the Bible is _ in the history of the Bible? Great literature, 7- Discuss well-known Bible quotations Questions 6. Is translation creative? Emphasize the necessity of having greatness in an original writing in order to produce a great translation. Give illustrations to justify your answer, for their simplicity of statement, depth of thought, imagery, and beauty.: Discuss ways in which we can help our families the better to appreciate the greatness of the Bible. —~<— Mlemorizing Scripture Passages A number of years ago a young couple, who were studying in Austria, took a pleasure cruise on the Mediterranean Sea. Their fellow passengers on the boat were cultured and refined people and among them was a group of children from a parochial school. On Sunday morning the priest in charge of the children conducted a religious service. He asked the passengers to join with the children, each in his own language, Much to the chagrin of the young couple, they noticed that they were the only ones in the group who could not repeat the Twenty-third Psalm from memory. Conducting a service in the shelter, asked the congregation to repeat, if they could, the Twenty-third Psalm. Only one man could repeat the psalm. These two incidents served as a lesson to the young couple. Since that time the woman has been assiduous in training children whom she has taught to memorize PRAYERFULNESS: We are bidden to pray without ceasing and to continue Constant in prayer. Paul prayed for "Timothy without ceasing night or day." Now how it is possible to pray without ceasing? We must have three conditions; first, we must acknowledge a want, and thence must acknowledge God's power to supply that want, then comes the appeal to him to put forth that power.—Mamie Taylor LESSON DEPARTMENT 707 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 Social Science— Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 3—""Governments Instituted for the Benefit of Man'—(D. & C. 134:1, 2) Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, January 24, 1950 Objective: To show that governments exist for the benefit of man when founded on the free exercise of conscience, right and control of property, and protection of life. Modern Attempts to Secure Peace HE quest for peace is eternal. Men in all ages have sought peace from the ravages of war. Perhaps in no age has the yearning for peace been more real than in our own day. It is curious to note that international conferences held during peacetime for the purpose of preventing war actually—in our generation—date from the year 1899, the first Hague conference. The organized governments of the world meet together frequently nowadays under the charter of the United Nations or by other means to discuss their problems. Men seem to have placed the task of securing peace directly in the hands of the public official. This makes government a means to an end. To put it another way, modern man is attempting to use government as the instrument for securing peace just as a farmer might use a shovel as an instrument for digging an irrigation ditch. It takes a good shovel to make a good ditch. Only a proper kind of shovel will do the work intended. The same is true of government. What about government and the conditions of peace? What kind of government is needed to achieve peace? Declaration in Regard to Government and Peace Even though the Declaration regarding government and laws in general was written in 1835, its meaning is crystal clear today, in regard to the question of government and peace. The Declaration begins with a clarion call (verse one): We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society. This verse raises four general points. First, governments are believed to be instituted of God. 'They are, therefore, worthy of human support. They are not necessarily evil—the fruit of apostasy—as our early opponents frequently charged the Latter-day Saints with believing. Governments are for the benefit of man. Man is not to be a slave of his government. Second, the verse raises the question that, although governments as institutions were "instituted of God" for man's benefit, are all governments worthy of being classified in this category today? Are all the present systems of government worthy of the origin, "instituted of God"? Answers will subsequently be given. Third, the verse lays down the glorious principle that men are responsible for good government. It LESSON DEPARTMENT is up tous. This responsibility takes two lines: (a) We are all responsible for making laws and administering them for the "good and safety of society." 'This makes us doubly responsible for good government in our society. Fourth, the question is raised, what is the "good and safety of society'? The Russians assume certain things to be for society's ultimate good and safety; the Japanese make contrary assumptions. The British may pursue objectives in a different way, while the Americans yet choose the written Constitution and the devices peculiar to that instrument. What can be concluded from these four main points? How Good Is Modern Government? The following suggestions are made. Governments were instituted of God in the beginning. The Latter-day Saint doctrine on this point is that the first government was the government of God. This was a pure, unselfish, holy form of government in which the free agency of man was a fundamental principle. Our doctrine further declares that apostasy from this original form of government took place with the result that it was modified into the various man-made forms that we have today. Accordingly, the present governments are good only to the extent that they conform to the standard pattern represented in the government of God. The fact that men are responsible for good government and the good and safety of society, simply means that it is the task of citizenship to see, so far as it is possible—recognizing 709 the freedom of all men to choose— that government conforms to the basic standards required of the Lord. The basic criterion in this standard is the great doctrine of the free agency and liberty of man. On this principle we believe the world was organized and founded. Men should use their freedom, accordingly, to see that governments are worthy of the classification, "instituted of God." Conditions of Peace What then are the conditions of peace in society, accepting the necessity of government, recognizing the free agency of man, and the task of administering the laws for the good and safety of man? Section 134, verse two, reads as follows: We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life. 'This verse contains what may be called "the conditions of peace." Let us list them: 1. Free exercise of individual conscience. 2. The individual mght and control of property. 3. Protection of each individual life. The Declaration of Belief makes it mandatory that every loyal Latterday Saint recognize these three basic rights as the condition, not only of peace, but as the standard of his behavior toward all men. Likewise, all men are entitled to these rights, black, white, bond, free, male or female. At all times, any Latter-day Saint must stand firm for the principle of the free exercise of con- 710 science by all men, the right and control of property by an individual, and the protection of life on the part of any of God's children whether he be an Australian Bushman, a Chinaman, or a man named Jones, with dark or fair skin, in Kansas City or Salt Lake City, Utah. It also means that we must insist on having laws made and administered which recognize these same punciples. The good and safety of society depend upon securing these rights in both domestic society and international society. They are the conditions of peace, foreign and domestic. In this connection, it is interesting to observe that only recently, in fact since World War II, has modern man given any great public attention to the question of the international rights of man. The American Constitution led the way with certain declarations for individuals. Before the Constitution, there was the Declaration of Independence, itself, and the constitutions of the thirteen original states, all approximately in the year 1776. Now, mankind's attention is turning to the knowledge that all governments, not only the American, the British, and other well-known supporters of liberty, but all govermments must protect basic, individual rights as an essential condition of peace. There have been many proposals as to how peace and good order might be realized. Since the fourteenth century many schemes have been proposed by such great figures as Pierre du Bois, Sully, William Penn, J. J. Rousseau, Immanuel Kant, Jeremy Bentham, William Ladd, Woodrow Wilson, and othRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 ers. Most of these proposals have been predicated upon the assumption that the formation of a league, confederacy, or other political structure, is an essential condition of peace. The League of Nations, 1919-1939, and now the United Nations, represent the culmination of this type of thinking. Currently, this school of thought continues vigorously with a group favoring the establishment of a "world federal government" based largely upon American experience. Another body of informed opinion believes that only with the employment of the scientific method in human affairs, political, economic, psychological, and social, on a wide front, can the departure of war be hastened. We know, by scientific observation and common experience, that foreigners and new-born babes alike can be absorbed into, and trained within, a given culture, say in a period of fifteen years. An American babe taken from the hospital at the time of its birth and transplanted to Russia, and a Russian babe similarly transplanted to America and raised by Americans, would, in fifteen years, have acquired the main trappings of American or Russian culture and be indistinguishable from its fellows. This fact suggests the scientific possibility that, should every home now existing in the world be converted to the ideal of world citizenship; and, should there be method and knowledge available in every home adequate to the task, we could train all the children bom, commencing tomorrow morning, to be citizens of the world instead of citizens of single nations. The job, LESSON DEPARTMENT élanted the Pretty wel] completed by 1965, Why Cannot we? Nown to m e get "NBIY; require affection desire Privacy; seek ©'Texpression A Stuart Chase 1 a recent sur. Vey Conducted ¢, € Social] Science R Seatch Coy il in the has re. Vealed that It is very difficult for the People of one Culture to even communicate Successfully one ) Soverdigne Lord, x7» > haveing undertaken for the Blorie of God, and advancemente Of the Christian Nour 1 r trie, a Voyage to Plant the first Colonie jn the Northerne Parts of Virginia, hese Presents Solemn] nd Mutualy jn © Presence of God, and of another COVenant combine S€lves to &eather into civil] body Politick, fo, our etter ordering nd Preservation and fur. €rance of S_ aforesaid and Virtue hearof to enacte, Constitute, and Tame suc t and equal] lawes, ordinances, acts, Constitutions, and Offices 712 RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE —octopep 1949 forth jn he Dec Tation Should recommend and order Printed in your local give us Pause while Challen ng our Fi for verre es a name.;. © keep gove me } utmost skill and mgen ity mM the ater in the Course, you can check your cffort to apply them. "policies" against the Principles found in ° Questions for Discussion and the Declaration, OW can Sovernment's "esponsibility to man be assured? 8Son Help. 7- Besides Periodic clections, What are Special Project: A ten-minute Teport on some other d vices where €n can hold the Hague Peace Conferences of 1899 and 0vernment 'SPonsible to the People? 1907. Materia] can be found in any en- - How do you, the People in your la, Class, keep the local Schoo] board, 'gj Council, coun ty co the 4gue Peace C nfere ature, state highway department. The na. 2. When js he Preferable ¢; € for qa tional ar Y Or navy, your national delePeace Conference, immediately followin &ate to the > "responsible" or do you 4 War, to Clean up th IS; Or, in a Tate some of the meth 10d of Telative Stability whe 3- What are the "conditions of peace" ACcording to the Declaration? Nefly, but w; h specific Teferences man 4 To whom ate governments Tesponkind's long str le to achieve: (1) free sible? Dom of Conscience; (2) Individua Pro 5- How can 60vernment's *€sPOnsibility erty rights. (3) "p Otection of individual to God b ssured an maintained? (The life. How safe or secure are these rights in the modern World? Is an (See vil Liberty Today," Dr. G Homer Durha » The Relief Society Mag azine, May 949, page 299.) lows YOur voice in its ancient Wood, €d from the rgan pipes Which stoog | RY) LESSON DEPARTMENT n to more liberal] e means than I am with mine in ion of the €w Proportion to What he POssesses, fo, the. Avcvancement of God's Ingdo resident t - body of the Church will ask no man to obserye the worg ora Sustaining vote, or wisdom any more closely than I will At this Conterence, he newly se- 0 T wate * '. 'nohe. 2 wul ask no man More con a President, then in his SIxtyscientious and Prompt in t = year, made the following Stateis tithes ment: ' he Payment of and his Offering: an 713 714 mility ( Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, VI: Page 491). In these words is found the keynote which characterized the administration of President Grant during nearly three decades—absolute obedience to the word and will of God. Heber J. Grant, who was the seyenth President of the Church, was the first President to be born in Utah and to STOW up in the pioneering age of the Colonization of the saints in the valleys of the Rocky Ountains. He was born in Salt Lake City on November 22, 1856, a son of Jedediah M. Grant, a member of the First Presidency, and Ivins. His mother € was a woman of strong character and independence of Spirit. In order to be self-supporting, She became a seamstress and also. Maintained a boarding house, thus making a living for herself and child. Feeling that 'his character had been strengthened through these hardships. When he was about of age, the youthful RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 Heber became deeply impressed by the story of Nephi as recorded ip the Book of Mormon. He often referred to the impression that the following declaration of Nephi made upon him: And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father: I will 80 and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no comhe commandeth them (I Nephi 3:7). The great accomplishments which this ancient Prophet-leader achieved through obedience to the commandments of the Lord and the admonitions of his father, inspired the boy Heber to emulate him. He de. Termined to make implicit obedience to the Lord's injunctions and his mother's teachings the guideposts of his life. He became a dutiful and obedient son and at an early age was actively engaged in Church service. But obedience meant more to him than merely doing what was advised or requested. He conceived obedience to be intimately connected with improvement or perfection. This led him to strive for improvement in whatever he was assigned to do, or in anything that he undertook to do, t an early stage in life he commenced to manifest the invincible determination that characterized his thought and conduct to the end of his life. His own natratives reveal the struggles through which he Passed in learning to play baseball, to wnite legibly, to sing, to become a public speaker, and to Overcome the handicap of a weak physique. LESSON DEPARTMENT Grant often quoted and proved to be true by his own Itself js changed, byt that our Power to do is increased," IN these ventures was late to be of N€stimable Worth to he Church Was staggerin 715 his name be Withheld from the convention. Earlier, in not quite twenty-four years October 1880, when Of age, Taylor Tooele and later Presided Mission from a: The last words that the late PresjThe Lord bless you, my boy, the Lord got a preat Tesponsibility, Always Témember this js the Lord's he Lord is great- €r than any man. He knows whom he Church, and neyer The Lord bless you 4). - He t Practically doubled. Ndred new ards Were also Organized under hj direction © Smiled on Meo Hara 7 apels and e buildold Thoy My nd—Briggs ngs did he dedicate that at on i he would Probably €ndelssohn a eel a | hurch S'owth, there Was The Lord's Prayer—Gatespease cs the ee Sree Sa 10 Tes] en Write for Information ©n music for all " im, anguard a types of LD Chora] 9roups, Music sent Sacred, ang Classicg] Music for home church, and October Conference of the year following his Selection © Quorum of the T to understand It (the re. Stored Sspel) it; It is NECEssary to live jt, God has laid down Certain Jaws for our é Suldance, and has made Promises as the StReer "LC ¢ | Tesult of 5 edience ¢, he same One of SSS blessing ©, Which 1 some of the Steatest essings would accrue, ow Beautify] Upon the Mountains ow Lovely Are the Messengers I a Not Pass Agair, This Way oa All Your Hearts—Mendels. The King of Glory Ponta ©n approva] Mail] Orders filled Promptly We pay Postage. We have q Complete Stock of Popular S447 Lang OY 1, ran Ingly Temarked that In Of as " der the Dedi In addition tg these Physica] growth Se efforts to im € public and Ptvate Morals ments for ughteous liv urch has never had a te of the word of WIsCS€ Was the Word of Wisdom, through LESSON DEPARTMENT Some have argued that the word of wisdom was "To be sent greeting; not by commandment or restraint...." To such, President Grant said, "But what else does it say? It says "... By revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth....' What? 'Showing forth the order and will of God.' " That was sufficient for President Grant, and should be for every one who calls himself a member of the Church. The will of God should be obeyed as much as a direct commandment, if one properly understands the gospel. Another notable accomplishment of the Church under the inspired leadership of President Grant, was the institution of the Church Welfare Plan on a Church-wide basis. Based upon revelation as definite as any received by Joseph Smith in relation to the economic welfare of the saints in the early days, this modern Prophet led the Church to establish a system which manifests the marks of true religion and pure brotherly love. ) The religious message of President Grant can best be summarized in his oft-quoted phrase: "Latterday Saints, keep the commandments of God!" He stressed the need for developing spiritual righteousness through proper living as a forerunner of the higher spirituality toward which mankind should be striving. He often said that the burden of his message could be found in this threeword message, "Keep the commandments." One of the great traits of President Grant's character was his generosity. In later years his business prospered remarkably and relieved 717 WURLITZER ORGAN ENSEMBLE ". - + The ability to add one stop to another as in a pipe organ gives the WURLITZER the ENSEMBLE that all organists need, particularly for Church music." This is one of the reasons why professional praise for the WURLITZER ORGAN continues to grow, Four WURLITZER Models to choose from. For Information, Write or Call MR. SELDON N. HEAPS SUMMERHAYS MUSIC CO. 17 W. Ist So., Salt Lake City 1, Utah a ( > (> () ED () D> () SEARS a (a ROERUCK. AND. CO PARK FREE! SHOP EASY! _ SAVE MORE! At your nearest Sears Store, where you'll find that GOOD QUALITY ALWAYS COSTS YOU LESS! You Cannot Aiford To Attend Conference Without Seeing and Hearing the Famous HAMMOND ELECTRIC ORGAN Priced from $1320.00 up FOR CHURCH—FOR HOME Concerts Every Day At Our Store You Are Cordially Invited GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 SO. MAIN ST. Flectricity DOES IT BETTER, FASTER and at LOW COST * All-Electric BUY FROM YOUR DEALER Go A Utah Power & Light Co. Message him from the financial worries that had characterized his earlier life. But money was only attractive to him for the good he could accomplish with it. Without display or publicity, he brought cheer to many unfortunate souls both in and out of the Church. Widows had mortgages on their homes paid by this generous Prophet; children in hospitals were cheered by his gifts; he gave liberally toward the erection of chapels and other Church buildings. One of his greatest manifestations of generosity is found in the distribution of good books. He gave away many thousands of Church books, historical, poetical, and musical publications. Thousands of people alive in the Church today proudly display in their libraries gifts bearing his autograph. In this manner he sought to enrich the lives of people, by bringing them the best in literature. In November 1897, President Grant was one of the principal founders of the Improvement Era and for many years fostered it, as a means of spreading Church information and promoting the cause of righteousness in the world. President Grant was a man of great physical vitality. He labored diligently for the kingdom of God and passed from mortality at Salt Lake City on May 14, 1945. Topics for Discussion and Study 1. What great prophet-leader inspired the youthful Heber J. Grant to place absolute faith in obedience to God's commands? 2. What significance do you attach to the farewell message of President Joseph F. Smith to Heber J. Grant? 3. What conditions influenced President Grant in preaching so strongly the need 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT for rigid observance of the word of wisdom? 4. Have someone read and report to the group some of the articles dealing with the family life, missionary labors, Church activities, civic leadership and business enterprises of Heber J. Grant as found in the November 1936 Improvement Era (where available). 5.. In every ward, stake, or mission will be found many books that President Grant has given to friends. What significance do you see in this hobby of giving away books? References Grant, Heber J., Sermons in the Annual and Semi-Annual Conference Reports of the Church; Gospel Standards. Improvement Era, November issue, 1936 (this is the special number commemorating the eightieth birthday of President Grant). Roberts, B. H., Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 479-505. Jacob, Maude Beeley, Heroes of Truth, page 62. 719 Professtonal and Social Si jationery * COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Brides Llusion for a Pioneer Lael W. Hill Whether gray homespun or white muslin made her dress, She dreamed of heirloom lace and silk brocade— Desired to dazzle him with loveliness.... He, plain-spoken, rugged, unafraid Of fellow man or beast, gazed at his bride And could not say how fair she seemed arrayed. She came to meet him, young and tender-eyed; They spoke their vows; he kissed her, and they went To conquer wilderness, side by side. Perhaps his slow smile told her what he meant To tell, himself, if he could find the way, And that is why she lived her life content. She knew by love what he would like to say: How beautiful she was, their wedding day. Srom lear and Sar I am very devoted to The Relief Society Magazine and have been the class leader for the literature lesson for three years in my ward. I read and enjoy the Magazine from cover to cover, especially the poetry. —Ruby Newman, Mesa, Arizona I enjoy the articles and stories in the Magazine, and also the lessons and the poetry. It would be impossible to list the many helpful features, so suffice it to say "thanks" and best wishes for continued success. I feel very happy if I manage to have something published, and consider it an honor to be in The Relief Society Magazine. —Norma Wrathall, Murray, Utah The serial story "Joanna" is one of the very best ever published in the Magazine and I send thanks to Margery S. Stewart for this thoughtful and entertaining contribution to my joy in reading. —Lynn W. Brown, Logan, Utah I have had the Magazine for a number of years, enjoyed reading it, but never got the real good of it until this fall when I fell and broke my hip. I have been in bed for seven months and this has given me time to read the Magazine and really get the meaning of it. Many times I have read a Magazine over twice. It has been a great comfort to me and I do look forward to it every month and I hope and pray that others may understand the good in this Magazine and subscribe for it. I was born in a foreign country and had to work hard after coming here to learn the language, but I thank my Heavenly Father that I am here in this lovely land, where we can enjoy life. —Emma Handley, Salt Lake City, Utah I do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine so much. For about twenty years I was only in touch with the Church through the Church magazines and once in a long time a visit from the missionaries. But I am so thankful to have a branch organized in Alliance now. —Zelma F. Boesch, Alliance, Ohio Page 720 I do enjoy your excellent Magazine. I still enjoy the lessons, though I am unable to attend Relief Society meetings any more because I am working. —Matia M. Burk, Provo, Utah May I say that I think The Relief Society Magazine is better each year? For years I have thought it was as good as it was possible to become, but it continues to increase in meaning and especially in discrimination. —Stella S. Burnham, Ephrata, Washington I would hate very much to miss a single Magazine. I enjoy reading them so much and the wonderful lessons which are in them. —Urilda C. Robinson, Lower Lake, California I love the Magazine. I've never missed a number since the first printing. —RMrs. Jenna Rich, Morgan, Utah I would like to tell you how much I enjoy this wonderful Magazine. I live many miles from a branch of the Church and, therefore, I have no chance to go to Relief Society meetings, but can keep up on the lessons through the Magazine, which helps so much. —Margaret C. Blackburn, Lapine, Oregon How I have enjoyed the excellent Relief Society Magazine. I have shared the Magzine with many of my friends and have been so proud to do so. —Anna B. Hart, Nashville, Tennessee An interesting communication has been received regarding Pauline Olsen of Lorenzo, Idaho, a diligent and faithful Relief Society member, seventy-nine years old. Sister Olsen was born without any arms but she has been most resourceful in overcoming this handicap. She crochets with her left foot and writes with her right foot. She makes her own bed and sews all her own clothing on a treadle sewing machine. <A subscriber to the Magazine, Sister Olsen is appreciative of the messages it brings to her and the inspiration it gives. Enhance en yoyment of "The Literature of England' (text $4.50—$4.75 by mail—available now) with pictures and recordings of English literary classics. Write for our catalog of films and recordings which includes such listings as: ible and Early Enghsb Literature Recordin es Catalog also includes beautiful recordings of condensations of these and many other English literary masterpieces. DESERET BOOK COMPANY Salt Lake City 10, Utah Mention The Relicf Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers Book Department 44 East South Temple St. P. O. Box 958 Audio-Visual Aids Department 1400 Indiana Ave. U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 =: What isa College Echaciabien U New friends, opportunities... And $100,000 income. Rth. Specialized fraining, cultura or more in extra Do you want your child deprived of these guarantee your child's education is with Beneficial Life's Education Plan, Opportunities? € easiest and safest way to Lessor& for February NO [ 1949 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - Marianne C. Sharp - Velma N. Simonsen - Margaret C. Pickering - - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer yr tyr Gg 0 0 Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = = = e - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 36 NOVEMBER, 1949 No. Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES Woman's Role as Homemaker President Belle S. Spafford The Loving Friend of Children... Ccccececee cee eeee eee aPreston Nibley Ancient Rites at a Modern Wedding... 20. Eee.. Martha_ Toronto I Saw Paricutin Nee nnrccccceccencteeeececnenseeeeeAnn Rich Suggestions for a Work Meeting Luncheon... Ccc cececeecececeeeeceececeeeeeeceeeeeneeeennneesChristine Eaton FICTION The Pongee Dress. Ee... Oon. CececcicsceesnceeeeseesseveeecsesecesnearsesseseoseecaesecesseseseeveseeeeeeeceseeseeaeeeGrace M. Candland Joanna—Chapter 11........... Margery S. Stewart You Can Learn—Part [ioe ccccccccccecccceccseeceececcueeeeeeeeseseceeeveeeceesesesscsssecesesevevessneseceaneneevesKatherine Kelly Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Editorial: Thanksgiving Without a Feast... Cece ee eee eeteeeneeneeteeeVesta P. Crawford Notes From the Field: Activities in the Missions, Socials, and Handicraft......20000--c: ccee----- ee =.. General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering From Near and Far Pun With Spools... CcccccccccccceescecesccecesesececesecessensaceeceeceesensneesevensecessseeneeresesesaceeneeeeRachel K. Laurgaard Pioneer Recipe oon. CcceceeessesceeceeneneeseeseseseeeeeseseseeseseesesssuenessseessasiesenssesssvectssseesensueieseseeeeAnna Prince Redd The Interest and Beauty of Vegetables... Cece eee. Mary Grant Judd A Letter From Mother.. U..0... Cccccccccscceee--- cevetteeeee-Clara Horne Park Theology: "On to Jerusalem' ooo... CccccccsccccssecesesesssnsnenssesenssesesseseesesesssuesssusvesensessneeseneesDon B. Colton Visiting Teacher Messages: ''Is Not the Life More Than Meat?' (20.0 cjecccee-Mary Grant Judd Work Meeting: Girls' Clothing vane a.. Jean Ridges Jennings Literature: Sir Francis Bacomec. CcccccccccccccscsscscssesocsessesovsuesesoesnesessesissesiesesiserssvenerecssesseaeenesBriant S. Jacobs Social Science: Public Administrat'cn and Good Government.... G. Homer Durham Optional Lessons: The Counselors io President Heber J. Grant.... Ccccccccccccseese-T. Edgar Lyon POETRY......... Marvin Jones w-Maude O, Cook Rain on November Night—Frontispiece ee SsDorothy J. Roberts Today Is All of Time............ Alien and Lost... Poet... Eecceeeenneenns a cocceeeeeceeees ——— Gertrude T. Koven Silence. _ cos; woe eects 2.... Mary Pack Triplett Ascendant Autumn..... Ee cece cette see-Ruth Harwood Earth Decorator a eevee cece eeeeeeeseceeeseoee.. Christie Lund Coles The Long Wed................. = wecesasecsecasenseceece nessaLael W. Hill ight........ Ee.. We 3Gene Romolo November Moon.......... Margaret C. Shomaker November Day..... EeBeatrice K. Ekman Beauty in Brown.. A.;..... Josephine J. Harvey Star Music ou... A |Grace Sayre Thanksgiving Day. — -we----Nan §. Richardson 724 728 734 738 746 730 747 753 742 743 744 763 792 752 756 757 762 769 773 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Rditorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 83-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advan: e. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Larger in the Armholes. Larger at the, waist. E bust. _ "FOR THE SHORT WAISTED WOMAN Ve Half Size Dress © Here's figure flattery for the Half-sizer in this fine fitting dress of gentle rayon crepe... With 8 outstanding features. Only (98 READY TO WEAR Downstairs Store Mail Orders Filled—Enclose 15¢ postage! Arger across the muscle; Smaller in. Body proportions Green, Brown, Black. 1612 to 221%, ight Kn Don ALIFORNIA KE, C ON LA T HUNTIN The Cover: "Symphony," Photograph by Willard Luce, Woman's Role as Homemaker President Belle S. Spafford (Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, held in the Tabernacle, September 29, 1949) HE subject upon which I 'T shall speak this afternoon, namely, "Woman's Role as Homemaker' is not new; it has been brought before you times without number, both in general conferences and regular meetings of the society. It is an old subject but one which remains with us as ever important. President David O. McKay, in addressing a Relief Society conference a few years ago, made this statement: "Although woman's life ls filled with almost everything that is good and lovely, it is not difficult to choose the two activities that are paramount in her world." These he defined as homemaking and compassionate service. Unfortunately, this viewpoint with regard to homemaking is not shared by all women. Only recent ly, in contrast to this, I read on the woman's page of a newspaper in a column reserved for advice to women on personal matters, the following interesting problem presented by a woman: "t am the mother of eight children. Ever since my marriage I have devoted almost my entire time to my home and to rearing my children. I long to do something worthwhile with my life. What would you suggest?" Wisely the columnist answered: "1 know of nothing more worthwhile." To match this is the attitude of a married woman with five grown, Page 724 educated, likable children, who is often heard to say: "After all, what have I accomplished? I have sacrificed my own life for my children." Women today point with pride, and justly so, to their accomplishments in the professions, the arts, commerce, industry, education, and politics. We are grateful for all that modern progress has done for woman—her liberation, her education, her opportunities. We view with pride all that she has achieved. But with a more complete understanding of her mission comes the realization that, although she may wish to combine another role with homemaking, it is in her age-old role of mother and homemaker that she makes her supreme contribution to. The world. The work of homemaking offers to woman her greatest opportunities and her deepest satisfactions. It is here her creative urges may find fullest expression, her administrative ability develop most naturally. It is here her talents may be put to the most practical uses, and her skills function most freely. It ls here that continuous claim may be laid upon her resourcefulness and ingenuity, and her intelligence find a constant challenge. It is here her spiritual nature may flower fully, and her character grow to its greatest stature. It is here her influence may be most potent and her contribution to society most effective. WOMAN'S ROLE AS HOMEMAKER It is a matter of deep concern that social and economic conditions today are effecting far-reaching changes in our homes and exert. Ing a pulling Power away from the home. They are enticing, if not forcing, many women out of the sphere in which they can find the most happiness and do the greatest good. There are Many influences in contemporary life today which impinge upon the family and make it difficult for parents to maintain stable homes and direct their chil. Dren aright. On every hand we tead of the concer that is felt for our homes. Illustrate, this tather disconsolate picture of the American home Was published in a recent issue of Family Life, the official organ of the National Family Life Associa. Tion: You can't be taught there, be sick there. You can't work there, nor learn a skill. And enter. Tamment must certainly be found elseWhat is there left but a lifeless UR Church leaders have always emphasized the importance of our homes and family life. They have taught us that "the home and family are sacred institutions. They are not man-made, but have been established by a kind Providence for the blessing of his children." President Smith has admonished us, "You fathers and mothers who are rearing sons and daughters, don't 725 put off the pportunity that is yours to win them to a tighteous life |..." President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Has told us that "to the Latter-day Saint the home is a holy place. It has its pattern in the heavens," He has further told us: President Clark has placed upon the mothers of the Church first Tesponsibility for maintaining our homes according to the teachings of the Church. In address. Ing the Relief Society sisters in a general Relief Society conference on the subject of "Our Homes," he said: Need I point out to you Relief Society sisters where your high duty lies in all in your Mission if you do not do it, and the world wil] be lost. The positive concern of our leaders for our Present-day homes jis evidenced in the "Message from the General Authorities Endorsing and Instituting the Family Hour Pro. Gram" in which they declare: "The need for them [Family Hour programs] was never greater in the history of the Church." With this feeling existing with general, we are led to ask, "Now, what of our individual homes—yours and mine?" This is a time when it might be homemaker. Might we ask Ourselves: Pride in oyr choice lineage, family traditions, and ideals transmuting family members into a close-knit family unit Which wil] continue eternally? Does my home bespeak culture ang Tefinement or do Profanity, Vulgar Stories, Cheap literature find harbor there? Is my home a Place of industry and thrift? Of life, Serenity faith, Warm €motions, Am | Meeting my heaven-imposeq TeSPOnsibilities? And thei; children Shall baptized Or the y, Nission of their sing 'hen eight years o] nd receive th aying on of the hand Care of our children? Housekeeping? Which | have already Teferred, re. Cently Published 4 Tat article entitled "Good ets Are Scarce," e a 50-50 chance €ven good, If the findings from this Sample are withy momar, Tepresentative of any Considerable Section within the mem of the Nation's homes € standards 64 attainmen nN hous make eeping are not favorable to s und fam homem ily Jif eflect little credit on Ciety' either Parents or UDHC schools Ww rely 's they suggest that ing testimon mment j; appraised them, and Ourselves a5 adware of: omemakers, have we the courage, Teaching ing the Wwill-power and the intelligence May they f0 correct bag Practices and Paas to win ¢. Tently ang Wisely establish New and tion of our e€rns? Today is all of time Wwe own, Pr yesterday js past, The Loving Friend of Children Preston Nibley N the fall of 1891, George QO. Cannon, first counselor to President Wilford Woodruff in the First Presidency and the enterprising editor of the Juvenile Instructor (a semi-monthly publication for the young people of the Church), issued an invitation through his paper to all those who had known the Prophet Joseph Smith, to write in their recollections of the great man, in order that a permanent record of their experiences might be made. Brother Cannon received several replies to his invitation, as a number of the early members of the Church were then living. These replies he carefully edited and published in the Instructor at intervals throughout the year 1892. I have before me as I write this article, a bound volume of the Juvenile Instructor, containing these interesting letters. Among the first to write his recollections was Jesse N. Smith, then president of the Snowflake Stake in Arizona and a cousin of the Prophet. He was only nine years of age in 1844, but he was _ intimately acquainted with his distinguished cousin. Here is one circumstance he relates: In 1843, for a short time, I attended a school taught by Miss Mitchell, in Hyrum Smith's brick office. Passing the Prophet's house one morning, he called me to him and asked me what book I read in at my school. I replied, "The Book of Mormon!" He seemed pleased, and _taking me into the house, he gave me a copy of the Book of Mormon, a gift greatly prized by me (J. IL, XXVII, page 24). Page 728 This is only a small circumstance, but through it we catch a glimpse of the great man, stopping his little cousin on the way to school and presenting him with a Book of Mormon. I wonder where that Book of Mormon is now. It would be a prized possession if it were in the Church Historian's Library. A woman by the name of Louisa Y. Littlefield, seventy years of age in 1892, wrote a letter to Brother Cannon, stating that she had been acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was born in 1822 and had moved to Kirtland in 1834 when she was twelve years of age, and had seen the Prophet on many occasions from that time until his death. She particularly remembered her experiences while living in Kirtland and the friendliness of the Prophet. I will speak of a prominent trait of his character, which was perhaps more marked in his early career than was the case after public cares and_ responsibilities multiplied upon him from so many sources; I mean his natural fondness for children. In Kirtland, where wagon loads of grown people and children came from the country to meeting, Joseph would make his way to as many of the wagons as he well could, and cordially shake the hand of each person. Every child and young babe in the company were especially noticed by him, and tenderly taken by the hand, with his kind words and blessings (Ibid., page 24). The young Prophet, going from wagon to wagon, shaking the hand of every man, woman, and child, presents a picture long to be remembered. He felt that he was a friend THE LOVING FRIEND OF CHILDREN to all mankind. All the accounts that have come down to us testify that he was a sociable and friendly man. [N 1892, a Mrs. Margaret Burgess was living in St. George, Utah. She, too, remembered the Prophet Joseph and recalled several instances where the great man had touched her life. Her letter is one of the most valuable that was sent to the Instructor. I shall reproduce it here in part. My father, William P. McIntire lived m Nauvoo, at the corner of Main and Parley streets. He was a near neighbor of the Prophet, and a true and loving watch-guard for him in times of trouble. The Prophet was often at my father's house. Some incidents which I recollect of him made a deep impression on my child mind. One morming when he called at our house, I had a very sore throat. It was much swollen and gave me great pain. He took me up in his lap and gently anointed my throat with consecrated oil, and administered to me and I was healed. A little child would not forget that experience, being administered to by the man who had beheld the visions, and became President of the Church. But there were still other interesting experiences when she came in contact with the great man. Another time my older brother and I were going to school near the building which was known as Joseph's brick store. It had been raining the previous day, causing the ground to be very muddy, especially along that street. My brother Wallace and I both got fast in the mud and could not get out, and of course, child-like, we began to cry, for fear we would have to stay there. But, looking up, I beheld the loving friend of children, the Prophet Joseph, coming to us. He soon had us on higher and drier ground. Then 729° he stooped down and cleaned the mua from our little, heavy-laden shoes, and took his handkerchief from his pocket and wiped our tear-stained faces. He spoke kind and cheering words to us, and sent us on our way to school rejoicing. Was it any wonder that I loved that great, good and noble man of God? As I grew older I felt to honor and love him for his mission to earth in restoring the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But the most interesting incident that Mrs. Burgess related is the one pertaining to her little twin sisters. This story, in connection with our Prophet, will, I think, live throughout the ages to come. [ shall reproduce it in full. Joseph's wife, sister Emma, had lost a young babe. My mother, having twin baby girls, the Prophet came to see if she would let him have one of them. Of course, it was rather against her feelings, but she finally consented for him to take one of them, providing he would bring it home each night. This he did punctually himself, and also came after it each morning. One evening he did not come with it at the usual time, and mother went down to the Mansion to see what was the matter, and there sat the Prophet with the baby wrapped up in a little silk quilt. He was trotting it on his knee, and singing to it to get it quiet before starting out, as it had been fretting. 'The child soon became quiet when my mother took it, and the Prophet came up home with her. Next morning when he came after the baby, mother handed him Sarah, the other baby. They looked so much alike that strangers could not tell them apart; but as mother passed him the other baby he shook his head and said, "This is not my little Mary." Then she took Mary from the cradle and gave her to him. The baby Mary had a very mild disposition, while Sarah was quite cross and fretful, and by this mother could distinguish them, one from the other, though generally people could not tell them apart. After his wife became better in health he did not (Continued on page 760) of my Own, was only sixteen at Wasn't quite the thing. My si She should e something White OF pastel, € leane Petceptibly | not speak; € was Weighing the Issue ind, arisse looked at her 'mploringly, but Grandma seemed can have the ta eta ater, but j | Purse or Scrip. [t Was now" | "Changeable t POpular later," the and Grandma d Not to Notice. Tried to explain further. "She "T don't," Clarisse said. "Tell us." "Well, they were hung > travel. THE PONGEE DRESS night. 'I'll never forget how happy they looked as they said, "We gladly accept the invitation.' "Then Amanda and I cleared the table, and when we got into the pantry we had our fun. It was a good thing mother didn't hear us laughing or something would have happened, for our parents were very strict and Puritan-like," Grandma went on. "Well, after that they made our home their headquarters, almost. We never knew when we were going to be put to the necessity of cooking extra potatoes, or increasing the batch of cookies. When they came the family added up to an even dozen. Mother was always glad it didn't go over that. She never liked the number thirteen. "When they held meetings at our place I generally helped out with the singing, after we learned the songs of Zion, of course, and every time we arose to sing the same elder would edge over to me to help hold the book, as if I couldn't hold it myself. My brother George noticed how miffed I was and told me I was too independent and spunky and wouldn't give the man a chance. They were nice young men, to be sure, but I didn't care for either of them, especially that Frank. I told Amanda one day I wouldn't have him as a husband if he were the last man on earth. No stocky Englishman for me. No, never, not I! "Oh, he was a gentleman. I saw that from the first, but I kept the cool air circulating about me all the time, but Amanda, well, I accused her of deliberately falling in love with Thomas, and she didn't deny it. 731 "I couldn't forget the pongee dress. I went to sleep every night dreaming of it, longing for the soft feel of it against my body." CEARISSE looked at Grandma, sitting in her habitual black, and seemed unable to realize that she had once been young, had wanted anything so very much. I said, "Go on," though I was beginning to feel that I was going to lose in the argument. Grandma cleared her throat, her eyes closed as she recalled the past, and continued on. "T mentioned it to father, but he said he would have more important use for our money and we girls must get along. I could see we were getting more involved in religion all the time. Mothers folks commenced getting cold and dismayed. (The idea of high-bred Americans getting mixed up with an outlandish religion like that!) But Mother stood firm. A new light had come into our lives, the light of the true gospel. We accepted it with all our hearts, for we knew we had found the truth, and when once that conviction took possession of us there was no turning back. Everything else seemed unimportant. We wanted to give up everything and join those who felt as we did, which meant a long, hard journey to the Rocky. Mountains, and that was our plan, so mother told us. "The time for action had come. A few days later, after father had thought things through, he called us all into the parlor and said, 'I'm sure, my dear ones, you feel as I do about the great step we are about to take in becoming members of 732 the Church. I have no doubt in my mind that we have been led in the right direction by our brethren, and that we are now ready for baptism.' "T felt as father did. No one had any objections. 'There was a sweet, humble spirit present. And when I saw tears in mother's eyes, they told the story for all of us. " "Very well,' father went on, 'we will meet at Willow Creek tomorrow at four o'clock and have the matter attended to.' "J remember the day father sold our property, furniture and all, in one big lump. Mother kept some of her best china and the few clothes we had. "Father used part of the money we got for our possessions to buy a covered wagon, a team of horses, harnesses, and everything necessary for a long, strenuous journey across the plains, according to the advice of the brethren. "We were as happy as could be, all except Isaac. He squirmed a little, for he was at the beginning of a possible romance and hated to leave it. Of all my brothers he was the most congenial. As for me, I was going to miss the cakes of maple sugar. You see, my Uncle John Rudy had a large maple tree farm, and every year he made the juice of the trees into maple sugar cakes. We always got a good supply of them. I was so fond of them. I made him promise to send me some when we got settled, and he has never failed. I use it for Christmas candy. My brother George used to twit me about Frank liking maple sugar, too. "We came to the valley in November, and the next March Frank RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 and I were married. It was strange that he turned out to be a merchant, a buyer for Z. C. M. I. When he went East on his first buying trip he asked me what kind of material I would like for a new dress. I hesitated to tell him, but when he had gone I wept because I was sure I had lost my last chance to get my pongee dress." "What did he bring you?" my waiting, wide-eyed gitl asked her. "Pongee?" Grandma nodded. "Yes. The exact kind I had dreamed of, and satin to trim it with. I had it made up for the Governor's Ball." "Governor Brigham Young," I told Clarisse. "Grandma knew him very well." OY ES," Grandma assured us, looking actually young and pretty. "Yes, I did. New Year's Eve turned off clear and cold. Snow had fallen the day before and settled down firm and slick. Cutters glided over the glistening surface bearing their occupants to the scene of festivities. Sleigh bells astride the horses' shoulders sent their cheery jingle out into the night air. "Everybody would be there, dressed in their best. Brother Brigham expected it. The ladies vied with each other for a little added adornment for this crowning event of the season. "Frank had been given the position of conductor and floor manager. No man was ever better fitted for such a place than he. He was the English gentleman, very pleasing in manner, firm, orderly, and efficient. He knew how a ball should be car ried on in all its details. THE PONGEE DRESS 733 "The hall was in perfect shape. My ears hung gold teardrop earrings. The coal-oil lamps were filled, and Everyone said they had seen noththeir chimneys polished, the wicks ing like them west of the Mississipp! Trimmed so as tO give off their best River. Light into every comer of the room. "To cap off a perfect evening, The fiddlers were sn their places, President Young himself claimed eager to set off the celebration. Me for the waltz quadrille. As we "At eight 0 clock sharp, Frank passed the spectators, 1 heard peo called the assembly to order. Prayet ple whispering, where did she get was offered by Brother Bell, asking that dress?" divine favor and approval of the oc "Yes, a dress can be very impor casion wherein we might find happi tant in a woman's life. And dreams ness in the dance and the associacan come true if you don't give up, tion of each other. Finished Grandma. "The grand march began prompt: She looked at Clarisse significant: ly at mine o'clock. 1 can tell you, ly and 1 knew the pattle for a white my heart beat wildly when Frank oF @ pastel dress was lost. But some bowed and offered me his arm. My how, 1 was glad, for what really hour of triumph had come. I felt shows off a dress to advantage is a like a queen in the wide, flowing radiant and happy ir] inside it. Skirt. With its rows of satin folds. I asked, "where did you Say you The basque was stiff with poning saw that changeable taffeta, Clarisse and had its share of satin, too. From honey?" ee Alien and Lost Dorothy J. Roberts In shrouds of gtay November Something of June's wild fragrance All summer's bloom but this Scorns the scythe of frost, Living, coral ember Cloaked in a pale bud's vagrance,. ~ Of a season s bliss Alien and lost. Poet | Silence Gertrude T. Koven Mary Pack Triplett | cannot paint the summer hills Silence brought me loneliness, Against the wind-swept sky, And silence brought me doubt, Nor mock the song of whippoorwills, Until I sat with silence As evening time draws nigh; When all the stats were out. But I can take a few small words, Then silence brought me confidence And weave them close in time, And silence gave release Until, like music of the birds, Now I can sit with silence They beat with joyous rhyme. And know the gift of peace- Ancient Rites at a Modern Wedding Martha Toronto President, Czechoslovakian Mission Relief Society N this modern, rapidly changing world, there is a small village in Slovakia, Javornik by name, that still lives and abides by old and ancient customs. The good people of this village are very proud of the fact that there have been no changes in their customs or costumes for many centuries. They live, in many respects, exactly as their fathers and great-grandfathers lived before them.,. A group of us had an opportunity to visit this strange and interesting village, as wedding guests at the marriage of a young man whose family is a substantial part of the citizenof this town. We saw and learned of many customs that I, for one, had never dreamed still existed. The first and foremost is that the people live to a marked degree according to an old patriarchal order. In one house live four and often five generations. The old, old father is, of course, the head of the house. All the children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren abide by his counsel and his advice. At his death, the oldest of his sons inherits that position just as in ancient patriarchal days. As the family grows, the house is extended, to add rooms for further posterity. The houses become quite large, and many people live under the same roof 'The most wonderful part about Page 734 it is that they live in harmony and righteousness, according to the laws and words of the Bible as they understand it. They do not seek entertainment in dances, theaters, or picture shows, but rather spend their evenings in a family circle, reading the Bible and singing religious songs. They study and sing from handprinted scriptures, many hundreds of years old, dating back to the time when the holy scriptures were forbidden outside the church. The songs they sing are scriptures set to a chanting music, different from anything I've ever heard before. They sing a blessing on the food, as well as one of thankfulness after each meal. 'They seem to have a song for every occasion. The wedding to which we were invited was very interesting, first because of the costumes. The everyday dress here is a national costume. For the wedding, however, they wore their Sunday best. 'The women wear short, finely pleated skirts that are a bright yellow, worn over many full petticoats so they stand out and swing as they walk. Over the skirt is a white gathered apron with handprinted flowers all over it. They do this hand printing themselves, and weave all the cloth for their costumes at home. They wear white blouses with heavily embroidered collars and sleeves and over this a white wool waistcoat, also embroidered in yellow, black, red, VILLAGE MATRONS IN NATIVE COSTUMES and blue, and fastened with gold buttons down the front. The older women, or Matrons, heads, leaving the sides of the spangled ball with a on the outside 'of it, In the center front, the flowers and d seems to bob up and down as the girls walk 'THE bride, herself, js dressed ex. Actly like al] with the shawl," lS shawl js Wrapped over her shoulders and she ho ds it in front € carries no flowers The bridegroom is dressed entire. Ly in light blue. 4; Ip length coat js embroidered in Ted and white, He wears a white sash and blouse, with the yellow em. Toidery around the neckband and a_bespangled decoration in a fan the h the groom, every man in ding Party wears the decoration on 736 void of inhabitants except for a flock of geese waddling about. We assumed that the people were inside their houses because of the heavy snow falling. We soon learned differently, however. Upon entering the home of our host, we found that the house was full of not only relatives, but half of the villagers, feasting at long tables. 'The womenfolk were all in the kitchen pteparing the main meal of the day. On three or more work tables, one could see great pans full of veal cutlets, steaks, and pork roasts all in preparation for the big celebration. The women stopped from their labors long enough to give us a warm handshake and welcome us into the home. We were led into the main living room where about twentyfive men were seated at the long tables eating, drinking, and enjoying a good chat. They greeted us warmly, and we sat down with them in the large, low room, whose rafters nearly touched the heads of these tall men who had come to the wedding. 'The clean, nicely painted rafters serve as cupboard space for bedding as well as for colorful hand-painted dishes. Even the large, fluffy feather beds, and pillows that are stuffed up into the ceiling have a colorful strip of handmade lace holding the ends of the white pillow cover together. In one end of the room is the large, fancy stove that reaches to the ceiling, looking very much like a monument. After we sat down on the long bench behind the long table they brought us thick slices of country bread, each slice about a foot long, with country-made smoked bacon fat, that looks like salt pork, which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 we ate with the bread. That is the greatest gesture of hospitality among the peasants in this country, and it is surprisingly tasty. After this, they brought up plates of home-baked cookies, cakes, and pastries in every' form and shape and decorated with frostings, fillings, and whipped cream. 'They were delicious. As we met these people, one by' one, it seemed to me that everyone had the same name. Upon inquiry, I was told that the inhabitants of this village use only four male names, and four female names. To me, it was very confusing, but to them it is very sensible. For generations, the men here have been known as either John, Thomas, Martin, or Paul, and the women as Eva, Katherina, Anne, or Elizabeth. In case there are more than four male or female babies born in a family, they start naming them over again as John II, Thomas II, Eva II, and so on. ' At about eleven o'clock, the bridegroom came into the room, dressed in his light blue costume, accompanied by his goodman, or advocate, who does all the talking for him. The best man, as we would call him, asks the parents of the bridegroom to give him their blessing. This, of course, is granted, and the words used throughout the ceremony both by parents and best man are Bible verses, and some of them are chanted. After this little ceremony in the house, we all went outside to form a wedding procession, which was to march down the village street, to the strains of the town band, to the home of the bride. T was a strange procession, led by a group of the young male rela- ANCIENT RITES AT A MODERN WEDDING tives of the family. These young fellows, dressed in their light blue pants and white, fingertip-length coats, flaring slightly from the waist, embroidered in red, blue, and green, made quite a picture as they danced and sang along the snow-covered country road. Behind them came the town band attracting as much attention as the group ahead, but with the help of a drum and brass horns. It was the kind of an oldfashioned country band that one only reads about. It was interesting to actually see and hear one. Following the band, came the bridegroom, very solemn and serious, accompanied by his best man, who, in a respect, acts as his lawyer, and his advisor. Behind them walked the colorful group of young girls, with their bright costumes and gay headdresses. As they walked with light, almost dancing steps, their bright yellow skirts swung from side to side. Even the tiny girls, some only five or six years old wore these costumes, and they looked so sweet with their little feet in boots, and their yellow skirts swinging. Following the young girls came the matrons, whose dresses were somewhat more subdued and practical. The rest of the parade was made up of the wedding guests, including us, the foreigners, who must have looked strange in our modern dress of the western civilization. In this fashion we marched down the road to the home of the bride, where we found that more feasting and celebrations had been going on all morning. We entered the house, where the representatives or advocates of the bride and groom did all the talking, arguing back and forth 737 about the advantages and disadvan'ages of the marriage state. During their somewhat heated discussion about the merits and disadvantages of marriage, they spoke in Biblical terms, using quotations from Paul, and various prophets. They each quoted passages from the Bib. E on the subject, pro and con. Finally, the groom was quizzed on his knowledge of the Bible, which he knew very well, as does every inhabitant of this town. The advocates agreed that he was worthy to take a wife from the family and suggested that he choose his bride. First an old, old lady was brought in, but he said she was not the one. Then another, younger one, appeared, but she again, was not the one. In a moment the real bride was brought in and, upon the groom's request, the advocate asked the parents for her. The father gave his consent, upon which the girl went to her father, thanked him for the home, education, and all he had given her, and asked to be forgiven of all her wrongdoings. He gave her his blessing, and it was a very tender scene between father and daughter. Then everyone came out of the house, and the parade started back again towards the small white church on the hill. The groom still walked alone with the men, and the bride walked in the group of maidens. The gaiety continued, but the bride and groom were very solemn and serious. At the church we sat in the visitors' balcony where we could view all the proceedings nicely. The women entered the church first, and sat on one side of the room. The (Continued on page 761) | Saw Paricutin Ann Rich VER since the morning paper flashed the news that a fireand-brimstone-hurling — volcano was being born in the flat cornfields of Paricutin, Mexico, I was possessed of an insatiable desire to see it. My husband listened indulgently whenever I dreamed aloud about such a journey. Our young son smiled superciliously, advising me to go into training before contemplating so rugged a trip. Our daughter was totally unimpressed. In spite of the indifference of my family, the idea of seeing Paricutin continued to smolder. Four years later I was able to consummate my plans for the trip. As late as 1947 it was still possible to observe the prolonged birth throes of Paricutin, the Western Hemisphere's youngest volcano. On the 20th of February 1943, to the peaceful little farm village of Paricutin, Mexico, came the bewildering, disturbing, and soul-searing experience of witnessing the writhing agony of Mother Earth in labor. For these simple people it meant destruction of house, home, and field. The great Mother. Trembled and they were frightened. She knocked at their doors and they knew not what it meant. She gathered her mighty forces and warned that her time had come. Room and more room was needed for the birth, the birth of a baby volcano. And so, for these peasants, birth brought destruction. The four, long years of waiting came to an end and I left the border Page 738 behind and arrived in Mexico City whence the trek to Paricutin started. Here the final arrangements were made and early one morning we planned to leave Mexico City— that is, as eatly as the native driver, Salvadore, could rouse himself. He arrived late but, seeing that sunny smile all over his clean-shaven brown face, who could be angry? And even when I observed he was not driving to the open highway, but to the congested part of the city where he stopped uno momento (in order to pick up two more passengers not counted on), that same smile again completely disarmed me. Finally, under the power of Salvadore's_ cautious driving, we skimmed along smoothly and comfortably over splendid roads all the way to the flower-filled mountain town of Patscuaro. Here we rested for the night. HE following morning saw us on the last lap of the journey to Uruapan, which was to be our headquarters before taking off for the great adventure. 'These roads, too, were excellent, except that they climbed, twisted, and turned, each good turn being repaid by many other good turns. By noon we reached the summit. This was a breath-taking spot called Mil Cumbres, meaning "a thousand peaks," and so it seemed as they spread out to the far horizon in countless, undulating, sea-green crests. From this vantage point we were able to see dimly a thin wisp of smoke coming 1 SAW PARICUTIN from the great spectacle we were soon to view at close quarters. Upon arriving at our Uruapan hotel, we had a hasty mid-afternoon cup of cinnamon-flavored chocolate in a brightly colored, tile-lined patio, filled with lush semi-tropical growth. The air was pregnant with electricity, garlic, and well-fed flies! No sooner had we donned the blue denim coveralls furnished by the hotel for the horseback nde to the volcano, than the torrential rains came. When Salvadore questioned the advisability of starting, the two Texans, our added passengers, voiced my own thoughts by saying, "Hi, oh, Salvi, let's go!" I, too, agreed that it be Paricutin or drown. The special automobile which Salvadore had engaged for the drive between Uruapan and the pony rendezvous, was already waiting for us. This heavy car, with extra durable tires, was necessary in order to carry it over the glassy rubble of the recently blazed road. Prior to the voicano's nativity, the approach from Uruapan to the little agricultural center in the valley of Paricutin was by mountain trail and burro back. Even after four years of tourist travel, the mountain trail could scarcely be called a road. We lumbered over wide ruts, crevices, ravines, washes, and steep grades. Only the weight of the car, coupled with the slow gait at which it tossed about, kept it upright. We riders within experienced all the physical discomforts of every disagreeable mode of travel. It was a conglomerate sensation of rides on camels, elephants, and storm-rocked _ ships. While I groaned and braced myself 739 wherever I could, the Texans were calling upon all the shades of Hades. Their steady flow of profanity was pleasantly tempered by a delightful Southern drawl. Angry rivulets, red mud, and the pelting rain were all about. What with the blinding sheets of water, I was beginning to wonder why I had not included swimming in my preparations for this trip. Each time our special driver dashed across __ fissures spanned merely by two loose planks I was sure the end was at hand but, miraculously enough, he made it every time. LTIMATELY the rain ceased as suddenly as it had started and we reached San Juan de las Colchas, where we pulled up to the group of waiting Indians and their ponies. I no sooner crept out of the car than an Indian led his pony directly to me, saying in fairly understandable Spanish that this pony was the smallest and muy bien (very good) for me. I speak of his Spanish being fairly understandable because many Indians in remote sections speak their own dialects, so that to one whose ears are attuned to Castilian Spanish, theirs could sound strangely foreign. He called my attention to the nice, new, intricately tooled saddle. Yes, it looked nice. I learned later that its unyielding newness was nice enough to kill. After helping me to mount the pony, the Indian threw the reins to his son, about ten years of age, who was to lead the pony up the trail. The two Texans had already taken off on their ponies like ducks to water. Salvadore had started. Other groups of tourists were falling in- 740 VOLCANO AT PARICUTIN, MEXICO to the trek. I slowly followed to the mournful droning chant of the muchacho (boy), Leaving San Juan de las Colchas, we rode over a gently rising slope covered with damp, black ashes. I quite envied the muchacho the joy of trudging barefoot. Each step left the imprint of five little toes and a perfect arch. In a short time a stiff breeze came up and I fastened the braided cord of the sombrero under my chin. The hat served as a suitable windbreak as well as a rain shield. As I looked up I could see that Salvadore was keeping himself warm by galloping away at full speed. With his crimson poncho (blanket) billowing about his portly body, he no longer was the whitecollared tourist interpreter, but a child of the peasant tribesmen. That RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 was the last I saw of him for the next hour and a half. The climb grew steadily steeper, the light dimmer. Presently I saw one of the most poignant sights of the whole trip. As far up the hillside as was visible, there stood etched against a backdrop of black ashes, unburied, twisted limbs of treetops, stripped to ivory nakedness. 'This was the aftermath of Mother Earth's hot, spewing breath during her supreme struggle. Here they stood, transfixed, the silent sentinels of a new order. The unchanging dirge-like chant of the muchacho sent a deeper eeriness through me. From here we moved on to the edge of the lava beds, which were the exhausted masses of cinnamoncolored boulders. These were precariously heaped to monstrous heights by the powerful forces exerted from the adjacent molten lava. Both boy and pony now cautiously picked their way over the treacherous rocks, while I desperately clung to the pommel in order to compensate for the many shifting positions. Off and on, we would pass through heavy warm vapors and be momentarily enveloped. We continued to climb. Next we found ourselves in a furrow flanked by steep walls of sertated rock, rising to saber-like pinnacles. All this was once the pulsating lifeblood of Mother Earth. Gradually we reached the crest between two furrows. Here we were able to stand atop the surface-cooled tidge and view the countless semicongealed streams of molten lava which had careened down the valley nearly a mile wide and twelve miles ment was gon nly the iN Sipated in he h vily lad » BAseous SPlleés of the elaborate Cathedral re atmosphere mained, It was very dark ang Cold when After an awesome pause in this My muchacho came quietly UD to Weird atmosphere Of death-like Sme with a boxed lunch, Looking lence, the little &uide leq the Pony around, | Could see that the Other off the laya beds, along an ash-coy. Uides were doing the same, Soon ered path Which Zigzapped ever Salvadore had Started g Small fire higher until we Teached the summit. Around Which we huddled, No one Tom Is hil] f, h Were to seemed to h em Ppetite for "ew Paricutin w S about a half mile, food. T young S Were ho he crow g ¢s, from the volcano Ping up and down ¢ P warm throwing In a fe boy lPppees," I" Was at Paling twilight that J got Now and then they Would lapse jn. Darkening heavens, Rolling white During this fime the guides got Puffs of velvet-like Softness rose out the idea of Keeping ls amused by of the Crater, Etadually to SPread out r unning Taces down the ash-covereq into fleecy white clouds, Each new hill to bring back Pieces of hot Sulisplay arth's fiery p ur. In between ns they would teath heralded by Tesounding Ppily accept Portions of yp, Tumblings Toarin € at eaten foo > 4nd proceed to entertain 'Most regular Interval] followed } with more es, Wrestling, and gl Pause, an £N fleecy puffs again, gling, Like ¢ a vetywhere "Sif the moth fre catching they enjoyed holding the center of &r breath for the s have the Stage said a d to a YOne, even Is After this Salya Ore pointed out could } ade myself heard, a new 4Perture in th volcano swathed jn Colors of ame and: white, wag agnified thousan d.- a lava-fo d f anicutin's fol Off € outer are Of the &towt sky, as though keeping g Safe dis SOMETIME later, thoroughly n ance, Myriad CUurlOUS stars came out Spired Well as chil ed, we re of the arkness to blin and Witness luctantly commence th descent with us the Prolonge Pangs of This ride ° Prove even more Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1889 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL Nations" WOMAN: You talk about the fire of genius. Many a blessed woman who dies unsung and unremembered has given out more of the real vital heat that keeps the life in human souls, without a spark flitting through her humble chimney to tell the world about it, than would set a dozen theories smoking, or a hundred odes simmering in the brains of so many men of genius—-O. W. Holmes. IN MEMORIAM "The loved and lost!"" Why do we call them lost Because we miss them from our onward road? God's unseen angel o'er our pathway crossed, Looked on us all, and loving them the most, Straightway relieved them from life's weary load. MARICOPA STAKE: Sister Ann Kleinman reported the Alma Ward, showing that a portion of the sisters were alive to their duties, encouraged mothers to be more zealous. Sister Savage spoke encouragingly of the Papago Ward, said the native sisters were anxious to learn from their white sisters the domestic duties of wives and mothers. —F. E. Robson, Stake Sec. THE LOST LENORE: The cottage in which Edgar Poe wrote "The Raven" has been torn down to make room for more modern buildings: but before it was demolished, even for years, since the death of Poe, relic hunters have visited the place carrying away anything portable; shingles, wallpaper, fire-place and window-lattice: so that really not much remained of the original home. THOUGHTS OF CHILDHOOD HOURS Thoughts. Of my childhood hours, Revel awhile for me, And pluck from fancy's bowers, Fair leaves from life's young tree Sweet buds of youth and beauty, Growing uncheck'd and free, In loving truth and duty Oh, bring them back to me! REASONS WHY: We do not intend to sit down in the corner and cry for sugar plums when there is so much needed work to be done, we do not believe in the fiction of the clinging vine, for although woman is more delicate in her organization than man, though she may sometimes carry her love of the refined and the beautiful to an extreme, still her heart is of oak, and when called to pass through scenes of trouble and distress, often exhibits a fortitude and carries burdens at which man would shrink, and when the trumpet sounds and the watchman on the tower cries aloud that the day is breaking, woman will be there with man and receive the reward of victory.— Phebe C. Young. Page 742 are repAmong these, the best known are Elinor Wylie, Emily Dickinson, Edith Sitwell, Marianne St. Vincent Millay, The Volume js indeed g "treasury" and is wel] worth Woman's Sphere Ramona Ww. Cannon can delegation at the Meeting of the | MBs. EDITH RUSSELL OLIvert to the SOCiate editor of the fairs, and an adviser: as EDITORIAL VOL. 36 NOVEMBER 1949 No. 11 Shanksgiving Without a Seast WE think of Thanksgiving as actually beginning on an autumn day in 1621, after the Pilgrims had gathered their first harvest. We associate the word with reaping, the gathering of crops, and feasting on the good things which the earth yields abundantly. And yet the very first Thanksgiving Day was not a harvest festival. There had been no reaping and there was no feast. 'Thanks were given for all blessings, and thus it happened that the first Thanksgiving was in the late autumn of 1620, before any seeds had been planted in the earth roundabout Plymouth. It is recorded that the Pilgrim Fathers gave thanks when they first sighted the coast of New England. During their journeys of exploration and their trips inland to gather wood and search for food, they knelt and offered praise for the safe arrival of the Mayflower which had braved the stormy Atlantic and had arrived on the shores of the New World. There, on the edge of the wilderness, they were conscious of the great barrier of the ocean, conscious of the separation of distance. They felt wonderment and curiosity concerning that vastness which lay beyond the "stern and. Rockbound coast," and their strength came from 4 realization of their dependence upon divine guidance. Thoughts, clothed in the rhythm Page 744 of words, are long remembered and seem to grow more precious with the years. We are indebted to Govemor William Bradford for a lucid description of the end of a great sea journey, and the beginning of a new commonwealth. Being thus arrived in good harbor and brought safe to land, they fell upon their knees and blessed ye God of heaven, who had brought them over ye vast and furious ocean, and delivered them from all ye perils and miseries thereof, again to set their feet on ye firm and stable earth, their proper elemente. The shore sloped up to the hills and the trees stood dark above the water. Winter had come to the New England coast and lay heavy on the hills. Ice had already locked the streams and snow covered the unknown reaches of the land. And for ye season it was winter.. A desolate wilderness.- - - for summer being done all things stand with a weatherbeaten face, and ye whole country, full of woods and thickets, represented a wild and savage hiew. Such was the unwelcoming shore, and such the feelings of the Pilgrim Fathers on that day and in that year wherein the cornerstone of a nation was laid and the beginning of Thanksgiving came to America. For, as Governor Bradford so earnestly expresses it: Our forefathers came Over this great ocean, and were ready to perish in the EDITORIAL wilderness; but they cried unto ye Lord, and he heard their voyce «© - ° Let them therefore praise ye Lord because he is good and his mercies endure forever. The Pilgrims had found a home, and they expressed their gratitude for a haven in the New World, a place for the building of houses of worship, for the erecting of stately halls of government, for an Opportunity to build the material security and _ spiritual strength which are 745 necessary for the complete develop ment of a people. And now, 1 this time of social unrest and shifting values, it is well for us to remember the words inscribed on Governor Bradford's monument, which, with the passing years, become even more significant: "What our fathers with so much difficulty secured, do not basely relinquish.' V. P. C. Eo Ascendant Autumn Ruth Harwood This is a canticle of autumn, The essence of its mortal and immortal messages. Autumn, the very whisp Language of er of the wind among the trees, human, tender memories. Longing, heart's hunger unfulfilled, Elegies of utter wistfulness, threnodies of dusk Before the passing day is stilled. Autumn, the vibrant glowing overselé which shines above The lonely, aching, human heart of love, Time's balanced place of beauty where we can behold The radiance of spirit's high, eterna 1 gold. Earth (Qecorator Christie Lund Coles Yesterday her place was done In palest silk chartreuse, And pastel shades of petal-pink Too delicate for use. Today, she covers footstools In varied shades of red, Gleaming gold, and amethyst. Upon the hill is spread A counterpane of orange, Bright crimson, purple, blue; Her tapestries are very gay And definitely new. She is most lavish in her Of shades flamboyant, b whim will change and she'll Re-do the place Yet soon her choice right, jn white. Is achingly poignant with 1 Suggestions for a Work Meeting Luncheon Christine Eaton TOMATO AND CORN CHOWDER (Makes about 8 quarts ) 1 No. 2 cans corn 1 bay leaf " gts. White sauce 3 Sprigs parsley "4 cup diced bacon, browned 2% tbsp. Salt 6 eggs, hard cooked 2 qts. And 1 cup tomatoes 2 tsp. Worcestershire Sauce 1% qts. Diced potatoes 1 tsp. Pepper Fry onions in bacon fat. Combine all ingredients, except white sauce and eggs, and cook till potatoes and onions are tender. Add white sauce and Sliced eggs, SANDWICHES (Makes about 5° sandwiches) "2 cup soft butter or margarine 2 cups finely chopped nuts 2 cups grated cheese 1 tsp. Paprika Mix butter or margarine with the cheese and nuts and Papnka into a paste. Spread on any kind of bread. Here is a very old cookie recipe. The longer they stand the better they are. GINGER COOKIES 2 cups Jard © 2 tbsp. Soda 2% cups molasses 4. €ggs, well beaten + cup brown sugar -8 cups flour tbsp. Ginger Put the lard, Sugar, molasses, and ginger on the stove and let come to a rolling boil. Add the soda. Mix and allow to cool. When cool add _ well-beaten eggs and flour enough (about 6-8 cups) to roll out. Cut in large rounds and bake in modcrately hot oven 350° for 10-15 minutes, They are very nice to make into animals and ginger men to hang on Christmas trees, —~<g~— She Long Led Lael W. Hill They have come a long way from young love's eager chatter To find that in silences much can be heard; Heart answers heart—with never a word. Page 746 1 good sized onion sliced Smile speaks to smile all the phrases that matter, cup bacon, chicken, or other fat | a Medals and Joanna Margery S. Stewart War ended at last and David tO some dinner oy oth came home to pack away his moment's Notice," his uniform and to parry Joanna sat fe) CHaprrp 11 Synopsis: Joanna, widowed when her afternoon to find Abigail arrangin children. Small, courageously Works dozen Ted roses into 4 blue potte Into a Profitable 'business Selling Boston- " > baked heart nd bakery goods, fy a al T Penny; J anna asked. Neighbor, Abigail Smith, as a Pattner, gives Abigail nodded, here's another much hard wor and good advice Joanna, to €N In the Tefrigeratoy " Placing the Welfare of her children first, Joanna Opened he door and buys comfortable home from Kent peered into h florist's box aylor, a wr > acting temporarily as a "Hy M. Hi From. Teal estate agent, der to attend a umm Ore ore ids Tom P. T. A. Meeting, Joanna breaks 4 date With whom? Kent and he leaves t, Joanna ang Abigail chuckled, "From the Abigail °PEN a number of new Ops and aves and have-nots The anna finds her life enriched with Many.. New friends and the 4 iding love of her Orchids are fro Lance Kendal] of children nt Taylor re ums from an © Kendal] Otors, and the roses 4ssignment jn Europe and ks Joanna to ate from May Saunders _ - + Orphan Marry hj In orde to become Kent's artist and on g00d days I Wife, she Plans to leaye her children jn Abigail's ¢; for six Months while Kent "Sis asttw dimes '0 rub to will be stationed in New York. Ust be. Gether " fore th wedding, however, Joanna de. Joanna giggled You Sound like cides that sannot leave her family, 4 SoaP opera." She put the orchid os is: able oe a igs back jn the y "gerator and Closed & man of ques onable character. E '. D evotes herself O business 4 to the door, "nny wearin them = Problems her _househ Id, becomin night?; especially interested in the ambitions of Abigail'; fyes twinkled. "No. It ichael, her Youngest child seems that Lance Kendal] Just took 41 awful Jot When he their questions about his sojourn kitchen table, "Honestly, you know Overseas. Joanna "ame home one February and Penny one of th He was taller and very oything, Vd like to get in on my > t he came Often children's love affairs once ug Joanna fiercely and mutter, awhile," "It's good to be home." They gave Abigail thr ust the last y 4 job in the Mutual, and bethe vase Teached for 4 dish ween that and School, he Was towel "You've been Spending al] Seldom ho "nty died, ang your time at the office, tying to earn Abigail came to live with them, her ore money than we need, \p mforting as sunshine, I think you'll be hearin' ftom Mark OSE into 748 They'll be coming to ask your blessing. "No!" Joanna slid off the table. "It's not gone that far!" Abigail picked up the vase and sniffed the roses. "Penny is twenty. She's in love. You married younger." "You know it's not her age. But I won't have her marrying Mark Saunders. I won't let her. I won't!" She stood still, looking at her trembling hands. "You're letting yourself get upset over something you can't help." Joanna lifted her eyes. "You know what it's like to be poor. You've been through the things I've been through. You love Penny. Do you want her to have the life we knew?" Abigail put the roses back on the table. She faced Joanna. "Listen to me, Joanna. I've been poor and now, thanks to you, I'm a well-to-do woman, an' I can't see a speck of difference in my happiness. I was happy with Henry. I've been very happy with your children and you." She came to Joanna and hugged her briefly. "Never will ] forget what a perky little thing you were. Rememberin' just this morning how you taught Primary when you were dead on your feet." JOANNA kissed the soft, lined forehead. "I was gtim and grave in those days took religion seriously," Abigail hesitated. "Did you know that it was on account of you that I went to Church... That I started payin' my tithes?" "No?" Joanna laughed. "All these years and I didn't know." Abigail nodded vigorously. "You were one of the shining ones, then RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 an' I never stopped being grateful to you for opening a door to me. That's why I've stayed here when times I was so mad I would have left you in a minute... Like now." "Abigail! You couldn't leave me. What have I done?" Abigail sniffed. "You're being perfectly pigheaded over Mark and Penny. Not taking into account how glad you ought to be that Penny's found a man of her own faith." "There's plenty of nice boys of all faiths," Abigail turned away. "I guess I should have known you would say that. Of course, there are nice boys of all faiths. But to think that Penny should be so blessed.... Did you know Mark's work is attracting attention back East?" Joanna shrugged. "Abigail, once and for all, I don't care what attention Mark's work gets. I won't have Penny Mattying a 'hand-tomouth artist, and I'm not in the mood to support one myself." Abigail turned heavily toward the kitchen table. She picked up the vase again and carried it into the dining room. Over her shoulder, she asked in last defiance, "How are you going to stop her from marrying him, if she chooses?" Joanna swept off her smart fur hat and let the new fur coat slide from her shoulders. She sank wearily into a kitchen chair and stared out into the garden. The willow tree trailed its naked fingers in the snow and the rose bushes bowed under the white burden. Sparrows scolded by the tiny pond. Sally came dancing in from school. Sixteen years old, Joanna marveled at the change that had JOANNA Come over girl, the chubby. The blue eyes that "Hi!" She came Over and Kissed Joanna, "How's everything?" "Fine," Joanna said tonelessly, How is school?" "Marvelous. Ate you coming to See the play?" "What play?" 'What play?" Sally rolled h heavenward in despai ce é M Play. ['m € lead. | t kissed Oh, Mother, I'm won erful." Sh Stopped shorp « Y did you turn TS. William » When she asked you to take a Bechive Class?" Joanna ran her hand through her hair, « ith Y nerves, ['q Probably bite of the heads of the little Beehivers. P ch. Much tog usy,"" mean.. |» Joanna smiled, "T do. You ichael and - - » Penny." "Penny? She won't go." "Oh, iid and sandwich up. Penny is in love, Didn't you know? Errific Mark 4) Ountiful, if you gave her the town." Joanna smiled. "But £0... To help her ailing t do — ything wrong?" othing except Mark Saunders, ¥Y Marry that Imif | Said put the bread, untasted on the table, Insisted, "Sorry, darling, byt this is more important," Penny had Started to teat deal, 59 that 750 delightful in the summertime with its wicker furniture. Now it was bleak. The town was hidden under a pall of smoke, but to the west the sun was setting in flaming splendor. She watched David's car come up the street. She smiled, seeing David's hand thrust out when he turned into the driveway, the cautious slowing down, so_ like David, careful, conscientious. No trace in him at all of his gay and reckless father. She went back into her room and changed into a housecoat and stretched wearily on the chaise longue. She heard David's step on the stair and then he knocked at her door. "Come in, David. Ive _ been watching you come home." He opened the door and came in. He wore glasses now; they gave his face a scholarly look. But his blond hair was still as rumpled as when he was a little boy. He bent to kiss her and Joanna patted it into place. "What's new?" He pushed her over and sat beside her. "Mom, do you love me?" She grinned at him. "Even though you are a pill... I love you still." The old childhood rhyme brought the slow smile to his mouth. "How would you like it if I ran out on you for a couple of years?" "T wouldn't." Joanna sat up. "You've just come back." "T've been called on a mission... To Great Britain." iio sank back. She sighed in relief. "Oh, you frightened me for a moment. Of course, you can't go." "Why not?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 Something in his voice she had never heard before, a withdrawal, as though she had become a stranger. She took his hand. "I need you, David." "What is it?" Quick alarm and concern in his eyes, and instantly, the old adoring love. "It's Penny..." "I know. Has Mark been around to sue for her hand? He told me gie was trying to get up courage." Joanna leaned forward. "I won't have her marry Mark. I won't, I tell you, I won't." "But Mother, Mark's a swell guy, none better." "He's not good enough for Penny. After all the years I've worked and slaved to give her something better than I do.... Do you think I'm going to throw her right back into poverty? No. No!" Suddenly she was crying, fiercely, bitterly, the hot tears burning her palms and running down her wnists. "Mother... Mother, please!" He tried to take her hands away from her face. "I want you to stay home and run the business. I'll take Penny and Michael and Sally ona long... Long trip. You're the only one I can trust." "T see." He dropped her hands. She lifted her face to him. "You think I'm being cruel and unreasonable, but you don't know what Penny has always meant to me. You know she's not like other girls... She's different.... There is so much of loveliness in her." "T know." David turned to face her. "Mother, don't you see? Don't you understand about Penny? JOANNA She doesn't need a lot of fancy gadgets around her. She doesn't feed on things like clothes, or jewels, or cars. She is nourished from deeper springs." He stared over Joanna's head. "Once, in March it was, I found her in the garden, holding a twig of willow against her face. She looked at me with that shining in her. 'I'm trying to listen to the life inside,' she said, 'the something in this willow that js already alive and racing toward spring, green life, David, coming up through the earth, running through the little green tunnels of this willow.' I said to her, 'Well, it sure looks dead on the outside.' She smiled at me, you know that funny little secret smile of hers, and she said, "You just don't know, David.' " Joanna shook her head. "I know. It sounds just like her. Sounds like her poetry, too. Oh, David, I have such dreams for her. Such a future. I'll take care of her, guard her from every sorrow. She will write things that will make the world sit up and take notice."' David sighed heavily. "Oh, Mom, you don't understand. You're trying to keep Penny from life, from beauty. Work and Struggle are beautiful... Don't you see?" OANNA rose and walked over to her dressing table. "No. I don't see. I can't let my visionary children ruin their lives. [ye given too much, sacrificed too much." David rose slowly. "We owe you a great deal, Mother. I've never forgotten the way vou had to work when we were small. The winter mornings I would wake up to find you slaving over those ranges."' 751 Joanna turned to face him. "Tf you remember those things, David, you will do as I say. You will forget this missionary call for the time being, and you will stay home and watch over things while I take Pen. Ny on this trip." David was silent for a long time. Then he lifted his head; his face was quiet. "Something tells me that Iam going to have the privilege of going on a mission. So, perhaps it is all tight to stay home now... A year is not long.., | can go when you get back." Joanna bent above the silver brushes on her table. "Plenty -of time for missions... Plenty of time." In the mirror she watched him leave the room. He closed the door quietly behind him. Joanna looked at her reflection. She looked unutterably tired. But still her face had not lost its beauty, the silver wings of hair above her temples were becoming, they made the rest of her dark hair seem richer and 'More shining. She had put on weight in the last year, but it had smoothed away the lines that used to run sharply from nose to mouth. She looked brisk, and attractive and competent. She looked as if she would be interesting to know.. Worldly, amusing. Pll need clothes, Joanna thought, and went to the closet to take in. Ventory. Suddenly the thought of the people she would meet, the gay, witty, tolerant people, filled her with a frantic: desire to be gone. Penny would meet someone devastating, and that would be the end of Mark Saunders. (To be concluded ) Fun With Spools Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson | alte spools are such nice little wooden objects to paint. They are smooth and even in size and just the thing to hold small size candles. Show card colors or oil paints work equally well, and with little effort and lots of fun, you can decorate them to suit the occasion. Hearts and flowers in the Pennsylvania Dutch manner, letters to spell out "Happy Birthday," "Valentine Greetings," "Happy Faster," fancy stripes, or funny faces—you can think up many more. Surround the next birthday cake with a circle of spool candle holders, or use one at each place to hold the place card at your next party. It's fun to use simple things effectively! November Moon Margaret B. Shomaker The blood-red moon hangs low upon the hill Against the darkened arch of indigo, And on the night a cry of whippoorwill, The low and doleful tone is long and slow. I bend my knees to ease and follow her As she wends her way upon the ground. But where? I do not see the grasses stir; Listening long, I hear no other sound. Slow over stubble field I move with care; The cornstalks, stripped of foliage, dry and still, And earth, man-scarred, is waiting for repair. The breeze foretells a winter white and chill; Across the field new hope in this November, My heart drinks full a beauty to remember. Page 752 You Can Learn PART II C& for Clay and D Js for Dirt Katherine Kelly \ \ / E were late with supper that night. In fact, we were late every night, unless we ate before Tom did the chores. I was a little silent, too. It didn't seem that I would ever learn. Even Mother said that I was a tomboy. Tom, eight years older than J, liked me to act dignified. Just that night I had forgotten again. I had been so happy when I'd seen him coming home from the fields that, since | was riding Betsy, bringing the cows home from the pasture, I had whirled her around and dashed off through the fields to meet Tom. Then I had jumped from the pony while she was still Tunning, as my brother had taught me to do, and tun headlong toward Tom. But the colt he was breaking had snorted, and reared and the team had started to run. Tom, who was a master with horses, had quieted them again in a few minutes. I had taken Betsy's rein and trailed slowly after him 'to the corral. Tom had been very angry. "Can't you see that you scared the horses and won't you ever learn not to run | that pony through the fields like that? She might have broken her leg," he had stormed at me. I had taken Betsy's bridle off and turned her into the pasture. Then I had leaned against the corral fence while Tom carefully unharnessed and fed the team, At length he had grinned at me and taken my hand as we walked toward the house. [I felt penitent. Only this afternoon J had vowed that I would be a good farmen's wife. * *£ x "Let me help you milk tonight. I can milk, honest | can, I used to milk the little Jersey all the time at home." "That was different. I don't want my wife milking cows. You'll have enough to do in the house. Boy, does that fresh bread smell good!" he said as we opened the door and went into the house, I was happy again as I got out the wood alcohol to light the lamps and he took the milk buckets and went out again. We were very proud of those lights. They were gasoline lights and we had to warm them up with a wood alcohol torch, so it wasn't like just turning a button. But it was a sort of ritual with me and, when the lights came on so bright and beautiful, they were such a satisfaction. Brighter than electricity, we always said. They hung from the ceiling, too, and had a round glass bulb. Most farmers just had coal-oil lamps. As the room flooded with light, I looked proudly about the kitchen. The new plaster was smooth and white. It really didn't need kalsomine. The new white paint gleamed beautifully without a flyspeck as yet, and the blue in the oilcloth we Page 753 754 had put on that afternoon really complemented the bluebirds I had painted on the filmy, new curtains. I carefully shut the doors into the bedroom and the living room. We didn't have the money for paper and paint for them yet, but it wouldn't be long. Not many newly married couples could build a brand new three-room house on a farm. It was stucco on the outside and I could just see how it would look with pink roses on a white trellis by the porch. 'Tom had thought that maybe two rooms would do because we would be moving into town in a few years. But I told him stoutly that I didn't want to move into town, that people who made their home on the farm where they could take care of things, always did better and I wanted a house that could be a home. As I set the table for supper I thought again about jumping off that horse and acting so unladylike. I was always too impulsive and careless. Well, I wouldn't do that again. Maybe 'Tom would rather I just stood framed in the doorway, the lamplight making a halo around my head like I had seen pictures of women waiting for their men. That's what I would do after this. HILE we ate supper I told Tom about Daisy eating the little tree and how I had bandaged it up with mud. Tom was tired, but he smiled and teased, "Do you think that will help it?" "Well, sure, it will make it grow just like new. Mary thinks so, too." I knew that he would value Mary's opinion as he did her cooking. He had lived in his sister RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 Mary's home for so long that he practically worshiped her. "And, honey, do you know what I was thinking today?" I decided to break the subject gently as I hauled in the sick lamb, box and all, and prepared to feed it some of the warm milk. "No, I'd never know what you were thinking of next, what is it this time?" "T was thinking that I could plant some lawn, just a little lawn, out in front here and when that tree is big we could sit out on the lawn in the shade." "Now, Kate, sweetheart, please don't get all those funny ideas. You just build yourself a heartache. You know we don't get the water turn often enough to keep a lawn alive. And you couldn't even get one to come up on this darned clay spot." "What do you mean clay spot?" I asked absently as I picked a few ticks off the lamb and put them carefully in the stove. "I think I'll spray this poor lamb with some fly spray. The ticks are eating it alive." "You know we built the house on a clay spot, don't you? This ground is just like that I hauled the straw manure on over by the south fence. It won't raise anything for years." "But—but why then did you build the house here? It is too close to Joe's fence anyway, or you could have built up nearer the road." "Dad said this was the place to build. 'Just as well put your house here, can't raise anything anyway,' that's just what he said." "But I should think you would want your house where you could raise things best. I want currant YOU CAN LEARN and raspberry bushes, a garden, and flowers and everything." "My dear, that's the kind of farms they have in books. This is a real farm. This heavy clay soil won't raise flowers anywhere, much less on this clay spot. You'll find out about this soil before you have lived here much longer. Now I'm tired and am going to bed, coming?" "In a minute. I've got to think, And I want to wash the dishes." walked out onto the porch and on out into the moonlight. So this ground wouldn't raise lawn and flowers, and we only got the water every ten days! People who built their houses on clay spots so they wouldn't waste any good farming ground! I all but frothed at the mouth as I walked up and down in the moonlight. Still none of the other farmers around us had lawn and flowers. Maybe they couldn't have them. Some of them didn't even have trees. Well, I couldn't live that way. I'd change this soil! And I'd have a rose growing there by that porch if I had to water it with dishwater. No, the pigs had to have the dishwater. I'd water it with water from the washbasin. And some way I'd have a lawn, too. A pheasant call sounded lonely from the fields and suddenly the spring night felt chill. I was glad to go back into the warm kitchen, dip some of the precious water into a pan, and wash the dishes. I dallied a little, putting the dishes away on the newly painted shelves. Then I took a chair and climbed up and turned out the bright gas light. Softly I opened the bedroom door. 755 Next morning I was up bright and early, but Tom was up earlier and was out milking the cows. I went first to the box behind the stove to see how the lamb had fared during the night. It lay all stretched out, and at first I thought it was dead. Just then it gave a faint bleat and struggled to get up. I ran as fast as I could go to the corral. "Tom," I yelled, "that lamb is worse, I think it is going to die. What can I do?" The cow was startled and nearly upset the milk bucket. Tom patiently moved his stool and started milking again. "Let it die, I guess. It probably will anyway," he said. "But if you want to monkey with it, Joe says castor oil sometimes helps. Mary has some if you want to try it." I was on my way before he had stopped speaking. Joe was watering the lucern field which lay between our house and theirs but, fast as I was going, I took the ditches which crossed the path in my stride and scarcely saw them. Mary was cooking breakfast. She left the stove and found the castor oil among the many bottles in her medicine cabinet. She held the bottle up to the light and shook it. "Yes, there is plenty here. You won't need more than a couple of teaspoontuls. Don't you want a hot biscuit?" "Oh, no, thanks, I'm in a hurry. Thanks a lot." And I was gone again as fast as I could run. I jumped the ditches as I ran just as I had done on the way over, but I must have stepped too close to the edge of one. Down I went, my foot sinking deep in the mud and 756 throwing me forward with a splash. I caught myself with one hand and held the castor oil high with the other. But the more I tried to pull my feet out of the mud the farther in I sank. The mud itself just seemed to be pulling me deeper and deeper. "Tom," I called, "Tom!" He was just coming to the house with the milk. He put the buckets carefully on the back porch and walked leisurely around to the front and started putting on his big boots. There was a big grin on his face. Maybe I did look funny, but it was no joke. 'The more I floundered the deeper in I went. I would probably be clear to China before he got there. "Tom, come and help! Can't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 you see I am sinking deeper and deeper!" "What did I tell you?" he said as he came toward me in his big boots. "Just like quicksand this soil when it's wet and just like a brick when it's dry. Maybe you'll believe what I said about this ground now." He pulled me out and carried me the rest of the way home. Me with the bottle of castor oil held high and mud clear to my waist. "Still want to raise flowers?" he teased as he set me safely on the porch. Of course I wanted to raise flowers, what did that have to do with falling in the mud! November Day Beatrice K. Ekman A cold day, a gray day, Wind and rain and sleet; Sullen clouds that do not break, Shroud-mist on the wet, paved street. The rain drips from the shingle eaves In dreary monotone; With gusty force against the pane, A leafless branch is blown. The sodden leaves cling to the grass, Bare trees loom stark above... I kindle fire in my heart... In memory of my love. + —<- Pioneer Recipe Anna Prince Redd I remember a very old and a very respected, early pioneer of Panguitch, Utah. She lived alone in a log-room home on the edge of town. Every day at exactly four P. M. A townswoman, taking her turn, would arrive (or her child would) at the cabin with a hot dinner for "Aunt Mariar," as she was fondly called. One day when it was my mother's turn, she fixed the tray and sent me to deliver it. "Tell Aunt Mariar," Mother said, "that I didn't have any eggs to make a cake today, but I'll make one tomorrow and send her two pieces. And be sure to tell her before you uncover the tray, or she'll be offended and won't eat any dinner. She loves cake." Standing just beyond "Aunt Mariar's" exactly. Reaching hands, I delivered the message, Still living in her days of pioneer hardship, she leaned forward and cried out in a high-pitched voice: "Land sakes, child, you don't need eggs to make a cakel Just tell your Ma to add a little more soda to give it that yellow cast." The Interest and Beauty of Vegetables Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board This is the seventh in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. — J HERE is s° much and interest in will only learn to find it. But some sn the daily Tow iss half the give us. Stance. Do they mean to you just "the edible portion of a p which you, as the housewife, prepare for the family yeat in an year out because of their food value and vitamin content? Or are they art of nature's wealth in gorgeous colors and intriguing shapes? Ine more vivid colors than the "kelly green" of a pep n flanked by 'punches of fresh looking water Cress and white spring onions with theit long green tops terest I'd add a couple leaves. Nd, in the deep, beets. A customer in a grocery Store once asked the storekeepet what he had i of bananas. "Only the shape of a banana. Never seen one, have you? The same with vegetables. Fach one is as different from the others in contour as it is in color and flavor. When that mythical charactet figured out vege tables, I think she must have been i Else why ated Brussels sprouts? And then did she get the idea of having an aristothe center an pus surrounded by rows of circles in almost perfect geomet: Page 757 758 rical perfection. And speaking of design, note the intricate one which a tomato cut in half makes.. The dictionary says the tomato is "the fruit of a garden vegetable." Be that as it may, it is a vegetable to me and always will be. I wouldn't think of arranging a nice basket of fruit and putting a tomato tight in the middle of it. In fact, I think the tomato would feel very uncomfortable. And now I'm going to tell how this article came to be written. [ was invited by the Park Stake Relief Society board to represent the general board at a luncheon at the Lion House given in honor of the ward presidencies and secretaries of Relief Society in Park Stake. HE long tables were decorated in vegetables, and so well had the hostesses, under the able direction of Sister Janet Kirton of the stake board, caught the beauty and interest, as well as the humor, which vegetables afford, that it was one of the most unusual table decorations Simmons Photo Art Studio THREE ONION-HEADED MEN IN A BANANA-SQUASH BOAT RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 I have ever seen. Right then I received permission to share this idea with other Relief Society members. Asked where they got the idea, they said they had heard of such a table and had seen some pictures, but as they worked it out, innumerable ideas came to them. I shall de. Scribe as many as possible and hope you will try at least some of them, for such a table certainly puts your guests in a jovial mood the minute they see it. No doubt you will think of other unusual combinations according to the particular vegetables you have at hand. Through the courtesy of Sister Ruby Karpowitz, President of Park Stake Relief Society, we are printing a picture of the decoration that centered the main table. For the background effect some unique branches dipped in harmonizing shades of bright paint in fall colors were used. (See article in the June Relief Society Magazine by A. J. Neff as to how to obtain and treat these odd-shaped pieces.) Cattails were added in the background and autumn leaves in the foreground of the arrangement. The place cards were small green tomatoes with a slit in the top to hold the card. The vegetables used, reading from left to right were as follows: A washer-woman whose head was a small onion, eyes were cloves, nose and mouth bits of finger peppers. Her cap was half of a red pepper, arms of string beans, bodice a whole red pepper with an acorn squash as her skirt. The wash tub was a tiny summer Squash supported on tooth picks and the washboard was a piece of cardboard. That queer looking bird that comes next was a crooked-necked squash with fancy buttons for eyes. There were half THE INTEREST AND BEAUTY OF VEGETABLES Simmons Photo Art Studio A VEGETABLE FAMILY DECORATES THE TABLE a dozen other smaller birds, whose eyes from the same crooked-necked Squash which come in a deep Orange color, The oars were straws and the sails corn husks, tomato, supported by a piece of macaroni for the handle. Other figures not shown in the Picture were smaller boats made of scooped out cucumbers. Case the rowers' bodies were made of radishes with tiny onions for string bean arms. A Sweet potato what grotesque head made from an Swiss chard turban (held in place with toothpicks), onion eyes, red finger-pepper nose, and corn kernels for teeth, placed in the slit cut for the mouth, I only hope that my readers will try out some of these ideas for their family gatherings on Thanksgiving day. The children will be especially pleased. 760 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 (Continued from Page 729) I shall close this article with a take our baby any more, but often came in brief statement by Bathsheba W. To caress her and play with her (Ibid., page Smith, wife of George A, Smith, 67). The Prophet's Cousin, who was wel] is 7 In Nauvoo, at his home, while playing fen that his neat son, Don with my baby boy, he said that children Carlos, died at Nauvoo mn August were the "honor, glory and toyal diadem 1841. Of woman!" Se I Saw Paricutin (Continued from Page 741) We stumbled on, altiving at San; Wound our way through the Juan de las Colchas and our Waiting hills built of ashes, over the sawPony owners. While I was being tooth lava tidges and then Past helped down, the little Suide ex. The skeleton trees. As I lig and tended his hand and in the only bobbed up and down, according to English 'word he ever uttered, he the terrain Over which we passed, said, "Teep?" He clenched the profthe grotesque, ghostlike figures with fered "teep" in his tiny fist and distorted bodies and twisted arms, fleetly ran to his father. Apparently assumed the mocking motions of the parent was Pleased for he said my jolting and swaying body. Wear "bueno" to the lad. Wearily I entered the Waiting car, 1 The others followed. We settled down for the arduous return jourSalvadore?" ney, but no one spoke. All of ys In a calm voice and from a short were completely spent from having distance, he answered, "Si, si, Se. Witnessed the Great Mother's magnora, I am here." Closing my eyes nificent travail. Thus I saw Paricuagain I now recognized the muy. Tin—the earth's youngest and most. Chacho's low, minor tones. Obstreperous child. Beauty in Brower Josephine J. Harvey There is warmth and loveliness that lies, Within the depths of dark brown eyes. I love Autumn for its bronze and gold And all the beauty that my heart can hold. Ancient Rites at a Modern Wedding (Continued from page 737) men came in and sat on the other. Under no circumstances do they sit together. Even the bride and groom sat on opposite sides. The church was quite plain, having no elaborate statues or paintings. The walls were sparkling white, with only a border of yellow and black design, in the village motif used on the costumes. The ceremony began with a strange, but delightful religious chanting, after which the minister stood and called for the couple to stand before him. He gave a lovely sermon to them on the meaning and holiness of marriage. The actual ceremony was very simple, with the bride and groom answering only "With the help of God, I will," when the minister asked the question of love, honor, and obey. After that, the two went to their separate places again until the end of the service. Only after the service, and out in the street, did the two walk together in a procession to the home of the bride for feasting. We went back to the home of the groom's parents, where we feasted along with the rest. There was so much food that we just couldn't eat all they offered us. These delightful country folk still eat in the same tradition of hundreds of years ago. The table was set with a series of large bowls in the center of the table. Each person had his own spoon and they all ate from the common bowl. It was new and very interesting to watch, because they were gracious and courteous about it all. Each took his spoonful'as he wanted, and when the bowl became empty it was soon filled with more of the same until the next course. They sat at the table almost all afternoon, eating and feasting. At about four in the afternoon a new ceremony took place at the home of the bride. The groom now took advantage of his nights, and asked the bride's parents if he might take her to his home to live with his family. The parents agreed and gave their blessing, but were very sad at the parting. The girl took leave of her parents and, with her, she took her dowry, which consisted of a whole wagon load of feather beds and pillows. The wedding guests all accompanied them "home." On the way, they were stopped by a villager who had stretched a chain across the road. Many villagers were gathered at this spot to watch the fun and join in the merriment. This man stopped the wedding party, told the couple of their folly, and tried to bargain with them for the pillows. He was finally defeated in his attempts to make them unhappy, and so was satisfied when they paid him a few crowns in tax to go on. The couple entered the home of the groom, and the bride went immediately to his parents, and asked them if they would accept her into the family as one of their daughters. This was a very touching ceremony, and tears of joy were shed as she was welcomed and blessed by the head of the household. Thus being accepted, the feather beds were moved into the house by the maidPage 761 762 ens in the group. The feasting continued until midnight at which time the bride discarded her maiden's headdress, and donned one of a matron. The wedding cake was brought in at this time. It was a colorful one with a hole in the middle. This was passed around and all present put money into the hollow cake, and each said something like this: "I bequeath you this money that you may remember to be a good and careful mother to your children." Others gave money for the cradle, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 others gave some to help buy a first animal for their flocks and so on. The celebration and feasting lasted for three days and, all the while, the villagers helped with the cooking, with the chores in the fields, and with the cattle and flocks so that no time was lost by those celebrating. It was a real example of brotherhood, love, and cooperation. The whole world could gain a lesson by observing this good, simple, God-fearing people who love their neighbors as themselves. > A Letter from Mother mM Dear Children: How are you, darlings? Are you having a grand holiday? With you! You next year. Oh, I would like to be But my imagination will lead me there and I will enjoy the Thanksgiving feast, the "family-sing," and the lively little folks—in my heart's eye. I will be with And this year I shall visit my dear brothers and sisters, and close the day, perhaps, by reading more in the Doctrine and Covenants. (I have acquired the habit of closing each day by reading a few verses from Church books.) The other evening, I turned to the 58th section of the Doctrine and Covenants and happened upon the words: "For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant." I read on until I fairly squirmed—you know how I prefer listening from the back row. After I turned out the lights, I thought of what I had read. I concluded that listening was all right in its place, but if the Lord expected us to act on our own initiative, seeking ways to help in his cause, I ought to see what I could do. I decided to offer to do typing or other detail office work for the bishopric, which would free them for more important duties. I felt ashamed that I had not seen the need before. Anyway, it seems to me that anything we do to help in the Lord's work really helps us. So, darlings, why not read that section and see if it affects you similarly? Suddenly it is quite late, and I must close. Dearest love to my grandchildren— and grand children. Mother CLARA HORNE PARK (Note: Mrs. Patk, who lives in Salt Lake City, is the daughter of Richard $. Horne and Elizabeth Price. She was reared in a home of culture where the spiritual values of religion and education were emphasized. At the age of twenty-two she married Lester Park and they became the parents of five children. For many years the family lived in New York City —Ed.), 'SS FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer ~All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. ACTIVITIES IN THE MISSIONS, SOCIALS, AND HANDICRAFT Photograph submitted by Elna P. Haymond NORTHERN STATES MISSION, WHITE FISH RESERVATION, STONE LAKE (WISCONSIN) RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS DISPLAYING ONE OF THE SEVERAL BEAUTIFUL QUILTS THEY HAVE MADE Front row, left to right: Daisy Berg; President Gertrude Sutter; Counselor Viola Goodwin. Back row, left to right: Julia Rusk; Betty Bracklin; Josephine Grover; Bernadette Bracklin; Anna Johnson; Julia Ford; Nellie Mustache; Helen Rusk; Susan Martin; Mary Robinson. President Gertrude Sutter and Sister Goodwin are the only members of the Church in this group. The women have, for the present, chosen an Indian name—Nod-ah-ma-gay (Helping Hand) for their group. 'The enrollment is fifteen and the average attendance is thirteen. The quilt shown here is one of several which these women have made. Their aim is to see that each family who is in need of a quilt is supplied with one. This project has been followed by a welfare garden and the women are busily engaged in canning a bounteous supply of vegetables for winter. This produce will be given to needy families. These sisters are enjoying the regular Relief Society lessons and are learning to sew, knit, and crochet. Elna P, Haymond is president of the Northern Statcs Mission Relief Society. Page 763 764 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 Photograph submitted by Francella C. Hale SAMOAN MISSION, PESEGA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Photograph taken on Mother's Day, May 8, 1949 The officers of this branch are seated on the second row, left to right: Losa, assistant organist; Penu, assistant secretary; Iva Fruen, secretary; Ane, First Counselor; Theresa Ah Ching, President; Taliga, second assistant; Laila Skipps, chorister; Kuka Tolupe, organist. Francella C. Hale, President, Samoan Mission Relief Society, reports that the occasion of this meeting gave much pleasure to the large number of sisters assembled. The Primary children sang special songs for the program and the mothers gave short talks. Each mother was honored with a corsage. 'These sisters conduct regular meetings and make many beautiful handicraft articles for their homes. Photograph submitted by Lula P. Child WESTERN STATES MISSION, GALLUP (NEW MEXICO) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS WORK DAY MEETING Front row, left to right: Gertrude Sullivan; Hazel Rogers; Secretary Amelia Lavender; First Counselor Virginia Lee; President Phyllis Chapman; Second Counselor Kenna Christensen; Edrie Haynie; Eva Ryan; Lola Allred; Madge Hope; Ernestine Lambson.; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 165 Second row, left to right: Delpha Bletcher; Louise Cunningham; Marilyn Cunning ham; Helen Hamilton; Ruby Duncan; Patsy Sullivan; Inez Baumgardner, Elva Wright; Ruth Sherman, Fern Mason; Leola Porter; Dorothy Frost Sister Hazel Rogers was the honor mother, having het five daughters in attendance: Helen Hamilton, Patsy Sullivan, Gertrude Sullivan, Ruby Duncan, and Ginget The theme for this delightful occasion was "Reviving the Old Arts." One sistet displayed a quilt made of 150° pieces. There were 4 number of crocheted doilies and pillow cases. One sister prought a baby dress that her six children have been blessed in. Other articles were napkins from Ireland, linen tablecloths, 4 pair of bustles, a straw urse from the Hawaiian Islands, a purse from Australia, several pieces of fancywork, a baby dress Worm sixty-five yeats ago. Lula P. Child is president of the Western States Mission Relief SocietyPhotograph submitted by Ada p. Jensen ONEIDA STAKE (IDAHO), MINK CREEK WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND TEACHERS WHO HAVE SONS SERVING M Left to right: Mildred B. Keller, work leader and visiting teacher, (son, Dallas Keller, South American Mission); Viola B. Larson, class leader and visiting teachet (son, Blaine Larson, Southern States Mission ) 5 Jemima K. Crane, stake board membet and visiting teacher (son Keith K. Crane, Danish Mission ); Lillian A. Nielson, Second Counselor (son, Mardel Nielson, Danish Mission ); Marcella JChristensen (son Kimber Christensen, Eastem States Mission ) > Ada P. Jensen President (son, Vernon Jensen, Western States Mission ); Rosetta N. Jensen, Secretary Treasurer (son, Max N. Jensen, North Central States Mission); Seren H. Christensen, visiting teacher message leader (son, Jewel Christensen, Norwegian Mission) - Viola B. Larson and Jemima K. Crane are former presidents of Mink Creek Ida E. Evans, President, Oneida Stake Relief Society, reports that of the nine missionaries serving from Mink Creek Ward, eight are sons of Relief Society Officers and teachers. Two of the women are widows and all of them live on farms. They ate 766 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 Photograph submitted by Geneva G. Garfield FARR WEST STAKE (UTAH), PLAIN CITY WARD HONORS PAST PRESIDENTS AND RETIRING OFFICERS Former ward presidents, left to tight: Minnie Geddis (1907-11); Laura M. Jenkins (1920-28); Ismilda England (1928-36); Nellie W. Neal (February 1939 to September 1939), now a member of the general board of Relief Society; Lavina Telford (1939-1944); Cerilla Palmer (1944-48), deceased since picture was taken; Sarah Y. Knight, present president. Geneva G. Garfield is president of Farr West Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Dorothy H. Koer LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS AND BOARD ENTERTAINED AT THE HOME OF THE PRESIDENT Front row, left to right: Lydia Rawson; First Counselor Marie Kettenring; Ruth Larkin; Marie Sheranian; Hazel Vorkink. Back row, left to mght: Ethel Sessions; Nina Grant; Mabel Parry; President Dorothy H. Koer; Second Counselor Ellen Oliver. €cond row | Itgi RANCH DEM f the Pacific uncan; Elder Lloyd, w © assisted with the qd N the secong Tow Special that they had Considerable © are very 4Ppy about been accomp]j efor un € also had andwork." a tent Hunt, Magazine agent, Martha Society Si IN, KORONGATA B FRUIT CANNING At ri 4 ONSTRA TES HU TAU (CONFERENCp) Ont row, Elder Matthey hg, Tesident, New Zealand Mise: 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 Photograph submitted by Alvaretta Rytting SOUTH BEAR RIVER STAKE (UTAH), TREMONTON FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY COMPLETES COURSE IN UPHOLSTERY WORK Seated, left front: Ina York. Standing, at left, left to right: Claudine Harris; Geraldine Webster; Wanda Giles; Irene Bunderson; Alvaretta Rytting, President; Mary Larsen. Seated at right, left to mght: Rowena Fridal; Emily York. Standing at right, left to right: Mary Newton, work director; Florence Beard; Barbara Fridal; Fanny Fridal; Marian Iverson. Sister Rytting reports that eighteen chairs of various sizes and kinds were covered under the helpful instruction of five of the women who had studied upholstery through the Utah State Agricultural College Extension service. Rebecca C. Mortensen is president of South Bear River Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Marie T. Moody DESERET STAKE (UTAH) HONORS VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED THIRTY YEARS OR MORE Mane T. Moody, President, Deseret Stake Relief Society, reports the long and devoted service of the visiting teachers in her stake: "During the summer our stake Relief Society held a program in honor of all the women who had served twenty years or more as visiting teachers. The program was outstanding and well attended. So numerous were the women who had served twenty years or more, that, in order to secure a good picture, we photographed only those with thirty years or more of service to their credit. Some had served forty-five years and one sister had served fifty years. We appreciate the loyalty and faithfulness of these sisters who are devoted to all phases of Relief Society work." LESSON ¢ NIE} DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 21—"On to Jerusalem" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 29, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, February 7, 1950 Objective: To show how steadfastly Jesus continued to minister unto people on his road to foreknown Calvary and the cross. Jesus Again Foretells His Death and Resurrection ACH of the three synoptic writers gives a fairly detailed description of the events during the last journey to Jerusalem. The apostles noticed how sad and deeply affected Jesus was and fell behind him in amazement. They seemed not to understand his plain affirmation that he would be delivered to the Gentiles who "shall scourge him, and put him to death: and the third day he shall rise again" (Luke 18:33). It was all inconsistent to them. They knew he was the Christ—the Lord Omnipotent— and could not realize he would be brought into subjection and slain. They particularly could not understand his prediction that in three days he would be resurrected. The Question of Precedence Again During this solemn and never-tobe-forgotten trip the human side of some of the twelve asserted itself. Jesus had diligently labored to teach them that service was the true measure of greatness, and yet two of them—James and John—the sons of Zebedee—made the request that they be given seats of eminence. This request was to be realized when Jesus came into possession of his kingdom. Matthew records that the request first came from their mother, who was probably the Saviors aunt. (See note 1, end of chapter 29 of the text.) Jesus gave them an impressive lesson and told them plainly that the granting of such a request was the prerogative of his Father (Mark 10:35-45). They needed, as we all do, to learn this lesson: "For even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister" (Matt. 20:28). Sight Restored to the Blind Near Jericho As Jesus was leaving Jericho to walk the last fifteen miles of his journey, a blind man asking for alms heard the tramp of the great multitude which was following, and was told "that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by." The blind beggar cried: "Jesus, thou Son of David, have mercy on me." 'The title "Son of David" had peculiar significance. It was the salutation given to Joseph Page 769 d teturneg Th d come to SaVe sinners: to bring Joy to the Tepentant soy] (Luke 19:1-10), Said unto thy sight: thy faith ed thee." WwW TOUS Words Of power and faith! TP healed. | Ith a heg Ctors of cys. The Lord us only called "Publicans " ich to give Swe Jip named the three € ha "gtown rich" b fe) - He had had useg th INS Of the n | In the Ho Sus reached use of Sim The Say; O the Man jn. On the Over. This annual feast fe) memorated the SPating of the He. Cis a sinner" Zaccheus the first-born of the Egyptians (Ex. WG). "Rae year th en impressed by th Suest with | Tews in Egypt when Go LESSON DEPARTMENT probably began on Thursday. Jesus reached Bethany near Jerusalem on the end of the Jewish Sabbath. Jesus knew that it was his last Sabbath on earth and he chose to spend it with those he loved. Out of reverence, the writers do not tell of the happenings of that day. It was probably in the evening after the Sabbath had passed that a supper was given for Jesus and the twelve at the home of Simon the leper. Undoubtedly this man had been cured. Some writers assume that the house was the family home of Lazarus and Martha and Mary. Simon may have been their father, but of that there is no proof. Martha evidently had charge of the supper and Mary and Lazarus were there. In fact, Lazarus had been marked for death by the chief A Perry Picture 771 priests because of the interest following his restoration to life. Mary had brought to the gathering a sealed flask containing a pound of costly spikenard ointment. It was very fragrant and is said to have had a value of about forty-five dollars. When Mary had used this precious ointment to anoint the head and feet of the Lord, Judas Iscariot, treasurer of the twelve, and others, protested against such extravagance. Judas was dishonest and hypocritical and asked why the ointment was not sold and the money given to the poor. By way of solemn instructions Jesus said: For ye have the poor always with you; but me ye have not always. For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial. Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel From a Painting by Plockhorst CHRIST'S ENTRY INTO JERUSALEM 772 shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done, be told for a memorial of her (Matt. 26:11-13). How true were these words! Christ's Triumphal Entry Into Jerusalem The next day after the eventful supper, Jesus told two of his disciples to go to a certain place and they would find an ass tied and with her a colt on which no man had ridden. The disciples found the animals as directed and when they had brought the colt, and spread their coats on his back, Jesus was lifted on to the young animal. The Master rode toward Jerusalem. When the group arrived the city was thronged, although it was four days before the great festival. The common people were interested in every movement of the Savior and there was great rejoicing when he appeared on the outskirts of the city. The people threw palm leaves and flowers before him and even spread their garments on the streets before him. 'Truly they were carpeting the way for a King. They shouted, among other glad calls: "Hosanna to the Son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest" (Matt. 21:9). Amid all the rejoicing Jesus was sad. When he saw Jerusalem and the temple of the Lord, he wept and prophesied of the destruction of both. When he rode into the capital, the people were thrilled. The uninformed cried, "Who is this?" And the multitude shouted "This is Jesus, the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee" (Matt. 21:10-11), The Pharisees and chief priests RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 resented bitterly the honor being shown the Lord. "The purpose of Christ in thus yielding Himself for the day to the desires of the people and accepting their homage with kingly grace may not be fully comprehended by us of finite mind." The Roman officials seemed to treat it with indulgent unconcern. When Jesus dismounted and entered the temple enclosure the people continued to shout his praises. Truly, the Prince of Peace had entered the city and temple as befitted a king of Israel. His coming fulfilled prophecy (Zech. 9:9). Certain Greeks Visit Christ During practically all of the Savior's ministry he worked among the Jews. However, people of many nations came to Jerusalem at the time of the annual Passover. Some of these, though not of Jewish descent, had been converted to Judaism. Among these people were certain Greeks who desired to talk with Jesus. They did not think it proper to approach the Master directly, so went first to Philip, one of the apostles. Philip consulted with Andrew, and the two informed Jesus that the foreign visitors sought an interview with him. Jesus bore testimony to these men that the hour of his death was near. They were surprised at his words, and he explained that it was necessary for him to make this sacrifice. (See John 12:20-28.) Those who really love the Lord will give their lives, if necessary, for his sake. Let us at least live for him. The Voice From Heaven The sinful condition of the world and the terrible experiences through LESSON DEPARTMENT which he was about to pass, weighed heavily upon the Lord's soul. In anguish he groaned: "Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say?" A mighty soul arose to meet an issue of transcendent importance. He prayed: "Father, glorify thy name." To that prayer came an answer: "Then came there a voice from heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again." (Read John 12:27-36 and John 14:27-31.) "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you" (John 14:27). ".... And his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace" (Isaiah 9:6). Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What peculiarly human request did 773 two of the apostles make of Jesus during his last journey to Jerusalem? What great lesson can we learn from his answer to them? 2. Relate the event of the healing of the blind at Jericho. Show that the blind beggar really appreciated the blessing. 3. Tell of the circumstances leading to the conversion of Zaccheus. What is the evidence of true conversion? 4. Is repentance complete without restitution, where restitution is possible? 5. Why do you think Mary was justified in anointing Jesus with the costly spikenard? References in the Four Gospels Matt. 8:28; 16:21; 17:22, 23; 20:17-34; 21:1-11; 25:14-30; 26:6-13. Mark 8:31; 9:31; 10:32-52; 11:1-11; 14:3-9. Luke 7:36-50; 9:44; 31g John 12:1-8, 20-36. 10:40-42; 18: —> Uisiting Seacher I lessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 5—"Is Not the Life More Than Meat, and the Body Than Raiment?" (Matt. 6:25) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, February 7, 195° Objective: To emphasize that there is a larger life than that of the body, namely that of the spirit. HEN, in the course of the Sermon on the Mount, Christ presented the question "Is not the life more than meat and the body than raiment?" (Matt 6:25) to his listeners, he was, undoubtedly, not objecting to man's striving for the requirements necessary to physical well-being. The decree to Adam that "in the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread" has come down through the ages. It was valid in the time of our Savior; it holds good today. A cardinal principle of the present Church Welfare Plan confirms the dignity of work and points out that individuals, insofar as possible, should labor for their own 774 sustenance. For, as the proverb says: "in all labor there is profit" (Prov. 14:23). When Christ asked "Is not the life more than meat?'' he was pointing out that, while it is necessary to provide for our daily needs, we must not stop there, but go on from the life of the body to the larger life of the spirit. How many people do you know who are content to spend their time "getting and spending," as the poet Wordsworth termed it, with little thought for those larger values of life which are so much more important than mere living from day to day? When he declared the body more than raiment, Christ was warning against the identification of self with material things. How easy it is to feel superior because we have acquired worldly wealth. When we don fine wearing apparel, we move RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 with greater confidence and ease among our friends. As we speed down the street in a new car is our egotism heightened to note the admiring glances of our neighbors? When one builds a large home and furnishes it beautifully, is this, partly at least, to impress those who view it? Yet, in the final analysis, how unimportant these material things are. For, as we well understand, when we leave this life, we can take with us only the sum total of the good we have accomplished and the knowledge we have acquired. And so it is right and proper that Jesus should tell us to put greater emphasis on spiritual, rather than on material values. "Seek ye first," he says, "the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these [physical things] shall be added unto you" (Matt. 6:33). Work ITleeting—Sewing Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Girls' Clothing Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, February 14, 1950 T'S fun to make clothes for girls. There are so many lovely materials and clever styles from which to choose. Here's a place where you can exercise your hidden talents and ambitions as a designer by using onginality and individuality. Here, too, is much opportunity for fine handwork and dainty trimmings. In the opening lesson we talked of choosing becoming and appropriate styles and materials. This, of course, is most important. For small tots it is also vital that clothes be launderable. There are so many attractive and dressy materials available from which to make little party dresses that can be freshened as often as need be by washing, that it seems unwise to make clothes that LESSON DEPARTMENT can't be laundered for children kerchieg AVE Pockets located at a ainty dotted WISS, organdie £00d level so that th hands can Test the fine silky cottons 1 Pastel shades m them ithout dragging them an be made Into dainty frocks that Own. Reinforce he corners of the ate as lovely g any taffetas or Other Pockets with 4 tape sewed on the silks and hay the advantage of beback Of the dress and have 4 double ng tubbable. Thus they can be stitching at the top edges, worn oftener and with less Tatil Sitls' dresses ar enerally 4nd expense for upkeep more becoming if they Conform to hile children's clothes Should ody lines. Allowances Must be © made Toomy Nough to allow Made in the design for unusual fy]. Tee move ent, they should fit ness, Many times 4 little girl's Properly when new. If too Much dress "hikes" UP in front because Toom js allowed for S'owth, the allowance has not been Made in cyt May be old an shabby before the ting for a Chubby figure child grows Into them, When mak A simple Color Scheme and plan Ing girls' dresses, have them fit well of decoration desirable Prints When ma €, allowin 4 generous May require little oy No trim, Plain em to be let down as he child Colors can Use trim, but Temem ber 8'0Ws taller. 4 Ide hem looks wel] that a Tess in good design should and gives body to the skir; and is one €ad attention to the child and not Place where 2 dress can be Teadily to itself. Adjusted fo, size, here are Many little details of Make dresses wel] and finish them workmanship that, while not fussy Neatly. This 4Y Tequire more time aq Materially to the general apPpearat the beginning, but anything ance of dresses Instead of 4 plain Which Keeps them out of the mendseam at the Waistline IMS€rt a nar ing basket js CConomy of both time TOW Covered Cord between the waist and clothe In_ places Where the and skirt Y Cording the edge of Steatest stres. Will come jin Weating, 4 yoke or the top of a cuff. Trim reinforce them With a doy le stitch. The neckline and } OMs of sleeves ing. This Includes Waistlines around with tiny Well-made Scallops, Accent the armholes, and the ottom of collars and Cuffs with TOWS of stitch Plackets, ing OF a very Narrow binding. It is always a 600d plan to ToTf you are having 4 collar, don't vide a Pocket, if the design allows, Jey It be too bulky, 118 collars are for Conveniently Caltying a hand usually unbecoming to tiny tots Star Music Grace Sayre Sunset flun Pon the sky measure Where all the latter notes of day were placed Upon a Staff across the west—their Music In golden shords—waiting the Vesper son Of €vening's Star-filled theme—serenely Spaced, 716 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 Literature—""° \ iterature of England Lesson 5—Sir Francis Bacon For Tuesday, February 23, 195° AM we have already pointed out Son of the lord keepet of the in out discussions © Shakegreat seal of Queen Elizabeth Baspeare and the King James Bible, con was reared amid court influences. The age of Elizabeth has never been After studying at Cambridge, he first surpassed, neither in the fresh vigot served his government at age fifteen which it stamped upo!? Every phase in the English embassy 10 France. Which, for ages» had been withered, General, and finally became Chancrooked, and starved. Magnificently, cellor of England; he was also made these sons of the Renaissance, Of re Baron Verulam and Viscount 0 St. Awakening, ve to their fellows Albans. Yet, despite this whirlwin of men exercising wills that are he felt that his true carect had free, emotions that are pure and scarcely begun. Nd so it had, for honest, and intellects determined always he regarded his political most nobly of mans raising himself rangement of all human knowledge to his destined realm of light by and truth. This was a project wn reaching down and lifting himself rivalled in its ambition and magni let the name of Francis Bacon pe (304322 B. C.). First. | In 1586, at the age of twenty-five, LESSON DEPARTMENT Bacon first defined this great idea and dedicated his life to its achievement. Ten years later he pointed out to his kinsman, Lord Burleigh, that his civil goals were but moderate when compared to his contemplative goals, since in the realm of the intellect he had "taken all knowledge" to be his province. Seven years later, in 1603, he wrote that he had found himself "fitted for nothing so well as for the study of Truth." It was Bacon's resulting philosophical writings which, in Macaulay's phrase, "moved the intellects which moved the world." All his important philosophical works were but segments of his Magna Instauratio, or great renewal of scientific and intellectual knowledge. It was in these writings, particularly his Advancement of Learning and Novum Organum, or new principles, that Bacon "announced that Europe had come of age." Here, for the first time, in the works of this first great English philosopher, we have expressed the tone and principles of the same modern science which has done so much to conquer the natural world in which we live. Here, not because of any scientific techniques or discoveries, but because of his revolutionary ideas as to what science should be and how it should be used, we read the words which made Bacon the father of modern science. Most of all Bacon believed in human reason. Disregarding tradition, he hoped to shatter the influence of the past and to aid man in conquering the realm of nature by using his own intellect. Significant is one of his favorite sayings, 777 "Knowledge is power." A new and vital part of his credo was_ that knowledge should not be sought merely to entertain the speculative medieval scholar; instead scientists should seek out the secrets of nature in order that new discoveries might be used at once to control and overpower nature. Let us learn the laws of nature, and we shall be her masters, as we are now, in ignorance, her thralls; science is the road to Utopia. (Advancement of Learning, iv, 2) But before science could be trusted so completely, Bacon had to redefine the methods science should use in the search for truth. In place of the deductive logic of Aristotle, which had entirely dominated the scholarship of the Middle Ages, Bacon preached fervently that the method of science must be inductive. Instead of reasoning from one or two facts or premises to prove a third unknown, Bacon, as does the modern scientist, believed that one can arrive at a general truth only after a mass of general fact has been assembled and most carefully examined. With the method of science thus defined, Bacon was ready to point out another reason why the sciences had made but little progress. It is not possible to run a course aright when the goal itself has not been rightly placed. Now the true and lawful goal of the sciences is none other than this: that human life be endowed with new discoveries and powers. (Novum Organum, I, Ixxxi) The supreme conviction of Bacon's life was that by using reason 778 and the scientific method, man is best capable of subduing the world about him. Men are not animals erect, but immortal gods. The Creator has given us souls equal to all the world, and yet satiable not even with a world.... Everything is possible to man. Time is young; give us some little centuries, and we shall control and remake all things. Bacon hoped first to "seat the sciences each in its proper place" (Advancement of Learning, iv, 2), next to develop the inductive scientific method for defining the forces of nature, and finally to evaluate all nature by using such a procedure. In the prophetic New Atlantis, a fictional treatment of his Utopia which was left unfinished at his death, Bacon presented his ideal method for achieving his goals: he visualized a society of learned scholars called Solomon's House, or the College of the Six Days' Work, who each twelve years were to be sent throughout the world by their wise king to "maintain a trade, not for gold, silver, or jewels... But only for God's first creature, which was light: to have light, I say, of the growth of all parts of the world." (See Text, pp. 562-3, line 4o ff.) That he spoke for the intellectual leaders of England was proved in 1662 when, thirty-five years after the New Atlantis was published, the Royal Society was founded. This was a group of the best scientists united in the common cause of searching out the truths of natural history in precisely the same manner as Bacon's scholars in Solomon's House would have done. Surely there could be no greater tribute to the intellectual zeal and scientific RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 pioneering which then, as now, characterized Bacon before the world. It is unfortunately true that some of our great men understood wisdom with their heads but not with their hearts and wills. Of this truth Sir Francis Bacon is the traditional example. "They that take the sword shall perish with the sword" (Matthew 26:52). Although Bacon professed membership in the Church of England, was interested in church reform, and wrote several beautiful prayers for his own use, primarily he loved the intellect alone. Bacon served learning and the learned; but his accusation of his friend Essex in order to obtain favor with Queen Elizabeth; his confession of having accepted bribes when in high office without the ability to express remorse or sense of guilt for the tragedy of his sin; his self-righteousness; and _ his continued ability to sacrifice personal connections and, in part, his own integrity whenever he felt such action would please the sovereign and his own ambition—all seem to give evidence that he failed to honor the emotional and spiritual aspects of himself and his fellow men, a failure which finally betrayed Bacon himself.. In 1621, after confessing his guilt in accepting bribes, Bacon was deprived of the Great Seal, fined forty thousand pounds, relieved of all public office, and sentenced to the Tower of London, from which he was released by the King after four days. During the last five years of his life he lived in retirement, writing the major portion of his enduring contributions to science and LESSON DEPARTMENT 779 Philosophy, More than any other Worked oy man, he Opened the d er his intellecty oor to scientific w Ts, never discarding the goo sh prose stand, m €T€ is the ¢ T Hrancis Ba. @ 8enius skilled € wisest, brightest, meanest of mankind," ey are, €nty David has defined Versation folded Many times thick," ideally these F SSays exemplify his definition. Additi 5 these are fo deed. Sti ll we cannot forget' Ben Johnson', description of Bacon as Spoke more Neat Y), OF suffered le NEss, less idleness In what he Dglish, he later might endure, While for twen: e commanded - When he Spoke | |. The fear 9 he Constantly Polished that heard', every man ™m Was that he shou a an end, "gal volume of sh rather orld; his Essay, translated into Latin ten essays until, in the final edition of 162 they were Permitting the hazy, it, too, from him wj His Essays contain the same com. "ated a total of Pelling power Which Johnson felt in Bacon's spoken words 780 dom and, for the man who most of all desires to get on in the world, undeniable common sense. 'The truths which they tell about things as they are, often wittily expressed in a condensed, near-staccato style, blend together in these essays to become reading which will be fresh and rewarding as long as men are human. As we tread from Novum Organum (Text, pp. 560-561) of the four idols which beset the human mind, we realize that Bacon knows people and their foolish weaknesses. The following epigram, taken from "Of Sedition and Troubles" (not in our text) also reveals his wit and wisdom, and knowledge of things as they are: Money is like muck, not good unless it be spread. The twelve essays in our text abound in such memorable lines. Some of the best known are: Certainly virtue is like precious odors, most fragrant when they are incensed or crushed: for prosperity doth best discover vice; but adversity doth best discover virtue. ("Of Adversity'') Choose the best; habit will make it pleasant and easy. ("Of Parents and Children" ) He that hath wife and children hath given hostages to fortune; for they are impediments to great enterprises, either of virtue or mischief. ("Of Marriage and Single Life'') It is a strange desire, to seek power and to love liberty; or to seek power over others and to lose power over a man's self. ("Of Great Place') Certainly, men in great fortunes are strangers to themselves, and while they RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 are in the puzzle of business they have no time to tend their health, either of body or mind. ("Of Great Place') For good thoughts (though God accept them) yet towards men are little better than good dreams, except they be put in act. ("Of Great Place") After a time, set before thee thine own example; and examine thyself strictly, whether thou didst not best at first. ("Of Great Place'') And certainly it is the nature of extreme self-lovers, as they will set an house on fire, and it were but to roast their eggs. ("Of Wisdom for a Man's Self'') Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested. ("Of Study'') Reading maketh a full man; conference a ready man; and writing an exact man. ("Of Studies"') Once our minds arise from their leisurely, everyday meanderings to meet these Essays on their own high level, once we give ourselves to them with no restraint and no distraction, we find in them a compelling intensity which ever leads us on. Further, here is that undefinable, undeniable lofty tone which is the autograph of great literature. NOTE TO TEACHERS: While you will want to share the above lines with your group, you should also read thoroughly with them one or two of the essays which appeal most to you. If you haven't time to read them all, "Of Truth," "Of Studies," "Of Great Place," and "Of Adversity," might, in this order, prove: most rewarding. However, you cannot go wrong if you discuss in detail that essay which is most nearly yours. Questions 1. What was the great idea in Bacon's life? 2. Inasmuch as he was in practice and LESSON DEPARTMENT technique not an important scientist, how does Bacon deserve to be called the father of modern science? 3. Relate Solomon's House to the Royal Society. 4. How can we apply to Bacon the saying, "They that take the sword shall perish with the sword?" 5. Why were Bacon's ~ works written in Latin? Philosophical 781 6. Why were the Essays never written or translated into Latin? 7. To what small audience were the Essays addressed? 8. Are the Essays formal or informal? How can you decide this from reading them? 9. Aside from their stylistic excellence, why are the Essays great literature? ———< Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 4—Public Administration and Good Government—(D. & C. 134:3, 4) Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, February 28, 1950 Objective: To point out the need for electing government officials who will uphold freedom. Public Administration T is important to have a good government, that is, one which conforms, as far as possible, to the fundamental principles previously discussed. Then, government becomes a fit instrument in securing "the good and safety of society." However, day by day, governments are administering thousands of details affecting the lives of millions of people. The enforcement of the law, the administration of governmental policy, is generally called "public administration." The problems of public administration are among the most important of any modern society. The problem of regulating traffic, of inspecting and maintaining milk at a pure standard, the administration of schools, the building of highways, the protection of life and property—these are only a few of the many tasks undertaken by public administration. Government Personnel There are many fundamental problems in public administration apart from the organization of govemment itself. These problems concern largely the matter of personnel. Officers must be recruited. Once in office they have the great responsibility of deciding what the law means, when to enforce it, and upon whom to enforce it. Verse three affords an insight into the basic principles which should govern these important problems: We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people if a republic, or the will of the sovereign. This recognizes the necessity and the importance of civil officers and magistrates. During World War II, the United States Government, alone, employed over 3,000,000 civil 782 servants, that is, civil officers exclusive of elected, military, naval, legislative, or judicial officers. This does not include the forty-eight states, nor their counties and cities. What should be the method of their administration? The controlling principle is that "such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld." Meaning of "Equity and Justice" What is equity? What is justice? These are often difficult questions in our time. It would be profitable to discuss in every class the question as to what is justice for the working man, for the business leaders, for the members of a minority religious sect, for the members of a dominant religious sect, for alien races, for the various types of people who occupy a place in our civil society. The answers to these questions have obsessed mankind for generations. Is it possible to cut through this mass of speculation and arrive at some foundation principles as guides to equity and justice? The Declaration would suggest that equity and justice would begin with a system of administration which would recognize the fundamental conditions of peace previously discussed. The free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life, at least, are fundamental. Qualifications for Public Officers Who should be selected for public officers? 'The suggestion made in verse three is that those who will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people, if a republic, or the will of a sovereign. It would be very difficult, of course, for the people of the United States,. For example, to elect the three million civil servants who served the United States Government from 1942-1945. 'Then, in addition, to elect the additional millions who work for the forty-eight states, the three thousand and fifty-odd counties, the hundred and_ thirty-two thousand cities and towns, and the other units of government which constitute the American governmental system! However, it is possible to seek and uphold persons who "will administer the law in equity and justice" by means of the civil service examinations and other devices used in American and other governments. Popular election, of course, is desirable for all elected representatives and those who serve in top executive positions. In other circumstances, and in filling the lesser positions, regulations must, of course, be followed. But back of all law, including civil service law, is public opinion. If the public is apathetic, it is impossible to secure officers who will administer the law in equity and justice. How well informed is your class on the method of safeguarding the purity of the water supply, the milk supply, the meat supply, in your community? What officers are administering these laws? Is it being done with equity and justice? Do you know their names? Are they qualified to do their work? When they are performing their work well, LESSON DEPARTMENT Being Informed on Public Ad the great fundamenta] individual tights and th issue of Socialism. The believe in the government all means of Production, [p words, in Ng one's face, or Performing details of personal life, T Spirit of the People, as expressed by them SOcie the fundamenta] "conditions of Peace" discussed In Lesson 3.) to guide the elationship its public adtuted of Go Some declare that this verse involves a definition of the TelationChurch The Problem of life, private industry, free associations of Re an absolute value 784 mere opinions of men, Americans or others, with resort to force as the threatening reference point. When the State intervenes in the economic order, this value must be recognized. If the conscience, the religious conscience, of man, is free, then there will always be room for the eventual right of control of property and the protection of life. If human law is prevented from prescribing rules of worship to bind the consciences of man, "nor dictate forms for public or private devotion" then there is a sphere of freedom in which men may live their lives. Need for People to Support Freedom Constitutions are the great preventive influence, but constitutions are valueless without support from the people and the political powers that be. True, the civil magistrate should restrain crime "but never control conscience"; should punish guilt but never suppress the freedom of the soul. This requires popular support. If there is freedom of religious conscience and freedom of the soul, there will probably be freedom for two or more political parties. If there is freedom for two or more political parties, there is freedom in the choice of public officers to enforce the law. If there is freedom to choose these officers, there is also freedom for the people to exercise their right and seek for men in public life who will administer the law in equity and justice. Without this freedom, there will be no essential freedom—and no peace. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 Belief in God Necessary for Good Government In conclusion, it can be stated, that if you destroy belief in God, you destroy belief in the necessity of religious liberty. Decline in belief in God is one of the great forces aiding and abetting Communism. Religious and _ political liberty without belief in God soon become meaningless, because they depend upon mere human toleration, man looking to man. Unless man looks to man as a child of God and then looks beyond and outside of himself for something greater, he may become a menace, a materialistic menace to society. Human toleration without belief in God is subject to political pleasure, as witness the dictatorships. In short, if you destroy God you destroy the possibility of political ethics having any vitality in government. In its stead, force, and force alone, remains. Force is the tool of the devil. Of such, the Declaration warns, and men should beware. Questions for Discussion and Lesson Helps Special Project: Have someone look up and report the number of offices becoming vacant which will appear on your local ballot at the next general election, describing briefly, the functions of each office. 1. Although all people have the right to their own opinions in such matters, who is it that actually (in the bulk of cases) decides what the law means, when to enforce it, and whom to enforce it upon? 2. Have someone look up "equity" in a standard dictionary. Having done this, ask the class to discuss the meaning of "equity" as contained in section 134, verse 3. LESSON DEPARTMENT 3. What is justice? Discuss the principle as suggested in the lesson. 4. How do you suppose the ordinary man's view of justice is formed? Compare this with the concept of the class as to how God, our Father, probably determines and applies justice. 5. What is the relation between public opinion and the administration of "justice?" 785 6. Why is belief in God 'essential to good government? 7. When the butcher sells you a roast and leans a heavy thumb on the scale or includes a large piece of bone at 97c a pound, is he visualizing you as a "child of God" or Mrs. John Customer "from down the street?" 8. Again, is belief in God essential to good government, to justice and equity? Optional Meosont in Lieu of Social Sctence—The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) Lesson 11—-The Counselors to President Heber J. Grant Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, February 28, 1950 Tue Presipency A Unrr—TuHe THREE ARE ONE HEN Heber J. Grant was appointed as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints in 1918, he retained the same counselors who had _ served President Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, a man of great character and forceful personality, then in his seventy-fifth year of life, became first counselor. President Grant also appointed him to the responsible position of president of the Salt Lake Temple. He also, by virtue of seniority, became president of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. President Lund vigorously fulfilled his three-fold assignment—counselor in the First Presidency, temple president, and senior apostle. These duties he discharged with honor until his death on March 2, 1921, when the Church mourned the passing of a great man and a devoted servant of the Lord. Charles William Penrose The second counselor of President Grant was Charles William Penrose, who was then eighty-six years of age. He was in excellent health and highly respected by both the members of the Church and his numerous acquaintances outside the Church. The years preceding his selection by President Grant had been years of preparation and service for his high calling. President CHARLES W. PEN ROSE Penrose was born in Camberwell, London, England, on February 4, 1832. Ata very early age he manifested three unusual traits. First, he was a lover of books, showing a desire to acquire knowledge. Second, he learned to read at an age when most children are concerned entirely with eating and playing. When only four years of age he read the entire Bible. Third, he Possessed an unusual memory, being capable of retaining information that he acquired in a very remarkable fashion. During his youth, President PenTose studied the scriptures diligently and, as a result of this study, became dissatisfied with the existing sects of Christendom, being unable to find in them either the religion or the church organization that he read of in the Bible. When he was eighteen years of age he came in contact with the restored gospel and, finding it in agreement with the Bible, was baptized a member of the Church on May 14, 1850. The following January, a month before he was nineteen years of age, he was called on a mission to labor within the British Isles. He had no financial backing, but the Lord provided him with friends and for ten years he labored in Great Britain, The first seven years he was assigned to agricultural areas, and then became President of the London district and held other administrative posts in the British Mission, He was a wonderful preacher, being gifted with a powerful, yet pleasing voice, and a fluency of words that enabled him to convince people of his sincerity as well as his ideas. His use of English was unique. He seldom resorted to the use of long or little-used words, but confined himself to the simplest of words in order that the uneducated could grasp the meaning of his message, Yet there is a gtandeur of thought in his style that manifests the soul of a poet. While engaged as a missionary, President Penrose contributed many articles to the Millenial Star dealing with theological and religious problems. He also wrote poems for its Pages. As the years passed, he longed to gather with the saints in Zion, but year after year his release failed to come. Tt was then that he wrote "O Ye Mountains High." In this song he expressed his longing to be with the body of the Church and be able to serve both the living and the dead. On another occasion when he had been slandered and false accusations had been made against him, he wrote "School Thy Feelings, O My Brother." It was a warning to himself that the Christian thing to do 786 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT was not to retaliate but to bear the persecution and abuse as Christ would have done. He was finally released in 1861, and emigrated to Utah, settling first at Farmington, where he had to turn from the literary and cultural Pursuits that had characterized his life up to this time, and adjust to the hardships of farming and manual labor. This he willingly did and also taught school for three years, In 1864, he settled in Cache Valley, but the following year he was called again to go on a mission to England, where he served until 1868. His greatest gifts were in the field of mental activities rather than in pioneering, and, in 1870, he moved to Ogden, Utah, where he engaged in newspaper work and Tepresented Weber County in the Territorial Legislature and also in constitutional conventions that were seeking to acquire statehood for the Territory of Utah. In 1877, Brigham Young _persuaded him to come to Salt Lake City and join the staff of The Deseret News. Very soon his gifted pen was improving the quality of that Paper and making its editorials sparkle with thought-provoking comments, In 1880, he was made editor-in-chief of The Deseret News, a position he held for the ensuing twelve years. Charles W. Penrose later accepted employment as editor-in-chief of the Salt Lake Herald, and for four years devoted his talents to promoting this paper. President Wilford 787 Woodruff appointed him to the position of assistant Church historian. He then devoted his energies to the work of this office and, in addition, wrote articles for the Church pemiodicals and for use in the mission fields of the Church. Most noteworthy of his efforts in this respect was the writing of a series of twelve tracts known as "Rays of Living Light." These tracts have been translated into many languages and distributed widely. Millions of them have been used and, so effective are they, that even after more than half a century they are still used by our missionaries, For several years, commencing again in 1899, Elder PenPOs€ was editor-in-chief of The Deseret News and wrote ably and forcefully about world and Church problems. During these years of literary activity, he had not neglected the gospel cause that had brought him to the valleys of the mountains. He served as a local missionary, taught mn Sunday Schools and, in 1884, was chosen as a counselor in the Salt Lake Stake Presidency. In June of 1904, President Joseph F. Smith selected him as a member of the Church Board of Education and the following month he was chosen to fill a vacancy in the Council of the Twelve. From December 1906 until June 1910, Charles W. Penrose served as president of the European Mission, with headquarters in Liverpool, England. He supervised the missionary work both in Great Britain and on the Continent of Europe. During this time more than 25,000,000 tracts were distributed and 8,441 baptisms performed. When President John Henry Smith died in 1911, Elder Penrose was selected to fill the vacancy in the First Presidency. He was set apart to this office on December 7, 1911, and although he was just two months less than eighty years of age, he had a powerful and vigorous personality. Immediately he threw himself with characteristic energy into the work of the Presidency and became an able assistant to President Smith. He traveled widely in the interests of the Church, visiting the wards and stakes, and took an active part in acquiring possession for the Church of some of the landmarks of early Church history. He was ably assisting President Smith at the time of the latter's death in 1918. President Grant retained him as second counselor and, upon the death of President Anthon H. Lund in March 1921, Brother Penrose, now past eighty-nine, was sustained as first counselor. The unusual energy of this man, strengthened by the Holy Spirit, enabled him to aid President Grant with advice, as a result of his mature years and long experience, and also by actively participating in the Church's ever-growing work. Anthony Woodward Ivins The elevation of President Penrose to the rank of first counselor left a vacancy in the First Presidency. To this position Anthony Woodward Ivins was appointed on March 10, 1921. President Ivins was born on Tom's River, New Jersey, on September 16, 1852. His mother was a sister of the mother of President Grant, and his father ANTHONY W. IVINS was her cousin. They emigrated to Utah in 1853. In 1861 the parents of Brother Ivins were called to settle in Washington County and it was there that President Ivins grew to manhood and acquired his education. Asa young man, Anthony W. Ivins determined that he would avoid evil company and seek the companionship of boys and men who could help him gain and tetain a testimony of the gospel. To his dying day he testified that this had been one of the greatest factors in his life as it had enabled him to learn good habits of living, ideals, moral standards, and habits of industry and integrity. As a consequence, he studied the principles of the gospel and read everything that came into his possession that was noble or uplifting. The formal schooling of Brother Ivins was very meager, as was the case with most boys of pioneer days. However, he read widely and before he had 788 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT reached the age of thirty, had acquired a good education. During his sojourn in St. George, he held the following positions: constable, city councilor, city attorney, and later, county attorney, mayor, deputy sheriff, county assessor and collector, State representative, delegate to the State constitutional convention, and Federal Indian agent. In spite of his lack of classroom education, this self-made lawyer met some of the best school-trained lawyers from the larger cities in court; and the judicial history of the southern part of Utah tells us he never lost a case he defended or prosecuted. In addition to fulfilling these positions of trust and public service for his pioneer community, President Ivins engaged in the cattle and sheep business and at one time was one of the largest livestock operators in Southern Utah, Northern Arizona, and Eastern Nevada. But in spite of these multitudinous duties, he never forgot the Church. He held positions in ward and stake Sunday Schools and the Y. M. M. I. A., served as a missionary among the Navajo Indians of Anzona, was a member of the St. George Stake high council and, in 1888, became first counselor in the presidency of that stake. The Church Authorities had called people to settle in the Mexican State of Chihuahua and, as these Latterday Saint settlements grew, it was decided to organize a stake of Zion for their benefit. In December 1895, Anthony W. Ivins was called to go to Mexico and assume this responsibility. Selling out all of his holdings in land and livestock, he moved to Mexico with his family. To the 789 THREE PART CHRISTMAS zs a CHORUSES Singing Mothers CM6423 The Birthday of a King— Neidlinger uw... AS 625 Christmas Rose — Catalonian Folk Song _.... AS 8877 Christmas Song (Cantique de Noel)—Adam _._..._. 15 731 Each Christmas Night— Swift 15 8433 Jingle Bells—Pierpont _..16 9825 Mistletoe and Holly Bright —Bach 18 9794 Never Was a Child So Lovely—Niles _.-... 16 CM528 Silent Night—Gruber, arr. Epperson 12 CM655 A Star Was His Candle— Del Riego —....--W--.. 15 9801 The Stars Are Shining Bright—Barnes _____._....... 18 9820 There's a Song in the Air —Speaks 229 Young Mary—Fenner...15 Write for information on music for all types of L. D. S. Choral groups. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We pay postage.. We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records. FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY Daunes y oe 2 0 MAIN STREET SALT Mw civy 7, de 790 RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE_NOVEMpER 1949 A Present day, Tesidents of St. George and Juarez Stakes express deep love or President Ivins, Ity on being called, on October 6, 1907, to a vacancy in the of t Welve Apostles. > he was Siven the te. SPonsibility * o¢ in e al of the entire Church, Jp Was under h ection that ¢ € Boy Scout Program wag adopted by the Church. 7 € also, during this time, did Much for + € welfa dians. It efforts, while act; ROEauCE EL Turds) ——— perience, an understanding her, | —>—[—[—[—[—_—_—=_=_=_—=—=—=—======_—— and a brilliant mind. He assumed many of the duties of the First PresP: ] idency in regard to its financial probMe ofessiona lems and the educational functions. Of the Church. President Penrose and Social died May 16, 1925, being ninety-; three years of age, and President Si bationery Ivins succeeded him as first counselor on May 28th. Topics for Discussion and Study * 1. What can we learn about President COMMERC1AL Penrose from his song "O Ye MounAND EDITION fe High?" ——— PRINTERS AND 2. At can we learn about President. Penrose from his song 'School Thy BOOK BINDERS 3. How was it possible for a boy, reared in a pioneering community, to acquire education that enabled President Ivins DESERET NEWS PRESS to mingle with the most highly cul- 4. What do you feel was the reason for the love the Indians had for PresiIII pages 750-752, 769-771. References Improvement Era 14:406-408; 25:354- 358; 34:637-640, 672, 681; 37:722-723; Jenson, L. D. S. Biographical Encyclo- 38:538. > Shanksgiving Day Nan S. Richardson How grateful we should always be For the blessings that come to you and me; With health and strength, we are here to say We are thankful for Thanksgiving Day. The turkey and dressing we are anxious to try, Hot rolls, yams, and salad, and good pumpkin pie; We count every blessing and silently pray And thank the Lord for Thanksgiving Day. We have a good time, though the day is not long; We dance and we sing and we try to be young; We jolly and joke in the same old way As we used to do on Thanksgiving Day. LESSON DEPARTMENT Feelings?" tured people in the country? Dent Ivins? 791 PAPER RULING 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah pedia Vol. 1, pages 256-261, 311. Vol. From lear and Sar I had a very pleasant surprise when I opened my August Relief Society Magazine. I just tumed the pages at random, and the picture—the First Presidencies—page 568, caught my eye. John R. Winder was my own father's grandfather; Charles W. Penrose was my dear mother's grandfather, and my husband was christened Anthon Wm. Lundberg, which is so much the same as the name of the counselor. I love The Relief Society Magazine and wait from month to month for it to arrive. At present I am physically handicapped and I cannot go to meetings, so my greatest source of entertainment and recreation is sitting out in the sunshine reading my Relief Society Magazine. Thanks for making it so interesting and inspiring. —Alice Winder Bradford Lundberg, Washington, D. C. T am taking this opportunity to tell you how extremely well I liked the editorial concerning women sewing together (September 1949). It touched a responsive note in me. If women would only sew together more frequently instead of playing so much bridge, there would, I believe, be less unrest.... Some of my most loyal friends are women with whom I sewed in girlhood. I was occupational therapist in a hospital for over seven years and saw women cured of mental illness through being taught to create beauty with the needle, shuttle, crochet hook, and even with only the use of their fingers in making macrame. Even while nursing I taught the art of the needle to my patients during convalescence. It helped to keep them contented and happy. I wish that every woman everywhere might read your editorial. Such articles are much needed. —Gene Romolo, Provo, Utah You would think, from my husband's attitude, that The Relief Society Magazine is published for men only. He hides the Magazine and keeps it hidden until he has tread it from cover to cover. Then, it is my turn, and I enjoy every issue. —Alvina A. Pierce, Gunnison, Utah Page 792 I do not want to miss a single copy of the Magazine, for the material in each issue is so valuable that I cannot afford to be without it and I have reserved all my copies through the years since my marmage in 1912. Have been. A Relief Society worker since then in various capacities, but a visiting teacher continuously. I am literary class leader in Garden Creek Ward, Portneuf Stake, and really cannot do justice to my lessons without the Magazine. Just Tecently, in time of trouble, I went to my attic where I store all my surplus teading material and in perusing my Magazines from past years | found articles that brought solace to my soul. I have always been interested in good literature and never have I found a single page of The Relief Society Magazine that wasn't uplifting. —Ora M. Crump, Robin, Idaho I am glad you have a "From Near and Far" page in The Relief Society Magazine. It is a privilege to write and tell you how much I appreciate the inspiration I get from reading such a wonderful Magazine. I look forward to each issue and very much enjoyed the poem "A Friend Like You" (by Hilde Wittemund, September 1949, page 647). —Mrs. Martha Porritt, Myton, Utah I did so much enjoy the September Magazine, there were s0 many lovely poems in it. —Elaine Swain, Vallejo, California I wish to thank your society for the lovely Magazine. I am always interested in anything concerning your country as I have many dear friends there and some of my ancestors pushed their handcarts across the desert in those far-off pioneering days. I read your interesting little book from cover to cover. I am inter. Ested in your religion and find that it is being preached throughout the whole wide world. —Jean Nicholson Adamson, Sinclairdown, Fife, Scotland Enbance enjoyment of "The Literature of England' (text $4.50—$4.75 by mail—available now) with pictures and recordings of English literary classics. Write for our catalog of films and recordings which includes such listings as: Bible and Early English Literature Recordin es Catalog also includes beautiful recordings of condensations of these and many other English literary masterpieces. DESERET BOOK COMPANY Salt Lake City 10, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers Book Department 44 East South Temple St. P. O. Box 958 Audio-Visual Aids Department 1400 Indiana Ave. CAURCH HISTORTAN'S OFFICE ar _ §. POSTAGE 47 EAST SOUTH TEMPLE U. S 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 Glae 1 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Mg 5 J Sp om & oR on Po wo. Otc ye 33 — gee. 3 wee at? Wee ae,. SSUE. Et wt " 7 wet tS Nag. Cs ia } ah 'E-. A ~ ¢ March: Se a ea Cc ord 24 © a WEP. Ons f rd waa os "Lesson han RS illinnen-memotaggs aes: LFE-R-E N: om, fd "pie.; ~C,0. Nthe wes sates 4 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - Marianne C. Sharp - = - - President - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - Margaret C. Pickering - Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - -— - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 36 DECEMBER 1949 No. 12 Car ts THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE The Prophet's Sailing Orders to Relief Society. -President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. 796 FOT@ WOT.....2.2--cn-ceecececcceceesenesecceeeeeeneecocenseceneseneeseseneeseaseconensseceesenecnsnenenteneeesetsCounselor Marianne C. Sharp 798 Introduction to Lesson Courses 2.. N--. C-c--ecccc ccc eceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneesCounselor Marianne C. Sharp 800 Relief Society in the Lives of Our Sisters in Europe. = Nida A. Taggart 800 Hints on Lesson Development — Leone O. Jacobs 802 Fostering Creative Homemaking Arts 2.0.0..0.00ccccoccccccceccceseseseeesevocceneveceeeesesesseeessoseeseeseoeesLeone G. Layton 803 'With Liberty and Justice for All".... "Unwashen Hands'' Versus Hearts... San. Edith S. Elliott 804 a. Spencer W. Kimball 804 Report and Official Instructions 22.2.2... CccccceececeseeeeseeecseceseeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeePresident Belle S. Spafford 807 Meeting Our Obligations —........... Counselor Velma N. Simonsen 810 Joy im Leadership 2... EcecccecccececceseseeeeneeeeneeeeeecesesesenesnenesesaseenseencaeenensneeeeCounselor Marianne C. Sharp 812 Choose You This Day.......0000000.. Enencnnen Atcee tse nennsansasesteenacertieeesereareer aEvon W. Peterson 815 Cultivating Life's Eternal Values 0002.00.00... -Mary J. Wilson 817 Prepare Thy Heart; Leone O. Jacobs 819 Ready for Christmas eeOra Pate Stewart 82) Joanna (Conclusion) nnMargery S. Stewart 828 Woman's Sphere oo. Nen. Cece cece cceeceeeeesecescsesenenenevessevuvevunneeneseoecasecsesnnes eee usnsny seusiesnnesanuavecivivicavetivinsesseteveticeseessseseees 825 Editorials: Christmas Down the Years; The 120th Semi-Annual Church Conference; Litter on Temple Square... Marianne C. Sharp 826 March Anniversary Work Meeting Luncheon 20....00...0. Ccccc-ccccesesssseeessesseseessseseesecsveneeneeeeeChristine Eaton 835 From Near and Far -... C..-.. Ce. Eccoe---.. Ideas for Christmas Decoration 2000.00. Eceeeceeeeees Foren oe Mary Grant Judd 832 A Santa Claus Cookie Box occ cccccccccsssesceeseccseceseeesesesesesvsvsnsussseeseusseensesseoseeesRachel K. Laurgaard 836 An Ever-Burning Christmas Candle...... ES._c seeeeRachel K. Laurgaard 838 A Letter from Mother Clara Horne Park 838 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: 'Jesus Returns to the Temple Daily'' Don B. Colton 839 Visiting Teacher Messages: 'For This Cause'"'......... Mary Grant Judd 842 Work Meeting: Boys' Clothing 200000. Ee - Jean Ridges Jennings 844 Literature: John Bumyarn 22... Cc cccceeeceeeeeeee. Briant S. Jacobs 845 Social Science: The Obligations of Citizenship 0.0... Ccc ccceseeeceeceeeeeeeeeneeeeeeneesG. Homer Durham 851 Optional Lesson: The Counselors to President Heber J. Grant (Continued).......... T. Edgar Lyon 855 POETRY The Flight—Frontispiece.. Dorothy J. Roberts 795 "Dimensions,"' by Della Adams Leitner, 827; 'The Year Is Done,'' by Eunice J. Miles, 835; "Auditor,'' by Grace Sayre, 837, ''Substitute,' by Thelma Ireland, 850; ''Blizzard,'' by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 854; ''In This Be Lavish,'' by Iris W. Schow, 862; 'A Christmas Song,'' by Irene Storey, 862; 'Holy Night,'' by Christie Lund Coles, 863; ''Snowflakes,'' by Elise Maness, 863; ''Remnant,"' by Marvin Jones, 863. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Sixty Years Ago 00... Nacenennnedestoedoitteteavscnsnacessctnoesnccasatevecressoaccasesissecesssecerseseseseeeusesss2sce 824 o GET With a USEFUL FUTURE: Bath Mat ay Set 1% Layaway for Christmas Now! $) 98 Sink your feet in the soft warmth of this heavily tufted Bath Mat... Rubberized back prevents slipping! In. White, Blue, Green, Rose, oy Peach, Red, Gray, and Gold. 22 x 34. Seat Cover to match. Cm DOMESTICS— gy Downstairs Store Mail Orders to MARGOT MANNERS Enclose 19c postage for each set ordered! 990. 0909090 99090309 0 09 0 9 0 0 90 G9 SS 0 C9 SC 9 9 HS CO C0 C0 0 0 C00 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | FLIGHT INTO EGYPT A Perry Picture From a Painting by Bouguereau (1825-1905) THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE She Si light Dorothy J. Roberts... The angel of the Lord appeareth to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, and take the young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt.... To shadowed Egypt from the starlit manger, There hide your infant from the Herod blow; Cold here the blade and sharp the. Steel of danger, But the Nile will remember only Pharaoh. Skirt the plains where sacred sandals wandered Lost in the wilderness of long ago; Mark by a new light the sea's arm, sundered, And the broken thread of the Jordan's flow. Where dim altars breast the moon's pale weather, Where legends lived before the parchment scroll, And your feet will tread the sands where many another Walked sunrise on the pathway of the soul. Their sleeping legions in your mind will waken, When you shall see the past with visioned eye, The mighty monuments by years unshaken, And hear again the thunder over Sinai. His promised light will lengthen by the sedges— Where Miriam put a cradle-craft to sea— Till it shall burn, the high noon of the ages, Its golden zenith over Galilee. The Cover: The Salt Lake Temple in Winter, Photograph by L. V. McNeely VOL. 36, NO. 12 DECEMBER 1949 The Prophet's Sailing Orders to Relief Society President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Of the First Presidency [Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1949.] ISTERS of the Relief Society: It is a pleasure to be with you, even though I have to talk. I have greatly enjoyed the mecting so far, and the instructions, the advice, and the counsel that have been given to you. You have a great mission, as you are told on all occasions, but you cannot be told too often, nor can you too earnestly remember it. I have always been impressed with the introduction that Webster made in his reply to Hayne. I have not read it for years. It is not wholly applicable, but at the beginning of his reply, which dealt with fundamental principles of constitutional government, he said that when a ship had been on the ocean, driven by winds and storms for many days, the mariner always took the first occasion when the heavens were visible, to take his bearings and find out where he was. Now, you have not been driven and wind-tossed since your organization. You have had the guidance of the prophets of the Lord, who have, from time to time, given you the instructions which they felt you should have. Nevertheless, remembering that introduction, I decided that I would go back to the beginning of your organization and acquaint myself again, somewhat, Page 796 with the circumstances under which you were organized. As you know, at your first meeting you were organized, on March 17th of 1842. During that summer, and until August 31, the Prophet met with the sisters rather frequently. On two or three occasions he preached really great sermons and he laid down for you the course which he felt you should follow. As I read a little something of the history of those times, I found that the summer of 1842 was one of the most difficult summers for him, personally, through which he lived. The infamous Bennett was in Nauvoo stirring up all the trouble he knew how to stir, and he was a good stirrer. Ihe Prophet was driven almost, apparently, to his wit's ends to know what to do. Bennett left Nauvoo sometime during the summer. During this same summer the enemies of the Church, and _particularly of the Prophet, in Missouri, sought to involve the Prophet in an attempt that was made upon the life of ex-governor Boggs. It went so far that they finally secured papers, extradition they called them, though not technically so, extradition papers to get him from Nauvoo back into Missouri, where, of course, they would have made short shrift of him if they could have gotten him Part that summer jn avoiding the N€CEessity of Ttuming to Missourj. Think that Is Teally Serious thing He did avoid it. All she Tead about that, as Well as and I felt as I read the account of dren, untaught jn the affairs of his talks to them, What he told them, home, of Course do not know how I felt that he had turned to the sis. To Make ag home. And yoy Relief els for the "onsolation, for the upociety members must bring into lft of wh he sz Od in Such sad tl ome, your ho Cs, all that need at that time, should b SUPPose I do Not need to tel] I had ¢ Ought, but the time will YOU sisters tha You are the anchors not Permit, that € read you Which hold 2 moored Where Some of those ear] "mons of the P We'Oughit Hohe, I suppose I need tophet, some of the things which r you for sncouragement, and some. 4m not sure but that You might times even for Courage to 80 for. Consider Whether or mot it might Ward. J Suppose J need not tel] not be well to punt in your Relief you that in g very large Sense we Society Magazine some of the Must look to you as the mothers, things, some of the topics which the if We are to keep this Church going, Prophet discussed jn those times.; € ate Engaged in to the sisters for the help and the & Of a battle from day to "onsolation ang the "NCOuragement day, trying to Secure those things Which he did not Set from the Which Maintain Jife We do not brethren, They were falling, so to have much time with YOu, nor with Speak, on all Sides, His MOst trust. The children, and so we Must look eq friends were disappointing him, T suppose that those Of us who Set against and Counteract the terrible older ang get Something of 5 Posttrials, disappointments and dis View of lif > Tealize more fully, day COuragements Which he had to en. Was Particularly struck with What I repeat, that js your req] Mission, *This address, "Woman's Role as Homemaker," by President Belle s. Spafford, was Published jn the November 1949 Magazine, Page 724. 798 to build a home where love shall be, serenity, peace, quiet, culture, and all the things that go to make a home. I hope the Lord will bless you in your labors. I hope he will bring to each of you a realization of what you ought to be, and what you ought to do. And do not try to be anything else but good mothers and good homemakers, for that will ex. Haust all the time, all the effort, and pay the greatest dividends of anything you can do in the world. I rejoice in being with you. J] pray God to bless you, to bless you who preside and you who serve, and it is as blessed to serve as it is to preside, and with infinitely less reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 sponsibility. The humblest man, and the humblest woman, doing his duty in the place in which he is called to work, will deserve and receive just as much reward as the man who so serves and so acts in the highest position. The Lord always used the poor of the earth to illustrate how men should live. Again, may God bless you and be with you through the years to come, give you the vision' of the true homemaker, that you will be able to save by this course, not alone Zion, but the world. And that js your destiny, and ours, to save the world. God bless you, I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen, The Annual General Relief Society Conference September 28 and 29, 1949 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Chairman, Conference Committee HE annual general Relief Society conference for 1949 was held Wednesday and 'Thursday, September 28, 29, at Salt Lake City with President Belle S. Spafford Presiding at all the sessions. All stakes of the Church were represented with the exception of Oahu and Spokane. The mission Relief Society presidents were not in attendance at the conference, but district and branch officers of many missions in the United States were present. The meetings on Wednesday consisted of presentations of the educational Courses, including a discussion on work meeting activities conducted, consecutively, in the Assembly Hall by the respective chairmen. The congregational singing was led by Sister Florence J. Madsen with Sister Beverly B. Glauser at the organ. Four special departments were conducted simultaneously from 2:45 to 3:45 in the afternoon for secretaries, Indian relations, Relief Society Magazine, and music. Wednesday night the annual Teception was held in the Lafayette Ballroom, Hotel Utah, for stake and mission officers and board members. On Thursday morning the Officers Meeting was held in the Assembly Hall. The Temple View Stake Singing Mothers sang three beauti- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE e: he uary issue; > and that of Bishop Wirthlin | he May agazine, talks heology Department nN Union Meeting," by Ethel C. Smith; Universal Appeal of Visiting Teacher Messages" by Mary GC. Udd; and Igests of the talks "The Worth of The Relief Society Magazine fo Latter day Saint omen" py Elder Lynn McKinlay and "The y alue of Great Literature and How to in mimeograph form. Following 'S a schedule 9 the Meetings DEPAR MENTAL M NGS—we nesday, September 28, 1949 Oming— 16.1, Noon—Assembly Hall Theology iii Gain an Appreciation of It" by Elder Briant § acobs, ha been sent to the Stakes 800 ee Work Meeting ---ao Afternoon—?:39°? 30—Assembly Hall Visiting, Teaching wwe Social Science vane — 2 Indian Relations Secretaries Relief Society Magazine Music RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman a... Leone G. Layton, Chairman eeeMary G. Judd, Chairman Faith S. Elliott, Chairman Thursday, September 29, 1949 Officers Meeting—Assembly Hall Morning—10°!2 oon General Session—Tabernacle Afternoon—2:00-4:00 DEPARTMENTAL MEETING MORNING SESSION-SEPTEMBER 28. 1949 Digest Introduction to oLesson Courses Counselor Marianne EoucaTio' '; an important part of the life of a Latter-day Saint. The Lord has said "Tt is lmpossible for a d in ignorance" and "Whatever principle of intelligence We attain unto in this life, it will rise with us i a person gains diligence an obedience than another, he will have to come." The general poard is proud of the courses which are designed to be presented this coming yeatWe feel Digest— Relief Soctety Sisters 1 C. Sharp that they are of vital interest and importance in the lives of our mempers, and trust that you sisters of the We wish to express appreciation to the writers of our lessons who enlightenment which come to you and the other women of the Church, who study these excellent and outin the Lives of Our &urope Nida A. Taggart Formet President, Swiss-Austrian Mission Relief Society | ask for the Spirit of the Lord and for an interest yout faith and prayers that I may be you what J have in my heart. 1 was able, from MY mission, to J testimony of the digain a deeper RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE vinity of Relief Society work and the effectiveness that it has in the lives of our sisters in Europe. It has been the shining light in most of their lives. 'These sisters in many of those lands where women have been given few, if any, privileges, have found in the Relief Society work their place in the sun. They have the spirit of mercy. They visit the sick and they never go empty-handed, if it is only a flower they take with them. They have little money to give, but they give their time and their love and all of their effort. They love the lessons. 'They were thrilled to know that they were studying the same lessons that you are studying here. 'They have some very fine class leaders. Everyone takes part. You know that love is the foundation of democracy, and, in these troubled times in Europe, what greater gift could we give those women than our wonderful Relief Society program and to bring them the gospel of Jesus Christ? Never in the history of our mission have the doors been opened to us as they are at present. In Germany, Sister Wunderlich is doing a magnificent work in bringing order out of chaos. She has brought those sisters _ together. When they had a convention in Frankfurt, they displayed twentyfive thousand articles of clothing that their sisters had made out of materials from the welfare clothing that needed re-making. They were feeling that they, too, had their welfare project, and they are beginning to be able to help themselves. The Swiss sisters were not hurt 801 by the war, yet they were very active and eager to help their less fortunate neighbors. 'They gathered clothing and food and gave their precious food coupons in order to send food and clothing to Germany and Austria. Every member child in Austria was brought into Switzerland and cared for in the homes of our sisters. 'They were cared for from three to six months, fed and clothed and rehabilitated. It was a marvelous thing for our sisters to do. In that first winter, the winter of 1947, Our wonderful Relief Society president in Vienna had a little plot of ground an hour and a half out from the center of the city. She traveled out there every day to take care of that plot of ground herself. She planted and harvested those potatoes and she harvested enough to help every family in that branch. She said to me: "Sister Taggart, it was like the story of the loaves and the fishes. I have never harvested as many potatoes before or since." As mission wives in Europe, the wives of the mission presidents are doing a magnificent job. I would like to pay tribute to them here. Those sisters in Europe would love to join the body of the Church. I think in every one of their hearts is that wish sometime to come to Zion, but next to that is the thought that they are a part of this great Relief Society organization, that they are doing all they can to further the work of the Lord in those countries. May he bless them with everything they need, that they may have courage and faith, whatever may come, I pray. ome Biblica] Might be an INSDiration. "4! Activity, Available at the Deseret Sermon on ve expressed "TP: e e Mount," Last upper," and "The eral wil] be ation," If a Uticult to Present. Wy, Portunity Presents > Sisters, tie } the Ptinciples of Sospel with the lessons, | - There will be nd may vety likely Whet for tyi the appetite for more. °PPortunity ng in 8°spel pring Other lessons Another Suggestion: in English ] (e) at by so doing will not Waste time On inferior Teading Material, wy, also expect jt €ncourage them Supervise MOre close] y the Teading habits of f Cr children an | kground With worthwhile literature In th Own homes | Pictures freely. R | aids we find that any, there are Tecordings Chairman Work Meeting Committee PLANNING and ¢ Nducting wo kK leisure moments, op Many hours cel they annot afford Miss is g somethin that wil] © lovely Teal challenge to those T€sponsible + Tough th years, We eed hel Or work eeting ay. Anythin nN the use of lored desj Which helps wom become better NStructio lomemakers Ce, Moreover, tells Peutic value of work. Ing with the hands Ou Stake leaders "annot plan for ut you can gle young them. F; 1 your wards who feel able to €partCan suggest better oy. SaNization of the work and ways to interest and bring in NO less req] > Nurse, will lve us Ingenuity an Ing and "anning thrown tion that y, in besides ing attractive 4 n to want we ma duty with thei | Almost eve for Creative T hands. Skills, that throug Our efforts meetings which woman has somethin she picks "P and works ©n in her Sisters will of effort sh uld be 'Pent only on atter-day Saint homes ma become etter place In which to live. DEPARTMENTAL MEETING WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, SEPTEMBER 28 "With Liberty and Yustice for All 1 Edith S. Elliott Chairman, Social Science Committee GINCE childhood we have, each one of us, pledged allegiance to our flag and country. Our love and patriotism have increased each time we have freely offered our willingness to support our government. While we were small, we had to depend on others for our feeling of security in governmental matters. Now that we are mature, we are responsible to ourselves. When we pledge allegiance to our country, we are not being intelligent unless we can do so, wholeheartedly, knowing all about the workings of the government, plus a desire to see liberty and justice for all. Our aim is to have good government—one that is fair, progressive, and dependable. The 134th section of the Doctrine and Covenants is a declaration of what The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints believes to be the aspects of a model government. It was written by Oliver Cowdery as a statement to the world about our political beliefs. It is a reasonable, workable plan for insuring ideal relationship between government and the governed, stressing the importance of individual freedom. For this reason the general board has chosen this section for intensive study in our social science department during the coming year. Relief Society women can wield a strong influence for good in our communities and states, by acquainting themselves with political conditions and working for their betterment. In this world of ours where the thing we seem to have the most of is confusion, we need the guidance and help of our Heavenly Father along political as well as spiritual lines. He has given us the precious gift of freedom. We must guard it and know that "eternal vigilance is the price of liberty." Digest— "Unwashen Hands Versus Hearts Elder Spencer W. Kimball Of the Council of the Twelve hope, my dear sisters, that you can catch the vision of this work among the Lamanite sisters and that you will be able to pass the vision and the enthusiasm on to the sisters with whom you work. When all of you return to your homes, if you inspire another fifty or a hundred women in each of Page 804 your stakes, I can see that there will be happy results. I hope we will not be too much bound by patterns. 'The regular pattern of one Relief Society a week need not be followed. The course of study must be adjusted to needs. The Indian work is more or less of an experiment yet. We will be glad RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to get the benefit of your suggestions also, as you find effective ways of teaching. Last month, in our meeting in the Temple, President Clark made the statement that he had spent several years down in Mexico among the Lamanites, the pure-blooded Indians, and also the Mexicans. He found that they have a greater discernment than we do, generally. If you think with just an outward show of friendliness, you can go into their lives, you are badly mistaken. An Indian can see through you clear into the heart, and he knows whether you are friend or foe. Now sisters, the most important thing in this whole Indian program, as I see it, is education, divided into two phases. 'The first phase is education of the Latter-day Saints at home, some of whom need their hearts opened, cleansed and purged and purified and made ready to accept the program. And phase two is the proselyting of the Lamanites themselves. The scriptures are filled with prophecies in connection with this people. Why, there are few subjects on which there is so much revealed. The prophecies must, and will be fulfilled. They can be fulfilled only by our help. We must go out and do this work. Now, we have tried segregation of the Indians in this nation for a hundred years. It did not work. Segregation has been almost a complete failure. Many of them are still "blanket" Indians,-after a century of segregation. The program of the Church must be one of assimilation and integration. We must take them into our arms, into our 805 hearts, into our Relief Societies, into our sacrament meetings, into our Sunday Schools, into our Primaries, into our Mutual, and into our hearts. I am reminded of what Peter said. You remember he thought the gospel was for the Jews only. 'The Lord revealed that the gospel was for gentiles as well, but the Jews could hardly believe it. They, including the apostles, had grown up with the thought all those years, that the gospel was for the Hebrews and that the Samaritans and all the other groups of those Gentiles along the Mediterranean coast were not clean. And then you will remember in the vision Peter saw all the reptiles and the beasts of every kind, and Peter said "... God hath shewed me that I should not call any man common or unclean." I think the Lord put the reptiles and the snakes and the beasts all in this vision, so that Peter would know the extent of the inclusion and that there was no one to whom the gospel should not come, even the poor and the degraded and the unclean, and so he finally received his testimony. And he went about preaching the gospel to the gentiles. Some of his own brethren, even in the Council of the Twelve, began to argue with him, and finally Peter said to them: "What was I, that I could withstand God?" Now, sisters, the Lord has shown that he is willing to accept the Indian. Who are you and who am I, that we can withstand God? The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants are full of revelations indicating that these people must receive the gospel and that 806 God does and we must, accept them. Sisters, we must come to a program of assimilation and integration, and we must learn the lesson that Peter learned, and that others have had to learn. "Unwashen hands" is no crime. It is a crime to have unwashen souls. You remember how the Pharisees, with vile hearts, would not eat with Christ's disciples with "unwashen hands." If you had committed no greater sin than these particular Indians have who are living today, the sin of being descendants of those who sinned, how would you feel about it? Would you cry for deliverance? Would you grope for light? Would you think that perhaps you had paid your penalty and that now you should be given consideration and brought back into the world of the living? In today's paper, there is the testimony of Sister Sundust. May I quote just a few lines from her. She said: I am proud to be a Latter-day Saint. You know, in my years there is always fear and doubt, not only me, but the tribe of the Maricopa Indians living eighteen miles from here between the Gila and Salt Rivers. There were other missionaries that came there, but they didn't go far.... They don't tell the night way nor the truth and I drift away. From there on there was always doubt in my mind whether there was a living God and his Son, Jesus Christ. And then, finally, one day your people came around. And now she is a member of the Church, with her children. "THE Indians are calling for the gospel; they are begging for it. Bear your testimony to them and the Lord will magnify your testimony, and it will be recorded in the heavRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 ens for the angels to look upon, and it will bear fruits. Your testimonies and the simple explanation of the gospel of Jesus Christ will win many converts. Remember this, sisters: If the Indians had all that was rightfully theirs they would not be where they are and we would not be where we are. Remember that. We are here through the grace of God, and do not forget it. The Lord gave us to share an inheritance with the Indians in this glorious land which is choice above all other lands in all the world. But it is ours only on the condition, as I see it, that we do our part in seeing that these people come into the Church. What the Lamanite needs is opportunity. The only difference between us and the Indian is opportunity. Give them an opportunity, sisters, so that they, too, can enjoy the blessings that you do. And take this message back to your people in the stakes, that they leave off their racial prejudice. Racial prejudice is of the devil. Racial prejudice is of ignorance. 'There is no place for it in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I have read to you some of the scriptures indicating this. Now, sisters, I could talk to you for hours about the problems and destinies of these people who occupy so much of the thoughts of my working hours and even share in my dreams of the night, but may I leave this one thought: The Lamanite has suffered much and long for the sins of his fathers far beyond the third or fourth generation. He is now responsive to the gospel and is entitled to it. He will not receive it without our help We Must not fai] him. Which th Lord of Heaven ha Must accept, fraternize and established fo them? ATe we fellowship him, an Cease to gs um to Say who is unclean, Who has "11 and hiss him ashen" }, ds? And | say it again and again to a n } all of us, as did Peter, Who are We with a great cathusiasm, to fulfil that we 'an withstand the plan the Promises of God, I Ptay Privilege to Present to you 3 We are receiving annual Te nef report © Status of Re Ports an hearing; Sularly from al] lief Society, thi, time for, 48. Of the 10ns, including the 0 our H venly Fath > and to the €NCouraged © gtowth of the splendid en w ave made MIssion Relief Societies and by the Possible the Stowth of the Society in spirit with which the work js con all of it aspect acknowledge ucted ther, nd more the in Genera] and Stake Boards ommended Procedure. © have at present twenty-three The genera] board jis beginning to members of the 8€neral board. Since build up 4 fore;, Ociet lessons ister Priscj]] vans and Sister We believe this will Prove of In orence G mith Only One board estimable value; the future e mem ber 4PPointed simee ore also asking hem, as vw, Il as you ast October, lst Nellie Ne ] Sisters In the Stakes € have at Present stake board of The Relief Society Magazine. Ganizations In all of the one hunTed Seventy-four Stakes of the Membership and Attendance Church, With Relief Societies In all The mem bership of Relief Socie Of the forty-four Missions of the was Increased during 1 8 by 3,843 urch except two, the Japanese women, Siving us 4 total Member. 808 cember 31, 1948. Sisters, as long as I preside over the society, you will hear of the importance of extending the blessings and benefits of membership to every Latter-day Saint woman. For your strengthening and extending the according to frequent reports Ieceived at the general office and the messages are well received by both visiting teachers and the women in the homes. The delivery of the message remains of vital importance even though reports of the number of homes in which the message was presented have been discontinued. Family Visits Compassionate services show 4a substantial increase and the sisters continue their loyal support of the Church Welfare Program. The study of a family situation for the purpose of determining its problems and its needs should be carefully, intelligently, and unhurriedly made. Usually it is not possible in a single visit to understand the family, its basic problems, and the resources within it. For this reason we recommend to you a Care ful consideration of follow-up visits and their value. Even when the need for help has ceased, we would recommend that the friendly nterest of the president continue to be expressed through visits to the home. Service by Those Assisted We urge a continuation of your efforts to have the sisters visited by RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 Relief Society presidents under the direction of their bishops, contribute service to the Welfare Program, and do their own sewing wherever pos sible. In assigning the 195° clothing budget the general committee ss recommending that only a por tion of it be made up into articles of clothing, and that the remainder be held in yardage in the storehouse for distribution on bishop's orders to families who may be able or who can be taught to do their own sewing. Fund-Raising Activities Reports show the society, as a whole, to be in good condition with respect to finances. Funds appeat to have been raised judiciously and expended wisely. Fund-raising ac tivities have been, in general, in keeping with the standards and dignity of Relief Society, and they have, in large measure, been the out growth of the regular Relief Society program, Or a reflection of it. This the general board fully endorses and would encourage. Relief Society Not a Selling Agent We are aware that you are 0C casionally approached by commer cial institutions or by individuals for the purpose of having you sell their product on a commission basis. Such an undertaking should be weighed carefully and the counsel of the Priesthood should be sought. Care must be exercised to make sure that Relief Society does not become a selling agent, and that people are not solicited in the name of the society to the point where the society becomes subject to criticism. Purchase of Sewing Machines The general board members, in Ible that the sisters Work toward the annual Narrative Teport a brief Purchase of a} least one that wil] statement of the Activity. We would meet the ordinary Tequirements of also appreciate Teceiving 4g letter ot Wi Stake boards to bring the Wards toI am SUITE We are all happy that &¢ether for functions that could more the Handbook & Pp. Available, "PPropriately be Conducted in the With A Centenary of Relief Socie Individual Wards. As 4 8eNeral also 1 Your hands to acquaint you tule it is mote "onvenient for the with the history of the Society for its the society When UNctions are conRelief Society Buildin: € again express our MOst sinS t of cere thanks for your Wonderful re. We = Pies you from the 'Ponse to the Relj ii Society uild bottom of carts for your loya] ing fund-raising Program. We were Support of th agazi € urge hopeful, a; Was the First Presidenc Stake Relief ciety Presidents tg that we coul "ounce at this con support th Bazine by alling jt ference, © Suilding sit We are assured by the First Presidency that Officers from time to time ip the ley are mOvINg as 'apidly ag they you will be advised, 4 Month to cal] the 4€azine to the Lists of Contributors attention of the members in 4 TeguThe lists of Contributors were lar Meeting Of the SOciety, Painstakingly and beautifully Pte-, thank for the ex. Indian Relations Program She we ie oe ea Wish to 4gain remind you that 810 as a gift for the new Relief Society Building. It is very rare and beautiful. We all thank this mission for this choice gift which will have a prominent place in the new building where all of you may see it. Sisters, we love you for what you are and for the good you do. President Clark has told us: "The Relief Society is the handmaid to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 Priesthood of God in carrying on his work for the salvation of men. This is the key to every task you undertake, it unlocks the door to your every duty, it opens the gate to all your activities." Let us always temember this admonition of President Clark. May God bless you in the important work to which you have been called, I sincerely pray. Meeting Our Obligations Counselor Velma N. Simonsen SOMETIME ago I read a letter written by a father to his son upon the son's_ graduation from college. In it he said, "In the game of life it won't matter whether you win or lose, but how you meet your obligations." We can well apply that advice to our own lives and to our work in the Church. It does not matter what positions we hold, whether we are presidents, counselors, secretaries, or visiting teachers, but how we meet the obligations of our positions. Probably we gathered here today have the greatest obligation of any group of women of equal numbers that could be called together anvwhere in the whole world. And to whom are we obligated? Certainly we have an obligation to the past. No other women have as great a heritage as we women of Relief Society, Think of that first Relief Society. The purpose and aims and fundamentals have not changed in over one hundred years. We must so build that we will not weaken the structure they so firmly established. We are obligated to the future. We are charged with the responsibility of training the mothers who in turn will take these instructions into the homes where they will influence future generations. But our greatest obligation is to the present, for this is our time, and, if we meet the obligation of today faithfully, we will likewise fulfill our obligation to the past and to the future. Of course, our first obligation is to God, for life and being and all that we have and are. 'That we are grateful for these blessings, that we are trying to fulfill our obligation to him, and that we are not satisfied with merely thanking him in words for his bounties to us, is evidenced by our 'accepting responsibility in his Church. But do we often ask ourselves as did one of old, "What shall I render unto the Lord for all his goodness unto me?" There is only one way we can really pay our debt to God —by keeping his commandments and rendering service to others. Someone has said, service is the rent we pay for the space we occupy here on earth. We are members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE and as such we have an obligation to live the gospel and keep the commandments of God. At the time of baptism we made a covenant with the Lord to do so. But, as stake officers and teachers in Relief Society, it is especially important for us to live according to the standards of the Church and to set the proper example. We have been called to lead and direct the women of our stakes. We have been called to this position not because of our wealth, not because of our social positions, not because of any material possessions or qualifications we may have, but because we love the gospel and live it to the best of our ability and have qualities of spiritual leadership. And we can expect to lead the women no higher than we live ourselves. 'The Bible says, "as with the people, so with the priest." Our homes must be examples for the women of the stakes to follow. They should be clean, well-kept, and sanitary. And it is our responsibility to guide, direct, and teach the women in the proper maintenance of their homes. There should be cooperation among family members, and love and righteous ambition. Tithing is accepted by Latter-day Saints as a law of God to man, and while the law contains a promise of rewards, we should obey it because it is the Lord's command that we do so, and by obedience comes the blessing of increased spirituality which we must have if we wish to meet the obligations of our callings. Important among the standards of the Church is the observance of the Word of Wisdom, the Lord's guide to temporal salvation, and the 811 proper care of the body. No true Latter-day Saint and, especially, no true Latter-day Saint chosen to a position of leadership, would disregard this law which condemns the use of tobacco and alcoholic beverages and advises against the use of tea and coffee. We need the great and unusual blessings that are promised to those who observe this law. We believe in being honest, true, chaste, and benevolent. We _ believe that, but do we practice it in very deed? In this day of idle words and scheming for self-gain are our promises fulfilled to the letter? Would we be willing to have the Church judged by the way we keep our obligations in this respect? THER helps toward gaining spiritual development are family and individual prayers and the blessings upon the food, the ob servance of the Sabbath day, which includes attendance at sacrament meeting and the partaking of the sacrament. Besides living the gospel and teaching it by example, we have an obligation to bring spirituality into all our Relief Society activities. We have a comprehensive educational program in Relief Society aimed to develop the women in every phase of life. We must not lose sight of the fact that spirituality is the foundation and the thread that must run through the entire structure of our Relief Society program to give it strength and purpose and effectiveness. We frequently hear it said, and rightly so, that through activity in Relief Society one can get a liberal 812 education, but we must not become so concerned with self-development in a material way that we lose sight of the great purpose of Relief Society—that of strengthening our testimonies of the gospel and of giving service to others. Years ago at a Relief Society conference, I heard a speaker make a statement that has helped me to realize the importance of spirituality in our lives. He said, "Give your children spiritual experience and they will not be satisfied with any other." Let our women be fed rich spiritual food when they come to Relief Society and they will be anxious to return for more. As a child I used to go to the field with my father to feed the cows. 'They would be scattered all over the field. Father would pound on the bars with the pitchfork and the cows would come running from every direction. They were tewarded with good, fresh food. I wonder what would have happened RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 if once or twice they had not found good food when they were called. Upon you stake officers rests the responsibility to see that this spiritual food is given to the women in the wards. You must see that ways and means are found to let them enjoy spiritual experiences. Let us not let the temporal things of life take away the blessings of spirituality. The Lord has said: For behold I will bless all those who labor in my vineyard with a mighty blessing. Wherefore be not weary in well doing for you are laying the foundation of a great work and out of small things proceedeth that which is great. Strive first for spirituality, seek first to know the deep things of God, and bring to our hungry mothers rich spiritual food. My prayer is that each of us holding a place of responsibility in Relief Society will so meet the obligations of her calling that when our final score is taken, it will be said of us, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant." Yoy in Leadership Counselor Marianne C. Sharp "MEN are that they might have joy," so wrote the great prophet Nephi in declaring the summation of man's goal. Joy, however, comes as a reward for obedience to eternal, righteous principles. Joy in leadership, as in other activities, comes as a result of exercising leadership in the way marked out for us by the greatest leader, as he was the greatest teacher, our Savior Jesus Christ. In speaking of leadership, Christ taught:... Whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister: And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all. For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. Therefore, you sisters who stand at the head of the Relief Societies of the stakes of the Church and all assembled here today ate servants to those over whom we preside. In order to render the utmost in service there are certain attributes which must be woven into the very being of our spirits. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Perhaps the first tribute would be a full-hearted ac. Ceptance of the Particular cal] which ls asked of each of us, comes greatest growth. Every task which j taken with a willing spirit to which we devote our best efforts Tewards doer with; Another essential attribute Closely aligned with the full acceptance of a call and th your own virtues." Tom filling the Positions to which should appreciate the but a bri Where he leave off here. Other necessary attributes are meekness and humility, You will remember that to his disciples, won. Deting who js greatest in the king. Dom of God, Jesus, Placing a child 814 RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE_DECEMBER 1949 in their midst, said, "Whosoever to you. During your absence they therefore shall humble himself as lack your tender Ministrations They this little child, the SAME iS greatest ate giving an extra watchcare to your who were g9Ing to Tegulate some sacrifice, as dg you, for the 800d you Sisters in g ward. Their spirit seemed may accomplish. Anything but meek and humble. I As our adherence to righteous love unfeigned; by kindness and through bearing - with the foibles enlarge the soul without hypocrisy ing and building up the good which and without guile. Is to be found in each one of us, in devotion you manifest in acceptance Perhaps an added Joy in leadership Comes to each One of us in the unFor your good works we thank you with hearts full of love. We works and service which we give Tealize that your work taxes your to Relief Society, Your Presence utmost efforts and that not the least RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE pray our Heavenly Father in the name of his Son that you may have increasing joy from your leadership duties and may earn the promise made to Relief Society members by 815 the Prophet Joseph, "If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom." That this may be so, I pray. GENERAL SESSION THURSDAY AFTERNOON, SEPTEMBER 29, 1949 Digest— Choose You Shis Day Evon W. Peterson THE hosts of heaven were as sembled in that great council to listen to the voice of the Father as he told them of his plan to create an earth where his children could enter into their second estate, which was to take a body and fulfill the full measure of their creation. At that time the Father bestowed upon them the greatest of all gifts, the right to choose—to choose that day whom they would follow. In that assembly, naturally, there were some who were not as valiant as were others, yet they were all given their free agency to choose for themselves. That free agency has continued in mortality as a basic principle in the eternal law of progression. However, if we are to gain eternal life, we must be obedient to the laws of truth. Often in the midst of sorrow or trials that come into our lives or disasters that come upon the world, we ask, "Why does God allow it?" One writer said: If only we were honest with ourselves we would admit how unfair it is to blame the Lord. The simple truth is that mankind, not the Lord, is entirely responsible. These things are the direct result of abusing the most wonderful gift we have ever received from heaven—the gift of free-will. In the Book of Mormon we read where the Prophet Samuel was preaching to the Lamanites and he told them of the things that were to happen and the great blessings that were in store for those who would heed the teachings of the Lord, and then he pointed out the tribulations that would come to those who would not believe and he said: And now remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself and who doeth iniquity doeth it unto himself, for behold ye are free, ye are permitted to act for yourself, for behold God has given unto you a knowledge and he hath made you free. In our complex life today we are continually meeting new problems. Almost every day is a day of decisions—what to do, what choice to make. With our limited understanding we cannot make important decisions without guidance. There has never been a time when man needed more desperately the help of divine inspiration than he does today, and I know of no better way to secure this inspiration than by keeping the commandments of our Father in Heaven. Although the world is ever changing, the fundamental truths of our gospel are the same today as they 816 were when taught by our Savior to the multitudes on the shores of Galilee. He marked the path and led the way, and as Latter-day Saints we have been given light and understanding of the road which leads to eternal life. The Lord has given spirits into Our care and he has endowed them with the right to choose for themselves, but he has enjoined us as parents to teach, to counsel, and to direct them in the ways of truth and righteousness, Are we as parents heeding that counsel? Are we exercising our gift of choice in such a way that it will assure the greatest happiness for ourselves and for our families? I recently read an article written by Elder Stephen L Richards in which he said: The homes which Produce real Latter. Day Saints shall be Presided over and maintained by men of strength and courage, of virtue and vision, and by women of tenderness, unselfishness and infinite patience and love, One of our tesponsibilities as parents is to help our children in making important decisions in life. We May not be able to help a child solve his particular problem, but we can help him to acquire the right attitude toward it and we can encourage him to go to his Heavenly Father for assistance. Youth is the seedtime of life, and if a child is to Teap an abundant harvest he must be taught to choose and sow those seeds that will develop a righteous life. We cannot compel a child to appreciate love and beauty. This appreciation only Comes through association with the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 beautiful and with those who love beauty, Home atmosphere js likely the most basic consideration in the development of youth. If the atmosPhere is healthy and stimulating, the lives of family members who breathe it will likewise be healthy and vigorous, Our Relief Society lessons have taught us that too many today are content to remain on the fringe of righteousness, satisfied with the shell when they could and should have the core. The worthwhile things of life lie ahead and only struggle can bring us to them. Those who are willing to exert the greater effort reach the greater heights. A man was traveling along a paved highway. The pavement ended and there stretched before him as far as he could see a dirt road In very poor condition. Where the poor road began a large sign read "Choose your Tut now for you will be in it for the next twenty miles," There are Many spiritual ruts along life's highway. Let us try to avoid them. The road to righteousness is upward and ahead. There are easier roads to travel, but there are none that will bring the supreme joy that comes from righteous liying. 'The degree of happiness that we may enjoy during our later years will not come by accident nor by good luck, as some May say, but it will be the result of the way we live each day. Let us also remember it is likely that we teach more by what we do rather than by what we say. May we Latter-day Saint mothers so live that we may be worthy of the in- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE spiration of our Father in Heaven in guiding our children so that they may choose for themselves the better life. And in the words of Joshua 817 of old, let us say "Choose you this day whom ye will serve, but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." Digest— Cultivating Lifes Eternal Values Mary J. Wilson AS a text for my brief message I have taken a verse from the sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants: Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, then shall you be made tich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. The most important responsibility resting upon any individual is to build a worthwhile and meaningful life. This objective is not achieved in a day, a week, or a year. With every person is born the God-given assignment to build a life. What, then, are the materials we should use in building a worthwhile and meaningful life? America's great inspirational poet, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, caught the vision: For the structure that we raise Time is with materials filled, Our todays and yesterdays Are the blocks with which we build. Nothing enduring can be built without a pattern or plan. We must have purpose and direction in our building. What is the great plan by which we shape our lives? We, as Relief Society sisters, know the answer, for it is to know and to do the will of our Heavenly Father. Our time, our energy, and our means are limited, so we are of necessity confronted with the responsibility of making choices. How necessary it is, therefore, that we develop a pattern of life containing imperishable, eternal values, and that we build them into the structure of our individual lives. May I suggest some of the basic soul values which must go into the great edifice of eternal life? Some of the eternal qualities for which we must strive are sincere and abiding faith, interest in and love for our fellow men, and sincere devotion to our Heavenly Father's plan for the achievement of eternal life. Faith is that which gives us vision to carry on, and confidence in ultimate success, even in the face of present discouragement. In I Nephi, 17th chapter, we learn that Nephi was commanded to build a ship. His brothers laughed at him and ridiculed him, but Nephi said unto them: If God had commanded me to do all things I could do them. If he should command me that I should say unto this water, be thou earth, it should be earth; and if I should say it, it would be done. Through faith we have the power to be selective. We may know the wheat from the chaff. There is no more important element in building faith and cultivating the other qualities of eternal life than prayer. It is a means of getting closer to God; through this medium we learn his will. Yet too often our prayers are uttered as a matter of habit and routine. But the prayers that will enrich our souls 818 and give us new vision and faith are the prayers through which we open our souls completely to God with the faith and confidence that he will give us strength to face and overcome the things that are keeping us from achieving true spiritual growth. Faith and prayer, however, cannot function in our lives in a truly effective way merely as abstract principles. In James, we are told that "faith without works is dead." We must therefore reflect our faith in our service and love for our fellow men. One of the greatest statements in the Bible concerning the Savior is, he "went about doing good." When service is mentioned, we are prone to cast about for an opportunity to serve in a big way in a remote place. Our tendency is to forget the "Acres of Diamonds" lying about our own doors. In the same community, or on the same block, or perhaps in our own families, there are those who are discouraged and impoverished for the want of words of hope and love. There are those who are spiritually sick as well as mentally and physically ill. On the whole, our fields of service lie within areas about our own homes. A Relief Society visiting teacher, on one of her visits, found a sister crushed with grief. This afflicted sister had passed through much sorrow, and she had lost faith in her Heavenly Father. The visiting teacher had a newly found interest in this unfortunate sister. The teacher visited her new friend often, and helped her to get new interests in life; helped her to reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 kindle faith in herself and faith in immortality. This is only one example of true love and service that comes from our visiting teachers, but there are thousands of such cases where people have helped within our Relief Society organization. Latter-day Saints have a marvelous concept of the meaning and necessity of growth through acquisition of knowledge. The Lord has declared that the "glory of God is intelligence," and that "man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge." Then again in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 130:18-19, we read, "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection." How can we, then, cultivate knowledge and intelligence in our quest for eternal values? First, we must be awakened to the need for growth, and then we shall find the means and opportunities for development. We not only gain knowledge through the study of great books, but through prayer we also find the ways and means of development. Let us not waste time. Benjamin Franklin wrote, "Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is what life is made of." One often hears this expression, "If I just had time to do this or that," but we overlook what can be accomplished by small snatches of time. Be ever alert to your opportunities. Study, seek good companions, insist upon filling your life with eternal riches. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE You have a great birthright, you live in a land "choice above all other lands." You have accepted as a pattern of life the gospel of Jesus Christ. Your opportunities are unbounded. But only you can fashion your individual lives into glorious, 819 eternal mansions filled with the eternal light of truth. May God bless all of us that we may get the vision necessary to see life at its best and give us strength to live according to an eternal pattern. Digest—Prepare Shy Heart Leone O. Jacobs NE of the most glorious truths of life is that we can always rise above our present level. Wouldn't life be discouraging if, once we found ourselves involved in unworthy conduct, we couldn't pull ourselves up, and out, and on to better ways? But we don't have to remain as we are. Each day offers a new beginning. An old man was once reviewing his life to a friend: "When I was thirty I was just no good—no good to anybody, not even to myself. Then one day I had the urge, the desire, to right about face. I decided I was going to change my direction, and from that moment I have led a life I'm proud of." A young college girl paused one day in her round of excitement and said, "I guess I'm going with the wrong crowd. I don't think I want to go where they're going." She didn't go that way. A mother of three husky little boys had never deemed it necessary to give them any teligious instruction. Oh, yes, she fed them wellbalanced meals, kept them as clean as little boys can be kept, and saw to it that bedtime was strictly observed. But one day she pondered to herself, "I wonder if I'm a really good mother. I guess there's more to rearing a family than merely feeding and clothing them. I seem to have time for my bridge club and for social engagements in the evenings, but maybe I'm neglecting some important points." She did something about it. Lives can be changed, can't they? The course of our lives can be terouted. But how? Let's call it preparing the heart. Well, what does preparing one's heart mean? It means checking up on one's self, scrutinizing one's daily life and evaluating what is there—what is worthy and what is unworthy of continuing. It means ridding one's self of bitterness and selfishness. It means humbling one's self before the Lord. It means complete forgiveness of all wrongs inflicted on us, either real or imagined. It means opening wide one's heart to righteousness—putting one's self in an attitude to receive good. It means planning one's course differently. Picture in your mind a field, plowed and harrowed from end to end, leveled perfectly, weeds burned down along the fence line, everything possible done that is conducive to the growth of good seed. The field is ready, waiting to receive that good seed. We can put our hearts in that very same condition, in an 820 attitude of receptiveness to good. We can plow up the old, useless habits and smooth down the rough places of error. We hear someone say, "I wish I could enjoy working in the Church as you do. It seems to make you so happy." They can. It's all in the set of the heart. It's all in preparing the heart to want that sort of living. And then we hear people say, too, "But I don't see how you get time for it all." In one of our recent Relief Society conventions, a bishop said something profoundly important for us to remember. He said, "If you're too busy to serve the Lord, you're too busy." Yes, if we are too busy to serve the Lord, then we are too busy doing other things that aren't so worthwhile. In the Old Testament we read this: "For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the Lord and to do it." What a lovely ideal for us to follow. And in the Doctrine and Covenants (132:3) the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith: "Therefore, prepare thy heart to receive and obey the instructions which I am about to give unto you." I think to prepare one's heart is perhaps the most decisive point in progress toward any goal. Carrying out one's plans and good intentions, of course, is important, too, but the action is comparatively easy once the heart is thoroughly prepared for that course. As the poem says, "It's the set of the soul that determines the goal." So far as living the gospel is concerned, I firmly believe we can do the things we want to do, if the desire is strong enough. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 In our Relief Society organization we have much help in preparing our hearts to do good. Our wonderful lessons and work meeting activities give us great help. But we not only have help in preparing our own hearts, but we have the opportunity to help others in preparing their hearts. Visiting teaching gives us a fine opportunity of turning the hearts of inactive Church members, little by little, back to activity. It is within our power to show the joy of service and the beauties of the gospel to those who are engrossed in worldly affairs. A bishop recently made a special plea that Relief Society members put their arms around our sisters who have drifted away and estranged themselves from _ the Church because they have married outsiders. 'Through sheer love and personal interest, we should endeavor to draw them to our organization and thus to activity in the gospel. Living the gospel means sharing it with as many others as possible, doesn't it? And visiting teaching is indeed a challenge in sharing the gospel. 'True, every home cannot be approached in the same manner, and this is why visiting teaching requires such thought, such preparation, tact, and prayer. Remember, if you are too busy to serve the Lord, you are too busy. Prepare your hearts to seek the law of the Lord and to do it, and in every way possible help others to prepare their hearts for righteousness. May our Heavenly Father help us to set our course in the right direction and follow it with determination. Ready for Christmas Ora Pate S tewart T was three days before Christ. | mas, but Emmy was teady. Day after Christ. Mas, she could be scen crocheting a fine edge on a white handkerchief, pulling threads on a scarf for a bit of Swedish darning, or sewing smal] cross stitches into 4 sampler or cushon—so that she'd be ready by the next Christmas. "Tt's not like I make a burden of it," she would explain, and her sharp dark eyes would sparkle with spirit. "T may not be so young, but I stil] enjoy the giving end," she would continue. And sometimes she would add, "There are richer folks, but giving has never been a burden world in better tune, and Points up the corn. Cts of my spirits, | needed that, and I guess she knew it. Notwithstanding her years and the circle of braided white hair that times referred to her as Aunt Emmy. But Emmy she Was, and only Emmy was not wholly crippled. Her hands were snarled with arthritis, and there were indications that straight and true through her crook. Ed fingers. Years before a stroke had invaded one side of her face, clasping one corner of her mouth in 4 perpetual smile. "I'm so thankful [ wasn't frowning when it hit," she would exPlain. "Whenever my mother used to catch me pouting she would Say, 'Now, Emmy, what if your face should freeze that way you be a have to keep a smile on the other Page 82] 822 "suppose the old striker should come back for the other side? They say if he comes once he will come again. I'll have to be ready." I should have recognized the ominousness of that possibility; but the way Emmy put it there was nothing ominous. And we all smiled with her. O the morning her great-granddaughter came for me and said Grandma Emmy wanted me _ to come and get my Christmas present I was somewhat astonished. "Tt's three days before Christmas," I protested, "and besides, I haven't got Emmy's present finished yet." I was making her a scrapbook of poems and proverbs that I thought she might like. I used to read to her sometimes and felt we had a secret bond that the others didn't share. "She didn't say to bring her present," the child rejoiced, "she said for you to come and get yours." I gathered up the unfinished scrapbook and went to get my coat. "She said for you to bring your ukulele, too," the child continued. "She wants some Christmas carols." Often I had played the ukulele for Emmy, sometimes as an instrumental solo, and sometimes as accompaniment for folk songs or hymns. We used to work out harmonies on "My Old Kentucky Home" and "The Old Rugged Cross." She especially liked my arrangement of "Moonlight and Roses" and "Abide With Me." She never belittled the sincerity of that small music box. She never even said, ""I'oo bad you never had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 a pipe organ," like so many of my friends always said. I got the ukulele and followed the child to Emmy's house. Emmy was sitting on the edge of her bed. Besides the four generations of her household there were the milkman and the iceman, who had finished the business of their visits and now stood at the foot of the brass bed twisting their caps. "We're all here but the postman,' Emmy said brightly. "He always brings me a calendar for Christmas and a seed catalogue for my birthday. What time is it, somebody? Maybe we can wait." I looked at my watch. It was a quarter after eight. The postman likely wouldn't be there for an hour. Loaded with Christmas mail, he might not make it before noon. The smell of ominousness hung heavily in the air. 'The sound of silent words whispered ominously. Ominous shadows could all but be seen playing about the room. I was afraid the postman would be too late. The good side of Emmy's face twitched slightly. "We'll sing a few carols and maybe he'll come. Get out your Stradivarius," she said to me. "Let's sing 'O Come, All Ye Faithful.' " We sang "O Come, All Ye Faithful" and "Joy to the World," and "Away in a Manger." The twitchings tried to make a pretzel of Emmy's mouth. And my throat filled up and it was hard to sing. "Somebody hand me down the box from the closet shelf," Emmy said, and her voice had an unfamiliar sound. Her daughter brought the large cardboard carton and set it on the bed. Emmy raised the great effort, and Spoke with even we have read together, and the 8teater difficulty. We all Wanted books YOu must write alone.": mmy had always There was 4 stinging in My eyes, helped herself. With similar effort and J turned to the window. It We restrained Ourselves, hadn't been an hour, but the Post- "An apron—for you—my daughMan was walking up the street on ter." Her daughter took the apron the Other side and dabbed jt to her eyes, The "Hurry!" J called, almost out loud Standson got 4 crocheted Scarf; his, 'Tough the frost © "Hunry, wife, a dresser set done in Swedish and get your mittens," aming; their little gir] §0ot a beaut; "Tell him to come," Emmy said ful Tag doll with yan pigtails and a He brought the calendar Just in Ted calico Petticoat. Hen Upendtime. Ed, the Petticoat mag 4 gay skirt "lis, been a love] hristmas," or the Pickaninny face ndermeath ty "said setae ° 2 €ase pla O great-gran SONS got mit. 'Hatk—the € ld—Angels— Sing? Cate turn, for their wives. Ered up her feet into the bed and Was a pocket for buttons. The title side. But Emmy had been Teady, Was stitched on the front with gold And now both Corners of her mouth thread. "The Book of F tendship," Were clasped in q Perpetual smile "Dark in the Chrysalis," a New seria] by Alice Morrey Bailey, win begin in the January Magazine. It relates the Struggle of 4 woman to Overcome loneliness and grief and make g Place for herself under adverse citcumstances, The Story js vividly and Nitten, TS. Bailey jg already Well-known to our Teaders both 4S a poet and 4 Writer of Senals and Short Stories, Her serial "The Meny-Go-Roung" Was featured during 1941 and 1942. She has tWice been awarded the first prize m the Relief Society Short Sto In January 1948). Her S€cond-prize Story "The Ring of Strength was published In L u and they have one Standdaughter. Their son Donald wil] soon be leaving On a mission to Mexico, An unusually gifted woman, Mrs. Bailey js also a composer, artist, MUSician, READY FOR CHRISTMAS 823 "FOR THE Ricuts oF THE WoMEN of ZION AND THE Ricuts oF THE WoMEN oF Att Nations" I OFTEN WONDER WHY 'TIS SO Some find work where some find rest, And so the weary world goes on; I sometimes wonder which is best; he answer comes when life is gone. Some eyes sleep when some eyes wake, And so the Weary night-hours go; Some hearts beat when some hearts break; I often wonder why 'tis so, —A, J. R. THE MAYFLOWER AT PLYMOUTH: There has been completed recently chains, Night comes, and wraps his sombre mantle round the earth—mantles, dark, and cold, and chill, but day-light drives night shades away. The storm-king often beats down sorrow and dismay, but sunshine always follows rain. Through all, the biting cold, the genial warmth, the dark and light, the storm and calm, we tread life's hill-side path, yet never tread that path alone.—Aretta with wonder-eyes, at the variety of toys and playthings on exhibit. What a contrast the streets present now to thirty years ago, and how the little folks revel in luxuries that Santa Claus supplies for their indulgence. Page 824 HIS Christmas month we should like to express good wishes and appreciation for the thousands of women throughout the world who are giving of their time to help their fellow human beings, whether physically, spiritually, or intellectually. They are fulfilling Christ's "first and great commandment." Their name is legion and charity will not fail while their influence abides. Me. EMMA MARR PETERSEN of Salt Lake City is the author of Bible Stories for Young Latter-day Saints, a beautifully wmitten series of sixty stories presenting the Church viewpoint of Bible events and characters. The book provides appropriate material for home evenings, for reading to small children, and is a valuable supplement for use in Sunday School and Primary. The illustrations, by Richard I. Elkins, make graphic and colorful additions to the worth of this excellent book. ATHLEEN NORRIS recently made a strong plea for the United Nations meetings to be opened with prayer. Like many others, she feels the need for divine guidance. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. EUGENIE ANDERSON, a national committeewoman from Red Wing, Minnesota, has been appointed Ambassador to Denmark. Mrs. Anderson, a musician, is the mother of two children and the wife of an artist. Mrs. Ruth Bryan Rhode was Minister to Denmark before the war and Mrs. Perle Mesta is now United States Minister to the grand duchy of Luxembourg. NNA MARY MOSES, of Eagle Bridge, New York, affectionately known as "Grandma Moses," has been honored by the Women's National Press Club as one of the outstanding American women of 1948. She is eighty-eight years old and is one of the most original and popular painters of the present day. She paints strikingly beautiful country scenes, many of which appear on Christmas cards. HE National Federation of. Women's Clubs, according to Pastor Alson J. Smith, is responsible for considerable improvement in the quality of recent moving pictures, some of which "are doing much better" in eliminating some of the glamour associated with drinking and taking the use of alcohol for granted. Page 825 CQ— > EDITORIAL c© VOL. 26 DECEMBER 1949 NO. 12 Christmas Down the Years THE significance of the word "Christmas" changes with our years, but both to the child and the aged there remains an enchantment which never vanishes. In our childhood, Christmas provides the answer to all our wishes, the one day in the year when dreams become reality. The electric train, the dazzling doll, appear without fail, and the beloved Santa Claus dispenses a wondrous supply of gifts. Then, the morning after Christmas is one of keen regret in spite of the gifts of yesterday, for an endless succession of days seems to stretch ahead before the next Christmas will come. In our teens, the day still holds forth great promise and excitement. Although the bountiful Santa has long since gone, rarely do even our most extravagant desires go unfilled. The first Christmas of married life is a wonderfully happy and satisfying day, when, from carefully hoarded dimes and nickles, the husband and wife surprise the other with much-wanted gifts which reveal sacrifice on the part of the givers. And then, as children bless the marriage, the tenor of Christmas changes for the parents. Santa Claus once more dominates the scene with magic as potent as of yore. Trains and dolls in ultra-modern dress appear. The looks of love and understanding shared by the parents, as the children exclaim with delight over their presents, are rich recompense for the threadbare rug or the parents' own shabby clothes. And, then, for the last time the scene shifts. The children have left to make homes of their own and, perhaps, even the beloved companion has gone ahead. 'Then Christmas morning is laved with a feeling of nostalgia. Before the flames of the hearthside appears a shifting panorama in which Christmases of the past and present glow and fade, and merge. 'The cravings and longings for material largess have largely disappeared. 'The spirit has come to know with certainty "It is more blessed to give than to receive," and an awakened realization of the efficacy of that greatest Gift to mankind, at last, teaches the heart the true meaning of Christmas. M. C. S. She sooth Semi-Annual Church Conference T the close of each general conference of the Church, while acknowledging the greatness of the conferences of previous years, the last one is always acclaimed as the best one which has ever been held. Page &26 In The Church of Jesus Christ, over which the prophets of the Lord preside, it would seem only natural that the Father would give by inspiration that bread of life most needful and satisfying to his obedi- EDITORIALS ent and loving children. Thus each conference is the best for the particular time. The 120th semi-annual Church conference was a memorable one. In one particular it was history-making. For the first time Church members were privileged to sit in their homes and view by KSL-TV, not only the sound of each speaker's voice, but his every facial expression and gesture as well. 'The close-up view obtained on television was superior to any view except that of the comparative few who were seated in the most advantageous positions in the 'Tabernacle. Those who shared in the conference on Sunday afternoon by television will never forget the sight of President Smith 827 raising his hands in blessing upon the saints. This is indeed an age of wonders and the contemplation of television gives rise to the thought of its use as the means of preaching the gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people before the end. Members of the Church who heard or read the conference proceedings truly show their appreciation of the teachings and the services of the general authorities by heeding the admonitions given by them, among which were—to uphold the Welfare Plan, keep the Sabbath day holy, support the missionary work, thwart the powers of darkness, increase testimonics, repent, and daily to live the gospel. M. C. S. Ditter on Semple Sguare ITH the recognition in mind of the wonderful teachings of the gospel as a constant guide in one's daily conduct, the scene presented on Temple Square after the Sunday morning session of conference gave pause for thought! A stranger might have inferred, and with some justification, that a carnival had just concluded, rather than a most sacred service. Lawns, walks, flower beds, and steps were littered with trash and newspapers on which people had been sitting. Banana and orange peelings with wads of paper sacks were even jammed under some seats in the Tabernacle. The gospel teaches that cach person will have returned to him that measure which he has meted. Certainly this would apply to the attributes of neatness and order as well as goodness, honor, and virtue. The sisters of the Church might, with profit, call this matter to the attention of their families so that such a condition will not again occur. M. C. S. _ Dimensions Della Adams Leitner We cannot stretch the years ahead To lengthen life—but every hour We can increase its breadth and depth— That lies within our power. HE house was very quiet mM them in the bottom dWer of the T € days that followed New wardrobe unk, "4 igail, dar. Y wen Shoppi § with ling, you'll see his wil € the 4nna and s uggled to € enthusjfinest thing that ver happened to astc Over ¢] thes, b t she was whitePenn ear fr Now she']] aced Vy-eyed Joanna, wak. Smile wh someo mentions Ng in the n ght, hear her muffled ark's name." weeping, She Covered her ears With gall put the Sock in her lap the pillo omeday P MY would « You smile, Jo nna, when y ank her for th hear the na t Kent Taylor?" Ichael was the Only one who Joanna Sucked in her breath, Pain Was delighted with the PlOspect of Toared through her, "Kent? Wh eing Teleased from School, He ||. Why. Oh, but It's different." UP until the small hours studying Suddenly Abigail was crying, tears the rows of figures that had been falling unchecked down her Wrink- ' ion, heeks, Only A igail was Outspoken In "Darling" Joanna SPrang to her. Cr disapproval. She was in Joanna's « at is it?" Toom, the night before they woulg tg: - I'm Crying for 4 girl J begin their trip, helping in the last knew 3 light long' time ago... Minute Packing, Mending the Nips beautify] and brave | and... And to leave in the newest of clothes. The telephone Tang, "]']] answer Penny had Sone out with Mark, it" Joanng Patted Abigail', shoulOr the time, J anna hoped der in Passing. Avid was down at tf, IC€, catch She ran ghtly down th tairs, Mg up on some las Minute gues glancing b fly aroy d liyions he anted to asp Joanna ng room, already Sorry that she Ichael was aslee Must leaye it on TOW, it € mor. Abigail Pulled the thread Shortly looked so inviting With the fire low through the Sock she was mending. On the hearth, and the White lampi: - hope you don't Tegret this light bringing into display the lovely ell yo t - JOANNA the front hall, Again Joanna silent. Ly resolved to have an extension put in. She kept forgetting, She lifted the receiver, "Hello." "Mrs. Niels?" A strange man's voice came over the wire, "Yes." "Mrs, Niels, this js Doctor Weldon. Your son David has been tather badly Injured.., automobile accident. 'Could you come at once?" Joanna felt swift breath rush in er throat. "Dj. - Pll come at once. What hospital?" She called to Abigail and Tushed back to her room, picking up her EF seemed to her hours to teach the hospital. Even the moments of climbing the Always a hope, of il chance for Tecovery. "But it is best you remain here for awhile, Mrs. Niels..." So close was he to death. Stiff neatness of hospital sheets. "He is not conscious," Doctor Weldon said. Joanna went over to the bed and looked down on her son. His head along one forefin er. Abigail, "We forgot the children -it... I don't want it to be too teat a shock..." Abigail nodded. "IT know. [Pj go back and tel] them." She paused beside Joanna, opened The nurse came back into the room, bent over David. She and the doctor whispered together. Joanna did not hear them. She sat quietly, holding David's hand. After the years of having so much of him, his laughter, and clothes spilling over in his Toom, his scattered books, it seemed strange to be so humbly grateful for so small] a thing as his breathing and his hand in hers, The nurse and Doctor Weldon went away. Joanna did not notice. 830 d in her hands Sainst the comPlayer, |. After g € said, "Neverthe. "+ + NOt my will, but R © Temembered Ine j the day they had buried Bj thine, be. © ls always the ight and Ig David Pettect way " € neighbor's bonf woman ¢] she had Sone to her a that al] woul beside the little Tocker. Eldon 4nd the Nurse came back. N her portion nd Y €xamined David again, their faces have forgotten, For Tave and quiet. Me T'ye thought, allowed shot With pity and f, reknowledge, myself to think, that I did it an mycanna led. "THe jg 80ing to self. TI didn' Want to be humbie get well," she saiq any more or stateful. I wanted to © doctor and nurse ex be What People said | Was, tich, suc changed glances, « €Te is always She leaned her forehead against the hear tiness and unbelief. Old windo How can | £0 to him avid stirred now? How can I think he Will hear ben Over to him, the three of the me? € opened hj yes, Staring blindly "Please," she Whispered, "T who atthe ceiling « om?" Notices, Would not Come to you With My Ing she was te, the word Pushed uiches, now come in my want. There up from the disordered fragments Please | | he is so young boys knew he Could not hear, « like him are needed SO many | Ave been lost." et wel]; cessful, and lS None else to help me, there never as been, Only I was too proud and blind tg admit and Temember © nurse gaye Joanna g swift look arvelously Clever," a ¢ ance," they saig with forced of thought. Oanna smoothed his cheek, 'T'm fre, David,", € said, though she JOANNA The nurse looked at her curiously. They still think he will die, Joanna thought, but he will be well in no time at all. T was the sixth of October. Joanna sat on the low wall that surrounded the pond of the Seagull Monument and tried to listen to the sermon, broadcast over the loud speaker. But try as she would, her thoughts kept moving to the people around her, wondering about them. They drifted past her, or stood quietly, their faces listening and rapt. Beautiful people, she thought, something so clean and fresh about them. Children played around the pool coatless, their bare arms silken smooth in the warm gold of the October sun. Girls went by in groups, like blown flowers, or walked sedately by the side of their young men, their faces lifted and rapturous, oblivious of those, like herself, who stared. Penny and Mark would be along any moment. They had promised to meet her. Joanna was impatient for their coming. It had been a week since she had seen Penny. She wondered how long before she would grow accustomed to Penny in her new role of wife. A man came through the crowds, walking slowly, looking all around. Joanna stared at him for several moments before she could believe her eyes. Kent! Kent, with his bright, arrogant head, tall above the throng. Kent, with his face incredibly lined and sunbeaten, walking through the conference crowds on an October afternoon. Joanna put her hands to her forehead and closed her eyes. When she opened them again he would be gone. 831 But when she lifted her lashes he was standing before her. "What an amazing bit of luck... To find you here. You... I just stepped off the train." He sat beside her. His eyes scrutinized her hungrily. Joanna wet her lips. She sat still under his gaze, wryly aware of the white wings of hair showing under her smart hat. "You're beautiful," he said. She had no wish to tear old wounds open. "I've been reading about you for years and years. Welcome home." He took a deep breath, looking all around him. "If I had a spoon I would gobble up all this sunshine. I saw the mountains coming in.... I had forgotten how breathtaking." "You've seen a great many beautiful places, to judge from your descriptions." "Home," he said, as though he had not heard. "Home. My place and my people, my streets and my hills, my earth...." After a moment he turned to her, "T forgot, how are the youngsters?" She smiled. "David is in England still. He wrote me that he had lunch with you in London... Thrilled him to pieces, lunching with a world-famous war correspondent." "He's the salt of the earth, that boy.- Penny is married?" "Yes. Sally and Michael and Abigail and I are the only ones home." She added lightly, "T did manage to bring them up, after all, in spite of all the alarms and excursions." His eyes went slowly over her (Continued on page 861) Ideas for Christmas Decoration Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board [This is the eighth and last in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower at rangements, and related subjects Ed. At Christmas time, at Christmas time, the house is all aglow With children's cries and eager eyes and windows framed in snow. That loved ones fil Copyright 1944 | your house and by Chappell & Co., Inc., And thankful is your whispered prayer, aS church bells softly chime, heart with warmth at Christmas time. New York, NY. Used by permission HIS verse from one of the songs from the delightful light opera, Song of Norway, the love that flows from heart to i i at Christmas time. Have your own family groups, what do you feel most poignantly as you look back to the Christmases in your parents' homes? Do you te member the most expensive gift you ever received, OF is it the warmth of the love that was expressed on this greatest of holidays that comes to our mind? I believe that appropriate decorations have much to do with true Christmas spirit. They are tangible expression of the intangible emo tions we feel—candles in the window light candles in our hearts. Someafter yeat, our particular family. Christmas wouldn't be quite the same without them. To be effective the decorations need not be expensive. One woman always puts her Christmas cards on both sides of the living and dining rooms. (Scotch tape does the trick.) Page 832 Recently she and her husband de-. Cided that it might be well to modernize these rooms and put an archway between, but, after a protest from the married children, they decided that it was more important to have the traditional Christmas decorations than to go modem. This same woman made a lovely background for a miniature scene of the nativity which she has used for years. She bought a very reasonably priced wooden salad bowl and sawed off one edge so that the bowl was given a base to stand on. She then gilded it inside and out, placing her miniainside, and achieved a bright red, green, OF silver paint and mixed in with the evergreens On the mantel or used as part of your table decorations. And, by the way, many people wait until the Christmas. Season to trim and shape their ever urposes. The August issue of our IDEAS FOR CHRISTMAS DECORATION Magazine can be used very effectively for Christmas. Combine them with holly, red candles, or Christmas balls. If you missed the article on candlemaking in the September Magazine, I hope you will refer back to it and make some of the candles described therein. For a very striking effect, try an all-white table for a change. Dip tumble weeds in any cold-water paint, using the same thickness as you would if it were to go on the wall instead of on the weeds. Sprinkle them with artificial snow. When completely dry place them on mirrors on the table. Around the mirrors put cotton sprinkled with stars, moons, and crescents cut from heavy silver paper. Then add a number of small white angels which may be purchased in any large department store. You may enjoy making some angels, copying the ones in our illustration. They are fairly simple to make and provide a colorful addition to either the table, the mantel, or the tree. The metallic paper in bright blue, green, red, silver, and 3 833 gold comes in a twenty-six inch width and sells for about thirty cents a yard. The pattern, as you will notice, comes in two parts. Make your measurements as follows: No. 1— 13 inches No. 2— 4 inches No. 3—6% inches No. 4— 6 inches The head of the angel in the original model was a ball of wood attached to a stick, but we have had success in substituting a Christmas ball in the small size which was dipped in cold-water paint. Silver balls seem to hold the paint better than any other color. The hair is three strands of wool yarn braided together and glued on. The end of the ball slips through the hole marked 5 on the pattern. The part of the ball intended for hanging onto the Christmas tree, furnishes support for a bit of cotton which holds it in place. Staple or paste your paper together and run a wire from the piece of cotton holding the head on 2 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 Simmons Photo Art CHRISTMAS TREES AND CHRISTMAS ANGELS to the bottom of the skirt and slip the wire under the staple there. For the sleeves, simply cut a piece of tarlatan seven by ten inches, fold it lengthwise, tack it together in the middle of the raw edge, and wind the outside edges with a bit of thread to simulate ruffles. The sleeves are slipped through the angel's robe, which is made by stapling or pasting together the edges marked 4 in the pattern and then bending back and attaching the part marked 3 so that it reaches just to the top of the circular skirt. It is unnecessary to attach the sleeves in any way to the paper. Staple the wings to back of body. For some reason I often wander into the food department as I conclude these articles. Once more, with apologies to the cook's corner, I'm going to pass on to you a very economical as well as delicious recipe for Christmas pudding. Many of us have trouble in using up our stale bread and this recipe takes care of that problem. Eee eR OX CHRISTMAS PUDDING 12 cups dry bread crumbs 6 Ibs. Raisins 3 cups brown sugar 1 Ib. Chopped nuts 6 tsp. Soda 3 tsp. Nutmeg 6 tsp. Cinnamon 2 tsp. Salt 6 cups milk 1 cup grated raw carrots 1 Ib. Finely ground suet 3 cups mild molasses Add molasses and milk to suet, add nuts and raisins, dry ingredients, and mix well. Fill whatever size greased cans you prefer three-fourths full. If lacking a lid, use waxed paper which is tied over the top of the can and then given an extra coating of fat over the top to prevent the paper becoming too damp in the steaming process. You who like to bring the pudding to the table to serve, will probably prefer a round mold in a larger size. If you are one of those who enjoy a change, try following the old English custom of bringing the pudding to the table all ablaze. Dip two cubes of lump sugar in lemon extract and, after slipping your pudding onto the serving dish, and surrounding it with the hot sauce, touch a lighted match to the sugar. It will burn for several minutes. IDEAS FOR CHRISTMAS DECORATION 835 Serve with any hot sauce you prefer. Here is my favorite: In the top of your double boiler place % cup water, % cup orange juice, % cup brown sugar, and '& pound butter. When all are well heated and mixed add one slightly beaten egg. Remove kettle from stove, leaving lid on to allow egg to cook without curdling. March Anniversary Work Meeting Luncheon Christine Eaton MEAT LOAF (serves 50 persons) 10 pounds ground raw beef 8 eggs well-beaten 2 pounds ground fat salt pork 3 tbsp. Salt 6 cups dry bread crumbs 5 tbsp. Minced onion 4 cups beef stock or milk 5 tsp. Mixed herbs (marjoram, 1 tsp. Pepper thyme, parsley ) Mix all ingredients together well. Put in loaf pans and bake two hours at 325° F. Baste occasionally. SCALLOPED POTATOES (serves 50 persons) 12-15 pounds sliced potatoes 3 tbsp. Salt 2 qts. Hot milk 1 tsp. Pepper 1% cups shortening (bacon or chicken % cup flour fat may be used) Parboil potatoes 2 minutes, then drain them. Place in baking dishes a layer of potatoes then a slight dredging of flour. Repeat until potatoes are all used. Add salt, pepper, and shortening to hot milk. Pour over potatoes in pans, cover, and cook in slow oven 300-325° F. 1% hours or until potatoes are done. Remove the covers and raise the temperature to 375° F. Long enough to brown, about 30 minutes.... We served peas as a vegetable with the meat loaf and potatoes and fruit salad. Then, for dessert, we had our Relief Society birthday cake and ice cream. > HOUSEHOLD HINT When a recipe calls for ground raisins, pour the raisins into boiling water (do not boil) for a little while. They will then grind nicely and will not stick together or to the meat grinder or bunch. <> She Year Js Done Eunice J. Miles The fleeting breath of the waning year Is vanished with the old and the sere, But out of the ashes of chill December Hope will flame from a smoldering ember, For the cycle is done and the New Year's gleam Is marking the trail of a truer dream. A Santa Claus Cookie Box Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson Christmas cookies—the old-fashioned ones that make their appearance only at Christmas time; peppernuts, springerlie, and almond cookies are a fragrant threesome that will delight the heart of the most expert cookie connoisseur. The very best box ever invented for cookie giving is a sparkling clean shortening can. Glue a sheet of white paper around the label, and on this draw a smiling Santa face with red and black crayons. Embellish him with sideburns and whiskers of cotton, and attach red crepe paper to the lid for his tasseled cap. He will be as amusing a cookie box as his contents will be delicious. As every cookie maker of long standing knows, Christmas cookies improve with age. Six weeks before the holidays is not too early to bake them and stow them away in their Santa Claus boxes. By gift-distributing time they will be at their peak of flavorsome goodness. PEPPERNUTS 1/3 cup shortening 1 tablespoon cardamon seeds 2 cups confectioner's sugar ¥% teaspoon salt 4 eggs, well-beaten 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind. % cup cream 1/3 cup chopped citron 1 teaspoon cinnamon 1/3 cup chopped orange peel 1 teaspoon cloves 4, teaspoon anise seed /, teaspoon nutmeg 4 cups flour Y, teaspoon black pepper 1 teaspoon soda Cream the shortening and sugar. Add the rest of the ingredients in order and mix well. Chill the dough for three hours. Shape into small round balls and place on a greased cookie sheet. Bake 12 minutes in a moderate oven. Dust with powdered sugar when cold. Wad <4; os 'e A = — = okel VY, ie ee Page 836 SPRINGERLIE Beat the €ggs until very light, and slowly sift in Sugar. The dry ingredients sifted together three times, and the or two teaspoons of it), may be mixed in the dou ALMOND COOKIES 1 Ib shortening ( part butter for flavoring) 2 cups sugar 3 &ggs juice of 1 lemon grated rind of % lemon 6 cups of flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 Ib. Blanched almonds for a few hours. When teady to bake, slice thin, arrange on cookie sheet, brush each cookie with slightly beaten egg whites, sprinkle with Sugar and slivered almonds. Bake in a moderate oven, Auditor Grace Sayre When Winter audits the books of Summer And sees how wasteful she has been, He strips the gold leaves from her forests nd sends the snow to dress her in, A SANTA CLAUS COOKIE BOX 2 eggs 1 cup sifted sugar 2 cups sifted flour 837 "2 teaspoon baking powder "% teaspoon salt grated rind of 1 lemon An Ever-Burning Christmas Candle Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustration by Elizabeth Williamson Ww not start an ever-burning Christmas candle this year? It is such fun to watch it grow, as though it were really a living thing holding high a lighted torch of good cheer. Begin your perennial candle, red or green, as you like, by setting it firmly on a block of wood or an old plate. Let it burn constantly, dripping merrily away where there is no danger of its igniting anything. When the first candle burns down, set another one securely in the bed of wax, and continue the process. The more candles drip away, the faster will the pyramid grow, until you have a beautifully ridged peak of wax to shine forth from your window during the holiday season. When it is over, put the candle carefully away until next Christmas, when you can start it on its happy term of growth again. A Letter From Mother MY DEAR CHILDREN: Merry Christmas, and a heart full of love to you. At this time of year, love seems at last to triumph over misery and distress. What a pity that this gift is so poorly used all year. This ability we have to love, to capture the spirit of love, which is the spirit of unselfishness, of brotherly kindness, of forbearance, of tolerance, and of restraint of personal feelings, brings with it the gift of understanding. The Savior said to love God and love our fellow men. This is the law, simple and direct. All lesser laws lead to this great central commandment. And love grows when used most. If we could only keep ours polished, bright, and efficient—have it for a shining light at the doorway of our homes so that others might enter and share in its blessing—then happiness would abound with us. I suppose I am getting "wordy," but my strongest desire is that you will all be steadfast in the service of God and his great work, steadfast in your love for each other, and in holding fast to your ideals as long as you live. More I could not ask, for this way leads to life eternal. When you write, be sure to tell me all about your Christmas. I miss your smiling faces—especially at this holiday season. How I long to gather my adorable grandchildren around me and read stores to them. Perhaps next year will find us all together again. Let us hope so. Meantime, all of you remember that I love you very, very much. Mother Clara Horne Park Page 838 LESSON £ —— Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 22—Jesus Returns to the Temple Daily" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 30, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, March 7, 1950 Objective: To study carefully the Lord's teachings within the temple as he neared the close of his earthly life. An Instructive Incident on the Way T is interesting to note that each evening during the last week of the earthly life of Jesus, he returned to Bethany to spend the night. He left there early the last Monday morning to spend most of the day in the temple at Jerusalem. During the early morning journey, an incident occurred which has been difficult for many to understand. Jesus grew hungry and saw a fig tree in full leaf. The fruit buds of a fig tree appear earlier than the leaves. Figs are highly esteemed as a food in Palestine and some kinds are edible early in April. The particular tree which attracted the attention of the group gave promise of having fruit, but, when examined, was found to have nothing but leaves— a showy, barren tree. It was sentenced to perpetual barrenness. Jesus said: "... Let no fruit grow on thee henceforward for ever. And presently the fig tree withered away" (Matt. 21:19). The lesson taught was one of faith in the power of God. He again called on his disciples to have faith. "The blighting of a tree was shown to be small in comparison with the greater possibilities of achievement through faith and prayer. But to so achieve one must work and pray without reservation or doubt." How striking these words which Jesus uttered: "And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have ought against any: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses. But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses" (Mark 11:25-26). The one smitten fig tree has proved of great service to humanity in teaching the power of God over all things, even the power to destroy as well as to give and restore life! The incident of the barren fig tree also teaches a lesson against hypocrisy. 'The other trees did not deceive; they would bring forth fruit in due season. But the leafy, fruitless tree was a pretender and deceived those who hungered. It "was a symbol of Judaism, which... Proclaimed itself as the only true religion... And invited all the world to come and partake of its rich, ripe fruit." Its fruit, however, had bePage 839 840 come worthless as a saving power. The religion given to the world by Moses and others had degenerated until it had completely lost its saving grace. The Second Clearing of the Temple When Jesus entered the temple grounds on this particular Monday, he was indignant when he saw how that holy place was being desecrated. Once before he had driven out the sordid money changers and defilers of the temple of the Lord. Once more, and within four days of his death, he would again cast out the defilers of his own house. In mighty majesty he "... Cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money-changers, and the seats of them that sold doves, And said unto them... My house shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves" (Matt. 21:12-13). He had declared himself the Christ; it was his house. Just how the expulsion was made is not told. It is sufficient to know that his command was obeyed. After the temple courts were cleared, the Lord resumed his teaching within the area over which the enraged chief priests claimed jurisdiction. The common people listened attentively. Even the children cried out: "Hosanna to the Son of David." He healed the lame and opened the eyes of the blind. With courage unequaled in the annals of history, he faced the very men who were seeking to take his life and continued his gentle ministry until he had delivered his message. When the day was ended he returned to Bethany—his haven of rest. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 Christ's Authority Challenged by the Rulers Tuesday morning he returned to the temple. During the night, the chief priests, scribes, and some elders had held a meeting and decided upon a plan to entrap him. They challenged him: "By what authority doest thou these things? And who gave thee this authority to do these things?" It is fair to presume they already knew. They knew of his many miracles and that he had raised the dead on three occasions. Lazarus was in their midst, a living testimony of the Lord's power over death. 'They had only a sinister purpose in seeking to entrap him. The Lord countered by asking them a question. That method was common among the people. His question was, "The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men? Answer me." "We cannot tell," was their reply. Jesus had proposed that if they would answer his question, he would tell them by what authority he acted. They were in a dilemma, "... For all men counted John, that he was a prophet indeed." They dared not answer his question and so Jesus replied: "Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things" (Mark 11:29-33). When he had completely silenced the chief priests and scribes, he calmly resumed his talks and gave the people three splendid and appropriate stories. The first of these was the Parable of the 'Two Sons. While this parable was given primarily to the men who had come out in open hostility, demanding by what authority the Savior acted, it is a lesson for all (Matt. 21:28-32). This parable should be read. It is LESSON DEPARTMENT clear that the chief priests, scribes, and Pharisees were symbolized by the second son. Unfortunately, there are hypocrites in every Ccommunity and in every age. We should guard against hypocrisy. Jesus did not commend the first son for his refusal to obey. Both sons were sinners, but the second was the worse. The one, however turned from his sin and for that repentance was commended. The other continued in his sins while openly professing obedience. Repentance, genuine and sincere, is the antidote for sin. Next, the Lord gave the Parable of the Wicked Husbandmen (Matt. 21:33:41). The Jews were students of their scriptures. They quickly recognized the aptness of the patable and were compelled to pronounce judgment upon themselves. The human family was the vineyard, "but more specifically the covenant people, Israel." 'The soil was good, the vines choice and the whole vineyard was protected. "Wicked men had used the vineyard of their Lord for personal gain, and had rendered no part of the vintage to the lawful Owner." Good messengers had been sent—chief among whom had been John the Baptist—but they had been rejected. 'The Son had come but he was soon to be killed and the coming event was treated as an accomplished fact. When, at the close of the story, Jesus asked them what the Lord would do unto these wicked husbandmen, they were compelled to reply: "He will miserably destroy those wicked men" (Matt. 21:41). Frequently in the Jewish scriptures the Lord is referred to as the 841 "stone which the builders rejected." During this talk Jesus used almost the exact words used in Psalms 118:22. Paul said that the members of the Church are "... Built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone" (Eph. 2:20). In the plan of salvation, Jesus the Messiah is the chief cornerstone. Those who reject him, reject God himself. Jesus then gave the Parable of the Royal Marriage Feast (Matt. 22:1-10). It must be remembered that the guests had been invited long before the event. There was nothing surprising in the matter, or should not have been. An invitation of a king is always a command. In this case many of the invited guests had refused to come, and when the king later sent a more urgent Tequest or appeal, they treated it either lightly or with contempt. In either case it was rebellion against the reigning monarch or his son. The parable portrays an_ utter disrespect for the authority of the king and it would be no excuse to plead engrossment in personal affairs. 'The sovercign, therefore, executed retribution on the rebellious subjects. The careful student will see the aptness of the story, if he sees that the allegory has its final fulfillment in the destruction of Jerusalem a few years after the crucifixion of the Christ. Those who were bidden were not worthy and the king commanded his servant: Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good: 842 and the wedding was furnished with guests (Matt. 22:9-10). Matthew, verses 11 to 14 inclusive, should be considered as a supplement to the account of the marnage feast. The king discovered that one of the guests had come without the required "wedding garment." 'That he was guilty of intentional disrespect is plain. Evidently provision had been made whereby all who applied would be furnished with proper robes, The king was careful to inquire as to the reason for the exceptional appearance and found that the guest would not answer. He had, no doubt, come in by some way other than the right one. For that reason and for his intentional disrespect, he was cast out and severely punished. Concluding the giving of the three parables, the Lord said, "For many are called, but few are chosen." "The call comes to all; but it may be outwardly accepted, and a man may sit down to the feast, and yet he may not be chosen to partake of the feast, because he has not the wedRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 ding garment of converting, sanctifying grace" (Edersheim. See note 6 at the end of chapter 20 of the text). 'The three parables discussed in this lesson were the last given publicly by the Lord. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Discuss the incident of the destruction of the barren fig tree. Justify the action taken. 2. Through a discussion of the incident of the Lord clearing the temple the second time, show that it is necessary for us to have an active hostility toward evil. 3. When his authority was questioned, how did Jesus silence his critics? 4. Discuss the incident of the Royal Marriage Feast as it may be applied to us today. Are we so engrossed in material pursuits that we fail to accept the invitations we receive to participate in the Lord's work? References in the Four Gospels Matt. 3:7; 21:1, 12, 13, 16, 18-44; 2211-10, 14, Mark 11:1, 12-17, 20-33. Luke 3:12; 13:6-9; 14:16-24; 19:29, 45, 46. John 2:14-21. Visiting Seacher Nlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 6—'For This Cause Shall a Man Leave Father and Mother, and Shall Cleave to His Wife" (Matt. 19:5) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, March 7, 1950 Objective: To point out that, following their marriage, the allegiance of a man and woman to each other transcends even the lasting allegiance which they owe to their parents. HEN the Pharisees came to Christ with a question concerning marriage and divorce, he quoted this scripture which, in its LESSON DEPARTMENT entirety is to be found in Genesis, second chapter and twenty-third and twenty-fourth verses, where Adam exclaimed: This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and _ his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh, Christ's statement applies with equal force to the woman in the partnership of marriage. She must understand that, in very deed, she gives herself to her husband. In her affections he now comes first and, if she has chosen her mate wisely, it is to him that she can confidently look for advice and guidance. Together they plan the course of their lives. Does all this mean that the sweet relationship between a mother and her son or daughter cannot continue after the marriage of the latter? On the contrary, the relationship can become even more satisfying, because now they have much more in common. This is particularly true of a mother and a daughter. However, it does mean that the daughter should not "run home to mother" with a recital of any differences of opinion—be they large or small—which may have come up between her husband and herself. Likewise, it means that the husband should never be made to feel that his wife prefers her mother's society to his or spends too much time in her parents' home to the detriment of her own. 843 Have you ever wondered why the name of mother is sometimes glorified almost to the point of adoration, while that of mother-in-law is often slurred? On such occasions as Mother's Day, some of us are almost embarrassed by the degree of sentimentality expressed, but the instances of a mother-in-law being extolled are rare. All this comes from the fact that some mothers, following the marriage of their children, fail to comprehend the scrip. Ture quoted above: "For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife" (Matt. 19:5). What of the commandment to "honor thy father and thy mother?" Is it less binding to the married children than heretofore? Not at all. Young people, as they leave their homes to establish homes of their own, should be even more solicitous of their parents—looking towards the time when old age will overtake them. Married couples should continue to consult with their parents on important decisions which they may have facing them, capitalizing on the wisdom which comes from experience, but, in the final analysis, they should develop the ability and gain the wisdom to direct their own lives. One wise mother said: "It may sound paradoxical but, to me, a perfect mother is one who starts from the cradle to train her child to leave the home." If a mother helps her daughter to acquire such an attitude, when the latter is married, the mother will find, to her joy, that she has not lost a daughter but has gained a son. 844 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 Work Mleeting—Sewing Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Boys' Clothing Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, March 14, 195° Gom items that would normally come under the heading of "Boys' Clothing" have been discussed in previous lessons and, since coats will be dealt with in the lesson to follow, this lesson will be confined to boys' shirts and suits for small boys. It is very practical and quite simple to make shirts for boys of all ages. Patterns can be purchased in all sizes, from the smallest to the largest. Materials of all types are available. Broadcloth is ideal for shirts and is probably the most commonly used fabric. At present, the younger boys are favoring bright flannels for school and sports. The stores are showing a large variety of spun rayon fabrics that are ideal for shirts, both for sport and dress wear. You will find it easy to please your menfolk with shirt material. In making shirts, have them roomy so that they do not bind at all. Make them long enough to stay securely tucked into trousers. Always use felled seams in constructing them. These seams are stronger, look more tailored, and stand up under repeated laundering. The more a boy's shirts are like his father's, the better he will like them. Always sew an extra strip of cloth under buttons and buttonholes. Boys give little thought to the consequences of their rough play, and too often buttons are torn right out of shirts, necessitating extensive mending. Added reinforcement under the buttons when making shirts will eliminate a lot of repair work later. And, last but not least, be very firm about sewing on buttons. In making suits for small boys, the greatest problem ls with the trousers. Seats must have enough length and spread to allow room for squatting and jumping. It is necessary that they should not bind in any way. The majority of suits for small boys have a troublesome fly that is difficult to make and often looks unsightly. It is better to make suits on which the back and front button independently. Hence, it is not necessary to unbutton the front in order to drop the back. A two-button drop front is formed by having continuous plackets on either side of the front and this replaces the fly. Avoid separate belts that run through numerous straps and then buckle in a complicated manner. These only complicate a suit for a small child and we should aim to make him as independent of help as possible. LESSON DEPARTMENT Keep the basic design of all clothes alike so that the dressing process is always the same. Keep your boy smartly masculine. Frills, ruffles, and laces make him appear ridiculous. Even on_ less sturdy boys they never seem in good taste as they appear effeminate. 845 A boy cannot be distinctively dressed unless his suits are well made. Accurate cutting, followed by straight, fine, close stitching, gives a beautifully tailored look. Poorly constructed suits spend much of their time in the mending basket. —- | ae an Literature of England Lesson 6—John Bunyan Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday March 21, 1950 RECENTLY a group of more than fifty mature young people were asked if they had ever heard of John Bunyan or The Pilgrim's Progress. Save for a delayed but correct reply from a young English girl, silence was the only answer. Now, had the question asked for Paul Bunyan, immediately the group would have been discussing Babe, Paul's Big Blue Ox, and how Paul happened to make the Great Lakes. We must not feel that Paul Bunyan is unworthy of being known, for this folk-myth of exaggeration and humor is One of America's best. However, we should agree that the best in ideas and literature is not necessarily the newest, nor that which has been written here or elsewhere since 1776, OF 1900, or since one's own birth date. While Paul Bunyan is valuable and real, compared with John Bunyan and his vigorous influence upon Christian culture for almost three hundred years, our American Bunyan myth is trivial and scanty. Really there is no basis for their being compared; here they are mentioned together because, as so often happens, the recency and newness of contemporary writing seems to have obscured and then usurped the function of great literature. Someone has wisely said, "He who remains ignorant of the past temains a child." For any Christian generation to arise and fade away without having known The Pilgrim's Progress would be to deny the strongest unifying book throughout historical Christendom, save the Bible itself. By common consent the most powerful religious book ever composed in English, The Pilgrim's Progress was immediately successful upon publication, selling more than one hundred thousand copies in Bunyan's own lifetime. It has been translated imto numerous _ languages. 'Through generations of English-speaking peoples it has been found next to the Bible, both on the bookshelf and in its readers' hearts. Its long supremacy has proved it to be one of the great imaginative 846 works of literature. Yet it might well be called more real than imagined, for two reasons: First, his realistic description of the actual details of everyday rural life are truly seen, and stated so clearly and directly that, at once, we feel at home in his world. The more important reason is that the imagined world he creates, both of the physical outside world and of the inner complexities of human spirit and emotion, so exactly parallels what we see and feel and hope and fear that, in reading Bunyan's "imaginings," we find but an ordered presentation of what we already know to be true within us and about us. As he unravels the tortured workings of the human conscience, he tells us of ourselves as we are. His spell over us is constant and complete; while the tone he attains is not always the most intense, it is never false. Only two Puritans—John Milton and John Bunyan — wrote great literature. Bunyan alone achieved literary excellence without education or training. But if Bunyan achieved literary skill, it was merely a by-product of his greater intent. Whether speaking or writing, he was primarily the preacher. He desired only that his work have spiritual strength, and consciously wrote in a plain, unadorned style. As he explains in his fiery autobiography, Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners, or the brief Relation of the exceeding Mercy of God in Christ to his poor Servant John Bunyan: I could have stepped into a style much higher than this in which I have here discoursed, and could have adorned all things more than here I have seemed to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 do; but I dare not. God did not play in convincing of me... Wherefore I may not play in my relating of these experiences, but be plain and simple, and lay down the thing as it was. He that liketh it let him receive it; and he that does not, let him produce a better. In view of Bunyan's pre-determined simplicity of style, it becomes evident that his literary greatness is not achieved by writing in a flowery, "literary" manner, but by being filled with a great belief—by having something significant to say, and saying it in words which allow the magnificent power of his inner conviction to reveal itself directly and forcefully. Here, then, as in all that is memorably said, the inner spirit of the writer lends its fire to the words he writes; never is a great literary style achieved by a genuinely low or artificial personality. Not only did Bunyan refuse to consider himself as a literary man, but the literary lions of his century refused the title to him as well. In view of his most humble background, it is not at all surprising that hasty critics, as well as those whose critical powers were not the sharpest, were unable to believe that any writing of enduring value could be produced by a fervent but uneducated preacher who made his living by mending pots and pans among the lowest levels of society. Yet such was the case. John Bunyan was born in 1628 in Elstow, a village not far from Bedford, where he spent his active life as a preacher (see map, p. 564 of text). His father was a "mechanick," described in Grace Abounding as "being of that rank that is meanest, and most despised of all the families LESSON DEPARTMENT in the land." Young John was sent to school where he learned to read and write, but he "did soon lose that little I learnt, even most utterly." At age ten he so despaired of ever attaining heaven that: I should often wish, either that there had been no hell, or that I had been a devil;... That if it must needs be, that I went thither, I might be rather a tormentor, than be tormented myself. The month he turned sixteen he was drafted into the Parliamentary Army. After he served three years, he married, he and his wife coming together "'as poor as poor might be (not having so much household stuff as a dish or spoon betwixt us both)." However she did own some holy books, and soon they began reading them together. After much soulsearching and mental torture, he turned from his self-defined evils (cursing, swearing, lying, dancing, and churchbell ringing) to become a preacher and a constant student of the Bible, writing with evident truth, "I was never out of the Bible, either by reading or meditation." In 1656 he wrote his first tract. To defend the scripture against the inner-light doctrines of the Quakers; before his death he wrote more than sixty books, most of them concemed with bitter religious controversy. Soon after the Restoration in 1660, the Church of England influenced Charles II to pass the Conventicle Act, which forbade any church services or doctrines to be used other than those of the State church. Bunyan refused to deny his beliefs, and was thrown into Bedford jail, where he remained for twelve years. He was released in 1672 and 847 preached three years, when the King changed his mind and Bunyan was again imprisoned, this time for six months. For us these might well have been fortunate confinements, since during the sixth year of his first prison term he wrote his revealing autobiography, Grace Abounding. His masterpiece, The Pilgrim's Progress, was written during his sixmonth imprisonment of 1675-1676. He spent the remaining years of his life preaching and writing until his death in 1688. If we are tempted to make the snap judgment that Bunyan was too great a soul to suffer deeply from the anguish of prison life, we must recall the statement that separation from his family was "pulling the flesh from my bones." Nevertheless, he refused to admit defeat physically or spiritually, and rose above boredom and uselessness by writing one of the great spiritual histories in Grace Abounding (1666), an important forerunner of the modern psychological novel. His autobiography tells of his childhood sins, the terror with which he feared not being saved, his gradual awakening to the true joy of the religious life, and his final temptations and triumph, climaxed by his answering the call to the ministry in Bedford. With ruthless honesty he lays bare his inner consciousness, revealing his selftorturing doubts and his fervent sincerity. From the very first lines of the book the beautiful cadence and concise simplicity of his prose: tell us that we are in the hands of a master of the language: In this my relation of the merciful working of God upon my soul, it will not be 848 amiss, if, in the first place, I do, in a few words, give you a hint of my pedigree, and manner of bringing up; that thereby the goodness and bounty of God towards me, may be the more advanced and magnified before the sons of men.... Wherefore I have not here, as others, to boast of noble blood, or of a_highborn state, according to the flesh; though all things considered, I magnify the heavenly Majesty, for that by this door he brought me into this world, to partake of the grace of life that is in Christ by the Gospel. Such lines immediately achieve a tone and texture at once familiar to us, for they possess the pure simplicity as well as the nobility of Bunyan's supreme model: the English Bible. Over a period of years he had so completely digested the Bible that it seemed to govern not only the material of his thoughts, but also the very arrangement of the pattern in which his thoughts were expressed. Once we pick out such passages as the following, at once their truth and the excellence of their statement set them apart: In these days the thoughts of religion were very grievous to me. I could neither endure it myself, nor that any other should.... Yet this I well remember, that though I could myself sin with the greatest delight and ease... Yet even then, if I had at any time seen wicked things, by those who professed goodness, it would make my spirit tremble. After much soul-searching and many feelings of guilt, Bunyan finally convinced himself that God did love him: Yes, I was now so taken with the love and mercy of God, that I remember I could not tell how to contain till I got home. I thought I could have spoken of his love, and have told of his mercy to me, even to the very crows that sat RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 upon the ploughed lands before me.... But alas! Within less than forty days I began to question all again; and by times, fell to my old courses again; which made me begin to question all still. Thus, in his strong, simple words of self-revelation, Bunyan presents to us the fears and joys which have bound traditional Christianity together. After reading of such horrible self-torture, how grateful we should be for our saving doctrines. We have now seen that Bunyan can tell a story with skill, that he sees with precise keenness and can describe what he sees. Possessed thus with natural literary gifts, Bunyan was ready to be fired with the affirmative joy of his convictions in writing his great allegory of the Christian life, The Pilgrim's Progtess from This World to That Which Is to Come. The Pilgrim's Progress Allegorical writing represents abstract qualities such as love, hate, faith, doubt, acting and speaking like persons. Bunyan's characters are not actual people, but qualities or abstractions. For example, consider Christian, the oppressed hero of the story who forsakes family and worldly goods to brave terrors and temptations until he achieves eternal life. Christian represents all Christianity. While Bunyan's characters talk and act and are like people of his world (and hence our own), they are the quality which they are named, and hence represent that quality in all people. And how much we learn of his characters, and of Bunyan's seeing eye and sly humor, merely from their names. Perhaps most famous because so true is "Vanity Fair," or Bunyan's de- LESSON DEPARTMENT 849 how their Character Is echoed jn In the Valley of Humiliation Christian;: Was confronted by the fiend, Apollyon and their *peech a dreadful h ttl €nsued, in Which Chris Mr ind-man, foreman Said, | tan was finally Victorious Tom thence see clearly that this man is an heretic. He traye] d on the Va] £Y of the €n said 800d, Away with such Shadow o¢ Death the pathwa a tellow fro the earth Aye, said Mr. Was exceedingly Narrow, One hand 4 alice, for | hate the Very looks of him very deep ditch an on the other a €n said Mr Ove-lust, T ¢ uld never dangerous u Darkness a] Prevailed endure him T, said M Live loose After travel] g Sconsolate] for sometime Or he would always be ndemnin my hristian th he heard an sq Way. Ha him, "han im, said Mr. 'Though | Walk hrough th Valley of th Heady A Sorry Tub, said Mr. High Mind, Shadow of D h, J ar no eyi] My heart ti against him, said Mr. For Thou art with me," 1 he was ninity ogue, said Mr Liar. Glad and Morning brok anging too 800d for ™, said Mr. Faithful, Cc Nstian's end, had ol Tue] Ss dispat h him Out of the Owed, an Ogether th ered Vanj Way, said Mr te-light ar, wher hey wer, thrown Into jail hand and 4 burden on his back. In lost, Christian and Hopefy] Played and mental anguish the man inquired of the they were able to escape. As th. Evangelist, "What Shall I do to be sayeq>" Proached the Delectable Mountains, they;; ae eph © Evangelist advised Christian (for that Were welcomed by the sh ds, Knowj Was th S Tame) to fle the Ity of edge, Xperience, Wat hful, and mcere struction ang ke the Cj of who 8ave th good nsel and ] Zion, « yonder light in Ur eve and them to th top of the Wl called Clear, §0 to the Gate, Where jt Shall be told where they could See the gates of the thee what to do." After almost sinkin Celestial Gj - After Passing through the im of the Perils €ncountered While seek. They must cToss. There Was no bridge ing to be rid of his burden, Goodwill Over it so they had to 80 through the advised « ntent ar it unt] thou Waters After entering, Christian began to come Pace of deliver. Ce, for there sink but Hopeful ¢ ecred h con It will fal] OF itself," € Pilgrim tinually and they nally reached the other hristian ) Was given 4 8uide ang a side. "The City stood on a mighty hil] lessing and starteq on his Way to the but they climbed With fase, for two Celestia] City. The highway Was fenced Shining Ones leq them, Their mortal] On either side With a wall called Salvation. Sarments had been eft behind in the Up this Way Christian Walked ti] the flood. As they entered in at the Gate, Toad ended 4n elevation where Stood after Presenting their Certificates, they were 2 Cross, and a little be OW, in th bottom, a Tansfigured an S1ven raiment that shone sepulch came © the cross; © gold, while "ard, "Enter ye IS burden loosened 5 his bac and into the Joy of your Lord," 850 The second part of this great work tells how Christian's wife Christiana, also reached the Celestial City. Despite the rich satire throughout the book, despite his beautiful use of Biblical landscape and imagery, and despite his ability to make our senses acutely aware of smells and sights and ideas, The Pilgrim's Progress, Part I, is most grim. Throughout all our consciences rings Christian's wail, "What shall I do to be saved?" (text, pp. 706-707). The fight with Apollyon (text, pp. 707-710), powerful narration that it is, is far too near Our Own constant battle with the forces of darkness for it to be read lightly and with comfort. Even though Bunyan allows us to intrude into Giant Despair's bedroom in the small hours of the night to hear the Giant being counseled by his wife Diffidence about the affairs of the day—even though we enjoy this homey touch in him, Giant is brutal, and the episode is read with loathing and a sinking heart (text, pp. 711-714). Yet when we read of the Celestial City (text, pp. 714-718) and _particularly of the slower, more majestic account of the pilgrims crossing the river of death to enter the beautiful city as recorded at the conclusion of the milder, more tolerRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 ant Part II, we know full well that all struggle and pain were well worth such a goal; we know as well that when Bunyan says of the Eternal City, as he says of everything in the book, "And I saw in my dream—" he saw that which was more real and living than anything this world can offer. Truly, such a conclusion alone is worthy of the book which rightfully has come to be known as the Great Protestant Allegory, and one of the monumental imaginative and spiritual works of all time. Note to teachers: Encouragement should be given the sisters to read The Pilgrim's Progress for themselves. Questions 1. Did John Bunyan consider himself a writer or a preacher? 2. What was his attitude toward being "literary"? 3. If Bunyan intentionally avoided a "literary," ornamental style of writing, what then is the source of power in his writings? 4. What are Bunyan's two most important books? Discuss what to you seems best in each work. 5. Why is The Pilgrim's Progress called an allegory? 6. Are Bunyan's characters you? 7. Discuss the influence of the Bible upon Bunyan's writings. 8. Is Bunyan's final importance spiritual or literary? Real to Substitute Thelma Ireland Frost has paralyzed the lake waves; They lap on the beach no more, But December brought a blizzard; I have snow waves on the shore. March 28, 1950 Objective: To show the "esponsibility of the State to enact pr the People to uphold them, sus. §0vernme ts in hich h i ' they Teside, while Protected jin their b] th = Ie tao tL 4 inherent and Inalienable lights } Eee € ne ods f hi - — the 4WS of such 50vernments. And F J to '. F the eto a ' hat Sedition and bellion afe un |. Ty ' Munist Countries, men Must bow to teoted d she, os os = E pace ee rae Cordingly, and that Il £0vern ents munism, as in Other Ictatorships " a melt Soa eee eg the hig est good and ctefore, th ated to ie the public —, noblest bligatio crzenship (i at the same time, however, Folia. "ae aie Fee ble obey raw Sacted the freed f Conscience Ingly the Cadets of the State. Th ™ tia a men aac the 'ame doctrine jn form or an. Sta a ot Ve other Chatacterizes al] otalitarian State aNswer js Clear. Al] tates. EC are ge & Igations men, Cverywh of citizenshin> ere, should Support st men always the S°vernment jn Which they re. Indly, obe? What a side so long as th ey are Protected jp the State to its their fundamental Ti ts, Perha s citizens? Here a e tw fundamenta] the we fundamental "ight is that questions the ture of ich per. Of free agency. And th free agence meates headlines in the daily news. Of stale PECSSES itself most funda Paper. T €claration of clief Mentally; teedom of 5 nscience egardin Overnment an Paes Particularly religious freedom Have watts a Certain, Clear course as fo 50vernment the right to enact a What the answer, to these questions law they se fit? The "swer is defi should } nite]; Government has the ght to enact Jaws. Ut only such Upholding Just Governments laws, Says the Declaration, as "g Should men always Obey the €st calculat, © s€cure the Public State? Should they obey every Interest; a+ the same tim » however Page 85] are: |) Giees 1€ meet the Public ference, as y,; them peace and Interest? (2) Does It respect freeharmony Would be supplanted by dom of Conscience? Anarchy and terror; human laws be. It jis important to note that the ing instituted for the ©XPTess. Pur. Declaration Says, "public interest" Pose of re ulating Our interests as and not "national Interest," This individuals and Nations, between of any Ia Y best be tested, to Tulers js POinted out 4 (1) Protect S€€ whether jt Conforms Public the Innocent and (2) Punish the Interest, by the test of freedom of suilty—under the ry] Ww. Conscience. Is ig essential] 'PoOnsibility of the te erse "pts Of world revolution? Hat seven also highlights the meanin Proble sovernment" ag few statements do tween man and his 8°vernment jn. Dom, that It is one Of the fundaVolves civi] Officers a5 Well as priMental, if not the most fundament. Vate Individuals. SISE SIX States al, Principles of the American Con- 4 fundamenta] ule to b Prompted stitution, as Well as the inheritance In this relatio shi elieve that of English liberty, Ve Seven says eVery man should } Onored in his We be feve that ry €Ts, states and Station, ry TS and Magistrates a5 Sovernment have a Tight, and are LESSON DEPARTMENT Christian church met With this Problem jn the days of the oman Empire. The Statues of © emperor Were placed In ever community ™MPeror worsh; ae obliged to Obe Which "nacts laws for the Protection of all Citizens "in Poses nor Nspire against 50vernment. Ec Munists jn € United States and Isewhere to. Ay always mak 4 great deal of talk acy. Vers €claration of Belie States th his is nop Justified €Tence are ions do not Justify Sedition nor conOmmunism 854 ment." 'The meaning of this seems perfectly clear. At a first reading, verse eight might suggest the theory of punishment to be found in Gilbert and Sullivan's operetta, The Mikado, "let the punishment fit the crime." What does the Declazation mean when it says, "the commission of crime should be punished according to the nature of the offense'? Some clue may be found in the teachings of Joseph Smith. When he ran for the Presidency of the United States in the 1844 compaign, Joseph Smith's platform included the doctrine that prisons of the land should be turned into seminaries of learning. In other words, punishment should eventually take the form of rehabilitation. This is not the doctrine of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. It is not the harsh concept of deforming the body by cutting off limbs or other forms of cruel and unusual punishment. At the same time, the doctrine is clear that tendencies to evil among men must not go unnoticed. "All men should step forward" says the Declaration. What does it mean to step forward? Let the class discuss this point. How can we today step forward and use our ability in sustaining good laws and in bringing offenders against good laws to punishment? This is a question of the hour. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 Questions for Discussion and Lesson Helps Special Project: If possible, secure, bring to class, and read a copy of the "Ordinances on Religious Liberty and Free Assembly" presented to the Nauvoo City Council, March 1, 1841, by Joseph Smith. (Copies may be seen in Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman, pp. 81-83; or in the Documentary History of the Church, IV, pp. 306-307.) 1. When should men obey the law as the voice of the State and government? 2. When men disobey the law, when may they properly be punished by the government? 3. Is punishment of law-breakers by the government ever unjust? Under what conditions, if any? 4. Can members of the class suggest some good examples of laws that respect freedom of conscience and, at the same time, meet the public interest? 5. Can members of the class suggest some good examples of law or governmental action that may possibly disregard freedom of conscience and the public interest? 6. What distinction is possible between "public interest' and "national interest?" 7. What is the importance of the principle of the "rule of law?" 8. What is the relation between the "tule of law" and the principle of "limited government?" g. What should the attitude of Latter-day Saints be towards law enforcement? (What kind of law?) 10. Note that the Declaration, verse eight, says we should "'step forward.... In bringing offenders against good laws to punishment." What are the tests of a good law? Blizzard Evelyn Fjeldsted The sun's glowing signal of red In the evening sky's long traffic lines, The stillness, loud with alarm, Are portentous and unfailing signs. Optional lessons in sieu of Social Science—The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) Lesson 12—The Counselors to President Heber J. Grant (Continued) Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, March 28, 1950 Tue Presiency A Untr—THe THREE ArE ONE Charles W. Nibley Charles Wilson Nibley ON May 16, 1925, President Charles W. Penrose, then in his ninety-fourth year, departed from this life. To the vacancy thus created in the First Presidency, Anthony W. Ivins was sustained, making him the first counselor to President Grant. To complete the First Presidency, President Grant selected as his second counselor, Charles Wilson Nibley, who had served as Presiding Bishop of the Church since 1907. In this selection a man of unusual ability and achievement was brought into the highest council of the Church. J. Reuben Clark, Jr. David O. McKay President Nibley was born at Hunterfield, Scotland (near Edinburgh), on February 5, 1849. His parents had joined the Church in 1844 and his father soon progressed to the position of president of the branch of the Church in his town. In 1855, the family immigrated to America, settling in Rhode Island where they worked at any kind of employment in order to secute means to continue their journey to the West. After five years of hard work and frugal living, they had enough to buy an outfit; and they made the great trek to Utah. They settled at Wellsville in Cache Valley and young Charles, then eleven Page 855 Years Of age commenced to herd became a member of the stake presi. Sheep and do other farm labor, At dency, In 1907 he was Called to be he age of sixteen he left home, ang Presiding Isho € Church Went to gh ty where he scHe had + ached the me when he Cured e Ployment n €rcantile 9 Id have Tetited and Spent a lif firm and had his first taste of busjof idleness and €ase, or Could have Ness life. N twenty Years of used his accumulated Wealth to haye 4g€ he served 4 short-term Mission come one of the great financial to the Eastern States and then en. Powers of Western America, But §aged in Tailroad Clerical] work for he placed his call to Service above on a Mission to England Where he Persona] financja] Sacrifice, he de. Served for More than two years, Jt voted the Temaining Y€ars of his life Was while on this MIssion that he beto the Church, Joseph F. Smith Who later called Church 5 Presiding Bishop, bring- 4 to the Position of p Tesiding ing to that Office g Temarkable ef. © Deet sug Industry; Eastern Chure © worked hand m hand Tegon an stern Idaho and with President Joseph F mith Was one of MOving SPirits who Is tegard, and j s during his fathered the Colonization of the Ministration that ¢ Church Tande Ronde alley jn Oregon "ame to be fin Ncially dependent and the Steat Payette Valley in Id uring these years he eled a 1 teat dea] hroughout he Uniteg Elder bley, with his ultitudjates, t Pe, and to awall 70us business Interests never forwith President Smith man, got th message of save the Tesident of th Church Testoration that h Tesponha greater y "landing of the LESSON DEPARTMENT body and mind, Possessed of a December 11, 10931, President Nibley died and, in his Place, Pres; ent Grant chos Elder Joshua euben Cla > Jn he time f employed by Dr, Jame Talmage, later to be Called ag One of the twelve 4POstles of the Church, as IS assistant In the €seret Myseum. Jn 1898, h as graduated from the University f Utah, hay. | work, fields of activity ang the Study of law appealed to him, Although he Was thirty-two ye Tied, and had two chil Nothing of this world's goo $300, ing with problems of international law. He was assigned to work on problems dealing with Latin-American matters and became so_proficient in this field that Ambassador Dwight W. Morrow took him to Mexico as his legal advisor during a time of great stress in regard to United States interests in Mexico. On Brother Clark's return, he was appointed Under Secretary of State by President Coolidge. So ably had he worked and won the confidence and respect of the Mexican officials when he was aiding Ambassador Morrow that, when Ambassador Morrow resigned his post after election to the United States Senate in 1930, President Clark was appointed ambassador in his stead. It was from this post of honor and respect that President Grant called him to be his second counselor in April eed During the years that President Clark had resided away from Utah not only had he studied international law, but he had studied the scriptures and the gospel. His sermons are models of eloquence and contain spiritual messages of great worth. He has the unusual ability to state in a few words the vital part of his message. He speaks with great conviction and his sermons and admonitions are the summary of serious thinking about the Church and world problems. Many of his sermons are prophetic in nature, and some, such as his tribute to the pioneers (To Them of the Last Wagon, which is the classic description of this great migration of the Latterday Saints,) are poetic in form. His radio addresses and writings on the New Testament message are brilhant studies reflecting his profound scholarship. One of President Clark's greatest characteristics is his uncompromising honesty. The statement, "face the facts," is one of his oftrepeated phrases. He does just that himself, whether he is dealing with a problem of law, a problem of the Church, a problem of scripture, or a problem of life. To President Grant's administration he brought these great gifts of understanding, faith in the restored gospel, a strong robust physique, and a discriminating intellect. He was devoted to President Grant and did all he could to assist the President during his declining years. David Oman McKay On September 23, 1934, President Anthony W. Ivins, eighty-two years of age, passed from mortality. J. Reuben Clark, Jr., was then advanced to the position of first counselor, and the council of the First Presidency was completed with the appointment of David O. McKay. Elder McKay had been a member of the Council of the Twelve since 1906, and was well known throughout the length and breadth of the Church. The McKay home was at Huntsville, Utah, and here David was born on September 8, 1873. He learned the nature and value of physical toil on the farm and it impressed him so that to this day he and his brothers and sisters possess ownership of the old farm home, and take a deep interest in its many functions. President McKay is a great lover of horses, and his greatest delight is to get back to the farm and to his 858 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 LESSON DEPARTMENT 859 From youth the fie] called him is fj Perience came e€ 48 an assistant h Cints By EMMA Mapp PETERSEN rv; 's the first pip € Scottish do, le Story book ever or Of the unda; ater he was advanced to be first as Sistant and, in 18, became genHAMMOND ORGANS wide § All kinds o de Commissioner of e ucation for he Church, havin he ection of of tl} h ChOols of the Church, Three years eral superinte W URLITZER PIANOS tch- LESSON DEPARTMENT bers of the First Presidency are, to maintain such uni as is manifested References Jenson, Andrew, LDS. Biographical Encyclopedia, Improvement Era, 33:480, 481, 35: 131, 132, 389-391; 36:416.417; 36:643- 646, ee Joanna (Continued from Page 831) face. "Tye thought about you day and night for months.,. Especially since I saw David. [| wanted to see -». The lost and the terrified. ['m glad enever I saw a half-starved youngster, J thought of But I've met SO many girls. |. - and I guess Pye my knees more than once jp simple gratitude that knew someone like you." 86] Joanna said, "That was the hardud >. - and pray," home," COMMERC | AL. AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah = in the administration of the urch? 862 — les ship and ACtivities Of the returned misSionary 'ganization, All Students have the oPPortunity ° being Membe Religion With tivities. Yi [. D. S. BUS| today; 70 North Ove of ow ae BEESLEY 70 SOUTH MAIN—4-6518 Main will enjoy the friend. 'S of the L. D. S, Institute of Lambdg Delta 5; NESS COLLEGE ba > USI CO. And bear m In golden bur The breath In its ba W-pitched and. " Wo thousand years of caroling ave not €xpressed our Joy! Hang colorfy] electric lamps bove each busy thoroughfare, e S of Galilee Tankincense and gold. So I would hang the holly high, Y gift of myrrh, nished censer, of blue-tipped fir. WwW. Took t their hands could hold, LESSON DEPARTMENT Holy Night Christie Lund Coles 863 There was NO snow in sight, Fluttering and clean, elicate 6 sheen, jeweled and bright, For Shepherds Watched their sheep Upon the hill Coaxing, ec Te Io Uplicate layette FREE; twins] a. Ear, if you have Srom lear and Sar May the Lord bless you and your wonderful Magazine which had much to do with my joining the Church. —Mrs. Betty Butler, Redding, California It is gratifying to know that wherever one goes in this vast universe The Relief Society Magazine can be yours for just a subscription. On this beautiful island of Guam there is a very active group of Latter-day Saints. It was a pleasant surprise to find several women in the group, which led to a desire for Relief Society work. While the men attend Priesthood meetings the women enjoy the fullness of the splendid Relief Society lessons. Indeed we feel blessed, although so far away, and yet so near, through the pages of the Magazine. —Rea Jorgensen, Guam, Mariana Islands Please find enclosed a check for the subscription price of the Magazine. I don't want to miss a single issue. I especially enjoy the poetry, which is, I think, of a very high class. I also like the lesson material and wish every member would read the lessons before going to class. —Amy F. Armstrong, Phoenix, Arizona I enjoy the Magazine very much and don't want to miss a single copy. I am a convert from Hayward, Wisconsin. I was baptized July 21, 1945, and moved to Nephi, April 24, 1946. I enjoy the West very much. My mother is secretary of a little branch in Hayward. They have mostly Indian members. —Doris A. Hanson, Nephi, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is very sad. Many times I have come home from work and found my wife weeping after having read the Magazine. I couldn't believe it was that sad until I read it myself from cover to cover, and then I started to cry. The poetry is especially somber. Doesn't anyone know anything funny to write about? —A Bishop, Salt Lake City, Utah Page 864 It seems to me that I should apprise you of the delight we have received from the series of articles on 'Table Decorations (by Mary Grant Judd, April to December, 1949) appearing currently in The Relief Society Magazine. What you did with vegetables is incredible! 'These writings have shown a fine resourcefulness and originality. Sister Glade, my daughters, and I, have certainly appreciated them. —Mayor Earl J. Glade, Salt Lake City, Utah Most non-Latter-day Saint people with whom I visited were very friendly regarding Relief Society work. At one place I hesitated to enter the home because I knew the husband was there (his car was outside). He was a man owning a number of herds of sheep, ranging them both here and in Arizona. But I offered a prayer in secret and knocked on the door. I was met in a friendly way and, without hesitation, presented my message and handed him and his wife copies of the Magazine to look through. The husband exclaimed: "The Relief Society! Oh, yes, that's an organization which does a lot of good. Yes, we want to subscribe to the Magazine." He told me that he liked to read so well that he would spend all his spare time reading if his eyes would let him. Some months later this man passed away, and it has been a pleasant memory for me in connection with his passing that the last words I heard him speak were these regarding the Magazine. —N. Florence Hanny, Firth, Idaho The Relief Society Magazine is a source of enjoyment and its reading is indeed grand. I do look forward to it. The lessons are just wonderful, especially the last couple of years until we had our branch organized, for it helped to keep me in touch with the Church and learn of its teachings. The missionaries are also enjoying its contents when they come to visit me. 'Thank you ever so much. —Mrs. William Manley, Plymouth, England PLENTIFUL NOW— Jesus, The Christ By JAMES E. TALMAGE Textbook for the study of the Life of Christ We The Life of Christ In Pictures: —four sets of beautiful, large, 18" x 22" colored pictures— SET I—The birth, early life and ministry, including seven miracles. SET Il—Five miracles, eight parables, and three major events. SET III—16 pictures from the selection of the Twelve to the Transfiguration. SET IV—16 pictures from the triumphal entry to the Ascension, including the Passion week events. $00 prs DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 3 C=) COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah
