THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - _Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Priscilla L. Evans Blanche B. Stoddard Mary J. Wilson Mary G. Judd Florence J. Madsen Evon W. Peterson Florence G. Smith Anna B. Hart Leone G. Layton Leone O. Jacobs Lillie C. Adams Edith S. Elliott Ethel C. Smith RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - = - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 35 JANUARY 1948 NO. 1 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Happy New Year! -......0... = General Presidency of Relief Society 3 loneer' Women. Ose. EePresident David O. McKay 4 Award Winners—Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest 10 The Cherry Orchard—First Prize Poem a Katherine Fernelius Larsen 11 Migrant—Second Prize Poem EAN |: Alice Morrey Bailey 13 Ruby Baird Andersen i ee ee ee ee re)Alice Morrey Bailey 7 Dorothy Ducas 35 Bertha Zaugg Perschon 37 Sara Mills 48: Olive W. Burt 30 AYstresses Anna Prince Redd 41 6 oe "8; Ramona W. Cannon 27 Editorial: ''Warm Hearts and Friendly Hands" Marianne C. Sharp 28 Notes to the Field: Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March........ 29 Watch This Month 29 Three-Part Story (''Windy Hilltop'') to begin in February 40 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Centennial Programs and Other Activities LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: ''Honored by Strangers, Rejected by His Own"; 'Continuation of Our Lord's _, Ministry in Galilee" oo. I Elder Don B. Colton 58 Visiting Teachers Messages: Building ActivitiesPresident Amy Brown Lyman 63 Work Meeting—Sewing: Fitted Facings Jean fisae Jennings 64 Literature: Doctrinal Exposition of the Doctrine and Covenants........ Elder H: Wayne Driggs 65 28... Re Elder Joseph Jacobs 67 POETRY Snow Upon the Earth—Frontispiece Christie Lund Coles 1] Earth's Song of the Road... ~ C. Cameron Johns 29 A New Year................. Clarence Edwin Flynn 34 Symphony............ Beatrice Rordame Parsons 40 eed ai: aught Napping My Wealth Grace A. Woodbury 47 4 Julia Nelson 49 re eae ee A oe ee az Della Adams Leitner 72 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 38-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15e. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 11038, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SNOW UPON THE EARTH Christie Lund Coles How white and still this snow upon the earth, A benediction over hill and plain Of winter-weary days. The riotous birth Of spring, with blossoms honey-sweet again, Is not more beautiful than this; no scene Of flowered summer nor autumnal fire Surpasses these bejeweled webs that lean Earthward in their white, virginal attire. For here is peace and silver quietness For the being moved too much by revelry In April, and the wanton loveliness Of Indian summer. It is good to be Silent, growing strong in growing still, Retrieving life and strength, as field and hill. The Cover: "Snow on the Highway," Southeastern Utah. Photograph by Willard Luce. VOL. 35, NO. 1 JANUARY 1948 Happy New Year! HE General Board of Relief Society extends this wish, with all that it implies, to all Relief Society officers, members, and Magazine readers throughout the world. We sincerely thank all of the officers, members, and friends of the Society the world over, for their loyalty and devotion to the great cause of Relief Society during the past year. We greatly appreciate the many courtesies shown the members of the General Board in their visits to the stakes. Amid the rapid tempo of modern life with its growing complexities and anxieties, let us realize more than ever before that happiness, peace, and serenity come from within. Let us make sure we are building our lives and our homes on a firm foundation of spirituality, and of faith in God and in the gospel of Jesus Christ. May we face the New Year with its unknown problems with faith and courage, and may the Lord bless and sustain us in all of our righteous endeavors. Affectionately yours, UManitriet- 60 Shanfi Utbus 2. Dem General Presidency Pioneer Women President David O. McKay Of the First Presidency (Delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual Relief Society General Conference held in the Tabernacle, Thursday, October 2, 1947.) ISTERS, Visiting Brethren, the S sweet perfume that radiates from these lovely leis, graciously presented by the President of the Oahu Stake in Hawaii, but typifies the sweet spirit of spirituality that radiates from this large audience of Relief Society workers. When I think of the ideals you represent, as offered in the Relief Societies of the Church—self-improvement, perpetuation and beautification of home, preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ, service, not only to those in distress but to everyone who needs your tender care— I do not hesitate to say that this is one of the most significant gatherings, if not the most significant assembly of women in the world. I am glad to be with you. It is an inspiration to partake of your spirit. We have listened to inspirational addresses from your fellow workers, representatives of the General Board, this inspirational singing from our Singing Mothers. The ideals represented here cannot help but make everyone present feel that it is good to be here. I know from the papers and from your program that you have had definite instruction regarding your work meeting and your literary lessons, your religious themes, social service, and all the other features of Relief Society work, indeed, if I would I could not instruct you on Page 4 these details, as I am not sufficiently informed. I have, therefore, directed my attention along the lines suggested by Sister Spafford and her associates on the part that women have played in the Centennial, and my thoughts have not centered so much on what women have done throughout the counties (although their labors are inestimable and to them we owe the success, largely, of these great county celebrations that have been carried on during this Centennial Year), as upon the pioneer women who contributed so much and endured so much during those trying days of Nauvoo and during the trek to Salt Lake Valley. In paying tribute to them we shall pay tribute to all womankind, especially to women in the Church, for they are just as loyal today as they were then. As the Utah Centennial celebration draws to a close, it seems appropriate to pause a moment to pay tribute to these pioneer women. And well do they merit infinitely more than our feeble efforts can give them. Their fitting praise requires the best that fluent tongues and gifted pens can express. You will find few if any of their names inscribed on monuments erected to the brave. Some are not even known beyond their family circles; not a few lie in unmarked graves out on the plains, but the burdens they bore uncomplainingly, PIONEER WOMEN the contributions they made to the settlement of the arid West, the virtues they exemplified in the midst of trials and almost super-human endurance entitle them to an honored place among the heroines of the world. We confess that during this Centennial we have not laid much emphasis upon the part that women played in the settlement of this Western Empire. In this we are but following the general practice of men throughout the ages. Women bear the burdens of the household, carry most of the responsibility of rearing a family, inspire their husbands and sons to achicve success; and while the latter are being given the applause of public acclaim, the wives and mothers who really merit recognition and commendation remain smilingly content in unheralded achievement. In the words of Jack Appleton: "A man succecds and reaps the honors of public applause when in truth a quiet little woman has made it all possible—has by her tact and encouragement held him to his best, has had faith in him when his own faith has languished, has cheered him with the unfailing assurance: "You can, you must, you will.'" Broken by Fate, unrelenting, Scarred by the lashings of Chance; Bitter his heart—unrepenting— Hardened by Circumstance; Shadowed by Failure ever, Cursing, he would have died, But the touch of her hand, her strong warm hand, And her love of his soul, took full command, Just at the turn of the tide! Standing beside him, filled with trust, "Win," she whispered, "you must, you must!" Helping, and loving and guiding, Urging when that were best, Holding her fears in hiding, Deep in her quiet breast; This is the woman who kept him True to his standards high, Watching, and guarding, whispering still, "Win, you can, you must, you willl" This is the story of the ages, This is Woman's way; Wiser than seers or sages, Lifting us day by day; Facing all things with courage Nothing can daunt or dim, Treading Life's path, wherever it leads— Lined with flowers or choked with weeds, But ever with him—with him! Guidon—comrade—golden spur— The men who win are helped by her! HE pioncer woman was equal to every emergency. Her courage in crises when she faced threatened death equaled, and, in some cases, exceeded that of her husband. She was loyal to her loved ones, to her Church, and to God. She endured untold hardships uncomplainingly. She was unselfish, brave, and fulfilled, under most adverse conditions, the responsibilities of motherhood—woman's noblest calling. Nearly all women are by nature sensitive and dainty. They admire beautiful things. They like to dress becomingly. 'They admire china and silverware. 'They enjoy decorating their rooms and making homes livable and attractive. They appreciate an occasional gift of jewelry, of a piece of Royal Doulton or of Dresden. The pioneer woman and her associates who entered Salt Lake Valley one hundred years ago enjoyed none of these luxuries. They had to be content, and were content with the mere necessities. With these inherent tendencies of womankind in mind, let me in- vite you, with the facts of history before us, to recross the plains with two or three of these heroines. 'Those to whom we refer this afternoon are but representatives of thousands to whom tribute is due. One of the most tragically heroic epochs in Church history, one in which are exemplified the dauntless faith and divine leadership of the men at the head of the Church, and the super-human, sublime patience, and resourcefulness of the women, is the period following the expulsion of the saints from Nauvoo, and the building of Winter Quarters on the banks of the Missouri. Most of our attention this year has been directed to the trek from Winter Quarters to Salt Lake Valley, but I think the greatest heroism of the Church, manifestations of the greatest leadership, and loyalty to Church and to ideals of the women, occurred between the months of February and September of 1846. The story of that trek has never yet been fully told. It is difficult for us who attempt to pay a feeble tribute to these pioneers one hundred years later, even to imagine, for example, what those shelterless mothers endured during the month of February 1846—note the month—as they passed through the throes of confinement on the banks of the Sugar Creek when nine babies were born. You mothers can understand this better than we men. The world will do well to pause and think what it was that inspired the women to endure uncomplainingly such trials. Picturing the scene, Eliza R. Snow writes: "We had been preceded from Nauvoo by thousands, and I was informed that on the first night of the encampment, nine children were born into the world, and from that time, as we journeyed onward, mothers gave birth to offspring under almost every variety of circumstances imaginable, except those to which they had been accustomed; some in tents, others in wagons—in rainstorms and in snowstorms. I heard of one birth which occurred under the rude shelter of a hut, the sides of which were formed of blankets fastened to poles stuck in the ground, with a bark roof through which the rain was dripping. Kind sisters stood holding dishes to catch the water as it fell, thus protecting the newcomer and its mother from a showerbath as the little innocent first entered on the stage of human life; and through faith in the Great Ruler of events, no harm resulted to either." IN that month, women, driven from their comfortable homes in Nauvoo, left their land, which many of them could not sell, abandoned household furniture, treasured pictures and accumulated relics, left the old clock ticking a gloomy farewell, taking nothing with which they could do without, crossed the Mississippi River to begin a trackless journey, and to endure the hardships incident to camping in the open ait on muddy ground, under inclement, often stormy skies, with inadequate provisions and clothing. Picture this afternoon, if you can —and this is a real incident—a young mother with the care and responsibility of three children—a girl of seven, a boy of five, and a baby boy one and one half years old, subjected to these adverse conditions. On her and her little children, on February 6 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 PIONEER WOMEN 25, three inches of snow fell. Only tents and wagon boxes for shelter. The diaries of that day tell us that this mother and babies, as many others, had to sleep out of doors as the wagon boxes were loaded with food and with what few household necessities the refugees could take along. Time will not permit me to pause longer on that journey across Iowa. They reached Mount Pisgah in due time, stayed there until fall, then joined the saints at Winter Quarters and prepared to cross the plains next year. Now I am going to ask you to consider conditions ten years later. Thousands of women by that time had walked across the plains, your grandmothers and mine among them, and many of them prompted to do that out of consideration for widows who could not come any other way, so they shared the wagon and let the widow ride while they walked. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." But ten years later they had instituted, or inaugurated the handcart method of crossing the plains. Today, that just seems to me—I do not know — almost incomprehensible, but they fitted out their handcarts at Winter Quarters, loaded each with such household goods and such food as they could, took the cattle and drove them along, and marched across the plains singing that inspiring song with which you opened this gathering, "Come, Come, Ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, but with joy wend your way." Wives pulling and pushing handcarts, aiding their husbands, while little children trudged at their sides! 7 But in that year of 1856 two companies were delayed. They were advised not to attempt the trip. It was too late. One man who had crossed called them together and said: "You had better wait." But the majority voted to attempt it, and he said: "All right, if you are determined to go I will go with you and help you; if necessary, die with ou.". "Greater love, hath no man, than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends." NE morning a young wife and mother stood by the side of a newly dug grave, the final resting place of her husband and fourteen others who had taken the last step on life's journey. One of those put in that grave had helped to dig it the night before. One of the mother's arms caressed a little boy sorrowfully sobbing as he buried his face in the folds of his mother's dress. You and I cannot even imagine the aching sorrow and poignant grief that must have filled that young woman's heart as she and her little son pulled their handcart that day without husband and daddy. Later, in the month of September, at the close of the day's march, a bride of twelve months gave birth to a baby girl. The records do not say whether the company halted for the mother to recuperate. If they did, it would be only for a day or two, and the young mother would have to trudge along carrying in her arms, or placing it on the handcart, her newborn babe. What a picture for an artist! What an appeal to the skeptical, indifferent world today! What an illustration of heroism and faith! 8. Illustrative of this last thought, I am going to tell you what that father said about it, years afterward, for the father, mother, and baby came to Utah, and it was my privilege to sit at the table of that little baby girl when she was grown, and hear the story from her own lips. She was living in a comfortable home with nine lovely children around her. In that same town, years later, a teacher, conducting a class, said it was unwise ever to attempt, even to permit them to come across the plains under such conditions. "Some sharp criticism of the Church and its leaders was being indulged in for permitting any company of converts to venture across the plains with no more supplies or protection than a handcart caravan afforded. "An old man in the corner"'—and this was written by President William Palmer, who was present—"sat silent and listened as long as he could stand it, then he arose and said things that no person who heard him will ever forget. His face was white with emotion, yet he spoke calmly, deliberately, but with great earnestness and sincerity. "In substance the father above mentioned said, 'I ask you to stop this criticism. You are discussing a matter you know nothing about. Cold historic facts mean nothing here, for they give no proper interpretation of the questions involved. Mistake to send the Handcart Company out so late in the season? Yes. But I was in that company and my wife was in it and Sister Nellie Unthank whom you have cited was there, too. We suffered beyond anything you can imagine RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 and many died of exposure and starvation, but did you ever hear a survivor of that company utter a word of criticism? Not one of that company ever apostatizcd or left the Church, because everyone of us came through with the absolute knowledge that God lives for we became acquainted with him in our extremeties. ""T have pulled my handcart when I was so weak and weary from illness and lack of food that I could hardly put one foot ahead of the other. I have looked ahead and seen a patch of sand or a hill slope and I have said, I can go only that far and there I must give up, for I cannot pull the load through it." And a wife with a baby in her arms by his side! 'I have gone on to that sand and when I reached it, the cart began pushing me. I have looked back many times to see who was pushing my cart, but my eyes saw no one. I knew then that the angels of God were there. "Was I sorry that I chose to come by handcart? No. Neither then nor any minute of my life since. The price we paid to become acquainted with God was a privilege to pay, and I am thankful that I was privileged to come in the Martin Handcart Company.' " ODAY, Sisters, we have hospitals, anesthetics, nurses, and every comfort and attention for mother and the newborn child. Yet many a woman of America today limits her family to one, two, or three children, sometimes justifying herself because of economic conditions. They cannot get houses, in which to live; the husband is in school; but more often they are yielding to a desire to keep up social prestige, and to PIONEER WOMEN participate in entertainment and travel. The pioneer women bore the responsibilities of large families even though they had to pass through the throes of confinement under the most adverse circumstances. This tendency to limit the number of children in a family, if considered only in the light of perpetuating the race, is most portentous. We are told by the president of the American Statistical Association that in order to maintain our population even at its present level, it would be necessary that each family which has any children should have an average of over three. "In other words, so many people are unmarried or else have no children, though married, that this number of children is needed to balance the deaths, and thus maintain a stationary population without any growth from year to year." The increasing tendency to look upon family life as a burden, and the ever-spreading practice of birth control are ominous threats to the perpetuation of our nation. In the light of what the restored gospel teaches us regarding pre-existence, the eternal nature of the marriage covenant, and of family relationship, no healthy wife in the Church should shun the responsibilities of normal motherhood. In our homes, as we have heard here today, all that is best and noblest should live. And this in most cases largely emanates from mother. Her "daily movements," as impressively expressed in Woman in the Home, "as she walks and sits and sings and serves, turn common life into a drama of grace, beauty, and power. And when mother's heart, full of mother's love, obeys the inspiration of good taste, the living room of the lowliest house becomes a stage on which are illustrated, under the spell of holy faith and morality, all that is best in human life.... Who dares to undervalue it?" Today, on the stage of international politics a great contention is taking place between two ideologies —one, that we take the children and make them hostages or wards of the state; the other, that upholds the Christian home. God grant that his will may prevail in the present conflict. To womanhood everywhere, and especially to those in the West who prize their heritage, may the memory of the sterling character and heroic deeds of our pioneer mothers be an inspiration to foster and practice in their daily lives, courage, modesty, virtue, loyalty, and faith —outstanding traits of the Utah pioneer women! And will you pay your tribute to your mother, as I want to pay to mine, in the words that the prince paid to his: She of whom you speak, My mother, looks as pure as some serene Creation minted in the golden moods Of sovereign artists; not a thought, a touch, But pure as lines of green that streaks the white Of the first snowdrop's inner leaves. (Tennyson) God bless our mothers and our gitls who hope to be mothers, that they may keep their bodies pure and unsullied, and merit from their sons the tribute we pay our mothers today, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Award Winners Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three prize winners in the 1947 Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem contest. This contest was announced in the June 1947 issue of the Magazine, and closed September 15, 1947. The first prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Katherine Fernelius Larsen, 1232 Warnock Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "The Cherry Orchard." The second prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, 256 Iowa Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Migrant." The third prize of ten dollars is awarded to Ruby Baird Andersen, 324 North sth East, Provo, Utah, for her poem "The Young War Widow Speaks." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1923, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetic verse. Prize-winning poems are the propPage 10 erty of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were 105 poems submitted in. This year's contest, entries coming from many of the states, as well as from several foreign countries. Of the three winners, two have net previously placed in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contests. The General Board congratulates the prize winners, and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes, also, to thank the three judges and all who assisted, for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. 'The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs of the prizewinning contestants, are published herewith. PrizeWinning Poems &liza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest KATHERINE FERNELIUS LARSEN First Prize Poem She Cherry Orchard Katherine Fernelius Larsen I Out in the orchard the sap is rising, The cherry bark gleams mahogany-red, The grass is showing new green by the tree roots And brown clods break from their thin snow bed. I take my doll to the orchard swing, And the sun-warmed air on my cheek breathes "Spring." High and low, low and high, Swing to earth, then swing to sky, One with grass, then one with branches, Doll and swing and I. Page 11 12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 Il A world of enchantment, the orchard now; The bridal branches, white as snow, Lift lace-draped arms to the high, warm blue, Drop idle petals to green below; The orchard swoons while laden bees hover. In the scent-sweet air I await my lover. Beat heart, beat; hum bees, hum; Soon my love, my love, will come; Stay the freighted moment, hold it Close to the heart's wild drum! Ill The sun glows hot on crimson spheres; Out the screen door my children spill; "The cherries are ripe!" they shout, and pilfer The plump and shining fruit, until The red juice drips from greedy fingers, And laughter spills from stained lips, and lingers... Cherries ripe, cherries red, Lush, inviting, overhead— On rich fruit to satiation Are my children fed. IV Out in the orchard, silent and white, The swing hangs empty, the limbs lift stark Against a wintry sky, and rime Of hoarfrost dulls the gleaming bark; It is empty and still; yet branch and root Hold memoried blossom, hold future fruit. Katherine Fernelius Larsen, of Salt Lake City, is the wife of Rex F. Larsen and the mother of five young children. She is a member of the Art Bam Poets and Poets of the Pacific. Her poems have been published in The Improvement Era, The Relief Society Magazine, Wings, American Bard, The Salt Lake Tribune, and other publications. Last year she won second prize in the Annual Art Barn Poets Contest. A gifted student of literature, Mrs. Larsen plans to continue poetry composition and also to write fiction. PRIZE-WINNING POEMS ALICE MORREY BAILEY Second Prize Poem Migrant Alice Morrey Bailey And No Defense Look upon the universe. The trees Arise in passive might; the daffodil, Unwitting, pours its gold from cup and frill; The hollyhocks stand helpless in the breeze And lean like whispering women, while the bees Traverse the petaled silk and loot at will. These live with sightless eyes and senses nil, And no defense is theirs when north winds freeze. Yet flowers know pulse and breath the same as I, And spread their leaves with food beneath the sun; Their seedlings grow mature and breed and die. Some fold in hooded sleep when day is done. What marks the difference, when both are sown With life? Why, then, is conflict mine alone? 13 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 The Lives of These Observe the cattle, hear the lonely loon; The eagle soars where sky is thin and rare To plummet on his victim through the air; The trout may swim his life in one lagoon. The queen bee makes her nuptial flight at noon And nevermore ascends its blazing stair. The coyote finds his goal in prey and lair, And sings his ghostly triumph to the moon. The lives of these are bound and circumscribed By laws unseen, immutable and fine. Each threads a path of cycles pre-described, While ultimate on ultimate is mine, And I must ever yearn for heights too far, Each star revealing yet another star. Unbound By Time Have I not flown at will through star-hung space In other worlds before this memory, And tapped the source of light and energy, And wrought my work unbound by time and place, Untrapped by circumstance? Can I erase Nostalgic pangs, when alien to me Are clocks and cords and wheels? Have I been free To know unmeasured joy and perfect grace? Why have the centuries behind my blood Been restless in the labored ways of toil? Why have they sought to rise from rocks and mud To flight, or pioneered, or burned the precious oil Of time for learning? Someday I shall go Beyond the sea of death—and I shall know. (For biographical sketch of Alice Morrey Bailey, see page 23.) PRIZE-WINNING POEMS | \ a RUBY BAIRD ANDERSEN Third Prize Poem The Young War Widow Sp eaks Ruby Baird Andersen. What good is 4 medal of oak leaves On velvet in a case, When the mind holds on to pictures The heart cannot erase? On the town's memorial plaque When yout only love has gone And can never, oh, never come back? On the back-yard bench the spring sun lies Where he liked to sit making fishing flies. No alchemy cam work In teeming word, or sun, If the heatt is put a withered cone e ° RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 The plum hangs ripe on the green-leafed limb, Just a little taller than the head of him. Learn, I must, of many things, And unlearn many more. What is the shapegof memory? Is it twisted, pointed, and sharp? Or large, star-shaped, and smooth Like the dulcet tones of the harp? The sumac is red near the canyon's mouth, Three years since he went to camp in the South. Seasons can return again, New life that is spring's, Exultation that belongs to Maytime, And fruition that August brings; But blood and bone are passing, And muscle cannot last, Passion palpitates but once, Life's momentum soon is past. Memory often serves as bread, Or as a drink from which one sips, But memory cannot place a kiss Fresh upon the lips. The snowflakes slant around the corner light— There's a mound that's cold in a foreign night. Is it creeping centuries, Or only a thousand hours That by this casement window I've climbed the night's blue towers To find this word, this answer: There's One who understands— I must lift my heart myself, With a pair of working hands. Ruby Baird Andersen, wife of Reuben Andersen of Provo, Utah, has two teen-age daughters and is a competent and charming homemaker. An active worker in the auxiliaries of the Church, she has served as a ward Relief Society president. As a member of the Provo Chapter of the League of Utah writers, Mrs. Andersen has been studying and wnting poetry for several years. Her work has appeared in The Oregonian, (Portland, Oregon), the Provo Daily Herald, The Relief Society Magazine, and other publications. Two of her poems were included in the anthology, Utah Sings, and one poem was published in Our Legacy, the Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse. On December 7, 1947, Ruby Baird Andersen passed away after a two weeks' illness. She had seen her picture and her poem in page proof the day before her death. HE Relief Som ty eneral Board This contest Wa initiated to is pleased to announc e names ourage Latter day Saint women tO of the awat ers the shot express themselves the field of story contes which was pnounce fiction. He Ge eral Board feels n the June 19 Magathat the response this opportuntty zine, and hich closed September will continue ncrease the literary 15, 1947- quality of The Relief Society Mag The first prize story of forty dolazine and will aid the women of the Truth." the 1947 ©° test. Ernmphasize he The second pr of thirty dollars moral theme to detriment © h is awat to Jan ssell. Can quality of the stot It is suggest© non, 23 » Street, Salt Lake City, that the authors try tO * prove h Utah, for her story Th Answet yr \iterary craftsman P of their su The third prize twenty dollars missions * utu contests by pay '< awarded to Myrtle Dean, 425 ing particul ention t charactet Fast 24 Sou Provo, Ut h, for het portrayal and plot development, an ao Children' ¢ Chil fecg to the fine 4 tails of word usage a ed by the Relief Society General h Board in 194?» qs a feature of the 80,000 Ther Relief Societ centenni 1 observ e are S pscribets in Oe ety ennial obsetv every state of the Union, 20 in ance, Wa made an annual contest. This large and a reciative udience, published or acceP ed for publica inet el portance of entering ™ tion D eriodica ¢ recognized the contest theit ery best wot ment The General Board ongratulates The thre prizewinn g, stories the prize winning conte nts, are to D publish d consecutively in expresses pprecia 1 those he first thre issues of Mageaho subm tted to Sincere grat zine for 194 tude is extence he three JUCe' Thirty-thre manuscripts were 0! Their discer t and skill in S& submitted ™ the contest for 1947: lecting ¢ ze-winning, tories Only one of pi nners fot The Genera ard also acknow this yeat h previous placed in edges, with appreciation wor the An al Relief Society Sh rt of the §$ ort S committee 1 Story Contests supervisin the contes Prize-Winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest First Prize Story Nugget of Truth Alice Mortey Bailey her heels and looked at het small daughter, Penny, in dismay. It wasn't enough to have all this packing to do before the train would leave at six in the morning. On top of it, she must have this nagging worry about Penny. 'Just what did you tell the man at the door, Penny?" "T told him a great big elephanet jumped out of the closet and ate you all up," said Penny, with a beatific smile. "Now can we pack my dolly dresses?" "Penny, you didn't!" "Yes, I did, and I told him, besides, you haven't a minute to spare, and you look a sight!" "Qh," moaned Anna Lea. ""Whatever is Mommy going to do with you? And what is your Daddy going to think when we get to San Francisco, and he finds out you still tell fibs? You're a big girl now, more than four." Bill wouldn't understand it, any more than she did, but there it was. Modern parents, Bill said, didn't let things like this go on. Wasn't there child psychology, or some way to get at the bottom of it and find out why Penny lied? Bill called it that. Lies. And it was no use for Anna Lea to talk of Page 18 A NNA Lea Phelps sat back on ALICE MORREY BAILEY an over-active imagination, because Bill had been brought up in a strict household. He thought he was being liberal not to take his razor sttop to Penny, or to lock her in the closet. He was going to, he said, if Penny wasn't cured by the time they ot to San Francisco. "Tt's up to you, Dear. You're the one who is with her all the time. I can't do a thing when I'm traveling like this," he had said. Bill was very young looking, but his jaw was firm, and if the truth had it, that was the real reason why NUGGET OF TRUTH he had given up the job of troubleshooter on the Santa Fe and had taken a job in the office—so he could spank Penny and lock her in the closet. NNA Lea didn't know very much about children,, but even she knew there should be a better way. Bill didn't know how big and heavy his hand was, and when Bill got angry he shouted. "Who was the man at the door, Darling? Did he say?" "Oh yes! That was Mr. Jefferson, and he is one of Daddy's friends." The name didn't ring any bell in Anna Lea's memory. Bill was sweet. He had so many friends. He was big and ambitious and forthright. It wasn't so much that she was afraid of Bill as it was that she was afraid he would stop loving her. "A man's choice of a wife can't be overestimated," he said once. He was reading about a friend's divorce in the paper. "You take Stubby, here. It says incompatibility in the paper, but it goes a lot deeper than that. Stubby was with me over there, and he thought he had the world wrapped up in a little blond cocoon, but what does he find when he gets home? The cocoon turns out to be a butterfly." "Bill, that's clever!" "These war marriages! A guy gets all steamed up and heroic, and everything looks like hot stuff to him. He grabs off a last-minute marriage before he goes out to fight, and when he gets home he finds he's tied for life to some little ball of fluff, if not to a grindstone." "Millstone, Bill," corrected Anna 19 Lea, and added in a very small voice, "ours was a war marriage." "Right," said Bill, "and did I know you? You had me so dazzled I didn't know what went on in that little head of yours." He had stood up then, to come and kiss her. "And you still do," he said, his eyes growing warm, his lips circling her face with kisses. "But I mean to find out." And when he did, what would he know? Would he still love her? Would he think she had character? He had thought so the day he had given her her watch—the day Penny was born. "Honey," he had said, sitting beside the hospital bed after it was all over and she had rested, "I brought you something." He had been down to send the good news telegrams. "It's a good watch, the best there is. Just like your little heart, ticking away all the time you were bringing my baby. I'm so glad it didn't stop," he said, and his face crumpled, his voice, too. There were tears on her hands when he snapped the watch on her wrist. Ke KK & 'XX 7HEN are we going to pack my dolly dresses?" Penny's voice jolted her back into reality. Doll clothes were spread all over the overstuffed chair, enough of them to fill the space needed for Anna Lea's fur coat. "Those old rags! Throw them away, Penny Dearest, and we'll get you some more when we get there." "IT couldn't," said Penny. "This dress I bought at Moffats, and it costed millions of dollars. It's real velvet. And this one is silk, and it costed millions of dollars, too. Be- sides I made them all myself, and my dolls can talk to me when you are gone, and they told me while you were asleep that they just love their clothes." "Oh, Penny," said Anna Lea in despair. "Can't you tell the truth?" "This time I am," said Penny virtuously. ""They are really silk and velvet, and I really did pay millions...." "Penny!" Penny's eyes filled with tears and she began to cry, her little lower lip trembling. Penny was still a baby, with a baby's contours curving into creases at her wrists and elbows, and at the base of her sweet little throat, where Bill said that kisses grew. "How about a kiss for Daddy?" he would say, and Penny would tip back her head. "Are there any kisses there?" 'Dozens of them," Bill would declare. "Then you can have them," Penny would tell him, stopping her play dutifully, tangling his hair and laughing when he tickled her. Penny's dimpled features could go, as Bill said, from May flowers to April showers in a matter of split seconds, and just now they were all woe. Anna Lea couldn't hold out against the grief in the small face, and took Penny in her arms. "There, Baby!" she said, patting her. "Will you pack my dolly dresses?" Penny said, mollified and pressing quick advantage. "Yes, yes, Dear. Mother will," promised Anna Lea, a little taken aback, and with mental reservations. I just can't! She thought. So much to pack—so little space. I'll have to think of something. "Put them in your box and leave them. I'll have to see where they'll fit. Why don't you help Mother to remember all the things," she added, hoping to get Penny's mind off the doll clothes. It gave Anna Lea a headache to think of all the little, last minute details—services to be discontinued, a drayman for her trunks, and the countless friends who called, wanting to take her to lunch, to dinner, to a show on her last day here. She had run the gamut of excuses. "I'd love to, Darling, but I have a terrific headache," or an appointment with the dentist, anything that came quickly to mind. "We must remember our tooth brushes in the morning. We have to leave them out to use. Help me to remember to give the apartment key back to the manager, and to think of a good safe place to pack my jewelry...." HE had put her jewelry in every piece of luggage she had, her watch, her costume jewelry, and the emerald pin and earrings Bill had given her, only to take them out again. She picked up her watch, laying its smooth crystal to her cheek, thinking of Bill. It was a warm link between them. "Mommy, let me wear your watch on the train," Penny asked. _"Of course not, Honey. I can't even wear it myself, because the link is broken." Her watch fascinated Penny. | She would miss it acutely. She sighed and put it back with the little heap of jewelry on the desk. There were little heaps everywhere, her stockings and underwear, Bill's dress clothes, and Penny's dolls. It was 20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 NUGGET OF TRUTH too much, and now there was that man, Bill's friend to worry about. She should have answered the door, herself, but it would have been too awful to have him see her like this, in slacks and mules, her hair in a kerchief and her face smudged with dust. And all this litter! Penny's doll clothes added the finishing touch. Penny was industriously packing them into her box, her face a miniature of housewifely concern. If Bill could only see her now! She was so adorable, her baby lips pursed, her round little fingers making their vague movements. Who could spank a child like that? "Penny, would you like to play at Jamie's for half an hour?" Anna Lea asked after a little busy silence. WHEN Penny had gone Anna Lea let herself out of the service entrance and into the elevator to the basement. She had a_ basket of things to be burned. Uppermost on it was the box of Penny's doll clothes, atrocious little things Penny had crudely fashioned from her own worn-out things, silk print and old velvet, badly cut, with raw edges and ridiculous stitching. She would teally have io teach Penny to sew, now that she was old enough. It was all trash, bits of crumpled lace, some artificial flowers matted with embroidery silk, and some stringy ribbons. Nevertheless, she had a guilty little pang as she put them into the fire, turning her face from the heat of the glowing coals. She watched the sides of the box darken with smoke and the edges begin to curl. There was an instant when she would have snatched them out, but 21 they broke into flame, and it was too late. Millions of dollars, Penny had said. With a little constriction of her heart, Anna Lea shut the door on the burning doll clothes and went upstairs. She shut her eyes, but couldn't shut out the sight of the flame, browning the tiny sun-suit, licking the small blue coat. The telephone was ringing as she went back into the apartment, Western Union, calling with a telegram from Bill. Jefferson, the big boss, calling to see you en route East. Squelch Penny's imagination. Everything depends on good impression. Better job, more money. Jefferson stickler for truth. Poor Bill! He must have been fearful to have sent that. "Oh!" she said suddenly, "Mr. Jefferson!" The truth hit her like a landslide. That was Mr. Jefferson whom Penny had told an elephant had eaten her mother—the man at the door. This was too awful! Bill would never forgive her. What was worse, he would never forgive Penny. A stickler for truth, Bill had said. Anna Lea wished fervently she might dissolve in thin air. What should she do? Rectify the mistake, obviously, but how? Where did he stay? If she could call him and tell the absolute truth, invite him to dinner at her new home as soon as he returned to San Francisco, that might do it. Somehow she would fix things for Bill. GHE began calling the hotels. "Is a Mr. Jefferson registered there?" she asked repeatedly. After half an hour at the telephone, searching his whereabouts, she gave up. Anger overwhelmed her. Anger at Bill. well, your apartment—20 ugh to receive visitors' clothes th ly calm eno far wrtODg wit n closets inhabite wit ful, Anna Lea oped, sigh of relief, that the uncomfortable q matter was "Tt was 4 really good p! M ny 's imagination. D what she was to rv." Penny ©° child have sal t _ Why, at j "You said to help you find a g00d qd. I put it down and I helpec. P y baby clothes least, cou She was sitting beside het open place, trunk, her fingers pressing het throb- 12 the middle of m ping temples, trying to think what box Wasn't la good girl?" next to do hen Penny burst in. "You meat it's Dburne My "J told Jamie I couldn't play any jewelry —™Y atch that Daddy gave a broken leg; and besides { have to Anna Lea, aking 4 sudden show nudges of coal. Penny was staring before het in sma "You burned UP y dolly dresses, Mommy "You sa implacabilityt my doll clothes in - Anna Lea ha icken face, sensing "pid you pu q suitcase, Mommy? "Yes, yes; umbled Anna Lea 18 the child's strc in a preoccupied manner, fitting het her 0 loss. Penn ad love chintz-covered stocking box into the those doll clothes as much as she "which suitcase did you put them She ope? Her mouth, the urge Anna Lea waved a vague hand at strong, UP her, but the ™ ment the sea of bags and boxes. Was too deep, too significant. On it "Oh, I don't know. One of those. Turned het whole future relationWe'll find out ship with Penny—with Bill. 1 can't remember. Ore because [ have the measles an ack my baby $ clothes." Penny stopped short, looking for the box. "Did you pack them, at the sides of the box, Mommy? Did you put them im 4 the glowing bed of co guitcase?"" she asked pprehensive y of being busy, did not answer: Penny her, her eyes round till of her trunk with great care in?" Penny insisted. Me—bumned in the furmace ANNA Lea stood stock-still, Te membering he flame that licke embering beneath, the stoket with its little, bury! Ns ccusing had loved her watch for excuses, palliatives, promises, TRUTH —— 'T told you a lie Penny," she and | didn't buy them at Moffats said, Wrenching the Words from their My dollies didn't tel] me they loved habitual] Sockets, « big, very bad ¢ €m, because My dollies can't talk." lie. I dj say I packed + I did « enny, you're telling the truth," burn your baby cloth " marveled Anna Lea, cp, Cay' bs were Heartbreak, enny's eyes Spilled tears and her Lana's vel t dress— Billy Boy's little mouth trembled lue "7 at—bumned!" "You are, too, 4 00d mother, an 0 less burning Was the vision of i, ht it ms 4. 00d place Bill's job, Swept into the holocaus 7s of Ur jewelry » > 2 SE oc of Mr, Jefferson', disapproyal, Bill's tri < a): love for her, smok ng in Contempt, aoe 4 Icked by the Small flames of her Oh, Bab said Anna a, tak. Own social Lies and deceits of Conlg her in © her arms, The Teason venience, She nelt beside Penn - Why Penny lied—the cure for it, lay TNFa how you feel, Penny, Pye like a nugget in the ashes of her Cen a very ba a ee a exactly hoy you fee]! The telephone rang, then, like a Penny stopped short struck by an 'cond chance. It was T. Jeffery. Idea, "Because the watch Daddy _ son, Save you Was in it" he €asoned Just a moment," Anna Lea aid, "Don't cry, my Pretty ma," she Cupping the Mouthpiece. « Was went on, " Y dolly's 'clo hes didn' 2 §00d place, p ny COst millions and millions of dollars 1 € Ring of Strength" a the winner of the firs Prize in the sh © Poetry Contest, ian, Composer Sai sculptor, artist, t woma © Church auxiliary Organiz nday Schoo] of the Eleventh Ward Ociety Short Story C ced second in y 5+ _ This year she is ort Story contest and Second and Writer, is 9 * 40 addition to he S, she is | ations and » Salt Lake Reliof Society Building News ELIEF Society women everywhere will further appreciate the interest and support of the building project by the Presiding Bishopric on reading the following copy of a letter sent by them to all stake presidencies and ward bishopric: Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Office of the Presiding Bishopric 4° North Main Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah November 6, 1947 TO ALL STAKE PRESIDENCIES AND WARD BISHOPRICS Dear Brethren: the correspondence, has the approval of the First Presidency of the Church. The Relief Society, as you brethren will all agree, is one of the great organizations of this Church. It has accomplished a great work in the past. It is accomplishing a Societies of the Church to make possible this beautiful new home which will be a monument to their achievements and add dignity and prestige to their standing for many years, and possibly centuries, to come, justifies every possible support of the bishoprics of the Church. It is for this reason that we are sending you this information that you may be advised of their Program and that you may do all you can to see that the suggestions they have made are enthusiastically and promptly carried out in your wards, We ever pray for the Lord to bless you in your ministry. Sincerely your brethren, Lecranp RicHarps Josern L, WirtHiin Torre B, Isaacson, The Presiding Bishopric Page 24 RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 25 SOUTH IDAHO FALLS FIRST STAKE TO MAKE 100% MEMBERSHIP DONATION QUOTA AND STAKE BOARD QUOTA As the Magazine goes to press, word has been received that the South Idaho Falls Stake has completed its $5 membership quota and has already placed its contribution in the hands of the Presiding Bishopric. Relief Society members in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend congratulations to South Idaho Falls Stake for this outstanding accomplishment. ERDA WARD, GRANTSVILLE STAKE (UTAH), FIRST WARD TO SUBMIT QUOTA FOR BUILDING FUND The sisters of this ward secured their fund through a wheat activity in which every Relief Society member participated. The brethren of Erda Ward co-operated in the project. The contribution exceeded the quota, representing two new members. RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE BOARD QUOTAS RECEIVED tia General Board expresses appreciation to the following Relief Society stake boards which, by December 1, 1947, had sent the entire quotas assigned their respective stake boards to the office of the General Board: Bear River Mount Graham Roosevelt South Salt Lake Bonneville Mount Ogden San Diego South Sanpete Cache North Carbon San Juan Tooele Ensign North Weber Snowflake Union Gunnison Park FIRST BRANCH TO MEET ITS QUOTA FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING FUND Officers of the Mexican Branch Relief Society, Temple View Stake (Salt Lake City), present their check to General President Belle S. Spafford. Left to right: General President Belle S. Spafford; Dolores R. Torres, Branch President; Manuela G. Hernandez, Second Counselor; Marie Aparicio, Secretary. First Counselor Domitila R. Martinez was not present when this photograph was taken. All the members of this branch contributed to the building fund. an's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1888 For tur Ricurs o¢ THE Women TON AND Ty OMEN oF Ay tty to bless —Emily Woodmansee LETTE ROM oH told the other day by an 2Cquaintance, that m of it One's life 18 made y Teerets, at least y life is, | Shall always egret that | never had a uller acquaintance with "Sister Eliza" as you all sq lovingly call her, (Was an ble, Wonderfy] Oman, it see ed to > and I shall p W always think of her and happy. |. Onder what the future of t Peculiar People will be There is Our Work faith¢ I ily that we may all do he Relief Society was - Walton Presiding, She re. € Sisters, 'Sai lan, aid they -hag 'Money to buy ave-a place to put: - Sister J artha 'Were Ng up grain and felt that 'the: Parton said She Wished to ur husbands Should ¢ "Mormon friend, Eliza § the Cincinn tt papers, | 1¢ Not see the Notices, but 7 f '48 being in heaven With the man WO Were "£; Work in church » lS dead." and he Said that Notices of her death Were in aj] very much saddened to hea at the sepulch >" and as always busy Ora] movements for women now, God grant Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon. HUNDRED years ago last November 7, Elizabeth Blackwell entered the only medical school that would accept a woman, to become, two years later, America's first woman doctor. Contending against social ostracism and unfair professional treatment, she yet built a great career and accomplished untold good, relying on God for guidance. 'To honor her, the American Medical Women's Association is planning to build a library on the campus of the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania. On the bookplate to be used in the library is, center, a vignette of Arete, the "Light of Hellas" (ancient Greece), author of forty books on natural science and healing. Around the border of the bookplate are names of women famous in medicine, among them: Blackwell; Stevenson, _ first woman member and delegate to the American Medical Association, 1876; La Chapelle, famous French midwife; Erxleben, who practiced in Germany about 1750; Kahn, pioneer Chinese woman physician; Joshi, first medical woman in India; Mazzolini, early Italian medical woman inventor. | NE of the largest funerals ever held in Franklin, Idaho, was that of Mrs. Eliza Doney Lowe, a sweet lady of eighty-four, who was. Active in Relief Society for more than fifty years, and put its precepts into practice daily. Most of her waking S*/; hours, these later years, she spent helping those who needed comfort or assistance, whether they were rich or poor. She is survived by ninetyfive great-grandchildren. Ve" ANOTHER beloved Relief Society worker who died recently: in Salt Lake City, at the age 'of: ninety-eight, was Mrs. Juliana Petrea 'hygesen Fredericksen, a native of Denmark.. FURIDICE TURANO, a lovely girl from Buenos Aires, Argentina, now enrolled at the Brigham Young University, Provo, is fulfilling a life-long dream to attend a university in the United States. A convert to the Church twelve years ago, she edited in Buenos Aires a magazine for missionaries, and traveled: throughout Argentina teaching the gospel. LAST October 27, Mrs. Ann C. Milne of Salt Lake City reached ' the age of ninety-nine years. She still attends Relief Society and Daughters of Utah Pioneers meetings, and does housework. Fourteen years ago, an operation restored her eyesight after fifteen years of blindness. She has seventy-seven great-grandchildren. ISS DORA LOGUE, a teacher in Arlington School, Murray, is one of the first of five Irish exchange teachers to come to America, She is enthusiastic over her work and her experiences in Utah. Page 27 = EDITORIAL ~2 VOL. 35 JANUARY 1948 NO. 1 "Warm Hearts and Friendly Hands ' poral to the teachings of the gospel shown by one's daily conduct, loyalty to one's family, loyalty to friends and those placed in Church positions of authority, bring to a person the blessings of heaven. In the midst of trials and afflictions, how sweet, how solacing is the loyalty of friends. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was a prisoner in Liberty Jail, the Lord spoke these comforting words: Thy friends do stand by thee, and they shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands. Thou art not yet as Job; thy friends do not contend against thee neither charge thee with transgression as they did Job (D. & C, 121:9-10). It is a priceless gift to be able to rely on the loyalty of one's associates, to be certain that they will remain staunch and true in advetsity. Every president of the Church has been surrounded by associates who would have been loyal to the death. That is an attribute of the Lord's apostles. In any Church position to which a woman may be called, she owes full loyalty to those placed over her and to those with whom she labors. One of the reasons that the Relief Society is different from every other woman's organization on the face of the earth, is that the leaders are called by men bearing the Holy Priesthood, and seekers of positions Page 28 are not called. When a woman is chosen for a position, she may expect the full loyalty of all the women with whom she works. It is a sorrowful thing for a woman to be disloyal to those placed over her, or to be disloyal to those whom she professes to befriend. Those who would dwell in the presence of the Lord and belong to the Church of the Firstborn "see as they are seen, and know as they are known." A sincere woman shuns associating with women whom she knows, from past experience, are disloyal to friends and associates. She knows that each person will have to answet! For every idle word spoken. Said Jesus, "But I say unto you, that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment" (Matt. 12:30). As a woman increases in years she should increase also in all righteousness. Her appearance, more and more, comes to mirror the spirit within. Sweetness and goodness tend to illumine and refine. At the beginning of this new year, each Relief Society member will earn the approbation of the Lord if she keeps a stricter curb on her tongue, builds up her sisters, and proves her loyalty to friends and principles through her daily living. M. C. S. Yotes 10 THE FIELD Relief Society Assigned Evening Mleeting of Fast Sunday in March THE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day in March 1948 has been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief Society. Suggestive plans for this evening meeting are being prepared by the General Board and will be sent to the stakes in bulletin form. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents confer with their bishops immediately to arrange for this meeting. Watch This Month _...... The month stamped along with your address on every copy of the Magazine you receive. It shows the month in which your Relief Society Magazine subscription expires. By watching this month, you can renew your subscription early enough so that no issues of the Magazine will be missed. Renewal subscriptions must be received at this office one full month in advance of expiration in order to avoid missing an issue. Eo EARTH'S SONG OF THE ROAD C. Cameron Johns On me; the footsteps of mankind have traced Now swift, now slow, the sum of history. Unceasing, endless pageantry has paced. Across the earth, and marked incisively My charted ways. What wondrous traffickings Through canyoned hills and over quilted field Have been my lot! What strange and awesome things The rich gold tapestry of earth will yield. Men traverse age on age and mile on mile, And to each era countless changes bring; Today a beggar walks where just a while ago Upon my breast, there walked a King. Page 29 Miss Libby Steps Out Olive W. Burt M*: Libby Gray, hurrying home with her groceries, had little reason to look about her. It was terrificly hot that midsummer day, and Miss Libby's one desire was to get back to her little cottage, to the shaded coolness of her vine-covered porch. But, as she rounded the corner of Twelfth Street, the billboard across the way struck through her preoccupation, and she stopped and stood there, the sun beating down on her funny little straw hat, as she gaped at the sign. The circus! Time again. Miss Libby forgot the heat and the dust as she stared at the gay posters with their galloping horses, lovely women, and heroic men. At last she sighed, and moved on more slowly down the street. She had never seen a circus—never in all her long, drab years. She hadn't even wanted to see one— hadn't even thought about circuses —for a long, long time. She could remember though, how much they had meant to her at one time. She could remember that summer morning when she was ten. Everyone in the village, it seemed to her, was going to the circus. Teddy James had asked her, "You going to the circus, Libby?" And when she told him that her father wouldn't let her go, Teddy had nodded wisely Sure, it was circus "Mine won't either—that is, he won't give me the money to go. But me and the other fellows are going Page 30 to carry water for the elephants. Man said he would give us free tickets." "Oh, Teddy!" Libby had begged, "let me help! Let me carry water, too!" But it was a boy's job, and there were more boys wanting it than could have it. There was no place for her—a girl. She had stayed home that afternoon, sitting on the side porch, shelling peas, and hearing through the clear, blue summer air the sharp, sweet music of the calliope. "Papa was just plain stingy!" she said now, and was startled that she had given voice to the hitherto unacknowledged conviction. She felt a little ashamed, too, remembering that this very stinginess was the only thing that had made it possible for her to live as she had all these years, without having to work too hard or worry too much. She went into her big, cool kitchen and laid her groceries on the table. As she went to put her change into the grocery money can, she gave a little start of surprise. "Hmmm!" she said, talking half aloud to herself as was her habit, because she was always alone and had no one else to talk to, "I've sure been economical this month. There's more'n two dollars still left in the can." Two dollars! Papa would have gone straight to the bank with it. But then, Papa had had to skimp and save for her sake. "But I don't!" she said savagely. MISS LIBBY STEPS OUT "T haven't a chick nor a child to pass my stuff on to." She stood there, staring at the two dollars, feeling terribly alone. Then, scarcely realizing that she had made a decision, she hurried into her little bedroom and changed her clothes. Glancing furtively over her shoulder as if afraid that Papa might be watching her, she took the change from the grocery money can. "It'll mean I can't have a little roast Sunday," she muttered, but would not let her lips go on to say that this meant no cold meat on Monday and no hash on Tuesday. She shrugged. "Eat too much meat, anyway!" she said. HE bus to the circus grounds was crowded, but Miss Libby didn't care. She even liked it. She liked standing among the men and women and the jabbering, excited children. Her cheeks felt warm, and she knew her hat was askew, but she kept smiling at everyone and imagined everyone smiled at her. Once at the circus grounds, she walked slowly, scuffling her feet to stir up little clouds of dust, wanting to feel and hear all the beauty and romance of the place. She bought some pink lemonade © and some pink popcorn, and was just going to purchase a ticket to the fat lady side show when caution stopped her. "Better get my ticket to the Big Top first," she said, her tongue loving the feel of the phrase, "don't know how much it'll cost. Used to be twenty-five cents, but I've grown up since then." Reaching up to get her ticket from the uniformed man, who stood in 31 one end of the red and gold van, was an adventure in itself. The ticket cost $1.50, so Miss Libby couldn't see any side shows. She shrugged. It didn't matter, anyway. The signs and barkers were just as good, maybe even better, than inside. Up and down the midway she roamed, letting her feet splash in the hot dust, letting her ears drink in the exciting disharmony of raucous-voiced barkers, chattering children, scolding parents, and trumpeting animals. But, at last, she went into the big tent, handed over her ticket, and with the high excitement of a love tryst, entered the dusty, noisy semidarkness. The animals were even better than Miss Libby had ever imagined. She moved from cage to cage, past the lions pacing sedately to and fro, tossing their manes at each turn; past the tigers and jaguars, beautiful in their lithe grace. She stopped at the monkey cages, laughing aloud with the children beside her. She marvelled at the zebras and llamas, the camels and giraffes, just like their pictures. She watched little boys drop peanuts in the straw for the elephants to find with their long, sensitive trunks. T last she sighed, gave a last look over the noisy, smelly oval, and went through the flap into the Big Top, itself. "Get reserved seats!" the barker called, and Miss Libby's lips lifted scornfully. Any seat would be a reserved seat to her. She was going to take her time, though, and find the best place. She walked slowly, measuring the advantages of sitting near the reserved seats against those of being at the very end; of sitting in the first row with climbing to the top, where she could, perhaps, see more. At last she found her place, not too far from the doorway, so she could see the grand entrances, and on the first row. "Tl feel closer to 'em here," she told herself, wriggling her slight figure in among the scuffling little boys. It was wonderful! From the moment the band began to play and the grand spectacle passed dazzlingly around the big arena, Miss Libby found her two eyes—her five senses —were not enough. She watched the aerialists, the seals and lions and elephants, the bareback riders, the | clowns. Particularly, the clowns. For some reason, it seemed to Miss Libby that here, in the fanciful garb of these crazy tumblers, was the very spirit of the circus—the very heart of the great mystery that had called so urgently to her heart so many, many years ago. The clowns came around the sawdust circle in front of the seats—the giants and the dwarfs, the red-headed clowns and the blackfaced clowns, clowns with ridiculously big feet, and clowns with four feet, and clowns with no feet at all—tumbling, pulling faces, poking at the squealing children on the front row, taking the audience into the fun— into the glory that was the circus. Miss Libby watched, fascinated. She found herself giggling like the children around her, squealing, too, as a clown let loose a rubber mouse or fell from a kicking burro. Then, right in front of her, a little clown in a red-and yellow suit began tumbling about, performing unbelievable antics—breaking himself in two, falling together again, while the children clapped, and Miss Libby rose from her seat in her excitement. At last, the little clown drew himself upright, all in one piece, after all, and bowed sedately. Miss Libby was laughing as she could not remember ever having laughed before, laughing like a little girl, and clapping her hands. The little clown looked straight into Miss Libby's eyes. His own eyes were blue and merry, but as they looked into Miss Libby's brown ones, they grew suddenly serious in his grotesque, painted face. It seemed to Miss Libby that the clown's eyes were speaking to her, were saying something she couldn't quite catch, though her heart stood still for a moment, listening. Then he bowed again and went running and tumbling out of the tent. The rest of the show seemed a little less exciting now. Miss Libby kept turning from the dazzling aerialists and the performing lions to search among the clowns for that one funny little figure. He didn't come in again, and Miss Libby wondered what he could be doing. Maybe he has other jobs to do, she thought, sadly, and him the best clown they have. It's a shame! WHEN the circus was over, Miss Libby was pushed out of the tent by the surging crowd around her—out into a sunlight grown drab and a day that held no mystery. She couldn't bear the thought of going home. She walked about among the tents, watching the crowd thin until there were only a few loiterers like herself scattered 32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 33 about. Sh SW, at one Side of the she began to stumble, « ould you big field, g long te t, and smelled —that is_Pye cad about" it Stiffening her b ckbone ang 81. He was smiling and his eyes looked Ing her timidity 4 mental] Shaking, happy. Fom the tents back of the Bj —in the front W, you were, he Wagons and the debris of th there—most] ids. So you liked t cy were not © exquisite MY act, eh?" er flapping Kimonas alf-guessed under Ioose Coveralls an; Ould you," she ary gray slacks and from the qui | could Sort of look at It and temember_" ' bri lS voice Shook man stopped, looked a} 4 little 'gs he asked "You her Sharply, and nodded; asked gently, "What is y her Sense your Name, [, of Propriety, > ' Miss Libby tolg him, and he lift. » Mr, Clown, | thought you ed his tight knee and laid 4, Were the b Ing in | UPon it and Wrote. Miss Libby Jez | 'ler eyes make a lasting Picture of you~" Now + © unbelievable sight the odors of Cooking that came from she Walked toward it. Op came figure urTying among Weren't you? Figures of the citcus rin > but the ad their own glamor, half-seen yp. Marvelous, € little man "ame close to }, "Yeah," he Said, "J SAW you there of many ladies sit "Oh, yes!" she breathed "Tt was Waited here hop- gray-clad figure standing firmly on one leg, writing upon an uplifted knee. It was better than the circus, itself. When he had finished, he handed her the card, with a deep bow. "There you are, Madame," he said, and Miss Libby felt herself grow tall and lovely. "And thank you. You have made me very hap- "Made you happy?" she whispered, and stared after him as he went into the tent. Then she looked at the card, holding it close to her eyes to read in the fading afternoon light: To Miss Libby Gray—the greatest little lady that ever watched me perform, with deep appreciation for her kind heart. Roy, the Clown. Miss Libby went home, now. Her day was over. She put the card in the corner of her dresser looking glass, and long after she had stretched out in bed, the little square twinkled and smiled at her, and the memory of happiness was sweet around her. A NEW YEAR Clarence F'dwin Flynn Isn't it good to put by the fears And cares and worries of all the years; To take the debits of sorrows known, The strifes and wrongs of the days agone, The unkind words and the unkind looks Together, and charge them off the books? Isn't it good*to have a day ' To put the wrongs and mistakes away, The disappointments and failures, too, And let the thought of them all be through, To close the page on the hurt and strife, And open a new account with life? REMEMBER THE BIRTHDAYS OF WOMEN IN YOUR FAMILY WITH A SUBSCRIPTION TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AN ATTRACTIVE GIFT CARD WILL BE SENT TO RECIPIENTS OF GIFT SUBSCRIPTIONS Address: The Relief Society Magazine, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. 34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 A Decade of Doing Dorothy Ducas [Issued by The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis] Infantile Paralysis, supported by the now-familiar March of Dimes each January, will be ten years old on January 3, 1948. Ten years, in history, is but a moment. To mothers and fathers it is half their children's lives as_children. What has happened to speed the fight against infantile paralysis in the decade is of immediate interest and concern to all parents... Let's list a few of the things it has done in its ten-year span: First, it has become an organization with 2,735 local branches called chapters, manned by local volunteers, friends and neighbors of all of us. 'These local branches are the focal points for families in which infantile paralysis occurs, for from them comes financial assistance for the medical care of patients whose families cannot afford the complete costs without aid. In the period between May, 19309, when the first chapter was formed, and December 31, 1947, chapters have given direct assistance to an estimated 88,000 patients, according to reports from National Foundation representatives in all the states. In some instances, this assistance meant payment of all medical charges: hospital, medical, nursing, physical therapy, transportation to and from hospitals and clinics. In others, _it meant the provision of a wheelchair, of braces, or perhaps a pair of crutches. 'This service has been available to everyone in need of help, '|e National Foundation for regardless of age, race, creed or color... Second, the chapters of the National Foundation have provided funds for staffing and equipping polio units in local hospitals in many places, so that medical care would be available if polio came. In 1938, there were some 300 hospitals that admitted polio patients in the acute stage of the disease, according to the best available estimates. Today, there are at least 717 polio units in the country accepting acute cases... The importance of the growth of treatment centers is underlined by medical authorities. They agree that early diagnosis and hospitalization can do more to prevent deformity and minimize crippling than any other one procedure now known... OLIO treatment has been changing in the last ten years. There is more stress today on early physical therapy. Here was one field where qualified workers were so scarce that money itself could not buy enough or efficient enough services for polio patients—without helping to create new physical therapists. The National Foundation in 1945 set aside $1,267,600 to train physical therapists at approved schools and to create new teachers for these schools. As a result, 893 physical therapy scholarships had been granted up to October 1, 1947, increasing the supply of these workers by about twenty-five per cent. Adequate polio treatment is an expensive item beyond the reach of Page 35 36 the average budgct. It is estimated cach patient hospitalized for a year costs $2,000, while iron lung cases can cost as much as $20,000. Because of this, chapter treasuries frequently run dry under the pressure of a major outbreak. When this happens, money is transferred from national headquarters to supplement chapter funds, which consist of fifty per cent of all March of Dimes receipts in the county. A total of $9,415,900 has been transferred to date to supplement chapter funds for patient care, $6,200,521 of it during the twelve months ending May 31, 1947, when 1,187 advances were made to 677 chapters. A group of women volunteers, specially trained to assist nurses and physical therapists in bedside care of polio patients in hospitals and homes, has been formed during the last three years. The Polio Emergency Volunteers, or PEVs, as they are called, have made it possible to spread the services of professional workers by relieving them of routine tasks so they have more time for skilled services. There are now about 9,000 PEVs throughout the county... These steps forward in the field of patient care have been matched by achievements in scientific research and professional education. Since the National Foundation made its first research grant only a little more than six months after it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 was formed, the most intensive and comprehensive attack ever made on a single disease has been set in motion. Dozens of the country's leading scientists today are directing the search for knowledge and the training of professional workers at fifty of the most famous universities and medical schools in the United States. All told, 540 projects at 83 institutions in 29 states have been financed in ten years... All these things have taken place within ten years. The final goal has not been reached, but knowing what has been done to relieve discomfort and pain, to prevent deformity, to minimize crippling, and to give every polio patient a fighting chance for the best possible recovery is a heart-warming thing to parents. It is comforting, too, to know that widespread and capable efforts are being made and continuously pursued to find a final solution to infantile paralysis. Because the National Foundation has done these things in its brief decade of doing, the appeal for continued support during the March of Dimes, January 15th to 30th, 1948, falls on responsive hearts. Men and women everywhere, and especially civic leaders and club women to whom this cause is of special interest, are urged to participate in the 1948 March of Dimes—to the end that the work of the last ten years may continue to ultimate victory. She Relicf Society lagazine in Arizona A communication from Arizona indicates that the Magazine is very much appreciated by the men, as well as by the women. One particular man "likes the Magazine so well he can hardly wait for it to come each month. One day he and his wife were out riding in the car and he had the Magazine reading it while his wife drove the car." How to Cover an Umbrella Bertha Zaugg Perschon HROUGH accidents or by T long wear, umbrellas become shabby or useless. At the present time it is very expensive to buy a good umbrella that is both attractive looking and will wear well. The homemaker who understands how to cut patterns, and who is familiar with simple sewing, can cover her old umbrella frame for a fraction of the cost of buying a new umbrella. It is, however, necessary to proceed slowly and follow the directions with great care. Materials Needed 1 yard of 39-inch material of your favorite color and texture. Rayon taffeta proves very satisfactory, as it does not split as readily as silk. Glue for replacing the cap. If cap is lost, a plastic thimble makes a good substitute. 2 spools of thread, one for heavy duty hand sewing, and one for machine use. Preparatory Steps Soak the cap off the old umbrella by placing it in very hot water to melt the glue. Remove the cap. Carefully remove the old cover -from the umbrella frame, taking particular notice of where, how, and why it is sewed. This is very important, for, in stitching back the new cover to the frame, the same type of stitches must be used in the same places in order to assure a perfect fit. After carefully removing the old cover, all in one piece, unpick one of the panels, being sure not to tear or stretch it. Press this panel smooth and straight. Waterproofing the Material Place the material to be used as the new cover between two sheets of waxed paper and press with iron on low heat, the temperature for artificial silk or rayon. The applied heat causes the wax to permeate the material, thus making it waterproof. Use new pieces of waxed paper for each area of the material, carefully arranging the sheets so that no spaces of the material will. Be left without a wax coating. Cutting the Pattern Lay the pressed panel on a piece of paper and cut a pattern the same size and shape as the original panel, except for one slight difference. You will find that the wide end of the original panel will be slightly curved. Do not cut the curve, but make the pattern straight on this edge. The pattern should be even on both sides when folded on center lengthwise line. Make sure that the pattern is the exact size of the original panel, except for the curve. Lay the yard of 39-inch material flat on the table and cut it 'in half lengthwise. Remove the selvages and make a %-inch hem on both sides of the lengths of the two pieces. (See Diagram A.) Place the pattern at the top of one of the two pieces of hemmed material; with the wide panel end at the right-hand hemline and the point of the triangular-shaped panel toward left-hand hemline. Be sure that the pattern is laid along the straight of the goods. (See Diagram B, in which Page 37 38 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 DIAGRAM A CUT IN HALE HERE %4 INCH HEM 39 INCHES WIDE DIAGRAM C "PSrsc FIRST STITCHING" ~~ SECOND STITCHING (VERY CLOSE TOGETHER) the straight of the 800ds is represented by dotted lines.) Cut with Pinking shears, beginning at the wide end of the panel and cutting toward the point. Alternate the pattern to the other hemline, and Tepeat until you have Cut out one half of the number of Panels needed to completely cover the umbrella. Then tepeat thé same Process with the other half of the material. Sewing the Panels Lay two of the Panels together and baste or pin the seam, beginning DIAGRAM B == a= Y41NCH HEM DIAGRAM D DIAGRAM E TOP JOINED SEAM TWO CIRCLES THREE INCHES 'N DIAMETER STITCHES ¥% INCH ty FROMTHE EDGE \_ FOR MAKING RUFFLES i OF SECOND CIRCLE Sinai ne sew from the outside in. Continue adding the panels until all are joined. Then complete the circle by joining the last panel to the first. Fold each seam from right to left and top stitch on the wrong side only, just missing the first sewing. This strengthens the seams and prevents breaking of the stitches. (See Diagram C.) When all of the panels are sewed holds the Materia] '. Ontinue ung] al] band the Panels are Pinned. Llt © steps of the a strong double threaqd "© Completeg around the top of the oe CaP 18 thoroy - of the > Clawing jn any slight fullness Which there May be. €avy thread around ¢ ma Washed jn ld SOapsuds S€ a soft lable bry h, and Tinse the Materia] Well with wate "over 22 inch € edge and fasten to the to Take the S€cond 32-inch circle brella and SPlay it with 4 fine spra of cold wa a | art Story to Begin in Sobrug, Tule first Mstallment of 4 three-part story 'Windy illtop" by Ezra J Poulsen, y, Il begin in the February Issue of The Relieg Society Maga. Zine. Jy this sto, of Courage and Conflict, the Character sented in their T€action to 4 Problem of g; Situations are Portrayed aoa; ife, aho, no W residing in Sa local an | lt Lake City, j ications. He j or the Toilers and Poems in Vari. Y Completed nove] tthright," j, Teady for publi- [ ". Foulsen has Contributed OVeT a period Iver" SYMPHONY Beatijog Rordame Parsons With summer's 88Y and glorious sun, With heat to » 4nd crops to Tun, rom muted Vi Th Page 49 elief Society Magaz; Will remem ber with Pleas- Where Trails Run Out CHAPTER 12—-CONCLUSION Anna Prince Redd T was August 1884. Twilight fell and deepened the already sultry night. "Tt is too hot to last!" Elizabeth exclaimed. ""There will be a bad storm somewhere tonight, though I doubt if it will be here." The darkness that had fallen over the landscape was more than just a natural withdrawal of light. Elizabeth felt lonely and afraid, not of exactly, or see. And most of all, she was afraid of het thoughts. Afraid of the years ahead. The air was unusually fragrant with ripening fruit, yet oppressive and ominously heavy. She looked at the sky. Nota star showed through the heavy clouds that were rolling up like billows. "What a night for Indian devilment," she said to herself. "I'm glad the children are all asleep and that Henry will soon be home." She was fascinated by the elemental fury that seemed to be held 'n check only because there was no reason for unleashing it. She heard the long, hollow cry that preceded the rumble of distant thunder, she showed no surprise. Rather, there was a profound interest. The cry was cavernous in its intensity, yet seemed to come from a long way off. It was the same weird warning that had come at Lost Spring, announc: ing the coming of the famished water scouts. The same mysterious, half-human, half-animal cry that she had waited so long to hear. Henry came running f river. "Bethy, are you th cried. "Bethy!" "What has happened, Henry?" Elizabeth asked, dazed by his sudden appearance, brought to reality by the excitement in his Voice. "T don't know, Bethy! But listen!" The long, hollow cry was repeated. Elizabeth, listening to it, sensitive to its least inflection, was shocked at the agitated warning it conveyed. "Someone is running stealthily in the darkness!" Henry whispered. The lamps are lighted at James' store. Whoever it is is Tun-? Fided. Need me. Bethy, you 6° inside and polt the door." "Pm not afraid, Henry. Do you remember hearing that strange Cry ever before?" Henry stopped, just as he had turned to go to James' assistance. "Yes, Yes!" he cried, growing more excited. "It's the same Cry we heard at Lost Spring!" "Ts a warning, Henty. I don't think it is Indians. It's something to do with this impending storm, OT earthquake, or whatever it is that is shaping ground us. It is a terrible force, Henry. Whatever it ls we'll be powerless against it!" "Bolt the door, Bethy. And don't Page 41 make a sound. An Indian was killed at Mitchell's ranch today, and I'm still fearful that there will be an uprising. The Indians are being badly treated by scheming white men and traders in wool and sheep, and by unwise cowboys, to say nothing of the bungling of the soldiers. There'll be trouble at the store, I'm sure. They seem to congregate there, Indians as well as whites." "James and his family have nothing to fear from the Indians, Henry. And I feel safer out of the fort than I did when we were in it. Fair treatment is essential to peace, in this mission. And the Indians have had it from all of us, here at Montezuma. Go quickly to the store, Henry, if it will make you feel better. But come back as soon as you can." Elizabeth went inside and bolted the door. She listened till she could not hear Henry's footsteps, and then she threw herself, face down, across her bed. All the bitter homesickness of the years welled up to choke her. Neither she nor Mary had known an hour of complete contentment since they had come to San Juan. The river bed had proved to be no place to build homes, and the farther back they would build, the more. Ravenous the "Devil Ditch" had become. One day the river would be flowing peacefully toward the Colorado, the next it would have bitten out a chunk of beautiful farm land, green with grain, and be going in another direction. Not satisfied with its daily gorging, periodically it would rise and devour everything in its path, leaving islands of quicksand to ensnare more prey. "We'll never be safe," Elizabeth wailed, as she thought of the river's ravages. "Never!" HENRY came back. He gave the door a sharp rap, followed by a light one—a signal that it was he. Elizabeth opened the door. "What time is it?" she asked, as if she had forgotten why he had been away. "Tt's midnight," Henry answered. "The Indians are gathering at Mitchell's ranch. I think we had better move back to the fort." "And I think that we'd better stay right here!" Elizabeth replied emphatically. "Henry, I feel uneasy about the flood. Can you tell if it has been raining, up country?" "Tt doesn't look like it," Henry answered. "But you never can tell." He looked at the black canopy overhead. "We could have a deluge here, though. I never saw things so black!" He waited, then went on, "T don't like the sultry heaviness in the air." "Come inside, Henry!" Elizabeth warned, drawing him within. "There is another stealthy prowler!"' Henry whispered, "Could you see anything?" "No. It's nerve-wracking." A quick rap at the door startled them. Elizabeth caught Henry's hand in the darkness. Neither spoke. There was a listening pause, and the knock was repeated. Henry reached for his gun. "Make a light," he ordered, "and stand back!" Elizabeth complied. The door swung open, creaking on its dry, leather hinges, concealing Elizabeth as she followed its arc. "How!" The low guttural was impatient and sharp. "White man wait too long. Me knock. Most times no see!". Elizabeth came from behind the 42 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 door. "Se Kish!" she cried. "My "Tyst the same, Henry Harman, friend! The flood will come And when lt Henry ooked from the majestic does, Henry, ell not have @ Indian to Elizabe hance ing directly to Henry: «White man PLZABET looked around at her take squaw and papooses ro high ioneer home, grown suddenly Jand. Rivet he come. Maybe so very important, very deat. There daylight. No house here! Nohouse were all her cooking pans and ketthere!" His arms described his Hes, hanging above the chimney; her words. "Flomes all go. N fence. Cupboate, ith its pret ishes No land!" brought from home, praided Henry shook his head disbelief. TUES; her India plankets, soft an "J believe im, y? Eliza lovely 1 candlelit beth ¢ et me talk to him." went to the bedroom ant: holding Joe?" she asked dren's faces, e looked at the woo The Indian drew back, surprised. © bedsteads, he hand ade chest, "ow you ka " he questioned. The bright rag C4 the floor «yhite Mary told me. Jim Joe, "eThis is all w have," she told does White Mary know about the Henty, had followed het "And flood? The 'Devil Ditch' will get it, just as «white Mary will be safe from _ it has taken everything else!" river. On more house, Missionary "Bpjizabeth, ['m no king any Haskell, he safe, t00-" strange Im san's word a thing When will rivet ke house?" like this. Its a & k, I dont be Elizabeth asked, convichon growing lieve B with het excitemen "the dawn is com g soon, th be a pe kee Me Flizabeth remip ed h "TH e Indian answer e gave wake the children. Get the a Henry 4 slight, but imperative shove. «white man stand too long: Talk a. Oe ay? The finality in her voice was too and was gone. The blackness ©)" veloped him, even against the candleElizabeth put all the food they light and the open doot. Had into sacks and cans; 'poxes, an Elizabeth pushed the heavy 400 buckets, remembering how little ing hands. The rivet won't take," she spoke soft- "yt don't know what to think," ly. "Little prown-eyed Jamb of a Henry sa "yTys hard to believe child! 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 do, or not, it was breaking Elizabeth's heart. He took an armload the things and put them in the ee x x H! CHER and higher the "Devil Ditch" Tose, Old banks caved for the house had been lifted, land Philip W. 'Tompkins | stream. The roof and wall logs had SANDSTONE cARTOR IN one by one toppled off, in the bad UTAH, bouncing of the floor, till only the rocking chair remained, she put their few clothes on top of Houses, furniture, haystacks, wagthe stack, Teady for loading, ons—everything that goes to make a "We'll have no Toom for furnihome—careened by, jamming the ture," she said, watching Henry as tiver with debris. The Montezuma his eyes went lingeringly from Piece water wheel went out. The dam to piece of the things his hands had buckled and shivered. It held the made, wall of water for one defiant second, He shook his head in perplexity. And then loosened and tossed the "What will the neighbors say?" he floating water wheel into the air, reasked Elizabeth. "This is a silly ceived it as it fell, and then flatthing to do." tened out, just another broken mass "Start loading, Henry," was all of trees and rocks and logs. Hens Elizabeth could say. She placed a squawked in floating chicken Coops; crocheted doily exactly in the center dogs and cats tried to climb to the of the hewn-log table, and puta vase tops of the houses, screeching in of wild flowers exactly in the center terror. Of the doily. She stood back and From vantage points of safety, the surveyed the entire Poorly furnished hapless settlers watched their last room. "I never thought it was Pretremaining Possessions go by, For the mist from her eyes. "It's time cloudburst had started, not a house to wake the children, Henry." was left Standing. At Montezuma, enty looked at her pityingly. Only two houses remained, those of ether this was a foolish thing to James Davis and Thales Haskell. WHERE TRAILS RUN OUT There was a half hour of tense excitement when it was discovered that the Allen family was not among the rescued ones who starkly watched the ravage of their lands. "Sister Allen is missing!" Ted Davis cried. "I saw her son Bob up at the fort, trying to pacify the Indians." "And Brother Allen is in Fruitland, New Mexico!" James Davis exclaimed. "The family will be surrounded! Get help, Ted, and follow me!" "There's no time to lose, Pa!'' Ted cried. "I'd better come with you!" "That may be so," James agreed, jumping on his horse, and riding at top speed toward the Allen ranch. Ted followed him, keeping his eyes open for any men who might be able to go along to help, but he saw no one who was not already fully occupied with his own problems. "Thank goodness their house is on a small mound," James shouted, as they raced along. "Yes, but there's a swale on three sides of it!" 'Ted reminded his father. "It will be completely flooded, Ra." And it was. The little house, up to the window sills in water, looked forlorn and dejected. 'Two of the gitls, Annie and Lizzie, were floundering in water up to their arm-pits, trying to rescue their chickens and a pig. "Mother's inside," Annie shouted. "The water is covering everything!" jaa and Ted swung from their saddles and opened the door. There stood Mrs. Allen, holding her two young children out of the water. She had put the chairs on the bed and the children on the chairs. 5 She was thoroughly frightened, alone and helpless. "Oh, Brother Davis," she cried, "T'm thankful that you have come! How are we going to keep from drowning?" "We'll get you out somehow, Aunt Jane," Ted Davis assured her. "But I don't know how!" The water was rising rapidly. The chairs on top of the bed were almost covered. "We've got to get out of the house," James said. "But where to go, is the next thing. We can't all six of us ride our two horses out, and there's not time enough to make two trips!" "T know, Pa!" Ted cried. He had been looking around for something that would solve the problem for them. "There's the molasses boiler. We could use it as a boat!" Philip W. Tompkins ARCH IN ROCK CREEK CANYON Southeastern Utah 46 RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE _JaNyagy 1948 "But then how would we getmit After much Persuasion, Mrs, Allen to dry land, Ted? Our horses can't Waded out to the boat and was lifted Carry us and Pull the boiler, too, in. He girls laughed and shouted » Pa, it looks like P]] not all funny, There were unnery. Have to 80 for help," ig moments When the swimmin; two girls who Were trying to Save an urmuture, al] } nt under he chicke 1€re was a Sigh of Telief whe at "It's our father!" Lizzie Cried. — Jasp the team found solig footing "He's come home!" and began Clambering ashore, ames turned in time to see Broth. Ee er Allen leaping from his saddle, © Mary Davis Watched block after 4NXious for the safety of his family, OCK of their land sink i € were 'NNINg to yse fie tie liver, « Orchard!" she Molasses boiler for a boat," Ted ex. Ig a ed!" Plained, "}z Can We pull it — then she emem bere Where % €am is Op of the James ang 7. Ww "T can't Jet Set here faste Y son is drivin house stood, down to Tiver's "mon. He'll be €re any min Cdge, where the trees had been plant ute." Or moisture. Hree years she "There go Sour lovely Painted hy, Watched them &'OW—from pit Fathert" Izzie Cried, All our now! 800d fruit wil] be spoileqi" The river had already begun to "There's NO time to Worry about Cut under the bank where the trees The team Was hitched to the mo. Circle the tiny orchard, Widening by lasses boiler, ang the four children the minute. Mary jumped the Crack Wee put inside of it, Being about and began Pulling her PTecious trees four feet Wide and six OT seven feet up by the Toots. She had five of Davis chuckled. Already ag Was going to start down the tiver in wet as the Chickens that had 8iven one More minute! "But Ty] have m UP and floated downstream, the trees!" she decided gtimly, and jerked - WHERE TRAILS RUN OUT trees in her arms, she leaped for solid ground. The bank caved off and it was all that she could do to keep from being pulled down with it. But she threw herself backward, and regained her footing on the little island. A sickening lurch of earth brought her to a sudden realization that she had but a second between her and death. The ground on which she stood was moving! The crack was now four feet wide. She took a deep breath, lifted her skirts, and leaped for solid ground, landing with a force that knocked the breath out of her. There was a slow, sucking sound, and the little island was pulled into the river. Mary could hear nothing but the cries of her five children as Emily and Orson tried to pull her back from the caved-off bank. She got slowly to her feet and stood facing the rampaging river. "I got m trees!" she asserted weakly. "You brute of a thing!" She carried her trees—nine beautiful young saplings—to the house, standing high and dry on its knoll. They all went up the steps to the porch, where Mary paused to look her frightened brood over. She named them in her mind. At the third one down, she exclaimed, "My goodness, Child, you aren't dressed yet." KK Kk 47 INED along the banks of the San Juan River, a hundred war-painted warriors watched the little settlement pass on—with time and the tiver. The attack they had planned would never come off. The Montezuma settlers never set foot on their land again. Honorably released from their mission, the saints were given a blessing and told to seek homes elsewhere. Driving out of the valley with the little they could salvage from the wreck of their homes, they filed out of San Juan. Poorer by five years than they were when they entered it. Richer by five years, in a job well done. A mission filled to the last measure. One permanent town, Bluff City, had been established. And, from the families that sought homes in Southwestern Colorado, other thriving, small towns sprang up. The Indians became friends. "I have often prayed for us to be delivered from you, old 'Devil Ditch,' " Mary Davis said. "It was you, by your very cussedness, that answered that prayer!" Elizabeth stood up in her wagon seat as long as she could see her baby's grave. "Not all of me is leaving San Juan," she sighed. "At night when the stars are shining like tinsel, I'll come back in thought, Baby. And, wherever I go, the wind in the treetops will sigh your name tome. Goodbye... Goodbye..." > DESERT INCENSE Grace A. Woodbury For an hour the rain pelted the desert, The thunder rumbled in rage— Then a lull and a soft wind bringing The fragrance of rain-washed sage. Three Mexican Dishes Sara Mills OT all Mexican cooking is hot. A person could live out his life in Mexico and not eat a single hot dish. The hot dishes are there, products of old Spain, the Aztecs, and Mexico. Some of them are wonderfully good, but eating them is a matter of choice, not necessity. Much of the Mexican cookery is too intricate for the servantless American housewife. Some of the simpler dishes, however, are worth bringing north of the border. This time I shall write of only three —all easy to make, inexpensive, and good. I have no legitimate recipes for them. They came to me by word of mouth and by watching. Hence, the measurements here are meant as suggestions only. Vary them to suit your fancy and your numbers. 1. Rice soup (Sopa de arroz) 2. Zucchini with pork (Calabacitas ) 3. Tortillas with cheese (Tortillas con queso) Sopa de arroz is not soup, according to North American standards, but a nourishing, one-dish meal for luncheon or dinner. 'There is no set way to make it. The contents depend more upon the state of the refrigerator and the market basket. Here is a guiding recipe: RICE SOUP (Serves Four) 1 cup rice (uncooked) 1 - 2 tbs. Fat 3 - 4 cups of soup stock or water Page 48 tbs. Chopped onions cup diced celery cup green peas large carrot, sliced 2-3 tomatoes parsley salt Pepper a few drops of Worcestershire sauce a few drops of Tabasco sauce = = = N Turn a cup of uncooked rice into a - heavy frying pan, sizzling with your favorite shortening. Keep the rice tuming until it is seared with fat but not browned. This should take about five minutes. Now turn the rice into a heavy saucepan, which contains the 3 or 4 cups of boiling liquid, preferably soup stock and chicken, if available. Lacking soup stock, use water and bouillon cubes. Add to the rice mixture the sliced onions, which have been sauteed a delicate, golden brown, a cup of diced celery, two or three ripe tomatoes (use canned tomatoes or juice in off seasons), a large carrot sliced in thin wheels, a handful of chopped parsley. Then add the seasonings. When the rice is almost done, remove the cover and place a cup or so of freshly shelled green peas, canned peas or string beans, if you prefer, on top to steam until they are tender. You may also add strips of bell pepper, green or red, or both. The Mexican way of cooking this dish is to use an open kettle and stir occasionally. Mindful of vitamins, I use a heavy aluminum dish. After the rice is boiling nicely, I turn the heat low and let it steam. You will like the flaky rice and the blend of tastes. Tan Sabroso! ZUCCHINI WITH PORK (Serves Four) %-1 Ib. Pork cut in cubes 1 Ib. Zucchini (Italian squash) cut in cubes 2-3 cups corn, fresh or canned a few strips of chili pepper salt THREE MEXICAN DISHES thirty minutes, few strips of chi}; Pepper, © tortillas, Sprinkle d place on €a May be Care must be take; electric, Portable Oven jis Party amounts. They Should once. By themselves a; Serve them With a tossed &reen salad or Sliced tomatoes. There's ee CAUCHT NAPPING Julia Nelson I found my Last night; And mooni; On every ght poured a Silver flogg Window sil] The bubble-throateq kettle aS silent; Stretching out, | In Tuffled SWeet abandon, White Curtains tosseq about. The tal] Ted sto A cup was out And as | Watch ol stood on one of place; ed, a soft Smile spread leg, Across My kitchen's face, For thi your pork into Small cubes. Cut, with bon » May Ish, get Your butcher to cut Cheaper » but I Prefer Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for October 1946, page 685. CENTENNIAL PROGRAMS AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ethel M. Beckstrand PALO ALTO STAKE (CALIFORNIA ), RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY AT CENTENNIAL MUSICAL AND FASHION SHOW, May 23, 1947 beautiful displays of handicraft, pioneer heirlooms, and literature which had been used in the lesson work during the year, Nearly 250 members and their partners attended, hats, and bags, were featured as costume accessories, There were many interesting and NOTES FROM THE FIELD 51 OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), HUNTSVILLE WARD, SEWING PRIZES WON AT UTAH CENTENNIAL EXPOSITION OF FINE ARTS Brother Arvel W. Dean, Co-ordinator, Northern Utah Region, Church Welfare Plan, reports that the members of the Huntsville Ward Relief Society received several outstanding awards at the Utah Centennial Exposition of Fine Arts. The articles, which had been made as part of the Welfare assignment, were: Pair of mittens—First Prize Pair of mittens—Second Prize Handmade rug—First Prize Silk quilt—Third Prize Crocheted Rug—Second Prize Brother Dean comments: "This speaks very highly of the type of work which the Huntsville Ward Relief Society sisters are doing at their work meetings for the Welfare Program. We wish to compliment them for turning out such outstanding work." Cleona W. Hedenstrom is president of Ogden Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Helen Erwin EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, HUNTINGTON (WEST VIRGINIA), PAGEANT, "MOTHERS OF LONG AGO," PRESENTED IN HONOR OF _ MOTHER'S DAY, May 11, 1947 Candle bearers, left to tight: Gracelee Wroten; Barbara Williams; Vera Young; Gloria Young; Eleanor Johnson. Mothers of long ago, left to right: Helen Erwin; Elva Sharp; Maggie Sharp; Mayme Johnson; Ona Schroath; Maud Rice. Mothers of today: Stella Wood; Martha Carico; Margaret Anderson; Erma Mills. Seated at right, Spirit of Youth, Margie Rice; seated at desk, Kines Bexfield. Hilda M. Richards is president of East Central States Mission Relief Society. 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 Photograph submitted by Ardelle Swindle SOUTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH), PAGEANT, "RELIEF SOCIETY THROUGH THE YEARS," May 29, 1947 This pageant was very beautifully worked out and was presented with great care as to details of costuming and staging. One scene, "The Spirit of Relief Society," presented by the Monroe South Ward, is shown in the photograph. Left to right: Ruth Jones; Lorean Cloward, First Counselor; Ina Newby; Lucille Webb; Mary Y. Christiansen, Secretary-Treasurer; Louise Christiansen, President; Mina Olsen; Deona Dunn; Myrtle Peterson; Zelpha DeMill; Miley Smith; Sylvia Musig, former President, South Sevier Stake Relief Society. Floral M. Rasmussen is the present president. Inset photograph is Ida M. Anderson, of Monroe South Ward. She is seventy-four years old and has served as a visiting teacher for forty-seven years, including forty years of continuous service. Photograph submitted by Madge P. Fowler PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA), TABLE DECORATION, OLD FOLKS SOCIAL, July 26, 1947 Madge P. Fowler, President, Pasadena Stake Relief Society, reports a unique entertainment in honor of the old folks of the stake in which a prize was offered for the most NOTES FROM THE FIELD 53 unusual and effective table decoration. Alhambra Ward received the prize for its presentation of a covered wagon train which was devised and arranged by Ella Carpenter. She used twenty-four characters posed against a desert background. All details were complete, even to blinders for the horses, the implements fastened to the wagons, and the furnishings inside the wagons. The elderly people very much enjoyed this realistic picture of the historic days of '47. Photograph submitted by Eliza Meacham SOUTH SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH), MILLER WARD PAGEANT, "ECHOES FROM THE PAST," December 7, 1946 Front row, seated: Myrle Jackson. Second row seated, left to right: Rosemary McKinnon; Lucele Pope; Myrle Sunbeck. Third row standing, left to right: Lila Harrison; Alice Rowsel; Minnie Solomon, Secretary; Elizabeth Alsop; Eliza Meacham, author of the pageant. Fourth row standing, left to right: Ione Shaw, Counselor; Della Walton, President; Veda Baker, Counselor. This was an outstanding pageant and very well attended. A song, "Our Pioneers," composed by Sister Mecham, was a particularly outstanding part of the program. The gifted young composer, Crawford Gates, who wrote the musical scores for the "Promised Valley," composed the music for Sister Meacham's song. Mr. Gates is a nephew of Sister Meacham. LauRene K. Lindquist is president of South Salt Lake Stake Relief Sociéty. 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 Photograph submitted by Pauline Stevens BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), COWLEY WARD VISITING TEACHERS BANQUET, February 1946 Sixth from the end of the table, right background, is Opal Harston, President of Cowley Ward Relief Society at the time the photograph was taken; to her right is First Counselor Verda Partridge; and to her left, Second Counselor Geneva Stevens, now President of Cowley Ward Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mable D. Mortensen PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA), SOCIAL HONORING THE VISITING TEACHERS, June 6, 1947 Mable D. Mortensen, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society, reports that during the year 1946-47 three special projects were sponsored to promote interest and to stimulate activity among the visiting teachers. "'First was a contest in which the teaching requirements were divided into four groups. Each teacher was to make a barometer for each month. These were divided into four parts, and the four phases of teaching activity were each represented by one-fourth of the barometer, which was filled whenever that particular phase of the work was completed. The four phases were: 1. Doing the teaching the first week in the month; 2. Every home contacted; 3. Attendance at visiting teachers meeting; 4. Message given in the home. At the close of the year's work a convention for all visiting teachers was sponsored, at which teachers who had completed their work, as indicated by the barometers, were signally honored and each was presented with a small book as a token of appreciation." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 55 Photograph submitted by Grace F. Turley NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, COTTAGE GROVE (OREGON), BRANCH Front row, left to right: Zelma Van Matre, President; Helen Shrives; Faris Jolly, Secretary; Velma Levens, First Counselor; Ruth Lamb; June Chatterton. Back row, left to right: Lula McCullough; Westerene Turner; Grace F. Turley, missionary; Margaret Hinkson, Second Counselor; Aliene Andrews; Goldie Gunn; Esther Woodcox; Beulah Ramsey. This photograph was taken about two months after the organization of the branch Relief Society June 11, 1947. NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, REEDSPORT (OREGON), BRANCH Front row, left to right: Blanche Hickman, Second Counselor; Martha Hunt, President; Mary Raynes, First Counselor. Back row, left to right. Maymie Fox; Funice Shrouder; Beth Raynes, Secretary; Ruth Cloward; Grace F. Turley, missionary. This photograph was taken at the time the branch was organized, October 1, 1947. Photograph submitted by Grace F. Turley These two Relief Societies are growing rapidly, and they are accomplishing much valuable work. They have completed quilt projects, contributed to the Church Welfare Plan for European Relief, have conducted bazaars, and have presented very fine Relief Society conference programs. 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 Photograph submitted by Pearl H. Yost IDAHO STAKE, BANCROFT WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, left to right: Mary Ann Jenkins 1928-1932; Edna Johnson 1943-1945; Pearl H. Yost, present president, sustained September 23, 1945. Back row, left to right: Barbara Eliason, first president, who served eighteen years; Jennie S. Gilbert 1925-1928; Louie Hale Call 1929-1938. Elizabeth W. Hatch is president of Idaho Stake Relief Society. Ye SAN FRANCISCO STAKE (CALIFORNIA), SUNSET WARD 1947 WELFARE SEWING EXHIBIT Standing, left to right: Thelma Keller; Grace Gordon; Nerva Huff; Gwenn Grif- "tiths; Josephine T. Danford; DeLilah M. Fullenbach, President, San Francisco Stake NOTES FROM THE FIELD 57 _ Relief Society; Floyd Griffiths, Bishop, Sunset Ward; Josephine Sanders; Susie Beattie; Marion H. Willis; Louise H. Stoddard, in charge of sewing and Welfare work; Anne R. Barton, President, Sunset Ward Relief Society; Stake President Byron J. Barton; Gladys R. Winter; Aleda Horsley. The photograph shows only part of the completed Welfare assignment, which included 35: articles of clothing. The beautiful quilt of unusual design shown on the right was given, partly finished, to Louise Y. Robison, beloved General President of Relief Society, during an official visit to Hawaii. The quilt was completed by the Relief Society women of Sunset Ward. The quilt is the only article in the picture which is not part of the Welfare sewing. Photograph submitted by Alberta O. Doxey EASTERN STATES MISSION, ELMIRA (NEW YORK), BRANCH SEWING PROJECT Left to right: Fredericka Campbell; Gladys Wood; First Counselor Margaret Beach; President Margaret Kresge; Secretary Grace Fowler; missionaries Della Tew and Ruth Rockwood; Oliva Merrick. Absent when the photograph was taken: Second Counselor Lula M. Clark; Maude Barden; Marian Thom; Jean Hungerford. Alberta O. Doxey, President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society, reports that this small branch of eleven members has been very active in all phases of Relief Society work. Besides the regularly scheduled Sunday evening program, the Relief Society took charge of Father's Day. All-day work meetings were held during the summer, in which eight quilts were made and three layettes completed. In all, 101 articles were made during the year. Many bake sales were held, and the organization contributed several hundred dollars to the branch building fund. A birthday dinner has been given for each member aud each one was presented with a Relief Society pin. Objective: To prove that Jesys is no Tespecter of Persons, but that his blessings are given to all who have faith in him, and who Serve him. IN Order for one to grasp fully the Jesus gig not hesitate to go Breat work of oy, Lord, one aust throug Samaria g ls journey to Now so nething of the COnditions Galilee One Mcident of the tr existing amo g the People in the js Worthy 9 c. Jesus, tireg and where he lived his carthly life Weary, rested t awhile at Jacob' uch good Ork was done, both cll, which y, held very high Y Jesus ang S disciples, among the — ¢s eem h S, aS well as by th People of alia, Th Samaritans aMatitan This Well was near Were despised by the Jews, and, in Yehar, a | time, this hatred beca N in Samaria. A Sa. Me Mutual, Matritan wom The inhabitants of both ] Jesus "ngaged her in conamatia were a vetsation. He on: r: mixed People, Th Province lay be.: Tequest for Water was ite. Assyrians always Slanted yw "ever possible In ations had Inall Oriental land - Surprised at beSpoken to by a Jew, she asked: ° be descend. "How js It that hou, bej > Deing a Jew, ich a the Jews have no even more ealings with the aMaritans." Tigidly attached + the law of ses Jesus teplied: «T thou knewest an the: Japp, themselves " © the gift of God, an ho it ig that Jews, howeve > Would no Tecognize Saith to » Give t Ink; thoy 1€s€ Deo Some of the Plactices Wouldest have asked Im, and he elween ¢ © groups became yt would have &lven the living Water" TY ridiculoys. Prevented J 7-10) 4NY Co-operatio The Page 58 A Perry Picture From a Painting by Bida 1813-1895 JESUS TEACHING IN THE SYNAGOGUE ' spiritual meaning in his words. He then proceeded to give her a significant lesson: Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life (John 4:13-14). The woman could only see a possible saving of labor, while Jesus was promising eternal spiritual life to a thirsting soul. The Lord also gave the woman a demonstration of his power of discernment. When he asked her to go get her husband, she replied: "I have no husband." Jesus said unto her, "Thou hast well said, I have no husband: For thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband." She knew, then, that she spoke to no ordinary mortal. Jesus had read her innermost thoughts and her past life. The Samaritan, convinced that Jesus was, at least, a great prophet, went and brought a group of her townspeople. Prior to going, she had remarked: "I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things." To her utter amazement, Jesus replied: "I that speak unto thee am he" (John 4:25-26). Disregarding the objections of his disciples, Jesus talked to these Samaritans and sowed the seeds that later resulted in a harvest of souls (Acts 8:5-14). The gospel is for every soul who will accept it. That truth was difficult for the disciples of Jesus to comprehend. After leaving Samaria, our Lord went to Cana. He knew full well that Nazareth would reject him. His remark: '"'A prophet hath no honour in his own country," is often quoted. A remarkable event occurred at Cana. A nobleman of high rank came and pleaded with Jesus to go. On to Capernaum and heal his son. This man was probably an official in Herod's government. Jesus knew the man's thoughts and said unto him: "Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe." The man, however, continued his importunities, and the merciful Savior finally said to him: Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way" (John 4:50). The son lived and both the man and his family accepted the gospel. From Cana, Jesus went again to Nazareth. He found but little faith there. He did, however, go to their service in the synagogue on the Sabbath. He read from the roll, or book, that was handed him, from the sixtyfirst chapter of Isaiah, a passage specifically referring to the coming of the Messiah. When the eyes of all the congregation were turned toward him, he said: "This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears" (Luke 4:21). They scoffed at his claim and tried to throw him over the cliffs of a nearby hill. "But he passing through the midst of them went his way" (Luke 4:30). At Capernaum and in other parts of Galilee, he preached in the synagogues and did many mighty miracles. He cast out evil spirits from those afflicted. Even the devil 60 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT cried out: "I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God." He healed the sick, and many were converted—too many probably—by reason of the miracles he performed. Continuation of the Ministry in Galilee The observant reader of the New Testament will be impressed with the humility of the Mighty One. He turned so frequently to the Father, whose work he had come to do, and was always so mindful of their relationship that one who wants to follow this great leader must needs be humble. Simon Peter, and others, wanted Jesus to remain in Capernaum, but he said unto them, "I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also; for therefore am I sent." As he journeyed, a man afflicted with the loathsome disease of leprosy knelt before him and humbly asked: "If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean." Jesus was touched by this pathetic and sincere pleading, and laid his hand upon the afflicted one and cleansed him of the leprosy, although he was full of it (Mark 1:40-45). The Lord fully demonstrated his obedience to law by telling the former leper to immediately report to the priest of the healing and to make the offering required under the Mosaic law. He further charged the man to keep silent regarding the miracle. The Savior quite generally discouraged any publicity. Shortly after the event just mentioned, Jesus was again in Capernaum. In fact, he seemed to have made his home in this place more than in any other of the cities. He 61 was preaching one day in a house which was so crowded that there was no room nor any way for more people to get in to hear him. 'There was a man afflicted with palsy. Both he and his friends were anxious to reach Jesus, but were unable to do so. Finally, they devised the ingenious plan of going to the roof and either made a hole or took the sick man through the trapdoor and lowered him, by means of ropes and a mattress, until he was in the presence of Jesus. The Lord first looked with compassion on the sufferer and said: "Son, thy sins be forgiven thee!" The Jews, hearing this, accused him of blasphemy because they felt it was dishonoring God; that no one but God had the right to forgive sins. The Master however, made the statement to the Twelve: "Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained" (John 30:23). This same power was given to Peter on a previous occasion. It is required of us that we forgive all men. God will forgive "whomsoever he will forgive." A dispute then arose as to whether it is easier to forgive sins or to heal one afflicted with palsy. The Savior, in effect, answered by doing both. He spoke to the palsied man as follows: But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins,... I say unto thee, Arise and take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house" (Mark 2:10-11), The man obeyed and to the amazement of the people, was fully healed. The comforting statement, "thy sins be forgiven thee," seems to imply that the man may have been sinful but evidently was repentant, and the Lord was merciful. Next, we find Jesus at the seaside. At this place, he called Matthew to be one of the Twelve. Although a despised tax collector, Jesus knew Matthew's ability. He was a great student of the Jewish scripture. In the book he later wrote, he quoted copiously from the prophets. It is said that every quotation from the Jewish scripture in the New Testament is found in the Book of Matthew. Jesus knew the true worth of souls. Jesus here taught another of his immortal lessons, soon after Matthew became one of the Twelve. Some of John the Baptist's disciples came to the Master, claiming that he was not strict enough in observing the law. The disciples of Jesus were not fasting enough; they were dining with publicans and sinners; they were following the pursuits of life in a new way. To the feast Matthew had given at the time of his conversion and call to the ministry, some of the "publicans and sinners" had been invited. Then came the Sayior's lesson: They that are whole have no need of the physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance (Mark 2:17). Even to this day, how true the doctrine! The spiritually sick need our help. The underprivileged child, the boys and girls who come from broken homes, and all who have strayed from the fold, call for someone who will minister to them in the spirit of the Great Physician. Will the spiritual teachers of the Church find a way to help the straying souls? Jesus worked with that class. Will we? The Lord knew the scriptures well, but he constantly offended the Jews by drawing his lessons from life rather than going to the cold letter of the law. One day, as he stood by the Sea of Galilee, a great crowd came to hear him. He improvised a pulpit by getting into a boat and having Simon move the boat a short distance from the shore. He delivered one of his powerful addresses. Drawing from the environment with which they were familiar, as all good teachers do, he said to his disciples: "Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men" (Mark 1:17). Most of them had been fishermen; they were now to fish for souls who could be shown the way to eternal life. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. In what way does the conversation between Jesus and the woman at Jacob's well show that he was no respecter of persons and that his teachings are for all people? The incident should be carefully studied. How was the Lord's power of discernment shown? 2. Jesus, of course, possessed the power to heal the sick. Relate an incident showing that this power was exercised even when the sick person was not present. 3. Give some of the evidence showing that Jesus always subjected himself to the wishes of his Father. 4. Relate the incident of the calling of Matthew to the ministry. Show that the Lord came to call sinners to repentance. 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 Usiting Geachers' Tlessages—Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 7—Building Activities President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, April 6, 1948 Objective: To recognize the high standards in the building activities of the pioneers, which act as a stimulus for us today. IN looking back over Utah's first century, and in evaluating the accomplishments of the Latter-day — Saints, their building activities loom large. Not only the number and variety of Latter-day Saint buildings is surprising, but also the style of architecture used, and the stability maintained. It has been the practice of Latter-day Saints to build well. In Nauvoo substantial buildings had been erected by them including the beautiful temple which was destroyed by fire and tornado and even before that time, a temple had been built by them in Kirtland, which is still standing. Naturally, the most famous Latter-day Saint buildings are located in Salt Lake City—the Temple, Tabernacle, and the Assembly Hall, most of the construction of which was done during the first half of the first century of the Church. Two other attractive old structures are the Lion House and the Beehive House, and near them is the Eagle Gate, all greatly admired by traveling artists and architects. The old Salt Lake Theater, the Social Hall, and the Gardo House, all now gone, were also noted buildings. Scattered throughout the State are other old and noteworthy buildings, including three temples, located in Logan, Manti, and St. George, and a number of attractive tabernacles such as those found in Logan, Brigham City, Provo, St. George, and Coalville. Four additional temples have been erected, in Hawaii, Canada, Arizona, and Idaho Falls, making eight temples which are in use today. These, with the Kirtland and Nauvoo temples, make ten in all which have been built by the Church. Among the many other new and notable Church buildings are the Church Office Building and the Bishop's Building in Salt Lake City, the Joseph Smith Memorial Building, which stands on the Brigham Young University campus in Provo, with other substantial school and seminary buildings, two up-to-date gymnasiums located in Salt Lake and Ogden, and three large, modern hospitals located in Salt Lake, Ogden, and Idaho Falls. And now, in order to extend hospital facilities to re mote regions of the Church, a number of smaller hospitals are being established in some of the smaller communities. We point with pride also to our many fine, commodious ward chapels, in connection with which attractive recreation halls have been erected. In addition to these public and Church buildings, hundreds _ of beautiful and comfortable homes have been built by the individual members of the Church. It can hardly be realized that in one single century a Church with such a small membership, and established faraway in a desert, could accomplish so much in the way of erecting so many permanent, dignified, massive, and architecturally admirable buildings. Latter-day Saints will continue to build magnificently, if they appreciate and build upon the foundation laid by their pioneer ancestors. Suggestions for Discussion Some of the teachers might be given an opportunity to mention and describe other Latter-day Saint buildings and features of buildings which they admire, calling attention to the need of preserving historic buildings intact. <>< See pages 24 and 25 for "Relief Society Building News" —— Work Tleeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Fitted Facings Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, March 9, 1948 Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter VIII, pp. 65-69; XV, 105, 106; XX, 134, 135. ONE of the very useful techniques which has numerous possibilities is that of applying fitted facings. The uses for this finish are almost unlimited. Wherever we find an edge with a curve, a point, or an unusual shape, it is most easily finished with a fitted facing. Although binding, cording, piping, etc., are frequently employed as methods of decorating and completing _ necks, sleeves, and various other parts of garments, when a plain, inconspicuous, and practical finish is called for, we resort to the fitted facing. As a general rule, commercial patterns include, with the other pieces, pattern sections by which to cut facings for edges of a garment requiring them. But, in some instances, they are omitted and the user is instructed to cut a bias strip an inch or two in width and employ it as a facing. This method is frequently troublesome, especially if the edge to be faced is curved or shaped. In these cases it is difficult to obtain a flat and smooth look. For curved or square neck lines; for edges with a series of scallops, points, or squares; for shaped sleeve edges; for collars, lapels, or pocket flaps, try using fitted facings. It is not necessary to always have 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT a pattern for cutting fitted facings. The edge of the garment itself can serve as a pattern. Care must be taken to cut the facing in the same shape and size as the edge to be finished, having the grain of the material run in the same direction in both the garment and the facing. If there are seams to be joined, such as at the shoulders of a neck facing, they must be sewed and pressed open and flat, as the first step. Next, the edge of the facing is placed on top the edge of the garment, the two right sides together, basted in place, and then stitched on the sewing machine, with an even seam allowance all around. At this point, edges with an inside curve must be snipped at frequent 65 intervals so that the facing will not pucker at the edge when it is turned inside. For the same reason we must also snip into the points between scallops and into squared corners to the line of machine stitching. On outside curves, such as scallops or rounded collars and lapels, notches should be cut out at frequent intervals to avoid too much bulk when the facing is tumed. The excess seam must be cut off in the points of collars, cuffs, lapels, etc. The raw edge of the facing is usually finished off by turning under once, stitching it on the sewing machine, or with a small running hand stitching, close to the fold, and then tacking it lightly to the body of the garment. El DD orateere—=lierstinre of the Doctrine and Covenants Elder H. Wayne Driggs Lesson 7—Doctrinal Exposition of the Doctrine and Covenants For Tuesday, April 20, 1948 Objective: To appreciate the Doctrine and Covenants as literature through a discussion of the wisdom contained in modern scripture. HE most frequent type of writing found in the Doctrine and Covenants is that of doctrinal exposition and instruction. This is not strange, either, when one considers the state of affairs the world was in at the time of Joseph Smith's first vision. So snarled were the concepts of men regarding the way of life that churches had sprung up on the slightest pretext of doctrine. To a youth of questioning mind, such as Joseph, there could be no satisfaction in the evasive turns of reason propounded by the ministers of his day. Small wonder, then, that there was much need for inspired instruction through a latter-day prophet, if the simple truths of the gospel were again to be understood. As suggested in the title of this modern scripture, the Lord's doctrines and covenants have come to earth again in renewed ways. These throw additional light upon the Priesthood, the Organization, the ordinances and commandments of his Church, and point the way his saints must go to find salvation. The Lord has spoken to us in this day in the language which we can understand. Note the following passages: Treasure up in your minds continually the words of life (84:85). For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads (25:12). Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; for the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in no wise lose their reward (58:27-28). For this is a day of warning, and not a day of many words. For I, the Lord, am not to be mocked in the last days (63:58). Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily it is a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is tithed shall not be burned at his coming (64:23). I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (82:10). Yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (88:118). Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated (88:124). And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; and shall run and hot be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And J, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen (89:18-21). > For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy. The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple. The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth (93:33-36). Verily, verily, I say unto you, that when I give a commandment to any of the sons of men to do a work unto my name, and those sons of men go with all their might and with all they have to perform that work, and cease not their diligence, and their enemies come upon them and hinder them from performing that work, behold, it behooveth me to require that work no more at the hands of those sons of men, but to accept of their offerings. And the iniquity and transgression of my holy laws and commandments I will visit upon the heads of those who hindered my work, unto the third and fourth generation, so long as they repent not, and hate me, saith the Lord God (124:49, 50). It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance (131:6). Here is writing with the inspiration of divinity. Activities and Readings for Appreciation The discussion for this class period may well be spent in reading a number of sections of the Doctrine and Covenants which bring added light to the gospel. For example, in the 93 section, the Lord defines the relationship between himself and the Father, in the following verses 1-5: Verily, thus saith the Lord: It shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keep- €6 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 a °. My tabernacle, and dwelt amMong the sons "ssion the Clarity of language and of men, | Was in the World, and received Style of expression, Single Out those of my Father, and the works of him were Passages which are best Temembered. Plainly manifest,:;; Additional Sections foy similar discus. This Section 93 also deals with the sions may be found under the numbers 27, word Of John, ¢ © apostle and rey. 29, 54, 88, ah noe * eo the.. May € suggeste Y the class, Be Teady to oa ie mais rv a a Tead and discuss 4 favorite Passage of jn. With God, the eterna] nature of the and Covenants. Elder Joseph Jacobs For Tuesday, April 27, 1948 Objective: To show that the teachings of the Lord breathe the spirit of 'tolerance, and that tolerance js not acceptance. What Is Tolerance? Wherein Do We See the Tolerance Of Christ Manifes}? Hrist's teachings exemplified to]. Prove of ie at you say, but T will erance, During his Ministry, the defend to t © death your right to Savior was accused of Consorting with Say it." Such 18 the spirit Of toler.; s others, Jt Means Siving to Others the same a freedom that We Ourselves craye (Wittray Tolerance Makes q distinction beGrorcg: Jorpan: The Power of Truth, tween the sin and the sinner, The LESSON DEPARTMENT 67 For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance; nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven (D. & C. 1:31-32). We are not to condone sin nor partake of it in any form, but neither should we judge the sinner: "I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men" (D. & C. 64:10). When the woman taken in adultery was brought before Christ, the scribes and Pharisees sought to trap Jesus because the law of Moses decreed that such should be stoned: "But what sayest thou?" they demanded. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not. So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground. And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more (John 8:6-11). His admonition, "go and sin no more," gave her new hope for the future. Only God can see the strivings, the desires, the real intent of a person's heart. We see only the outward manifestations, and so we are not qualified to judge. When we sit in solemn judgment of the acts and characters of those around us and condemn them with the easy nonchalance of our ignorance,... We reveal our intolerance (Witt1am GegorcE JorpDAN: The Power of Truth, page 105). What Is the Latter-day Saint Viewpoint Regarding Religious Tolerance? As Latter-day Saints, in reviewing the past history of our Church, we know the venom of religious intolerance. It seems incredible that men could heap such vicious hatred upon any people because of their religious views, however, the pages of history are filled with accounts of the awful persecution of the innocent because of religion. Tolerance for the religious beliefs of others is part of the Latter-day Saint doctrine. Our 11th Article of Faith says: We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may. Free agency is an eternal principle by means of which God permits us to work out our own destiny. The right of every man to live as he sees fit is a sacred privilege. At one time the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked how he governed so many people harmoniously in one faith. His reply was simple but full of wisdom: "I teach them correct principles and they govern themselves." The incident is related that when the members of the Catholic church first began to hold meetings in Salt Lake City they had no place in which to meet and the use of the old Tabernacle was offered to them. And so they made use of this building for their services. President Brigham Young was also instrumental in getting the title cleared when they purchased their first property here. This was an example of true religious tolerance. 68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT When we desire to show others the truths we have in our gospel, we should seek to do it ina spirit of love and gentleness, kindness and humility. Never does tolerance use the sting of sarcasm or the taunt of ridicule. In a recent lecture given before a group of missionaries soon to go into the mission field, this statement was made: "Vanity is the one thing that may make a missionary fail. Humility is essential." We have no right to be smug or overbearing about our religion. Ours should be a spirit of humble gratitude that we have been privileged to partake of the gospel. Only by our good works, our kindness, and patience may we influence others to see the worth of gospel principles. Speaking of the power of the Priesthood, we read in the Doctrine and Covenants, 121:41, 42: No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meckness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hyprocrisy, and without guile. How Has Tolerance Played Its Part in Making America Great? The greatness of the American nation is very largely due to the tolerance of its people for the different groups included within its boundaries. 'Through the contributions of each group, progress and advancement have been made possible to a degree undreamed of in any other nation. Its broad privileges and opportunities reach out and encompass all nationalities and creeds. The present troubles in Palestine, India, and China are directly traceable to the intolerance of one group for another. 69 Professional antl — [ tionery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utch DS Le, SELDON N. HEAPS MAKE HIS ACQUAINTANCE IN PERSON OR BY MAIL. He will help you solve your music problems. WURLITZER ORGANS — "Music's Richest Voice" PIANOS—Finest Makes VICTOR, DECCA, and CAPITOL RECORDS Choral numbers for the Relief Society and Choirs SUMMERHAYS MUSIC CO. 17 W. First So. 5-588] We need tolerance toward other races and nations. Human emotions are the same in all parts of the world, and until there can be friendship and consideration for each other and each other's problems, strife will exist. To learn to get on with people, to learn to win them to willing co-operation, to mutual understanding, to mutual respect, is one of the most valuable things we can do in life. You can only do it first by cultivating the habit of looking for good in other people, not their faults. One small thing is worth noticing (ALBERT Victor BariLuiE, the Dean of Windsor: The Making of a Man, page 118). Intolerance believes it is born with the peculiar talent for managing the affairs of others, without any knowledge of the details, better than the men themselves, who are giving their life's thought to the vital questions.... Let us not seek to fit the whole world with shoes from our individual last (Witu1am GeorceE Jorpan: The Power of Truth, page 104). Because I enjoy a certain type of music or a certain kind of book is no reason you should appreciate the same. Because I choose one profession is no reason yours is not equally important and beneficial to mankind. Because I do my work in a certain manner is no reason I should disdain your way. Tolerance helps us to recognize and respect the differences in others and to make allowance for those differences. It enables us to respect differences in opinion, in disposition, in training, in environment, in education, in ability and opportunity. Intolerance seeks to live other people's lives for them; sympathy helps us to live their lives with them.... No one of us is infallible... Let us accept the little failings of those around us as we accept facts in nature, and make the best of them, as we accept the hard shells of nuts, the skin of fruits, the shadow that always accompanies light.... Intolerance sees the mote in its neighbor's eye as larger than the beam in its own. Instead of concentrating our thought on the one weak spot in a character, let us seek to find some good quality that offsets it, just as a credit may more than cancel a debt on a ledger account.... Let us not constantly speak of roses having thorns, let us be thankful that the thorns have roses.... Measuring a man by his weakness alone is unjust. This little frailty may be but a small mortgage on a large estate.... (WILLIAM GEORGE Jorpan: The Power of Truth, pp. 106, 107, 108). There is a grave danger, of course, lest we admire tolerance merely in the abstract. We may see that it is needed in government, international affairs, and in business, and overlook the fact that it is needed equally in our own home. It is not enough that we be theoretically tolerant toward another nation if we are narrow toward the man in the next office.... Of all the commandments, "Love thy neighbor' is the least enforceable, the most voluntary (The Reader's Digest, February 1946, page 15). How May Tolerance Be Fostered in the Home? Tolerance in the home is vital to harmony and to happy, normal development. Parents must learn early that no two of their children are alike, nor can they be treated the same. One may exhibit a tendency which may never make its appearance in the disposition of another. One may be shy and reserved and may need more praise, kindness, and stimulation to develop his character, while another may try to dominate and show off, or there may be many variations between these two ex- 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT tremes. One child may have a distinct talent for music while another may never be able to carry a tune, but may show outstanding mechanical ability. One mother said that in disciplining her two boys, the same treatment would never apply to both. If the elder son noticed she had been crying over something he had done, he was immediately contrite and anxious to make amends; but if she ever shed tears over the younger one, he became disgusted and angry Intolerance manifests itself in sup- ' pression of individuality, in stern prohibitions and penalties. An intolerant parent may endeavor to break the will of a child instead of directing it in channels suited to its disposition. Confidence, sympathy, and love are the attributes which work wonders with children. President George Albert Smith has said, "If you can't get a person to do what you wish through love, there is no other way." Leading is much more successful than driving. Parents should not set themselves up as dictators to rule the every thought and word of a child. A few basic rules should be set up and then the individuality of each member of the family should be allowed to express itself. Sometimes parents are slow to realize that their children have grown up and can think for themselves. There comes a day when they are adults and desire to solve their own problems. Love and kindly advice, however, will always be valued, if the proper relationship has been built up during the early years. Let us be tolerant of the weakness of others, sternly intolerant of our own. Let ANNOUNCING Olympic The only Radio i with Tru-Base SOLD EXCLUSIVELY BY THE DAYNES MUSIC CO. You are invited to a thrilling demonstration of the new OLYMPIC which combines all the modern improvements known to radio science... And furniture designs to delight even the most discriminating buyer. Compare OLYMPIC with all other radio-phonographs and you'll recognize the tremendous difference in value. MAYFAIR MODEL De luxe Chippendale Mahogany cabinet with Seeburg automatic record changer. Price $249 (with FM slightly higher) FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY Daunes y oes > 2 MAIN STREET SALT Mua cmITy 1, ee 72. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1948 us seek to forgive and forget the faults of others, losing sight, to a degree, of what they are in the thought of what they may become.... Let us see, for ourselves and for them, in the acom of their present the towering oak of their future (WILLIAM Grorce Jorpan: The Power of Truth, page 113). From the Doctrine and Covenants we read: And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bond of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace (88:125). Additional Reference Dr. Harotp T. CHrisTENSEN: "Patterns of Prejudice and Persecution," social science lesson published in The Relief Society Magazine, July 1945. MY WEALTH Della Adams Leitner I thank Thee, Lord, for everything That makes life fair for me. My humble home, my clean white bed, The beauty that I see In my small garden's vivid blooms, Old-fashioned pinks and phlox, Sweet heliotrope and columbine And sleepy four-o'clocks; The comfort of a garden swing, Birds nesting in my trees, The singing wind and pattering rain, The hum of busy bees. The laughter of my child at play, My husband's glad "Hello"; Oh, I am rich beyond all words, Dear Lord, I thank thee so. LE LE ZR LR LE LSA To one and all, we wish the happiest New Year ever. And to all, we thank you for your appreciated patronage. = P SKAGGS LESLETESLERL EL ELA "SEARS POLBUCK AND CO y; olen ie Soft Wool Blanket Regular $15.95 $12.88 Toasty warm, thick virgin wool in lovely jacquard ribbon and bouquet pattern. 5 Ibs.; 72x84 inches, Blue, rose or green. Main or State at 8th South Salt Lake City SEARS Dial 5-6651 HELP.. IDEAS.. INSPIRATION! For Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants teachers and classes— Excellent chapters on THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS In SEVENTIES COURSE IN THEOLOGY...........$1.00 By B. H. Roberts Numerous selected passages from THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS in GOSPEL QUOTATIONS......$1.25 By Judge Henry H. Rolapp Related and compared with other scripture. DESERET BOOK COMPANY "BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" SALT LAKE CITY 10, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East South Temple Street P. O. Box 958 U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 The greatest gift a father can leave his children is their mother's care.... BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE (ms COMPANY SHON ic aS SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH CEORCE ALBERT SMITH, President a FEBRUARY. Ce = as. Ap tu Son 0 a THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S, Spattord - President arianne C, Sharp - - - - - First Counselor elma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor argaret C, Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Priscilla L. Evans Evon W. Peterson Lillie C, Adams Mary G. Judd Florence J. Madsen Leone O. Jacobs Ethel C. Smith Anna B. Hart eone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Louise W. Madsen Edith S. Elliott Blanche B. Stoddard Florence G. Smith Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - os a - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor. = = = = - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - > = - - - - - Belle S, Spatford Vol. 35 FEBRUARY 1948 No, 2 Con fents SPECIAL FEATURES Abraham Lincoln—Quotations from His Speeches "Seek Ye First the Kingdom of God" The Answer—Second Prize Story Janath Russel] Cannon 8g Windy Hilltop—Chapter 1 Ezra J, Poulsen 95 e Parking Lot Home Sweet Home EaGail Johnson log Sixty Years BETO on ene eee eman's Sphere 0 Editorial: Women and T ongratul Notes to the Field: Collecting Antique CREEElizabeth Williamson 115 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: "Lord of the Sabbath"; "The Chosen Twelve' ooElder Don B. Colton 127 Visiting Teachers Messages: BeautificationPresident Amy Brown Lyman 13] ork Meeting—Sewing: Lesson 7—Plackets and Zippers. Jean Ridges Jennings 133; — luge ie tke Overs onJean Ridges Jennings 134 Literature: Appreciation Values in Doctrine and Covenants Reading Tace Sayre ate Stewart Wangsgaard e itor Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1 Utah, Phone 8-2741: Sub. Scriptions 246; Editorial] Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; Payable in advance, Single copy, lic. The Magazine js not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers ean be supplied. Renew Promptly so that no copies will be missed, Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address, Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879, Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned The Magic Word—" Efficiency" rcncnsnererererereren Lucille C, Richards 10] THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 35, NO. 2 FEBRUARY 1948 Abraham Lincoln (1809 - 1865) "Let us have faith that nght makes might; and in that faith let us to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it." "Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people?" ".. That from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause..." "The world has never had a good definition of the word liberty, and the American people, just now, are much in want of one." ",.. To do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among... All nations." "Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away." "Among free men there can be no successful appeal from the ballot to the bullet..." "If we do not make common cause to save the good old ship of the Union on this voyage, nobody will have a chance to pilot her on another voyage." "The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether." "At what point then is the approach of danger to be expected? | answer if it ever reach us it must spring up amongst us; it cannot come from abroad. If destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and finisher. As a nation of free men, we must live through all time or die by suicide." "Character is like a tree and reputation like its shadow. The shadow is what we think of it; the tree is the real thing." "What is conservatism? Is it not adherence to the old and tried, against the new and untried?" The Cover: '"Twelve-Mile Canyon, Near Gunnison, Utah. Photograph by Grace T. Kirton. Copyright by Eugene A. Perry STATUE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN By Augustus Saint-Gaudens + ea ae Lincoln Park, Chicago, Illinois "Sook Ye First the Kingdom of God" Edith S. Elliott Member, Relief Society General Board (Address Delivered at the Annual Relief Society General Conference, October 2, 1947) INCE the beginning of time S man has had the opportunity to be guided in his conduct in thought and action by our Heavenly Father. "God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female created he them." The mere fact that man is a product of God's creation assures us that he had an interest in the achievement or he would not have gone to all the necessary work for the ultimate accomplishment. With the creation of man our Heavenly Father's interest in his well-being remained ever-constant, as witnessed in the holy scriptures and the revelations given for us in our day. Because of his knowledge of universal and eternal laws, he has been anxious for his earthly children to reap the rewards gained by knowl-. Edge of and obedience to them. These laws function with undisturbed accuracy. Like temporal laws when, if not kept, punishment and regret follow. Our Heavenly Father wants us to be happy and_enjoy life in its fullness. - He has told us that "man is that he might have joy." In order to. Experience the joy and happiness in store for us, the Savior explained the pattern. For us to follow in chapters 5, 6, and 7 of the gospel of St. Matthew. There is a repetition in Luke, part of which I would like to quote from chapter 12, verses 22 to 32: And he said unto his disciples, 'Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat; neither for the body, what ye shall put on. The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment. Consider the ravens: for they neither sow nor reap; which neither have storehouse nor barn; and God feedeth them: how much more are ye better than the fowls? And which of you with taking thought ean add to his stature one cubit? If ye then be not able to do that thing which is least, why take ye thought for the rest? A Consider the lilies how they grow: they toil not, they spin not; and yet I say unto you, that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. If then God so clothe the grass, which is today in the field, and tomorrow is cast into the oven; how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith? And seek not ye what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of -doubt- © ful mind..; For all these things do the nations of - the world seek after: and' your. Father. Knoweth that ye have need of these things. But rather seek ye the kingdom of God; and all these things shall be added unto you.; Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Page 75 HEN the gospel was restored in its fullness through the Prophet Joseph Smith, it returned unchanged. All of the laws, commandments, and penalties remain the same. We are plainly told in a revelation recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants that "there is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of the world, upon which all blessings are predicated— and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." This quotation is a reminder of what we must do to gain salvation. The early saints who accepted the message of the latter-day Prophet and sought first the kingdom of God saw a literal fulfillment of the promise, "All these things shall be added unto you." When they faced the wildemess, no one could say, "O ye of little faith," because it was their faith in and love of God that sustained them through the desert and, later, the mountains, when they sought peace in a forbidding wasteland. Here they sought first the kingdom of God and during these past ten decades all these things have been added unto them. Let us think back over some of "these things" of the past one hundred years. This year 1947 is the Centennial year for the settlement of Utah. All members of the Church, as well as Utah's citizenry have taken pride in recalling the unbelieveable attainments made in the State, the Nation, and the world during this period. Since the restoration of the gospel, the whole world has had an outpouring of the favor of our Heavenly Father. It has been as the leaven to the lump. This past century has been the most wonderful that the world has ever known in the fields of medicine, mechanics, inventions, science, and many others. Freedom of speech, of the press, and of religion have reached heights never before known. Exertion of individual freedom has made for more liberal forms of government and democracies. Indeed, the Lord has kept his promise. HE century is over — poems, songs, stories, and monuments honor the deeds of the faithful. Will future generations take the seeds from their harvest and produce as abundantly as they? Let us consider the words of the great Emancipator, which I feel apply here: It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us—that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion.... Those of us privileged to witness the dawn of a new century are grateful that we have roots nourished by the fertility of so glorious a past. Let me repeat, we are witnessing the turn of a century. Let us pause for a few moments of stock-taking. We are part way up the hill of progress and can look back on what has gone before, and ahead with faith in the future. Unless we choose to go on, we retrogress. We can make our choice. It will take no effort, vision, or imagination to roll backward. It will take all of these and plenty of them to go forward. According to C. F. Kettering: 76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 "SEEK YE FIRST THE KINGDOM OF GOD" You can send a message around the world in one-seventh of a second, yet it may take years to force a simple idea through a quarter-inch of human skull. Our safety in the future requires us to keep in tune with our Heavenly Father's wishes so that his inspiration can penetrate our beings and move us to noble achievements. Our conduct as individuals is what influences world movements—and we could have heaven on earth the minute we all would follow the second great commandment: "Love 77 thy neighbor as thyself." Consider the blessings that can be ours by obedience to the laws decreed in heaven. In 1 Corinthians 3:9 we read: Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. Therefore, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you." FOR SOME APPOINTED REASON Berta Huish Christensen Time will not wait; for some appointed reason, It moves with swift precision and is lost. The rose that bares its beauty beyond season Will find its velvet brittled by the frost. Though we would stay the falling petals, keep The harvest bough that leans on autumn's gate, Or healing moments at the edge of sleep, As solace for our tears, time will not wait. But love will stay through the long years turning, From the first frail bud to the severed leaf, Shielding its flame to a constant burning Through the winds of loss and the snows of grief. And only love will wait with patient breath, Beyond the somber interim of death. Spiritual Security for the Family Leone G. Layton Member, Relief Society General Board [Address Delivered at the Annual Relief Society General Conference, October 2, 1947] Y Dear Sisters, it is good to partake of the spirit of this great gathering of the sisterhood of the Relief Society. As Relief Society workers, we are all vitally concerned with building the home and family. Latter-day Saint homes should be the happiest in all the world, homes where the spirit of our Father in heaven can abide and his influence direct. Latter-day Saint mothers are all anxious to foster such conditions in their homes, knowing the peace, happiness, and security they bring to the family, for, like Father Lehi, we desire to share with our families the fruits which we have found good. He tells us in the Book of Mormon of his dream-vision of the tree whose fruit "was desirable to make one happy. And it came to pass that I did go forth and partake of the fruit thereof; and I beheld that it was most sweet, above all that I had ever tasted.... And as I partook of the fruit thereof it filled my soul with exceeding great joy; wherefore I began to be desirous that my family should partake of it also...." We all know the story, how Sariah, Sam, and Nephi came and partook and Laman and Lemuel refused to heed the call of their father; how, in looking for them, he saw the river leading to the tree, the narrow path beside it, and the rod of iron which secured the way for those Page 78 who clung to it through the mists of darkness. We are fortunate that Nephi was given the interpretation of this dream, for through him we know the sweet fruit was a representation of the "love of God which sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of men," and that the iron rod represents the word of God. We who are striving to ensure the future security and happiness of our families today, have ready access to the revealed word of the Lord. We have no need to go far to grasp this iron rod of safety, but can, in our own homes, direct our children to the straight and narrow path leading to spiritual security and happiness, and set their feet thereon. We are fortunate, also, in having certain definite markers given us by which we may be sure our course is right, and by which we may judge our progress. I would like to point out a few of these markers which ate of special importance to us as wives and mothers. "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me" (John 5:39). As mothers, then, is it not our place to search the scriptures that we may teach them to our children so they will love them and learn to turn to them for guidance in their daily lives?) How many great men SPIRITUAL SECURITY FOR THE FAMILY have told of learning to love the Bible at their mothers' knees! We would none of us think of planning a long journey without consulting the guidebooks and road maps to be sure of the best way to reach our destination. How important it is, then, that we should be conscious at all times of this marker and "'search the scriptures" that we may learn of our Heavenly Father, our heavenly home, and the way we must take to reach it.... Love him and serve him, the only living and true God...." If we love our Heavenly Father, we will keep the commandments which he has given us, and we will delight to serve him by doing his work here in his earthly kingdom. This marker is of special importance to the homemaker, for it is in the home that patterns of living are set. Little things sometimes influence future attitudes greatly, and a mother who sets aside her desire to see a certain movie or other entertainment that her husband may be free to fill his ward-teaching assignment may be giving her children a lesson in service values that will stay with them throughout their lives. What understanding support comes to a husband from having a wife who honors the Priesthood and its calls. The sons of such a mother will never take the possession of the Priesthood lightly. Surely, if we place first in importance in our homes obedience to authority and a desire to do all we are called upon to do, we shall have marked the way to loving service for our families and set in motion those forces which will bring to them eternal happiness and satisfaction. 79 'Pray always, lest you enter into temptation...." As we search the scriptures and serve our Father, we appreciate anew the part prayer plays in dispelling the mist of darkness and helping us cling to the rod. This is the very first marker we are conscious of giving our little ones. How soon they sense the security of a kind Father watching over them as they sleep at night! Then, as they kneel with the family, and, in turn, voice thanksgiving for blessings received and ask for those now needed, a sense of "belonging," of family solidarity, is born within them. Family prayers are, of course, the responsibility of the Priesthood, but I am sure that in homes where the mother sees clearly the many strengthening values of the family praying together, this commandment is never forgotten. I remember one of the brethren saying once, "We could never forget family prayer in our home. When we came to breakfast we found cur chairs all turned away from the table, and, without a word, we were reminded that the first order of the day for our family was to approach our Father in heaven, to thank him for his many blessings and to ask for his protecting care and guidance through the day." "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day." Was there ever a time when mothers of the Church were more concerned with keeping their families "unspotted from the world"? Here, in this marker, we are told plainly the way to accomplish our desire. In the soth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we read of the Sabbath: And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full.... And inasmuch as ye do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances... The fulness of the earth is yours.... I always feel that this revelation is directed to women, especially this part. We manage the homes. We can plan our food for the day with singleness of heart and go with the family to Sunday School and sacrament meeting, and partake of the spirit with them. I know of nothing we can do to bring a more united family spirit than appreciating the privilege of partaking of the sacrament together. I know of no way that we can bring security and happiness to our families more than to set them in the way of obtaining the "fulness of the earth." Sisters, we have our Father's word that "the herb, and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards," are promised to those who observe his day as he would have them observe it. Read this section often. The promises given herein are explicit. The earthly and spiritual security which we so desire for our families is clearly set forth, and the way pointed out whereby they may be learned. In today's world of uncertainty it seems that, truly, mists of darkness do cover the path ahead, and yet, even as we grope, our hearts are made glad, for we see the light from the fountainhead and testify afresh that by clinging fast to the rod of iron spiritual security for our families will be won and, together with them, we shall partake of the fruit of the tree, which is sweet above all other fruit, which fills our souls with exceeding great joy. ——_~ HOME FIRES Grace Sayre Over the hill from the valley I walk at the end of day, Watching the far lights brighten Along the blue canyon way. I see thin home lights gleaming As they prick the darkness through, And I search for one good beacon - That points me home to you; You who keep lights burning, Oh, hope of my heart's desire! I return with a surging gladness In the thought of my own home fire. 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 Elen Louise Wallace Madsen Called to the General Board Lillie C. Adams Member, General Board of Relief Society "The glory of God is intelligence, or in other words, light and truth" 6). ISTER Louise Madsen has S been conscious of the truthfulness of these words. She has constantly pursued a study of not only the gospel of Jesus Christ, but of literature, the sciences, and history. Since her graduation from the L. D. S, University and attendance at the University of Utah, she has had extension Courses in English, literature, history, and law, School. She has, since her marnage, been a member of the Mt. Ogden Stake Primary board, a teach. Er in Junior Seminary, leader of the Twelfth Ward (Salt Lake City) Gleaner Girls, when her husband was bishop of that ward, Relief Society literature Class leader, Emigration Stake Relief Society theology class leader. Ersistent, Positive, and perfect Performance in the 80spel brings forth goodly fruits, Again she was called to assume a Position of re. Sponsibility as president of Emigraization. She manifests devotion to all her Church duties, realizing that the gospel "enlighteneth the mind, ELEN LOUISE WALLACE MADSEN and quickeneth the understanding, Openeth the heart Prepareth the hand in the execution of good deeds," Truly, she seeks to keep the two Her faith and fortitude are her strongholds, and she does not allow disaster or defeat to dampen her enthusiasm for the work of the gospel (Continued on Page 126) Page 8] Aleine Margetts Young Called to the General Board Velma N. Simonsen Second Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society LEINE Margetts Young was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, December 10, 1947. Her appointment brings to the organization a woman of ability and experience, a woman who is admired for her leadership, her good judgment, and her poise, and who is loved for her friendliness, her cheerfulness, her sincerity, and her willingness to work. - Aleine's father, the late Charles P. Margetts, was bishop of the Twenty-seventh Ward, Pioneer Stake, Salt Lake City, for twentythree years. Her mother, Catherine Rigby Margetts, was a woman of charm and refinement and a wise counselor to her husband. When Aleine was fifteen years old she began teaching in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and has continued to give constant, faithful service in these organizations. She has served as a teacher in Relief Society, Sunday School, the Primary, and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, both in a ward capacity and as a member of the stake boards of these organizations. Sister Young is endowed with unusual executive qualities and with the ability to get things done. She is an excellent public speaker and delivers the gospel message with great sincerity. She has been president of Yale Ward Primary, president of Page 82 ALEINE MARGETTS YOUNG Bonneville Stake Y. W. M. LA., first counselor and president of the Bonneville Ward Relief Society, and for the past year she has served as president of the Bonneville Stake Relief Society. On September 17, 1920, she was married to Lorenzo S. Young, greatgrandson of Brigham Young. She spent the next four years with her husband in New York and Philadelphia, where Mr. Young was studying architecture. While in the East they were both active in missionary work, helping the missionaries in holding cottage meetings and street meetings. (Continued on page 126) Reliof Society Building Nlews Society sisters everywhere in regard to collecting funds for the erection of the Relief Society building. Those who have actively entered upon the collecting of the Toney express themselves as finding joy and' satisfaction in Working for this cause. While some ward Relief Societies are uniting to raise in one fund-raising activity their quotas, the great bulk of the money is coming in from individual donations earned by the sisters through that close and dear friend of Relief Society—"Hard Work." Many ave made and sold bread, cake, pies, flowers, aprons, and other articles for eating and wearing. With the Present high prices, it does not take too _ long to earn $5, each Relief Society member's quota. The General Board feels that in approving the year October 1947 - October 1948 as the time for collecting this great sum of money, wise guidance was given by the Gen. Pen slipped in her hand and Part of her name was written off the check. F inally, with the help of her daughter, Della Mortensen, Sister Willardson t, Ammon War > Harriette Wooll Or; Marte] Williams, President Dean Judy, Relief Society, i'd Tow, left to right: Norma enedy, Acting Secretary, Sixth Ward elicf Socie Tesidency, A Naegle, Hig} ounci] Advisor: Alle Johnson, Bis op, Eighth Ward; Vern E. B ter, Bishop, Sixth WW ard: Clifford Judy, Bis 10P, Ammon Ward; Ar. Thur Thompson, Bishop, Third War Jewel Parker, Seco Counselor, Eighth Ward Re. Lief Ociety; Eva Dick, President, Rut Hogge, Secretary. Dora Holm, Ammon Ward Relj Society, First Counselor, Larue Merril] First Counselor St Presidency. Reed B tter, Second Counselor Stake PRESIDENT ELEANORA B. ALLEN OF SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY, HANDS 100% QUOTA CHECK TO PRESIDING BISHOP LeGRAND RICHARDS At Stake Quarterly Conference, November 30, 1947 SECOND STAKE TO COMPLETE ITS BUILDING QUOTA Idaho Falls Stake and Ward Officers Who Assisted In Fund-Raising Project Front row, left to right: Mrs. J. W. Stoddard; Mrs. J. H. Denning; Mrs. Orson P. Davis; Mrs. Jesse Croft, Stake Relief Society President; Mrs. E. Milton Christensen; Mrs. J. J. Wise; Mrs. Ralph O. Waddoups. Second how, left to right: Mrs. Glen Spracher; Mrs. W. J. O'Bryant; Mrs. B. L. Harris; Mrs. C. A. Thurman; Mrs. N. H. Peterson; Mrs. Vera Thomas; Mrs. A. W. Schweider; Mrs. Verl Bodily. Men in the picture are: Stanford Blaylock; George Bitter; Oscar W. Johnson; Stake President William G. Ovard: D. William Cook. RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 85 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 WARDS AND BRANCHES (IN STAKES) WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS Beaver Ward, Beaver Stake (Utah) Bedford Ward, Star Valley Stake (Wyoming) Bennington Ward, Montpelier Stake (Idaho) Blackfoot Second Ward, Blackfoot Stake (Idaho) Boise Fifth Ward, Boise Stake (Idaho) Clear Creek Branch, North Carbon Stake (Utah) Eighth Ward, Liberty Stake (Salt Lake City) Erda Ward, Grantsville Stake (Utah) Joseph City Ward, Snowflake Stake (Arizona) Kilgore Ward, Yellowstone Stake (Idaho) LaSal Ward, San Juan Stake (Utah) Linda Vista Ward, San Diego Stake (California) Marion Ward, South Summit Stake (Utah) Mexican Branch, Temple View Stake (Salt Lake City) Pleasant Green Ward, Oquirrh Stake (Salt Lake County) Pleasant View Ward, Sharon Stake (Utah) Provo Thirteenth Ward, East Provo Stake (Utah) Riverside Ward, Blackfoot Stake (Idaho) South Shore Branch, Chicago Stake (Illinois) Star Ward, Burley Stake (Idaho) Valencia Park Ward, San Diego Stake (California ) Vernon Ward, St. Johns Stake (Arizona) Veyo Ward, St. George Stake (Utah) ERDA WARD, GRANTSVILLE STAKE (UTAH), FIRST WARD TO SUBMIT QUOTA Ward officers, left to right: Gilda Cochrane, First Counselor; Amy Palmer, Second Counselor; Georgia Warr, Secretary-Treasurer; Annie S. Droubay, President. © District NOTE. Tral Ore Tanch, Northern Ontana D;; <ntral Oregon Distr; ut Bank Branch » Yakima District ancouver, Cc -C. Bra Ite Salmon Bra Winlock B 0.: All the Teports herewith included in the Relieg Compiled as of Jany Society Build. AY 9, 1948, When the Magazine Went to Tanch, Ce €0n District Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest The Answer Janath Russell Cannon JANATH RUSSELL CANNON HE afternoon shadows were beginning to lengthen across the lawn; they crept UP the porch steps and almost touched the feet of the girl sitting motionless in the late autumn sun, an open, unread book in her lap. How slowly they move, she thought, watching the shadows, like the days—how slowly they drag by. The sun's rays lay lightly on the black dress and the thin, almost transparcnt hands. Mrs. Anderson came out of the house with her accustomed briskness, drawing on her gloves and adPage 88 RE justing her hat with firm, capable fingers. She was a small woman, completely unhke her tall, dark daughter and her three strapping sons. At the sight of Mary sitting quietly with half-closed eycs, she paused; and her manner became less assured, almost tinged with despair. "Mary Dear, are you sure you wouldn't like to come to Relief Society with me this afternoon? You really should start getting out again, ou know." "No, thank you, Mother. Id rather stay here." 'The voice was mechanically polite, the dark eyes did not look up. Mrs. Anderson sighed, hesitated a moment, then hurried on. After the meeting, she waited until the room had cleared and then approached the work director, Sister Jamieson. Sister Jamieson put a big, warm hand on her shoulder and said gently, "You look worried, Sister Anderson. Is it Mary?" "Yes, J—I'm at my wits' end, Sister Jamieson. She eats hardly anything, and just sits on the porch all day." "TL ct's see—it's been three months since Ken was killed, hasn't it?" "Yes." Mrs. Anderson shuddered. "That horrible accident! It's hard to understand that Ken should go THE ANSWER all through the wat without a scratch, only to be snuffed out in a second, by a drunken college boy in a flivver. And the baby!" Tears stood in her eyes. "Ken and Mary "were so happy about that baby. It would have been born this month, you know." "I know." Mrs. Jamieson patted her arm. "Sometimes the ways of the Lord are hard to understand." "That's what worrics me most. Mary kccps asking why the Lord didn't take her, when he took away her every reason for living. If she could only find something—do you suppose Brother Jamicson could help? She enjoyed teaching under him that year before she was marricd." "Yes, he always said any principal would be glad to have Mary as a teacher. Do you think she's strong enough now?" "Doctor Carter says she needs a job." Sister Jamieson gathered up her urse and books with a decisive gesture. "I'll speak to Tom about it tonight." THE next afternoon as Mary sat on the porch reading, the quiet was shattered by a joyous cacophony of sound. Public School Number Five, just around the corner, was dismissed for the day. A stream of shouting, bright-sweatered young: sters eddied and swirled down the street. With a sigh, Mary closed the book and rose to go into the house. They're so terribly alive, she thought, with an ache in her throat. "Wait a moment, Mary," said a pleasant voice; and she turned to see Mr. Jamieson coming up the walk. 89 Arare smile lighted the girl's somber face. "Hello, Mr. Jamieson," she grected him warmly. "What brings you this way?" "Business, Mary. Shall we go inside, where we can hear ourselves talk? I swear, these youngsters get noisier every year." He Icd the way, talking easily. "Your third-graders were unusually well-bchaved when you taught them that one ycar. You have a real teaching knack, Mary; it's a pity to waste it." She started to speak; a tiny frown had replaced the welcoming smile. But the principal continued, "We need tcachers, Mary. You could be a grcat hclp to us—and it would do ou good, too." "Plcase, Mr. Jamieson," Mary interrupted him. "I'd really like to help you, but I'm afraid I can't. I just can't." "Of course, I realize we can't offer you much in the way of salary. It's the intangible rewards that make teaching worthwhile. I wouldn't blame you if you decided to look elsewhere for a job." "I hadn't thought of getting a job." Under the man's direct gaze, she fclt a slow flush creeping into her cheeks. "After all," she said defensively, "I haven't exactly been in a position to work lately." "You're well enough to work now," said the principal, his bluntness softened only by the kind tone. "T talked to Doctor Carter just this morning. He says you need to get out and be busy—if you don't stop just sitting around this house, you'll turn into a vegetable." There was no answering spark in Mary's eyes. "At least vegetables have a kind of peace," she said in a low voice. "No. I'm sorry, Mr. Jamieson, but I just don't feel like working. I couldn't do a good job, feeling the way I do." The principal rose and picked up his hat. "All right, Mary, if that's the way you want it." He hesitated for a moment, then went on firmly, "But let me tell you this. Ken Foster was as straight-thinking a boy as I've ever known. He always said that a man ought to pull his own weight in this world—yes, and a woman, too. I think he expects his wife to pull her weight in the world as long as she's here." Mr. Jamieson's sharp blue eyes softened a little. "I know the separation's hard to bear, Mary. But have faith, Child—if that accident didn't take you along with Ken and your baby, it must have been for a purpose. Won't you take the job?" Mary looked at him soberly. "The only job I'm interested in is being Ken's wife and having his children. When I was in the hospital, I prayed to die. I still do. Do you think I want to teach little children, feeling like that?" Without a word, the principal bowed his head in defeat and left the house. Poor kid, he thought, Ken was the breath of life to her. I guess she's been in love with him ever since she was old enough to know what the word meant. What can a mere man do against grief like that? But that evening when he answered the phone, he recognized Mary's voice. "I'm sorry about this afternoon, Mr. Jamieson. I've been thinking it over. You were right about Ken; he would want me to— to pull my own weight. I'll try it, anyway. When do you want me to start?" Har winter was long and hard. The wind blew the snow into great drifts higher than a man. The children's heavy overshoes and snowsuits dripped puddles of dirty water that threatened to flood the cloakroom, and the third grade was so crowded some of the pupils had to double up in the cramped desks. Discipline was not easy to maintain. Although she made an honest effort, Mary could not summon back the enthusiasm she had once put into her teaching; and the children seemed to sense her indifference. By — the time she plodded home in the desolate winter twilight, she was bone-weary, brain-weary, and the sum total of her desires was for a hot bath and sleep. She could hardly keep her eyes open long enough after dinner to correct the day's papers. Mrs. Anderson watched her daughter anxiously. "You're sure she's not overdoing?" she asked Doctor Carter as they chatted on the street corner. "You know Mary is inclined to go to extremes." "She'll be all right," said the doctor heartily. '"There's nothing like hard work to mend a broken heart. That's my prescription every time." He repeated the cheerful axiom to Mr. Jamieson a few days later, but the principal shook his head. "Sometimes I'm afraid Mary's heart is just withering away, instead of mending. She works hard, but she's like an automaton. I don't think I've seen her smile all winter. Frankly, Doctor, the work cure isn't having quite the results I had hoped." Grandmother Ellis also shook her 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 THE ANSWER head. "It takes a new love to bury an old one," she said sententiously. "Aren't there any eligible young men in the ward these days?" All during the winter, Mary had pleaded weariness as an excuse for refusing the occasional invitations to a movie or a lecture. But finally she accepted. "Everyone keeps telling me this is what I need," she thought grimly as she bathed and slipped into a fresh dress after school. "And Grandmother Ellis will pester the life out of me if I turn Eric down again." But afterward, as she sat at her dressing table and stared into the mirror with dull eyes, she thought. "Tt's no use. I'm still Ken's wife. I only want to be with him. Why can't they let me alone? Why doesn't the Lord let me go?" GPRING finally came; and as Mary walked wearily home after school one afternoon, she saw the first kite, leaping and dancing against the rain-washed sky, tugging madly at the invisible string that held it earth-bound. 'The excitement of it caught at her throat and she stopped short. For the first time since Ken's death, she was aware of the world around her and its beauty; and the numbness in her heart was swept away in an inexplicable tide of joy. She drew in a deep breath of the cool earth-andrain-scented air. It's spring—spring] said her heart, exultantly. But the next moment she was half running, her vision blurred with stinging tears, clenching her teeth to hold back the agonizing sobs until she could fling herself down on her 91 bed at home. "Oh Ken—Ken, I miss you so!" But in spite of the pain, she felt alive in every fiber, and spring was in her blood like a tonic. The next morning she walked briskly to school and arrived earlier than usual. But someone had been there before her. On the scarred surface of the desk lay a bunch of violets, painstakingly tied together with a pink hair bow. Underneath them she saw a folded piece of ruled notepaper. She untied the ribbon and read the note: "Dere Miss Mary," began the childish scrawl. "You are so bewtiful and so sad I think maybe you are lonsum like me. Its awfull to be lonsum. I wish you were my techer. I love you." There was no signature. Mary laid the paper down thoughtfully. Its awfull to be lonsum—what a bitter truth for a child to have to learn! What kind of parents could the child have, she thought indignantly. Then, since the first trickle of students had begun to straggle in, she slipped the note and the flowers into the top drawer. But the pitiful little note haunted her thoughts, and the sight of the compositions to be corrected that day gave her a sudden impulsive idea. That handwriting looks like one of Miss Kissinger's fifth-graders, she thought, I wonder if I could recognize it in a composition. That night, Mary sat down to a pile of fifth-grade papers. The subject, repeated in a_ variety of sprawled, childish handwriting, was "My Best Friend." Curiously she scanned the pages of ruled copy paper. Most of the compositions described playmates, a favorite uncle, a dog. Then came a first line that stood out from the rest. "T have a friend and his name is Henry. He is a mouse." Eagerly Mary read on: "He is sort of brown and his nose wigles. I put bred crums on the floor for him to eat and I talk to him. I wish I culd have a kitty to pet. My aunt says they are too much trubble. She doesn't know about Henry." Hastily, Mary compared the writing with the note that had come with the flowers. It was the same. The name was printed at the top of the composition—Emily Dale, in precise, painstaking letters. ISS Kissinger was not above the enjoyment of a bit of gossip. When Mary returned the papers and inquired in an offhand manner about the child whose best fnend was a mouse, the older woman gave a delicate snort. "Clotilda Beach would burst a stay if she knew about that mouse. She's so proud of being an immaculate housekeeper. Emily's her only sister's child, you know. Susan Beach—she was a beautiful girl. I think Clotilda was always jealous of her. But when Susan and her husband were both drowned, there was no one left to take the child but Clotilda." Miss Kissinger smiled grimly. "She didn't accept the situation very gracefully. If she hadn't been afraid of what people would say, I think she'd have sent the child to an orphan asylum." Mary's eyes widened. Dreadful woman!" "No, my dear. She's just lived to herself for twenty years. Besides, Emily is an uncommonly homely child—sallow skin and a_ wide "What a mouth, stringy hair. She has the misfortune to resemble her aunt more than her mother. Strangers are always telling Clotilda how much her daughter resembles her; naturally, this annoys Clotilda immensely." "But surely the child must have some friends," persisted Mary. "Her schoolmates — neiglibothood children." Miss Kissinger pursed her lips teflectively. "Children are cruel, They live by herd instinct, and Emily isn't one of the herd. Clotilda never did have good taste in clothes; even I can see that. Iler idea of a suitable outfit for Emily is a middy and skirt, and it's the same thing every day. And I don't imagine she's encouraged to bring any other children home with her, even if she had any friends to bring. She's bnght in school—having no outside distractions, | suppose—and that doesn't endear her to her classmates either." "Poor child," said Mary softly. The older woman patted her arm, and her voice was suddenly kind. "Each of us has his own brand of loncliness, my dear. Emily isn't mistreated; there are muilhons of children worse off than she." "[ know." Mary couldn't explain, even to herself, why she should feel such a burden of responsibility toward a child she had never even secn. But—its awfull to be Jousum—the pitiful little scrawl haunted her. "All the same, I think Ill ask her over for a little visit this evening." ATER the last bell had rung, Mary closed her desk hastily and went to the door of the fifthgrade room. She had no difficulty 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 THE ANSWER in recognizing Emily. There was the inevitable middy and skirt; there was the stringy hair and the shy, unhappy expression she had expected. But Mary also saw a pair of longlashed eyes with a sudden eager look in them, as the child caught sight of her. "Hello," smiled Mary. "You're Emily, aren't you?" "How did you know?" asked the breathless little voice. "Oh, a little mouse named Henry told me." A radiant smile lighted the small, homely face, then disappeared. "Oh —did you read my composition? J] shouldn't have written it. I've been so scared Aunt Clotilda would find out." Mary put her arm around the small figure. "I wouldn't tell, Emily. I thought it was a very nice composition. In fact, it was so good I thought you might be able to help me with something of mine. Would your aunt let you come over to my house tonight for supper and a little visit?" - Emily's hands clenched in excitement. "Oh, Miss Mary, could I? Do you really want me to?" "Yes," said Mary seriously. "I'm writing a textbook on grade-school grammar, and I think you can help me." It was a half-truth; at least she had started such a book once. "Tll walk home with you now and ask Aunt Clotilda." Mary's eyes were sparkling as she watched the excitement in the little girl's face. They looked at each other and began to laugh with delight. Mrs. Anderson was a good cook, and Emily ate her meal with such obvious relish that the good woman's heart was completely won. "You 93 could stand a lot more flesh on you, Child," she said, eying Emily's bony shoulders. "Mary will have to bring you to dinner often." The time passed swiftly, and as Mary noticed the darkness outside, she exclaimed, "Goodness, it must be late. I told your aunt I'd have you home before dark—she'll be cross." The sparkle in Emily's eyes faded, and a frightened look appeared. "Oh, Miss Mary, can't I stay with you tonight—Aunt Clotilda will be cross. Please, Miss Mary!" "Why, Honey, I can't do that. I'll walk home with you and explain to your aunt. Surely she won't do anything dreadful." The look on the child's face was distressing. "Does she—does she spank you?" "No," said Emily dully. "She locks me in my room and takes the electric light bulb out.". Feeling baffled and helpless, Mary took the child home. Miss Beach accepted her explanation of their lateness with a curt nod of her ironmarcelled head. "I dare say she'll remember next time," she said coldly, as Emily. Backed into the house with a last entreating look. "If there is a next time!" All the way home and as she was getting ready for bed, the pitiful look persisted in Mary's thoughts. "It's none of my affair," she told herself. "Why should I feel responsible for her?" But she did feel responsible. All too clearly, she could see the inevitable march of Emily's destiny—a frustrated, anguished adolescence, followed by the dreary process of getting older, unloved; working, caring for a tyrannical old woman. while life passed by. Her aunt would see to it that she never married, and would never let her forget the burden of gratitude she should carry. Mary shuddered. What if it were my little girl, that I might have had? For a long time she sat on the edge of her bed, almost in a daze. Then, as if a voice had told her, she knew what she must do. With a light heart, she lay down to sleep and felt that Ken was close beside her, approving her decision. The next morning she went to her mother, eyes shining. "Mother, I'm going to adopt Emily and go back to the little house Ken and I built." "What!" Then, seeing the urgency in her daughter's dark eyes, Mrs. Anderson hesitated. Something told her this was no whim, but the long-sought answer to a great need. "Well," she said thoughtfully, "it might be a good idea—a home, and someone you love to look after. Yes, it might be a very good idea." To Mary's surprise, everything went smoothly. Miss Beach, after a moment of astonished disapproval, was obviously glad to be relieved of an unwelcome burden; the adoption. Officers were sympathetic; Mr. Jamieson assured her she could go on teaching as long as she wanted. And Emily—her plain little face glowed with such ecstacy that Mary was startled. "Oh, Miss Mary—do you really want me? Are you sure?" Any lingering doubts Mary might have had were dispelled in that moment. She took Emily's small cold hands in hers and drew her close. "T think Heavenly Father must have known we needed each other," she said simply. "Shall we kneel down and thank him?" Janath Russell Cannon (Mrs. Edwin Q. Cannon, Jr.), contributes the following brief sketch: "I am afraid my literary accomplishments are meager. The only other story I have ever submitted for publication was entered in The Atlantic Monthly's annual contest for college students, when I was a junior at Wellesley College in 1938. It was awarded third prize. Our family consists of my husband, myself, a daughter Ann, who celebrated her first birthday in January, and a red, hound dog named Pete. My. Other activities include singing in the Tabernacle Choir and acting as first counselor in the North Twentieth Ward (Salt Lake City, Utah) Relief Society." FEBRUARY Ora Pate Stewart The fence is stretched like a quilting frame Round the lawn where the grass used to grow, And sparrows are having a quilting party Making stitches. In the snow. 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 _ Windy Hilltop Ezra J. Poulsen CHAPTER 1 66 HIS chilly wind ruins my T complexion," Anne Raines often complained. "Well, it's clean, and if your complexion is real, the wind won't hurt it," her husband, Joe Raines, habitually bantered. Ce was no argument over such a trivial matter, In fact, more often than not, there was laughter, for Joe and Anne were young, and ve much in love. Nevertheless, there were basic strains of difference in their make-up, which made it hard for them to adjust—especially for Anne to adjust—to the environment of their homestead tucked away in the foothills, She was thinking of this as she walked corral, where her husband had just driven in with the drill, after finishing the spring wheat planting on the dry farm. She had somethin on her mind to say, more likely than not to Prove as explosive as 4 bombshell. Her shapeless straw hat askew over her abundant flaxen hair, together with her pink cotton dress, gave her a youthful, rakish appearance, which was heightened by her buoyant step and slender form. A crisp little smile played about the comers of her sensitive mouth, but a shadow lurked in her eyes, Presaging a deep inner struggle. "Hello, Honey," greeted Joe, turning his gtimy face toward her with a teasing smile, as he began unhitching the tugs on his threehorse team. "Well, I got done. The last round's planted, and we now have fifty acres of Wheat to tussle for with the squirrels and the drought." "That's fine, Joe Dear, but your face is so dirty I can hardly see what you look like. It's really a shame the drought and squirrels have a two-to-one chance to win," "Now, Pessimist, don't start pre- "Oh, I'm not, | merely recall] the past three lean years." Her lips Set a trifle. He uncoupled _ the sweating horses and let them go single file into the small slab stable in their clinking harnesses. Joe Raines was a tall, athletic young man, with a determined, angular face, and a hardy smile, which, at the moment, made his teeth glisten in their framework of dirty, stubby beard. "It's all ready, and—and—I have aletter. Della's coming in a couple of days. She's going to spend her vacation with us." "Vacation!" His voice suggested the incredible. "You mean she's coming to work on you to go back." "Well, you must be nice to her, Page 95 you know Della. She means right. Besides, don't you think her arguments are rather sound?" Anne proposed this question with hopeful sincerity. "Oh, yes, very sound, and how convincing!" -he retorted goodnaturedly. "I can hear her greeting already. It'll run something like this: 'Joe Raines, if you don't get your wife and children out of this forsaken hole, I'll shoot you!' " Anne couldn't help smiling at this dramatic flare. 'They had discussed the situation many times, but had come to no agreement. He loved the homestead, but she loved the city. A loud creaking and vibrating sound from the hollow north of the wheat field shocked their ears, Anne gave a startled cry. Joe muttered something under his breath, ran to the stable, reappeared a moment later on one of the horses, and rode hurriedly away. No explanation was required. The range cattle were again breaking through the fence. That was one of the routine problems on their frontier farm. Anne went to the chicken coop to gather the eggs. Happy, childish voices floated up from the creek bottom below the garden. The sounds were like music to her ears. She called, and in a few moments Dick, her six-year-old son, and Betsy, her three-year-old daughter, answered. } "Supper's ready." Their shouts of approval indicated their healthy appetites, as well as their physical abundance of life, as they ran towards her. There was no doubt about their loving the farm; the complete freedom of their environment affected them as it might a pair of young fawns—made them blithe and beautiful. But Anne admitted to herself, rather sadly, that lonesomeness was almost overwhelming her. She heard Joe yelling at the cattle up in the hollow. Again, the wires snarled and sang, and the posts creaked. The cattle would be over the hill in a few minutes, and Joe would be mending the fence. The sun was almost down to the ridge above the dry farm, and long fingers of shadow were creeping into the gullies and ravines above the edges of the valley. A cat zoomed across the bridge down at the creek; 4 mourning dove cooed on a distant fence; the sweet smell of spring floated up from the willows and alfalfa fields below the ditch. But Anne was positively unresponsive. She was thinking of a neat little cottage in town—her most persistent dream. "You don't really mind about Della coming, do you?" she asked at the supper table, laughing apologetically. "She thinks she can possibly stand it a week." Joe took the news with a goodnatured grin, as she had expected, though she knew there would be a barbed remark about the event. "Wonderful," he declared. "I think I can put her to work digging a ditch, so she won't have time to get on your nerves by telling you what a terrible place this is. Ugh, I can hear her now, if—if a coyote happens to howl." "That's not fair, Joe. You know Della's always lived in the city." "Just like her sister," he replied, affectionately. "Really, my one 96 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 WINDY HILLTOP major sin is bringing you out into this wilderness; and, if you'll forgive me, Honey, I'll take you away soon. That's my most important postwar plan. But right now everything's uncertain. What with strikes and food shortages. Anyway, after being in the army, I love this freedom." "Now would be a good time to begin looking for a job. Maybe in the fall there won't be any." "And leave our grain and alfalfa?" A pained flicker shot into Joe's gray eyes. "And I want to get that ditch out." "But why get the ditch out," she remonstrated, "if you're going to sell?" 4 de ~ "Well, it'll make the place worth more." He grinned sheepishly. "You win. I—I've been hoping we could keep the place. I guess I'm just naturally a farmer." He said this as if it were a confession of weakness. "In other words, Joe, you don't ever want to sell the farm, do you?" Thus pinned down, he resorted to another grin; and, after a long, reflective silence, he kissed his wife, and started out to do his chores. "I don't want to, but I will. By the way, Sam Hadfield made me an offer today. He'll take everything, crop, livestock, and all, if I'll sell." NNE was more in a mood for reflection than discussion; consequently, she made no reply, and when Joe left the house, she busied herself washing the dishes and getting the children off to bed. She could feel a rift growing between them, which seemed to flourish on many little quirks of circumstances, altogether simple, yet quite uncon- 97 trollable; and, with a feeling of growing helplessness, she realized they both possessed fixed attitudes from which there seemed to be no retreat. Anne had met and married Joe in the city, where she had always lived, and where she had a promising position with a utility company. Early in their acquaintance, he had told her he owned a homestead on the outskirts of the valley in which he was born, and that he had increased it somewhat by purchase. This had been wonderful news. It showed Joe's sense of practical understanding; and when he had asked her, half playfully, if she would like to live on it, she had answered affirmatively. 'The whole thing seemed like a youthful adventure, then. But the hard work, the lonesomencss, and the crop failures had been bitter disillusionment. Her folks had objected from the first, especially her sister Della, who declared she would expect her home within a week. This had started the antagonism between Joe and Della, and now that Della was coming, there would be some new flare-ups. The sun was fully down when she saw Joe coming up the path, and went out to meet him. 'Well, Honey, I think we'll sell the place," he said testingly. "I think we'd better take Sam's offer. He wants me to stay, though, till fall, because he can't spare any hands from his ranch till after haying." "How much has he offered?" "Oh, well, to be exact, he hasn't set a price. Neither have I. He'll probably pay as much as anyone." - "Joe, you've changed your mind suddenly." "It's what you wanted, isn't it?" He slipped his arm around her in a playful mood. "You're going to have a nice little home exactly where you want it—where there's no sagebrush, and no dust, and not too much wind." "You're making fun of me, Joe. But it's all right. Keep on. I like it. Now, let's run up to the point and take a look at the valley as it gets dark. You know, I must see the lights to make sure there're still other people on earth. I challenge »? You. HE was already running. Her slender form seemed graceful and fairylike to him. He followed, and in a few minutes they reached the top of the hill back of the house, where the cool breeze struck them in the face. "Oh, I won," cried Anne, throwing herself down on the flat rock which they both agreed was officially the top. The breeze cooled her flushed cheeks and_ scattered wisps of her blond hair. "Yes, but you can't get away from mie, he declared almost fiercely, taking her in his arms and kissing her. Shortly, the lights in the village several miles away began to twinkle like big fireflies, and the bold outlines of the main range towered against the crimson skyline, setting oft the green and black patchwork of farmlands. For a time they sat and drank in the scene. Its familiarity made it none the less impressive. The light slowly faded, and the breeze piped up a trifle harder. "Tl miss our hilltop rendezvous more than anything else," admitted Anne soberly. Joe gave her a swift glance. "So will I. 1] imagine the memory of it will be very bright when I'm an old man—the hilltop and you." "Oh, I'd love this place—" she made a dramatic little gesture back toward the cabin home, with the rolling hillside and small patch of valley bottom which they called their own—"if—if it wasn't so tying." "Now, that's a eonfession." He picked the note up vigorously. "Maybe you don't want to sell." Anne was very serious. She quickly sensed a threatening climax, but she was calm. "I'm thinking of the future: yours, mine, Dicky's, Betsy's. Yes, Dear, I want to sell." "Tll see Hadfield at once," he decided with finality. HEN Della Olsen, Anne's sister, came, there wasn't a dull moment. Della and Joe fought it out over farming as a way of life. In the past, Joe had not always been good-natured in these clashes, but now he was really surpassing himself. And, besides, Della, convinced that a move back to town was certain for her sister and family, abandoned her usual critical, fault-finding attitude, and showed an unusual enthusiasm for everything around her. Even a log cabin, she admitted, could be rather attractive and somewhat homelike when located on a gentle slope near a ditch, surrounded by a garden, and possessing an attractive natural view. "It can be," she qualified, "when you are about to move away. But in the long run, give me plenty of people; I'm afraid of too much space." 98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 WINDY HILLTOP Joe, who was waiting in the car to take the family down to the village for some groceries, overheard Della. "We'll hurry and get you to the crossroads, so you can see a human being or two—enough to last for the night." "Della's going to help me in the garden next week while you work on the ditch. Then, if you're really a thoughtful husband, you'll take us all to the city a few days when Della goes back home. I want to see mother and the folks," she declared, as they all piled into the car, including Dick and Betsy, and began rolling down the long field road toward the front gate. The first stop was at the post office where Joe ran into Sam Hadfield. He was inside an unusually long time. When he came out, his face was serious. "Well, I've sold the farm. Hadfield is going to take it this fall. I'm to stay until harvest is over." "Wonderful," cried Della, "the most sensible thing you ever did, Joe. But it's a long time till fall." "Only five months." "Yes, we can stand it that long," declared Anne, fearing her older sister might start a new crisis. Della, however, was an assertive person. "Joe, you'd better run into town as soon as possible and see about a job. I think you can get your old one back if you let them know you'll come soon. The manager of the electric company asked me about you only a few weeks ago." "But, Della, for goodness sake, at least leave me in peace for the summer. I can't go now. There's no one to milk the cows." "Oh, you can get somebody. Can't he, Anne?" 99 Anne hesitated. "Why — no. Help is almost impossible now, Della. But, listen, Joe, I can milk for a few days. Why don't you go?" She spoke with a sudden flash of enthusiasm. "Yes, it will certainly be wise for you to go to town and try to arrange for a position in advance." "But you haven't milked very much!" "Oh, yes, I have. I can handle the cows. I can take care of everything." The little car swung into the lane from which they could see the gold of the sunset sweeping across the dry farm, "Well, Honey, if you insist, I'll go," he said, lifting his eyes to the hills. "But I hate to leave you." "But you must go," she insisted. O Anne, those words proved to be the most fateful she had ever uttered, especially since they were repeated frequently during the next few weeks. Della had gone home, and Joe seemed content to work around the place, putting off the trip from one time to another. "Oh, do hurry, Joe, we'll be here when the snow flies, with no place to go if you don't act," she complained. "Very well, then, I'll go this very day." There was a tartness in his voice she didn't like, but she firmly held to her point. "It's just a matter of good business, Joe, you know it is, and while I realize how you hate to leave, I'm certain it doesn't do any good to put off what has to be done!" "Honey," he spoke impatiently, "will it be all right if I leave im- mediately after dinner, or shall I go before?" He strode toward the lit tle shed where they kept the car, his long, energetic steps leaving no doubt that his mind was at last made up. Quickly repentant for her sharp words, Anne tried to call him back, but she seemed incapable. A moment later she heard the motor start, and she hurried into the house to fix dinner while he tinkered about the car, getting it ready for the journey. It seemed an amazingly short time before she stood in the yard watching him drive away. He had denied that he was angry, as he had kissed her and the children. "Do be careful, Honey, around the cows and horses. I'll be back as soon as possible." "And you be careful, Joe," she cried, suddenly shaken by an uncontrollable emotion. "Drive ever so carefully." As she watched the car disappear, a vague dread began to clutch her heart. Had she been wrong in demanding to be taken away from the homestead? Had she been still more wrong in her impatience? For the first time, she admitted a tinge of regret at the thought of leaving the farm. After all, they had lived there most of the time for more than three years; and now, she felt as if it clung to her, and dared her to leave. She thought of the garden, the chickens, the cows. Loneliness overwhelmed her as she called in the children and began to busy herself with the chores. Even then, there was no relief. The loneliness grew into a dread, and she became frightened. If she could have called Joe back, she would have done so, She wasn't half so sure of her ability to take care of the cows as she had made him believe. 'Oh, dear me," she said anxiously to Dickie, "I do hope Daddy doesn't stay away long." But Dickie could offer no solace. He was about ready to cry himself. And that was but the beginning. Darkness brought mew _ terrors. Then, came dawn, bringing a shock that consumed everything else. (To be continued ) — TOO FRAIL A LUTE Eva Willes Wangsgaard If I could have you in my arms again, I'd have no need of sun or moon or stars. Such common lights are meant for lesser men, And you and I would walk the luminous bars Of everlasting morning. Should I wake To feel again your shoulder firm and strong Against my cheek, my heart would all but break— Too frail a lute to bear so grand a song. If I could feel your kiss upon my throat Or catch familiar love themes in my ear, Bluebirds would sing and apple blossoms float Above a hedge of roses all the year; And grief would be a dull, discarded feather 100 Lying unruffled in the summer weather. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 a The Magic Word—Efficiency Lucille C. Richards 66 OMIE, will you read mea story?" "Yes, Jummie, just as soon as 1 get this work finished. 1 have And so it gocs 07 and on, Jimmie waiting for a story, and Momuie busy Jlow The problem given [0 mothicrs and homemakers ls tO organize theit jhouscholds in a manner that will release a larger portion of time an strength for devotion to the hi welfare of the family. Welfare is concerned with healthy, and the community, and to the race. In mastering this task the homemaker's satisfaction will be decpet and_ effort. This can lished only through the magic word work more swiftly, and with less fatigne. It will give her increased {ci gure for things More important than mere mechanical routine. It will cure the habit of hurry and worry, and it will promote happiness and harmony in the home. The keynote of efficiency is interest. If we could adopt the child's point of view and approach our problem in the spirit of play, mountains would be leveled, difficulties yanish before the concentrated power of interest. \We should learn to sce in the management of a home, not a routine governed by many formulas, but a tascinating, ficld for investigation and experiment, whose boundless possibilities furnish scope for the excrcise of all the initiative, ingenuity, creative ability, am knowledge we Possess. The bulwark ficiency rests 18 necessary to succcss under all conditions of life and in every trade and profession practiced nowhcre are they than in the profession of homemaking. To work without a plan is to work aimlessly and to accomplish little. The housckecper finds hersclf at nightfall overwhelmed with the consciousness of tasks unfinished or wholly neglected. It is well to plan the entire day's program and, the best results will be obtained by planning the entire weck in advance, taking care not to ditional ordct of washing on Monday, ironing on Tucsday, and so on. Sunday should be a day of cessation from houschold cares, so far as can be arranged, and it is a mistake to devote any part of clothes, mending, and 102 clothes, or in any way preparing them for the wash on Monday. By postponing this work of preparation until Monday, and doing the washing Tuesday, additional leisure will be gained on the day of rest, and there will be time on Monday for the extra cleaning which is always needed after Sunday. PLAN daily the doing of some extra piece of work, not a part of the regular routine, such as special cleaning of a bedroom, scouring the bathroom, doing the kitchen, ironing, or polishing silver. If the rooms are gone over thoroughly once each week, doing one or more each day, and merely "tidying" up on the other days, the housekeeper need not worry about her house being clean. In planning for the ironing, a great deal of time and effort can be saved by handling articles a minimum of times. The ironing can be done the day it is washed, except, perhaps, for some of the starched things. The simple and plain arRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 ticles can be taken from the line and ironed immediately if they have been hung up straight and free from wrinkles. They can be folded and put away nearly as quickly as they can be crumpled into a clothes basket and kept to be ironed a day or so later. Keep the washing and ironing "done up," and do not let them "stack up." Not only do we need to have a plan as a working basis for this efficiency, but also a schedule, a definite hour for the assigned task. Begin with the big things and schedule them for the periods which are most fruitful of accomplishment. Do not fritter away your time on trifles, leaving the important task untouched. Prompt dispatching of the task leads to a household run smoothly and efficiently. Planning, scheduling, and dispatching will cure procrastination, strengthen will power, increase leisure, and promote happiness and harmony in the home. The schedule presented here may be adjusted to the needs of each individual homemaker. SCHEDULE MONDAY: 7:00 = Te - Arise and dress Prepare breakfast 8:30 8:30 Serve breakfast for members of the family leaving home at different times. While breakfast is extending over this er children to dress, put up lunches, Wash dishes and allow time for extras. Hour, the homemaker may assist the smallor make out the shopping list. With the older children off to school, the mother can turn her attention to at least three good hours of work until lunchtime at 12:00. 9:00 10:00 room may be cleaned routinely. Straighten front rooms 12:00 Lunch 1:00 Dishes and kitchen 2:00 Rest 11:30 Bedrooms straightened and beds made for those who cannot make their own Special work: scrub bathroom thoroughly. On other days of the week the bath- 2:30 Each day one or two of the following tasks may be accomplished in the afternoon: shop, mend, visit school, clean basement, attend meetings or clubs, spend part of each day with the children, cook, etc. TUESDAY: 7:00 - 8:30 Same as Monday g:00 - 12:00 Do the washing 12:00 Lunch Attend Relief Society meeting at 2 o'clock on this day or on the day on which it is held in the ward or branch.. The late afternoon may be used for folding clothes and putting them away, dampening those to be ironed, and beginning the ironing. (Some women may prefer to iron in the evening when there is more time for such a slow task.) WEDNESDAY: Add to the regular schedule the completing of the ironing, and if there is time, clean one of the bedrooms. THURSDAY: Clean kitchen thoroughly, including range, refrigerator (defrost), drawers and shelves (a few each week). Continue with cleaning of the bedrooms. FRIDAY: Thorough weekly cleaning of living room and dining room. Straighten remainder of the house. SATURDAY: With the children home from school, Saturday should belong to them. It is a good time to train the children to assist with the housework, although, of course, they should have their little daily responsibilities. To get a child to help in the home we must first of all work for his co-operation. 'This can be cultivated by showing interest in his experiences and enjoyment in his companionship. Begin early to allow him to help, no matter how young. Do not look for perfection. Ask him rather than command him. Make him self-reliant by not waiting on him. Allow him to complete his task without interference from you. Do not lecture him or scold, continually charging him with lack of love and appreciation for all you have done for him. Show your appreciation for the slightest consideration as this will help to build co-operation. It is desirable to work out, with the family together, what appears to be fair and just. Have the child feel a share of the responsibility of the home. Do not burden Saturday with heavy special cleaning that demands your close attention and entire time. The children can spend half the day with their tasks. The older ones can press and mend their clothes, and do the lunch dishes. The boys can help with housework or work in the yard. Half the day should be allowed them for relaxation—music, dance, or other cultural lessons—or just time of their own. The children should be on hand to assist with dinner in the evening. There are many good housckeepthe purpose for which a home is ers whose tastes and talents are far run, and are not diverted. They are from domestic, but they have an obable to find time for books and mujective in mind and a method. Their _ sic and other diversions, so that their homes run like clockwork. They mental and moral selves are satisare conscientious, with an eye on __ fied and they feel blessed. THE MAGIC WORD—EFFICIENCY 103 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1888 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL Nations" ITEMS FROM ARIZONA: Once more I have taken up my pen to give your readers a few items from this far off place. The pleasant weather of autumn is past, and winter, grim and cold, is with us, and it has been bitter cold for this usually mild climate.... Our numbers are few here at the present time.... Our Indian neighbors are still quite friendly.... Those who have learned some of the beautiful truths which the gospel teaches are full of faith and have perfect confidence that their sick will be healed through the administration of the elders.... It is quite a curiosity to see the women at work weaving some of the pretty blankets they make. White women would scorn to use such a rude loom and the many little bits of wood with the fancy colored yarn wound on them. The designs are very pretty and so evenly arranged that it seems almost incredible—Mary S. Bumham NOTES AND NEWS: Mrs. Eliza Garfield, the late President's mother, who has just died at Mentor, Ohio, age eighty-six, was born in New Hampshire, and moved to Ohio, with her husband, in 1830. A log cabin was built and a farm partly cleared; but her husband soon died, and Mrs. Garfield was left to struggle with many difficulties. She faced them heroically, refused to send her elder children out to work among the neighboring settlers, toiled with her own hands to keep them together under her own eye, and from her they received the first rudiments of an education.—Selected STAMINA: To write an article for the paper requires some stamina; to read an article to an audience requires more stamina. To deny ourselves pleasure, to fulfill a promise, requires stamina. To do just nght, when very much tempted to do wrong, requires stamina. 'To get up early on a very cold frosty morning to perform duties, Tequires stamina.... Some people are like a piece of cloth, that is deficient in both warp and woof, they have no stamina.—E. S. Barney WHY STAIN THE SILVER CROWN? My own locks now are turning gray, I do not take it hard; Near forty years of life on earth Should merit such reward. And when a few more years have passed, And faded all the brown, When I have earned it, let me wear My own bright silver crown. —Lula INTERESTING PARTY: Marion, Idaho, is a part of the country better known as Goose Creek. Our Society has been organized about a year.... We have many good times together, and excellently well attended meetings. We take the Exponent, and reading from its columns forms a feature of our gatherings. We wish to tell you of a happy time we recently enjoyed, the occasion being that of a surprise party given Sister Susan K. Greene. A little before noon sixtcen membcrs of the Relief Society alighted from their vehicles at Sister Greene's door, laden with lunch baskets and cheery smiles. After the greetings were over and all seated, a hymn was sung, after which a poem composed for Sister Greene was read.... The sisters presented Sister Greene a token of love and appreciation in the form of a purse and its contents—Fanny Gorringe Page 104 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon E cannot but feel that the hand of destiny guided the early history of America, a sacred land, which was being prepared for the consummation of a sacred plan, the coming forth of God's kingdom in the latter days. George Washington was a key figure in that history. Yet, had it not been for the love he bore his mother, he would probably have been fighting on the British side in the Revolution. Influenced by his older brother Lawrence, an _ officer in the British Navy, he was ready to depart from his home to become a midshipman in the British Navy. However, seeing his mother grief-stricken at the thought of parting with him, the youth gave up his desire, remained with her, and became a patriot when the war broke out. Mrs. Washington had been a widow since George was eleven years old. T the Pacific International Livestock Exposition, held in Portland, Oregon, in October, four Salt Lake County 4-H Club girls won blue ribbons, and for all of them it was the third time to receive this honor. They are: Aileen Fowler, Crescent; Karen Wright, Midvale; Charlene Lind, Midvale; and Donna Mae Feulner, Magna. At the recent National 4-H Club Congress, Elaine de St. Joer, seventeen, Pleasant View, Utah, was named national 4-H Club winner in home improvements, receiving a scholarship of $200. T the "Girls' State" Camp in Logan sponsored by the Ametican Legion, girls were taught citizenship by taking over the reins of government. This is a most useful enterprise. Pauline Jensen, of Hytum, was Utah delegate to "Girls' Nation," the national camp, held in Washington, D. C. Ikoline's Choice, Margaret Maw's autobiographical story of pioneering in Utah, published by the Oxford Press, is having good nationwide sales. An educator herself, Mrs. Maw knows the art of making a story so vivid that the reader immediately identifies himself with the young protagonist. Pioneer skills used in daily living are made lucid and fascinating. Written for girls of eight to thirteen, the book is equally interesting for adults. The story relates circumstances where one struggle follows on the heels of another, with eventual triumph. For several successive years Mrs. Maw was president of the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs, and of the Western Federation. ISS Mary Rose Allen, Executive Secretary, Utah Association for the United Nations, was an observer for Utah in several meetings of the United Nations delegates at Lake Success. She found Madame Pandit, of India, one of the most intelligent and interesting members. Page 105 n benefit ¢ be the inegrity of Individual] decision Yet €ach woman Is face with the vita] Necessit a hieving for herself armon Cen group attitudes and her own evaluat; f proper Procedy A question Of great importance In Woman's Jif her se €ction of 4ppare] hanges jn fashions are nearly Iways Tadical an sudde and the Oman who follow, the ex. Tremes of any mode will, therefore Ind herself a mo €mbarrassin situation Skirts }; ve been short, ey beco Ong; if they have been tight, they b Me full: if they have €en over mamented, hey b come plain 4 d sever The Purpose of this abrupt turn. About jg Obvioy —all the clothin Which co stitutes a woman's pres ent wardrobe must be made to a Pear so old-fashioned, and therefore undesirable that she Will fee] the Necessity having 4 complete new Wardrobe uch q decision May be Sastrous to the family dget, and Often the Oman wh thinks that She must ake Change those who ha €spoused the "new" look turbed that the Problem beautiful, but Tance or distortion of Y can decide at t | among th wildering Choices Which are placed efore them da Washin Machine oy a stove. Moreover, Vvoluminous Clothing ls mor d color. Velvet beautify] aS it was When EDITORIAL | worn by the Elizabethan ladies. Knee-length skirts have never improved the appearance of any woman, and they have done much to detract from feminine grace and modesty. The ethics of a woman's wardrobe should be governed by a recognition of her financial status, the needs of her family, and the needs of others for whom she should feel a responsibility. Motives of competition, rivalry, and exhibitionism in the selection of clothes are certainly not becoming to any woman, and often result in unhappiness. There is nothing which should 107 compel a woman to discard her entire wardrobe at the first appearance of radically different styles. There is wisdom in the saying, "Be not the first by whom the new is tried, nor yet the last to lay the old aside." 'There is even greater wisdom in being able to retain the customs of the past which are of proved worth, and to accept from the present only that which enhances one's appearance or one's comfort, and that which is in harmony with an individual's financial and __ social status, and in keeping with one's responsibilities to those who are in need. V. P. C. Congratulations to President Amy Brown Lyman On Her Birthday—February 7th ELIEF Society women throughout the Church are happy to unite R again in wishing health and joy to President Amy Brown Lyman whose devoted service to womanhood is greatly appreciated. This year, particularly, members of Relief Society wish to express their gratitude to Sister Lyman for the excellent biography of Alice Louise Reynolds—A Lighter of Lamps—which has recently been printed by the Deseret News Press. The book is a beautifully expressed tribute and life story. Sister Reynolds, a dear friend and close associate of President Lyman, was a member of the General Board of Relief Society from 1923 to 1930, during which time she served as associate editor and, later, as editor of The Relief Society Magazine. An outstanding and delightful keen analysis and deep appreciation nolds, a dynamic quality of the book is Sister Lyman's of the character of Alice Louise Reyleader of women, a student, teacher, traveler, lecturer, writer, and loyal and beloved friend. Prefacing the biography, Elder Bryant S. Hinckley expresses appreciation for Sister Lyman's careful and inspired work on the biography: "Reading it has been a delight all the way through; for you have told the story of this noble woman with a fidelity and an understanding that you, and only you, could do." This book is a further contribution of Sister Lyman to the preservation of the record of the work and accomplishments of Latter-day Saint women. Votes 10 THE FIELD Bound Volumes of 1047 Relief Soctety Mlagazines SJemporary Binders Available RELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1947 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through the office of the General Board, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $1.75; including the index. Substantial temporary binders, into which single copies of the Magazine for one year may be inserted or removed at will, are available for $1.20 postpaid. It is suggested that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1947 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. No Magazines for binding are available at the office of the General Board. Watch This Month wees the month stamped along with your address on every copy of the Magazine you receive. It shows the month in which your Relief Society Magazine subscription expires. By watching this month, you can renew your subscription early enough so that no issues of the Magazine will be missed. Renewal subscriptions must be received at this office one full month in advance of expiration in order to avoid missing an issue. OO —_ PRAYER FOR A SON LeRoy Burke Meagher Give me a son who loves to run With life full in his face, Likes dogs and lanes and quiet rains And kites the breezes race; Who knows the creed of earth and seed, And tends the precious flame Of faith with care, by daily prayer In Jesus' holy name. Page 108 The Parking Lot Home Gweet Home Gail Johnson ATCHING the delicate old lady rock in the creaking chair, and seeing the gray head of the man jeaning forward as he concentrated on a piece of wood he whittled, callous newspaper Cor respondent that I was, f was suddenly embarrassed. "There's not much we can do about it, Miss. That board of men thinks we're fightin' Irishmen holdin' out for a higher price. They just don't seem to understand." He held the piece of wood eye level, scrutinizing it carefully. The silence blended with uncer tain shadows cast against dark walls, and no sign of summer sunshine found its way ito the bleak and dreary toom. At last he went on, "Syren I'd be glad to sell the house, only it's like I told them, it's all we have. The insurance We get gives US enough to get by on, but this house is our home.. "When we built this house forty years ago," he continued, looking at me closely, "there were other houses here, too, but now we've the only one left, and the heart of town lS around us." 'The gray head moved from side to side. Have changed since then." "They offered you $2,000 for this strip, didn't they? Couldn't you buy another place with that?" My suggestion sounded not only feeble, but impertinent, once it was voiced, and I regretted speaking. "We raised seven children in this house and two of them were taken from us under this very roof." Maggie McRae's voice was as fragile as her veined, slim fingers which toyed with the cameo at the high neck of her black sateen dress. "We just can't part with the happiness and tears of a lifetime for any price. Those are things we couldn't sell." Her eyes smiled toward her husband and, without knowing why, that glance between them made me unr derstand. The deep voice took up the recital, "When that big company bought this block for a department store and parking lot, some men came here and tried every way to make us see their point of view. That was simple enough, but they didn't seem to be able to see OUT side of it." the house ls 00 the forty-five-foot line. Guess you know the rest, about how they built the wall across the pack and along the two sides of the house." Yes, I knew the rest. When the big corporation's plans to dismantle Mike and Maggie McRae's home for the construction of a parking lot had gone awry, the corporation had built a brick wall, roof high, around three sides of the little dwelling. The too severely they had thousands of ing and a forty-yeat-old house nestled in the middle of their concrete parking lot looked preposterous. As a reporter, I knew this, but m heart went out to this helpless couple destined to spend their few remaining years in a dusky glow. HEN I left them that morning to go back to the paper, I cartied with me thick notes for the human interest yarn for which | had been sent, but my pity erased the feeling of a job well done. He same afternoon, as the airliner on which I was returning to Minneapolis toated into the air, | looked at the city below. The curving Missouri River made an attractive watery boundary on the north side of Great Falls, then curved indolently through the city, but the beauty of the scene was lost. My only thought was of the McRaes in their parking-lot home. Uring the ensuing ten months the McRaes often touched my thoughts, and I recalled them with tenderness and concern, At each remembrance my uneasiness about their welfare became more personal. Finally, my desire to know how they were faring came near to becoming an obsession. In my memory the lines and features of the aged face of Maggie McRae were as finely chiseled as the expert workmanship of the gold encircled cameo pinned against the high neck of her dress. The silver hair, coiled in a circular roll atop her head, I tecalled, was the smartest of coiffures of today. I felt, however, that she had been childishly unaware of any claim of being modern. During my visit she had had eyes only for the knitting needles, expertly propelled by her veined hands. I pictured the house and the people so well, so clearly. Ike was equally a part of the picture. His thick white hair encircled by a halo of futility brought a lump to my throat as I recalled his need for a warmer sweater or sturdier carpet 'slippers. At last my feature writing career gave me the Opportunity of returning to Montana for a follow-up story the next year, My editor ordered an assignment on the old Broadwater Hotel in Helena, near where the McRaes lived. Broadwater had been the Saratoga of the West and the solid gold doorknobs, of which it had boasted, had been turned by early statesmen Ous rooms still held dusty, frayed elegance of the last decade. Because of these musty fragments, I found myself again aboard a plane, covering the miles toward Montana— and the McRaes. Two days later, the assignment finished and sent on its way to the office, I was on my way to Great Falls, 'Tm going to see what has happened to the McRaes at last," I said to myself. From Helena, by air, it is a scant halfhour trip. T was no sooner settled in my seat than the light instructing all Passengers to fasten their safety belts was flashed. WHEN I had finally been deposited at the hotel by the airline limousine, had checked into an air-cooled toom, and had freshened 110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 THE PARKING LOT HOME SWEET HOME myself after the ghort trip,! Started WA? Smooth k eyes the house with wall, silent: the house. Ere hadn't been 4 had left it the yeat before. But now three steps led to a sma d the do Je to nq) Walter, the hotel manager, a 0 whereabou f the Raes. +& It was, omehow, ad become sentimental Leaning sha about the dwelling and the people ' uinted, try! DB to recognize me in ld be told it was Relief Ad silent, bu finally i th 5 of tension, and I me Cc wanted ™ vision and my © ge: is Irish face lighted uP and he d, pulling me Jed han Ww couldn't resist kissing put the 'Y lady, snkled forehead. Gray house was gone! I round leading to BRB WEEN them was ashioned Too™, but it a - here I stood. 1 blinked amaze eyes, af to what their voices as I heeded the changes > Jasked myswinging gate wa the to the enclosure and 'te me tO enter, aS did a white house W 1 in th Tis blue eye were ca é another story, Miss?" he asked. For the street to See y praying that | hotel desk to snhabiting 1 4 my own flowers bloomed J steppe before ould find it as 1 porch before, | reme pered clearly, veranda Half reticen ly, my knuckdidn't want to disthe early dimness of evening: I nodded, too amazed to speak. "Sure'n we've got one for you this time," he continued, "all thanks to you and that story you wrote about us the last time you were here." Like lights on a Christmas tree in an otherwise darkened room, his face fairly twinkled. The old, dejected look was gone, and I knew the sadness had disappeared forever. "You just settle yourself right here and Mike will tell you all about it," said Mother McRae. "T'll fix you some milk and a piece of cake. It's delightful to see you again, my dear, and we owe you so much." Mrs, McRae patted my shoulder, then left the room. "Really, I can't believe what. I see." My head indicated the whole room. "It's wonderful, and you both look so well and happy. Asa matter of fact, you look quite dapper in that sport sweater you're wearing, Mr. McRae." The smile I felt on the inside was bursting forth on the outside. "Oh, I can't tell you how happy it makes _tme to find you like this!" "No more happy than it makes us to know you've remembered us, Miss," he replied. "You know, things seemed to change for us from the minute you were here. Now that you're back we have to celebrate. That's why Mother is fixing us a party." He half-whispered, as though it was our private joke. IKE McRAE spread a_newspaper at his feet, and picking up a piece of wood and his jacknife, whittled as he began, "Shortly after you left, Miss, the corporation offered us $3,000 for our strip, but in spite of it we just couldn't sell. Like we told you, money could never buy the years we have invested here." And so the story unfolded. Curiosity seekers had begun coming to their door to see what strange species of mankind lived within the arms of the brick wall. Tourists had come to make it as much a "must" on their list of what to see as they had the Giant Spring, pouring forth its gallons of water every minute, or the smelting plant of the Anaconda Copper Mining Company. Days that had been uneventful, now became something to anticipate, and anticipation had become a vitamin. Miniature wooden animals Mike had carved were bought and sent over the country. Knitting needles had created bed jackets and baby sweaters to fill the lagging days of old age. As the days passed those handmade articles sold for a tidy sum, and the stiffening fingers had many orders to fill. "Guess somebody wanted to be more'n good to us." He was silent for a moment, but, realizing that his story wasn't finished, I waited. "That's the cake part of it," he finally continued, "now for the frosting. People used to leave their kiddies in their cars while they went in and did their shopping. Y'know what?" His eyes crinkled in amusement, and he pointed the carving he held in his hand toward me. "Some of those cute little tykes could just barely toddle and others were nearly grown youngsters, but they all began coming over to take a peek at the house with the wall. It fascinated them. It got so Mother was making cookies nearly every day so we'd have a treat on hand for our little guests. Finally, lots of the mothers came with them and the same ones came 12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 THE PARKING LOT HOME SWEET HOME back time after time. Sure'n they would. Before long Mr. Elwood, he's the manager of the store, called us again. Mother just laughed, because now so many nice people caine here every day, we'd never scll."" Jlis pause was only a second long. "Y'know, people write us letters and we get postcards, too, something every day. We like the colored postcards best, though. We even had one sent to us from England and one from Mlexico City." Ile hesitated again, wondering if I was duly impressed. I was! "Anyway, back to Mr. Elwood. We told him we still wouldn't sell. Well, not fifteen minutes later, who do you suppose knocked at the door? Sure'n it was Mr. Elwood. This time his proposition was different." Now he scttled back and ceased his carving. "Ile offered to plant the grass and put the fence around the property; besides, he said he'd pay us $65 a month, if people who came to his store to shop could leave their 3 children here while they were in the store. Mother, right off, said 'yes.' "We've gotten so we like Mr. Elwood real well. He often drops over in the afternoon to pass the time of day and have a glass of milk or a cookie and talk to any of the little folks calling on us. Y'know, we even gct a discount on everything we buy in Mr. Elwood's store!" Plainly life was being good to the McRacs, and I was relieved of the mental cross I had borne concerning them. As if from a distance, I heard Mike's voice again and it was stecped in wonderment. "Sure'n because 'we couldn't get around that brick wall it brought us more happiness than we ever dreamed was possible." His head swayed from side to side as he resumed his whittling. Again, I lost all semblance of my profession and my cyes felt teartrouble coming on again. My heart was beating overtime for the oldsters in the "Parking-Lot Home Sweet Ilome." FOR THE YEARS AHEAD Beatrice K. Ekman I dreamed of you last night, I felt your kiss Laid in a mute caress upon my lips, And time rolled back. Love knows no artifice; Your arms became my haven. Storm that whips My little venture boats to Charybdis, Imperils me no more, nor sinks my ships, When dreams can bring to me such armistice To bridge the years, to bridge the years, like this. And when on lonely roads mv feet are set, Your love will be my brimming cup, my bread. Your name shall be a sacred amulet To give me courage for the vears ahead. Your faith in me is white, consuming fire To keep my heart from all but pure desire. ADOPTED Dorothy II. Porter Adopted—yes! But, oh that word Means all the world to me, It puts the rainbows in my sky, And white sails on the sea. In every hour of every day, I strive to let them know Low very much they've changed my life, Because they love me s0- The "Home" just wasn't home to me, My childish heart so longed To have a mother of my own, A place where 1 belonged. So when folks say, "Adopted?" I proudly cry, "You see, They didn't have to have me, They picked me—specially." i eo | SHALL NOT WALK ALONE Evelyn \Wooster Viner 1 shall not walk alone Through all the coming years; I shall not falter at the load, Nor mind too much the salty tears Upon my lips. Though you should need to sail The seven storm-lashed seas; Though you should slip beyond the veil, Into the great mysterious unknown, Whence none retum, I still would hold the precious jewel Of your love; nO time nor space could dim the bliss Ot our good life, however bricf. I still should fcel etemally your kiss Upon my lips. Page 114 Collecting Antique Chairs Elizabeth Williamson F you are a collector of antiques, you know by past experience what you want and how to go about finding it. If you are a beginner, you are probably a little in doubt as how to go about collecting. The simplest way to begin is to absorb the best information around you. Visit museums and historical societies, study the fine pieces, read the magazines which contain interesting and authentic articles dealing with the households of our ancestors. Libraries, and your friends who collect, will help you. There may be a historical house in or near your city which is famous, and furnished with well-preserved pieces, typical of a particular period. You can carefully observe the pieces of antique furniture exhibited in stores, and you can go to auctions. A good antique will be at home in almost any setting. Whether it is an amusing mustache cup, or a beautiful Hepplewhite console, it can lend charm and distinction to your home. Period chairs are always attractive additions to your home. They can be used in the hallway as extras, and occasional chairs may be added to the living room. Other possibilities are placing these chairs at desks, in bedrooms, at the piano, in the den, and in the sunroom. Rocking chairs are quaint and most welcome if your kitchen is large. By careful observation you will be able to recognize the good lines and the authentic design of an antique chair, and you will become enthusiastic over the romance and the beauty of historic furniture. Ignore the old upholstery; it can be removed and beautiful new fabrics can be used, which will blend with your color scheme and surroundings. However, try to use the fabric which belongs to the period. Each period of history is marked by certain characteristics of design and construction in furniture, and the patterns reflect the spirit of the times, as well as the ideals and activities of the people. Colonial America, not yet an independent nation, was greatly influenced in its furniture design, as well as in its other customs, by the European mother countries. Nevertheless, the construction of the furniture revealed the simplicity and sturdiness of pioneers and the economic conditions under which they lived. Local woods, such as pine, oak, birch, and maple, were the principal materials, and the upholstery fabrics were, for the most part, homespun materials, although some of the wealthy colonists imported more luxurious fabrics from Europe. The Pennsylvania Dutch designs of the eighteenth century followed conservative patterns, using simple and useful construction of native woods and homespun fabrics, but some decorative features of painted birds and flowers were added. During the eighteenth century, also, particularly in that period of national development during and Page 115 116 following the Revolutionary War and the establishment of the Constitution as the supreme law of the land, English designers still dominated furniture patterns for well-todo Americans. Thomas Chippendale, the most famous cabinetmaker of England, who died in 1779, while using some of the substantial designs and expert workmanship of earlier furniture makers, added many variations. Using dark mahogany wood, without and working under both "Chippendale marked by sumptuously carved and interlaced lattice work in the backs, and many of them with boldly curved legs, intricately carved. This style, exccedingly popular in Europe, was quickly adopted in America. A contemporary of Chippendale, George Hepplewhite, whose aim was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 to blend "clegance and utility" in his. Designs, developed a style characterized by light, graceful lines, with painted or enlaid decorations of festoons, wreaths, flowers. And musical instruments, in satinwood and mahogany. LHepplewhite's distinctive chair designs exhibited slight, tapering Icgs, the spade foot, and the distinguishing feature of the shicld back. He is credited with having originated the winged chait. Hepplewhite designs are grcatly prized by collectors as they are both rare and very beantiful. Duncan Phyfe is known as -an American cabinctmakcr, although he was born in Scotland, and did. Not come to our country until 1783. His designs have had a profound influ ence on furniture-making in Ametica, and many details, not actually originated by him, can authentically Early Amaricor Boston Rocker Sheroton es Ve pple wtte COLLECTING ANTIQUE CHAIRS 17 The Salt Lake Tribune HEPPLEWHITE CHAIRS AND CONSOLE IN ADAMS DESIGN The chairs are upholstered in eggshell and rose damask. Note the straight legs of the chairs and the shield-shaped backs. Ly, chairs, sofas, settees, tables, and sideboards, using solid mahogany, mahogany veneer, satinwood, maple, and rosewood. His first designs were characterized by excellent proportions, graceful curves, often accented by parallel rows of reeding, simple ornaments, well placed and carved with the greatest precision, and decorative motives, such as the lyre, the acanthus or oak leaf, and other graceful arrangements. Later, under the influence of the French Empire styles, he made furniture that was heavy, over-ornamented, and largely characterless. Victorian styles in furniture came to America during the time of westward expansion, the Civil War, and the development of the United States as a powerful nation of great extent and unlimited resources. Victorian furniture was marked by many and varied influences and much of it was solid, heavy, and ponderous. Elaborate "over-stuffing'" was introduced during this period. The accompanying table outlines some of the principal furniture types and lists some of the favorite materials and designs used in upholstering. 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 FURNITURE TYPES Furniture Style Origin Characteristics Wood Fabric Early American Influenced by Since the people were Local woods: Homespun, or (First settlements | Mother countries religious and _ eco- | Pine materia] to the Revolution) nomical, the furniture | Oak brought from was simple, wellBirch England. Made and serviceable. | Maple Rush bottoms in chairs, Dutch few Dutch peasants, | sign and forms, sim- | Pine (1700-1800) settlers in Pennsyl- | ple and useful. Paint- | Walnut vania, gave this pe-|ings for decoration, | Cherry wood riod a European peas- | birds, flowers, etc. And wood ant influence. From other fruit trees Chippendale Thomas Chippendale, | Baroque, rococo style, | Mahogany French Bro- (1718-1779) most famous cabinet- | influenced by Louis | Walnut cade maker and designer | XV of France. Chi- | Rosewood Petit point of England, greatly | nese and Gothic. GildMorocco influenced the Colo- | ing and carving. Leather nies and Europe. Strength and solidity. Satin Beautiful. Damask; Velvet Brocade Taffeta Hepplewhit English-born design- | Curving lines. Mahogany Brocade (died in 1786) er, collaborated with | Influenced by French. | Rosewood Satin Adam, influenced Inlay, graceful, light. | Satinwood Velvet America. Beautiful decoration | Tulip wood Silk and painting. Carved woods Sheraton English-born cabinet- | Classic, champion of | Mahogany Brocade (1750-1806) maker (more of a de- | the straight line. Satinwood Damask signer), greatly in- | French influence, Beach Silk fluenced Duncan simplified. Carved Rosewood Satin Phyfe in America and inlaid. Dignity Tulip and refinement. Holly Veneer and inlay Duncan Phyfe Duncan Phyfe, born Developed finest Mahogany Brocade (1768-1854) in Scotland, came to | American empire Rosewood Damask America at the age | style, influenced by Satin of 16 years, called the | Adam, Hepplewhite, Silk "American Sheraand Sheraton. Ton." Victorian In a search for the | Marble top tables, Oak Haircloth (1819-1901) unusual, copied carving, overstuffed Walnut and durable French Louis XV, chair and sofa. Mahogany fabrics. Greek, Gothic, Egyp- | Heavy Satinwood tian, Turkish, Venetian styles. BLIND Dorothy J. Roberts Upon the darkened canvas of her years, And through the lifted prism of her imagery, She paints her course, an upward trek from tears To the lighted stratum of serenity. PennsylvaniaGerman, Swiss, and a} Used traditional de- | Native wood: | Homespun SS FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for October 1946. SINGING MOTHERS CONCERTS AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Rosella F. Larkin MOUNT OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), TWELFTH WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY _ SINGING MOTHERS IN PIONEER COSTUME ASSEMBLED IN FRONT OF THE UTAH STATE FLAG, March 18, 1947 Standing at the right in the back row, Rosella F. Larkin, President, Ogden Twelfth Ward Relief Society; third from right, Second Counselor Nana HI. Cole; fourth from right, Secretary Claire J. Child; fifth from right, organist Olive P. Thomas; seventh from right, assistant organist Stella C. Smith; seventh from left, stake board member Emma M. Gilgen; tenth from left, Mary J. Wilson, member, General Board of Relief Society. This flag was placed in the Twelfth Ward chapel on the occasion of the Relief Society anniversary party, and the presentation was made significant by pioneer stories and music. Sister Larkin submits the following description of the Utah State Flag, as it was officially approved by the State Legislature in 1933: ""The State Flag of Utah shall be a flag of blue field, fringed with gold borders, with the following device worked in natural colors on the center of the blue field: The center of the shield; above the shield and thereon the American eagle with outstretched wings; the top of the shield pierced with six arrows arranged crosswise; upon the shicld under the arrows the word 'Industry' and below the word 'Industry' on the center of the shield, a beehive; on each side of the beehive, growing sego lilics; below the beehive and near the bottom of the shield, the word 'Utah,' and below the word 'Utah' and on the bottom of the shield, the figures '1847'; with the appearance of being back of the shield there shall be two Page 119 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 American flags on flagstaffs placed crosswise with the flags so draped that they will project beyond each side of the shield, the heads of the flagstaffs appearing over the face of the draped flag below the shield; below the shield the flags and upon the blue field, the figures '1896' (the year of statehood); around the entire design a narrow circle in gold." Adaleine B. Bailey is president of Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Leona B. Sonne EUROPEAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT CON. FERENCE OF MISSION PRESIDENTS, MALMO, SWEDEN, July 1947 Left to right: Ethel E. J. Bloomquist, Swedish Mission; Jane Wunderlich, West German Mission; Margaret Petersen, Norwegion Mission; Martha Toronto, Czechoslovakian Mission; Leona B. Sonne, European Mission; Adrianna Zappey, Netherlands Mission; Nida Taggart, Swiss-Austrian Mission; Eliza Petersen, Danish Mission; Gladys Boyer, British Misson; Kate Barker, French Mission. The women are assembled in front of the beautiful building recently acquired and renovated as the meeting place and branch headquarters of the Malmo District of the Swedish Mission. The building and grounds have been made very attractive by the labors of the missionaries and the saints laboring and residing in this beautiful city in the extreme south of Sweden. Leona B. Sonne, President of the European Mission Relief Society, contributes the following interesting report, under date of August 14th, 1947: "At the conference of mission presidents held at Malmo, Sweden, July 16th-19th, I had the opportunity to meet all the sisters who have charge of the Relief Societies in the European Mission except Sister Stover, who had returned to Salt Lake City, and Sister Sharp who could not be present. Sister Petersen of Denmark, Sister Toronto of Czechoslovakia, and Sister Wunderlich of the West German Mission, who has not been able to enter Germany yet, had but recently arrived and had not become acquainted with conditions in their respective missions. Sister Sharp of the South African Mission sent a very interesting report of her work, which was read and appreciated. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 121 The sisters met with the mission presidents in all of their sessions where each gave a report of Relief Society activities following the report of the mission president on conditions in his mission. A separate meeting of the sisters was also held, at which each one reported in regard to her problems and as to her plans for the future. Finland The work is just getting started, and the missionaries are giving the lessons to the sisters from the Book of Mormon. Translation into Finnish is a problem at the present time. British Mission There are forty-two Relief Society organizations in the British Mission. Activity during the war was limited and some discontinued their meetings during the extremely cold weather. Sewing lessons are being substituted slowly in place of fancy work. Home canning is being encouraged. Czechoslovakian Mission During the war the Relicf Society met in the homes. Activity was very limited and no definite program was followed. Prospects appear good. Danish Mission There are 247 sisters enrolled in the Relief Society in the Danish Mission, of whom 200 attended regularly. A Singmg Mothcrs' group has been organized and gave several selections during the recent conference held in Copenhagen. East German Mission The Relief Society did very little during the war. They are now being organized and are becoming interested in the work. A capable sister has been called on a mission to teach the sisters how to remodel clothing for those who are in urgent need. French Mission The Relief Society sisters are encouraged to make over old clothing as new purchases are impossible in France. The organizations are functioning well in Belgium, especially in visiting teaching. The sisters have tried valiantly to keep track of their members. Canning has not been encouraged due toa lack of pressure cookers, Netherlands Mission The Relief Society organizations were kept alive during the war. For several seasons they studied The Way to Perfection. It was difficult to introduce current lesson material. The lessons outlined by the General Board are published in the mission paper and are one year behind on account of translation delays. Meetings are held throughout the year, and attendance is constantly increasing. The sisters have made over old clothing and prepared baptismal clothes. Norwegian Mission Well-quahfied women are in charge of the work throughout the mission. There are twelve organizations. District boards have been organized, instead of a mission board which cannot function because of the long distances. Recently the Bergen Branch completed the first quilt made in the Norwegian Mission. Swedish Mission There are thirteen organizations in Sweden. The sisters are making baptismal and burial clothes and are also working on layettes. Two clothing drives for Norway and Finland have been conducted. Meetings are held regularly. 'The attendance is good. Lessons are published in the mission paper. The Malmo Branch Relief Society prepared and served the noon meals for the mission presidents' conference. They deserve high praise for the manner in which this work was done. 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 Swiss-Austrian Mission The Relief Society in this mission is in excellent condition. In Austria the sisters carried on in a most commendable manner during the war. New lesson material ts looked for and will be appreciated. The sisters are enthusiastic and very interested in the work. In March, 1947, a successful convention was held in Bern, Switzerland, attended by about 200. Evening entertainments were conducted throughout the mission by the Relief Socicty organizations to collect funds for an Austrian family whose home had been destroyed by fire. West German Mission Relief Society mectings were forbidden by the Hitler regime, but the work is being tevived as fast as possible. South African Mission Cooking demonstrations conducted by Sister Sharp have increased attendance at the meetings. The sisters are anxious to learn American cooking methods and recipes. Bazaars are hcld annually in several branches. There are 120 Magazine subscribers in the mission. In the Mowbray Branch monthly visits are made and this work is getting under way in the Johannesburg Branch also." Photograph by Hankins, Hartsville, South Carolina Submitted by Effie Meeks SOUTH CAROLINA STAKE SINGING MOTHERS WHO SANG AT THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STAKE, October 19, 1947 Front row, left to right: Lottie Joyner, chorister; Beulah Watson; Maurine Lawrence; Georgia Woods; Mildred Jensen; Effie Meeks, President, Southern States Mission Relief Society; Grace Boothe; Doreen Nielson; Thelma Flowers; Margaret Watson; Gladys Watson. Second row, Icft to right: Lucille Sturkie; Ruby Evans; Glenna Tate; Beverly Spry; Arlene Carlson; Clara Watson; Jewcl Branem; Zclba Stone; Mae Anderson; Phodia Guest; Louise Petty; Malcolm Fagan. Third row, left to right: Marian Popham, second counselor in former district presidency; Alice Voyles, Relicf Society district president, newly appointed; Breda McBride, first counselor in district presidency. This photograph was taken August 30, 1947, preceding the organization of the stake. NOTES FROM THE FIELD $8 Photograph submitted by Florence w. Orme aho Falls Stake and fare assignment, all of the stake work the articles of a Jenson, Sixth Ward: F - Orme, Second Counselor and work directo Third W. Annie MacKay, Eighth W: t, South Idaho Falls Stak ard; Vera Lee, Ammon Ward. Ard; Florence €; Sybil Ball, Photograph submitted by Grace Bullock ST. GEORGE STAKE (UTAH ), WEST WARD SINGING MOTHE BLED IN BEAUTIFUL NEW CHAPEL FOR MU Nemmie Pea ront row Standing, left to 1; Jane Lauper; Eula Andrus; RS ASSEM. SIC FESTIVAL, July 6, 1947; Pearl McCallister. Tkin is president of St. George Relief Society, 124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 Photograph submitted by Ella R. Croxford COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH), SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR CONCERT, April 25, 1947 Ella R. Croxford, President, Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, reports that this concert was the Singing Mothers' contribution to the observance of Utah's Centennial year. Under the leadership of Ada R. McDonald and Daisy H. Belliston, 126 women sang in the chorus and each of the seven wards presented a special number. The hall was filled to capacity and the concert was a great success, both in the spirit of the singers and the appreciative audience, and in the fine musicianship of the presentation. Photograph submitted by Viola Brower YELLOWSTONE STAKE, ASIITTON WARD (IDATIO), SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED AT POND'S LODGE, July 31, 1947 Front row seated, left to right: Bodil Richey, First Counselor, Ethel Cordingley, Second Counselor; Myrtle Bonneru, President. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125 Mildred Brower, chorister, is seated second from the left in the second row; Ruth Murdock, organist, stands in the third row, second from the left. This chorus sang at Pond's Lodge by special request of the Idaho Women's Camp. Elva Swensen is president of Yellowstone Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Ined N. Fryer FRANKLIN STAKE (IDAHO), RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND BABIES October 23, 1947 Left to right: Reva W. Wilson, theology class leader; Mildred D. Whittle, Second Counselor; Ined N. Fryer, President; Ada J. Chattcrton, chorister; Genevive H. Hawkes, Magazine representative. During the eleven months from April 30, 1946, to April 1, 1947, four potential Priesthood members and one future Relief Society worker were born to members of Franklin Stake Relicf Society Board. With one exception, the sisters were able to attend all but one or two monthly meetings and to keep their ward appointments. ARE YOU WATCHING THE EXPIRATION MONTIT OF YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE? ORDER YOUR RENEWAL ONE FULL MONTH BEFORE EXPIRATION, SO THAT YOU WILL NOT MISS ANY OF THE MAGAZINES 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 Elen Louise Wallace Madsen (Continued from page 81) of Jesus Christ. Faith and works have paved the way for her successful career as a splendid teacher of the gospel. With all her Church activities, she has maintained a diigh degree of efficiency in her home, not permitting anything to mar or divert her from the highest of all callings, that of wife and mother. She has the rare gift of companionship with her husband and children. She manifests at home love, loyalty, gentleness, meekness, patience, and practically all womanly virtues. The Book of Mormon speaks of being born of goodly parents. This great gift was bequeathed to Louise, for surely she has a noble heritage. Her father was Ashley Harper Wallace, youngest son of Patriarch Henty Wallace. Her mother, Claribel Louise Woods, was a granddaughter of Parley P. Pratt. On June 1, 1928, in the Salt Lake Temple she was married to Francis Armstrong Madsen, son of Richard W. Madsen and Mary Armstrong Madsen, and grandson of one of the most prominent early pioneers, Francis Armstrong. Her four lovely children are Francis A. Jr., sixteen, Mary Louise, fourteen, Robert Ashley, twelve, and Richard Ilarper, eiglit. Sister Madsen's untiring service fits her into the pattern of service, as expressed by Micah in one of the most exquisite definitions of religion: "Ile hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" (Micah 6:8). Sister Madsen truly tries to exemplify these wonderful virtues in her life. Aleine Margetts Young (Continued from page 82) Brother Young is a capable architect, a kind husband and father, who will give full support and co-operation to Sister Young in her new calling. Together, they have built a beautiful home where love and harmony dwell. They have four splendid children, Richard, who is a mis- —_ sionary in the Central States, Renee, Jane, and Bobby. Sister Young accepts this new position with humility, but her devotion to Relief Society, her many gifts of personality, her experience, and education are qualitics that will make her a beloved and useful member of the General Board. Ennai - TASKS Christie Lund Coles I do my simple dailv tasks, Sweep the floor and make the bed. Reward seems part of every deed, As fragrance part of new-baked bread. LESSON ELDEPARTMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 8—"Lord of the Sabbath" "The Chosen Twelve" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ (Chapters 15 and 16), by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, May 4, 1948 Objective: To show that the Sabbath is distinctively sacred to the people who accept the Lord as their guide. Also, to show that Jesus does have a specific calling in the Priesthood to which he delegates the power to carry on his work in the earth. AFTER the creation of the earth, the Lord, himsclf, rested on the day he hallowed and made sacred. It is, thercfore, perfectly logical and reasonable that he would expect his followers to "keep sacred" that holy day. Surely, one day in seven is not too much for men to rest, and turn their thoughts to worship and how best to serve their Creator. The great powers of Jchovah were impressively shown at Sinai. Israel must not forget the law that was written by the hand of the Lord on that memorable occasion. The preparation was complete to indclibly impress Israel with the necessity of keeping God's law. Next, aftcr the commandments concerning Cod and the sacredness in which his name should be held, comes the divine injunction: "Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy." During Isracl's travels in the wilderness, in fact, during the entire exodus, this law was strictly enforced. On the day preceding the Sabbath, they were commanded to gather sufficient manna for the extra day. By nearly all of the prophets, prior to the coming of the Messiah, either the desecration of the Sabbath was forcefully condemned, or the blessings promised those who would keep it were reiterated with inspired fervor. However, there was no requirement that the "keeping of the Sabbath" was to be a burden to the people. It was to be a day of rest, a day of spiritual enjoyment, a day when people might come together in love and fellowship and pay respect and homage to their Maker. Excessive fasting was not required. In short, it was to be a sweet, holy day during which man and beast were to rest. Man was to worship and experience the peace and joy of being near to God. How much we do need such a day now! Ancicntly, every seven years the Lord also prescribed a year of rest. Even the land was to rest every seventh year; its fertility was to be inPage 127 creased. Every fifty years, or seven times seven years, there was to be a year of jubilee. It was to be a year of rest. Debts were to be forgiven and general relief extended to all people in distress. All of these periods of rest were for the benefit and blessing of the people. Ezekiel, a pastor to homeless exiles, stated that the Sabbath was a "covenant betwecn the Lord and the people of Israel." He earnestly _ rebuked those who violated this day of rest and worship. Long before the coming of Christ, the rabbis and priests had led the people away from the true spirit of the Sabbath. They had created rules, and given them the sancA Perry Picture tity of law, which completely changed the meaning and purpose of the Sabbath. Sabbath requirements became a burden, and the Savior, at his coming, found a distorted, unjust set of rules that were obnoxious and unworkable: __ Jesus soon found himsclf confronted with charges of Sabbath-breaking. In the fifth chapter of John is related one instance which will illustrate the absurdity of rabbinical formalism. There was a certain spring near one of the markets in Jerusalem, the waters of which were reported to possess curative values. Many afflicted people bathed there. The waters would well up and then recede. There was a tradition that "whosoFrom a Painting by Zimmermann CHRIST AND THE FISHERMEN 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT ever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had" (John nay) ' One Sabbath day, Jesus visited this pool, or spring. He saw, there, a man who had been afflicted for thirty-eight years. The poor fellow was so helpless that he could not get into the water first. Someone else always crowded in ahead of him. When Jesus saw the situation, he said to the invalid: "Wilt thou be made whole?" The answer, of course, was in the affirmative. The Master spoke to him: "Rise, take up thy bed, and walk." The Great Healer had made the cripple well. No doubt, his great heart was full of pity when he saw the unequal struggle, and mercy was extended. Later, when Christ saw the man in the temple, he said unto him: "Behold, thou art made whole; sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee." Probably the man's sickness was the result of his own transgres sion. This miracle was performed on the Sabbath day. The Jews were so bitter that they sought to put him to death because, they claimed, he had violated the Sabbath. Think of the inconsistency! He had only spoken, but the afflicted man had carried his bed into his own house. They claimed Jesus had caused the man to break the Sabbath. Jesus boldly met his accusers. He said: "My Father worketh hereto and I work." The Jews protested that Jesus sought to make himself equal with God. The Savior, in cffect, admitted the charge. In the language of Paul: "Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God." He then 129 proceeded to explain the powers which had been given him of the Father. As the Father had power to raise the dead, so would the Son have such powers. Speaking of those powers, he said: Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice, and shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurevil, unto the resurrection of damnation (John 5:28-29)- Ile did proclaim himself the lit eral son of God and was Lord of the Sabbath day. Had written concerning J But they could not, or would not, believe. If they would not believe the Lord's words. Who had ordained the Sabbath was the same as the One now speaking to them. The disciples of were also accused of violating the Sabbath day, but the Lord defended them with equal boldness. The Chosen Twelve In the text we are studying, considerable time and space are devoted to a description of each of the Twelve Apostles, whom Jesus called and ordained. To learn of them, one should read Chapter 16 of Jesus the Christ. Our discussion ill be more general. It is specifically stated by Jesus: "Ye have not chosen me, but | have chosen you, and ordained you" (John 15:16). Paul, who later became one of the Twelve, speaking of the callings in the Priesthood, said: "And no man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that is 130 RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE FEBRUApy 1948 called of God, as was Aaron" (Heb, Wherever he Sent them, They were 5:4). The Lord Tevealed to Moses, his Servants, They were Not chosthe head of his Work, that Aaron en from the Tanks of the tabbis and Was to be called into the service Ptiests, nor were they Scholars (Ex, 414-16, also Ry. 28:1), learned in the Jewish laws and tabbjThe Scriptures Plainly teach that nical formalism, They were chosen the 4postleship Is the Priesthood of by the Master; he Ordained them. Presidency In the Church Which the They were Promised the gift of the Lord ¢stablished. 4 few quotations Holy Ghost. Will suffice to show this: But the Comforter, Which jg the Holy And God hath set Some in the church, Ghost, Whom the Father wil] send in my first apostles, secondarily Prophets, thirdly name, he shall teach you al] things, and teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of bring all things to your remembrance, healings helps Sovernments, diversities o¢ Whatsoever | have said unto you (John *20), tongues (ager 12:28), 14:26) And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and Prophets, Jesus Christ him. God was to Teveal things unto age the chief Comer stone (Eph. Them. The testimony that Jesus ig the Christ Is a Tevelation. « -.. N0 Eph. 2:; 5, 21, and 25 should also an can say that Jesus is the Lord, be read. The Church js likened un. But by the Holy" Ghost" (I Cor, 49-14, We learn the wor of these €aven d atsoever thou 4Postles and th t they are to Temain shalt bind on Carth shall be bound In th Church, herever established Mm heaven a atsoever thou those keys and ©X€rcise them in the Those who Say that 4Postles are Places Which Gog has Ordained for nO longer necessary should tead caretheir use. The Lord did not give to fully these Scriptures. The apostles his Servants useless keys. He did not Constitute the very Oundation of 8ive keys Which were to be used only the edifice of Christ'; Church, In one Period of the world's hi. He men Called to these high ang God is unchangeable The Church lieved in him and had, before they ings and Privileges enjoyed anciently Were Ordained, °Penly testified that are enjoyed by the faithful in this he was the Son of God. They were day, Christ's Church js upon the LESSON DEPARTMENT Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Why is it logical to believe that the Lord expects his followers to observe a sacred Sabbath? What is the true spirit of the Sabbath? Discuss its reasonableness. 2. In what way had the rabbis and Jewish priests completely changed the true 131 spirit of the Sabbath? Tell of the miracle performed on the Sabbath day at the pool near the market place. 3. In what way did Jesus admit his Godship? 4. To what council did Jesus delegate the authority to carry on the work of the ministry? Give Bible quotations to show that the apostleship is the authority of presidency in the Church of Christ. —>- Uisiting Sleachers' ITlessages—Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 8—Beautification President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, May 4, 1948 Objective: churches, and communities, in order to ap plans a century later. ALMostT as soon as a Camp was established in the Valley, the pioneers began to plan their city, which was to be the center of the new empire—eventually its capital. Modeled after the designs and ideas of Joseph Smith for the "City of Zion," it was to be laid out as a perfect square, divided into ten-acre blocks with streets eight rods wide and sidewalks twenty feet wide, and to contain a park for beautifying and recreational purposes. It was to be surrounded by fields and farms, and each family was to be given a city lot of approximately one acre, and a field varying in size according to the needs and the ability of the family to care for it. Such was the original plan for Salt Lake City, which in time was partially carried out, and which would today, after one hunTo become acquainted with pioneer plans of beautification of homes, preciate more fully the realization of those dred years, be hard to improve upon. The city was to be a thing of beauty, set in the heart of a desert, and such it has proved to be. This plan also served as a pattern for the villages and towns subsequently established in the intermountain region. Building for beautification as well as for permanency, the pioneers adopted styles of architecture and fine interior wood finishings in their public buildings which have been and still are the admiration of students of art and architecture; and in their private homes, many of which were humble and simple, they strove also for dignity and harmony in design. Coming, as many of them did, from old communities in Europe where they had been familiar with fine buildings and gardens, they were influenced by overseas' architecture and landscaping. Others, coming from older and more developed communities in the United States, brought with them ideas and ideals in construction and design which they naturally adopted. Brigham Young, himself a carpenter, cabinetmaker, and builder, with the assistance of such architects as Truman O. Angell and others, spared no pains in making and caring out, as far as possible, extensive plans for a building and a beautification program. Although handicapped in the beginning by lack of building matenals and by irrigation problems, they set about at once to overcome these handicaps. In a few years, they were sawing timber, making adobes and bricks and cutting stone, which enabled them to erect substantial, permanent buildings; and, through the successful system of irrigation that they established, they were able to beautify the surroundings of their buildings. Handcraft work, for both men and women, was encouraged, with the result that many churches and public buildings, and homes as well, could boast of wood-carved cornices, panels, and mantels. Exquisite, handmade furniture, which has not since been surpassed in beauty, adorned many homes. Some of the specimens of exquisite wood carvings are to be found in the Salt Lake Temple, the Beehive House, and in the moldings of the cornice around the Salt Lake Tabernacle; also in the St. George Tabernacle, the St. George, and Manti Temples. The stairway in the Manti Temple shows excellent workmanship. The Assembly Hall on Temple Square in Salt Lake City is notable for its unexcelled masonry. Women contributed their part of ideas and the work of their hands in helping to improve the interior of buildings and yards. They saw to it that the inside walls of churches, schoolhouses, and homes were whitewashed; and that the church aisles were carpeted with home-woven strips. The old parlors and bedrooms in the homes were covered with artistically striped, homemade carpets, and braided rugs adorned the scoured kitchen floors. They planted shrubs and flowers about the homes, such as hollyhocks, pinks, daisies, sweet william, and herbs from seeds which, in the beginning, they had carried with them across the plains. These they watered mostly by buckets and hand sprinklers. Nothing could be lovelier than were those rows of old-fashioned flowers which lined the walks, and the flower beds which hugged the houses and centered the yards. 'There were few homes which could not boast of a neat flower garden. A person with an eye to beauty will not fail today to be impressed with the setting and architectural stateliness of many of the pioneer buildings erected a century ago; and with streets and avenues, laid out at the same time, many of which provide four-lane highways. Suggestions for Discussion Some of the teachers might contribute to the discussion by reporting examples of community beautification with which they are familiar and by suggesting future projects. 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT 133 Work Tlecting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7—Plackets and Zippers Jean Ridges Jennings Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter XVIII, pp. 122-123, 133, 138 For Tuesday, Apnil 13, 1948 LTHOUGH there are various types of plackets and zipper closings for garments, thcy all serve the same purpose. Their function is to allow plenty of room to easily put clothing on and off and still have it fit well. A placket should, therefore, be made to fit as smoothly as a seam if one hopes to retain the perfect fit of one's dress. We will first consider the zipper closing. Many women find that they encounter difficulty putting in zippers, so that the garment will fit just as they want it and the seam will be perfectly flat and smooth with no bulging or puckering at the bottom of the opening. Frequently, after the zipper is sewed in, one finds that the waistline is either too loose or too tight. To avoid this distressing result care must be taken to properly fit the garment and mark the opening accurately so there is no guesswork when sewing the zipper in. Put the dress or skirt on, right side out, and pin the seam in place, folding the front edge under so that it is closed exactly as you would like it to be when wearing it. Place pins at right angles to the seam and about one half inch apart. When this is carefully done, and the side seam is absolutely smooth and straight, mark with chalk or a basting thread on both front and back of the garment the exact spot where the two edges of the seam meet. The pins can be removed and there is left an accurate line to follow in finishing the closing. If the seam allowance is not wide enough to completely cover the metal of the Zipper, an extension of seam tape or material will need to be added. Using the markings as a guide, temporarily sew up the opening using the largest stitch on the sewing machine or a small running hand stitch, being careful to have the waistline seam meet accurately. The zipper is now sewed into the closed seam by. First making a fold % inch wide in the back half of the seam, keeping the right side of the material up. Baste and stitch this as close as possible to the metal of the zipper. This is done with the dress wrong side out. Next turn the garment right side out and baste the front edge of the seam down just beyond the metal of the zipper, being careful not to pull the edge of the seam over. Stitch on the machine in a straight line ending with a diagonal to the seam at top and bottom. The temporary stitching may now be removed and the closing is finished. By using this method the seam can be made to be perfectly flat with the zipper completely covered and only one stitching showing. Zippers are not always the best closing for all types of garments. A regulation placket can be made in dresses and skirts and held closed with snaps or hooks and eyes. In this case the preliminary fitting is done in the same manner as for zippers. For light weight or sheer materials, for lingerie, for children's clothing, and straight gathered skirts, a continuous placket is used. For sleeve and neck openings where there is no seam, a faced placket is used. Hemmed plackets are also common for children's clothes and underwear. Space does not permit detailed instructions for all of these plackets but methods can be found by referring to the textbook listed at the beginning of this lesson, the Butterick Dressmaking Book, or The Singer Dressmaking Guide. Work IT leeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 8—Make-Overs Jean Ridges Jennings Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter XXXII] For Tuesday, May 11, 1948 EMODELING, _ altering, — or making-over clothes is a very important part of wardrobe planning in any family with a limited income. Quite frequently clothes become shabby or out of style, or one grows tired of wearing them before they are worn out. Often this is the case when there is still a great deal of good to be found in them. Sometimes they are worn too much for further service to one member of a family but can be used profitably for some other person. And sometimes one can even utilize the usable parts of garments for purposes other than making clothing. The field of remodeling and _ re-using clothing is one of endless possibilities and offers a challenge to everyone. We all of us want to get as much good as we can out of things we have on hand so must make an effort to put clothes to the best possible use. Even though garments are worn and can only be used for some make-over project, they should be thoughtfully and carefully made. One must strive to conceal the original identity of the garment and certainly to avoid giving the remade article a made-over look. Often when fabrics are shabby and shiny from wear, they can be turned and re-made wrong side out. This is especially true of woolens and materials with a nap that wears off. One of the commonest and easiest ways to make new clothes from old is to combine two worn articles to make a new one or to combine new material with the old to change the style, for trimming, or to supply enough material to complete the garment. Care and good judgment must be used in utilizing new ma- 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT terial to refinish an old dress or suit. One must make sure that the fresh, new cloth does not make the old look older and more shabby. Sometimes one's effort to utilize old clothes can lead to unhappy consequences financially. It should always be kept in mind that the cost of new material used in making over old clothes must not be so great that it outweighs the value to the wearer of the completed garment. Expenditures for new fabrics to be combined with old ones should be kept as low as possible. Otherwise, we may find to our sorrow that it would have been better to spend a little more and make a whole new garment. The time involved in these projects should also be carefully considered. Anything we undertake to do ought to be worth the effort 135 spent. So once again careful thought should be given to the project beforehand and to help decide whether or not the finished article will justify our work. Keeping these thoughts in mind, make a survey of clothing on hand with a view to using everything that can be re-made successfully. The lessons for the coming year will take up at length the possibilities to be found in old clothes with specific suggestions for making over all types of clothing into all manner of new articles. Our aim, then, will be to help every homemaker get the most good from clothes on hand, whether they be dad's, mother's, big or little brother's or sister's. We'll have suggestions for using old coats, suits, party dresses, lingerie, or whatever is available. Our motto from now on is, "Make the most of what you have." >. Ol iterature—Literature of the Dectrine and Covenants Lesson 8—Appreciation Values in Doctrine and Covenants Reading Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, May 18, 1948 Objective: To appreciate the Doctrine and Covenants as literature through a discussion of values to be received from the Lord's word, HROUGHOUT the study of the Doctrine and Covenants this year, the literary values of this modem scripture have been stressed. It has been our purpose to appreciate the beauty, as well as the truth, of the Lord's word in our day. In all studies of literature there is need at the end of a course to enjoy, to appreciate, to remember. This can well be done in what we may call a literary recital of the choice passages from the Doctrine and Covenants studied during our lessons. In the main, these passages have divided themselves into longer and shorter readings. The longer ones may be illustrated by the following: Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson—that the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principle of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true, but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God. We have leamed by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called, but few are chosen. No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile —reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast teproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distill upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever (121:34-46). Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. And the voice of waming shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them (1:1-5). Therefore, verily I say unto you, my friends, call your solemn assembly, as I have commanded you. And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith. Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God; that your incomings may be in the name of the Lord; that your outgoings may be 'in the name of the Lord; that all your salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with uplifted hands unto the Most High. Therefore, cease from all your light speeches, from all laughter, from all your lustful desires, from all your pride and light-mindedness, and from all your wicked doings. Appoint among yourselves a teacher, and let not all be spokesmen at once; but let one speak at a time and let all listen unto his sayings, that when all have spoken that all may be edified of all, and that every man may have an equal privilege. See that ye love one another; cease to be covetous; learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires. Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated (88:117- 124). Wherefore, fear not even unto death; for in this world your joy is not full, but in me your joy is full. Therefore, care not for the body, neither the life of the body; but care for the soul, and for the life of the soul. And seek the face of the Lord always, that in patience ye may possess your souls, and ye shall have eternal life. 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT When men are called unto mine everlasting gospel, and covenant with an everlasting covenant, they are accounted as the salt of the earth and the savor of men; they are called to be the savor of men; therefore, if that salt of the earth lose its savor, behold, it is thenceforth good for nothing only to be cast out and trodden under the feet of men (101:36-40). A great and marvelous work is about to come forth unto the children of men. Behold, I am God; give heed unto my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my words. Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap, let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God. Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God. Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you. Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion; Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich (6:1-7). He that ascended up on high, as also he descended below all things, in that he comprehended all things, that he might be in all and through all things, the light of truth; which truth shineth. This is the light of Christ. As also he is in the sun, and the light of the sun, and the power thereof by which it was made. As also he is in the moon, and is the light of the moon, and the power thereof by which it was made; as also the light of the stars and the power thereof by which they were made; And the earth also, and the power thereof, even the earth upon which you stand. And the Light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him who enlighteneth your eyes, which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings; which light proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space—The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are 137 governed, even the power of God who sitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things (88:6-13). For the shorter selections these may be cited: Treasure up in your minds continually the words of life (84:85). For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads (25:12). Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in no wise lose their reward (58:27-28). For this is a day of warning, and not a day of many words. For I, the Lord, am not to be mocked in the last days (63:58). 1, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (82:10). Yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning even by study and also by faith (88:118). And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasure; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen (89:18-21). For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; and when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy. The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple. The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth (93: 33-36). 138 Activities and Readings for Appreciation For the hour let the recital take two forms of activity. First, allow time for a reading and discussion of the truth and beauty to be found in the longer passages, references for more of which may be found below. Second, call upon each class memRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 ber to recite from memory one or two shorter passages. There need not be any comment or discussion for such readings. It is enough to know that the words of the Lord have been remembered. Additional readings from the Doctrine and Covenants: 63:49-54; 4324-30; 84:81-85; 128:19-25; 110:1-6; 121:1-6; 27:15-18; 84:99-102; 133:36-64; 122. — = eer! Oconee Esonttele in Home Training Lesson 7—Reverence Elder Joseph Jacobs For Tuesday, May 25, 1948 Objective: beginning of time I; VERENCE is profound respect or honor fora holy being or place or an exalted thing. _ One of the innate characteristics of human nature is that of reverence and respect for divine power—a power greater than that of man. There is something within the breast of every human being which instinctively reaches up for contact with his Maker, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment (Matt. 22:37-38). This is the true spirit of reverence. From a quotation in the Doctrine and Covenants we learn that immortal as well as mortal beings give reverence and devotion to Deity: And thus we saw the glory of the celestial, which excels in all things—where God, even the Father, reigns upon his throne forever and ever; before whose throne all things bow in humble reverence and give him glory forever and ever (76:92-93). Flow Should We Treat the Name of the Lord? Even the name of the Lord is To show that reverence is inborn, that it has been observed from the and that it needs greater emphasis in our lives today. Sacred and should be treated with great reverence. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain (Exodus 20:7). From Clark's Commentary we read: This precept not only forbids all false oaths, but all swearing where the name of God is used, or where he is appealed to as a witness of the truth. It also necessarily forbids all light and irreverent mention of God, or any of his attributes; and we may safely add to all these, that every prayer, ejaculation, etc. That is not accompanied with deep reverence and the genuine spirit of piety, is here condemned also, Whatever the person himself may think or hope, however he may plead in his own behalf, and say he intends no evil, etc.; if he in any of the above ways, or in any other way, takes the name of God in vain, God will not hold him guiltless—he will account him guilty and punish him for it. Jesus said, as recorded in Matthew 5:34°37: But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne: Nor by the earth, for it is his footstool: LESSON DEPARTMENT ly. This is the Teason the name of There are in the church, two Priesthoods, Namely, the Melchizedek and Aaronic, including the Levitical Priest. Hood. Why the first is called the MelchizWas such a g day it was called the Holy Priesthood, after the Order of the Son of God. B repetition of his name, they, the church, in ancient days, called that Priesthood af. Ter Melchizedek, or the Melchizedek Priesthood (D. & C, 107:1-4), How Should We Revere Sacred Places? Reverence for sacred places has been Tecognized from early Bible days. We tead in Genesis: And Jacob went out and. Went toward Haran. Ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to h blessed... Out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the ord is in this Place; and I knew it not. And he was afraid, and said, How dread- 139 ful is this Place! This is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heavy. En. And Jacob rose up early in the morn. Ing, and took the stone that he had 'put The story of Moses and the burning bush also depicts reverence for a sacred place: Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law, the Ptiest of Midian: and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and h is not burnt. When the Lord saw that he turned aside It is likely tence the nations of the East have or they may be furnished with slipPers which have been previously blessed, to slip over their own shoes, thus Preventing any pollution of sacred ground.. € temple of Solomon Was te- garded as the most sacred edifice in all of Israel. Even while it was be. Ing built every precaution was taken to keep it so. Note the following Passage: And the house, when it was in building, was built of stone made teady before it was We read about the Court of the Gentiles in the temple of Herod, ich j gentiles were An incident recorded in J[ Samuel shows in what reverence the Ark of the Covenant was held: And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote him there for his €rror; and there he died by the ark of God ( 6:6-7). An incident which demonstrates the feeling of Jesus toward Practices carried on in Herod's temple which Were contrary to the sacred character of the temple, is recorded in Matthew 21:12-13: How Should We Regard Our Temples Today? Just as in ancient times, so in Our day, the dedicating and sanctifying of holy temples are most carefully observed. Note the following ex. Cerpts taken from the dedicato Prayer of the Kirtland Temple, given to the Prophet Joseph Smith by revelation: And now we ask thee, Holy Father, in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of thy be administered to the children of men, we ask thee, O Lord, to accept of this now dedicate to thee, that it may be sanetified and consecrated to be holy, and that thy holy presence may be continually in this house; And that all shall enter sanctified it, and that it is thy house, a Place of thy holiness, And that this house may be a house of Prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of glory and of God, even thy have power to rise up and prevail over thy People upon whom thy name shall be put 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT in this house; and if any people shall rise against this people, that thine anger be kindled against them; and if they shall smite this people thou wilt smite them; thou wilt fight for thy people as thou didst in the day of battle, that they may be delivered from the hands of all their enemies. O hear, O hear, O hear us, O Lord! And answer these petitions, and accept the dedication of this house unto thee, the work of our hands, which we have built unto thy name; and also this church, to put upon it thy name. And help us by the power of thy Spirit, that we may mingle our voices with those bright, shining setaphs around thy throne, with acclamations of praise, singing Hosanna to God and the Lamb! And let these, thine anointed ones, be clothed with salvation, and thy saints shout aloud for joy. Amen, and Amen (D. & C. 109:4 ff.). From the dedicatory prayer of the Salt Lake Temple, given by President Wilford Woodruff, we read: O Lord, we regard with intense and indescribable feelings the completion of this sacred house. Deign to accept this the fourth temple which Thy covenant children have been assisted by Thee in erecting in these mountains.... We come before Thee with joy and thanksgiving, with spirits jubilant and hearts filled with praise, that Thou hast permitted us to see this day for which, during these forty years, We have hoped, and toiled, and prayed, when we can dedicate unto Thee this house which we have built to Thy most glorious name. One year ago we set the capstone with shouts of Hosanna to God and the Lamb. And today we. Dedicate the whole unto Thee, with all that rtains unto it that it may be holy in Thy sight; that it may be a house of prayer, a house of praise and of worship; that Thy glory may rest upon it; that Thy holy presence may be continually in it. These, and numerous other quotations which could be cited, show that various places and buildings have been pronounced sacred and due reverence for them is enjoined 141 ROEBUCK AND CO. January WHITE GOODS SALE It's the season for savings at Sears. Quality is at its peak. While prices hit moneysaving lows. SEARS Main or State at 8th South Dial 5-6651 Professional aie Social Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Uteb {eer POV OCC OC nt of the Lord. The members of Relief Society can do much to see that the clothing worn by themselves and their husbands and children in the sacred temples of the Lord is immaculately clean. No places on earth are more sacred than our temples, and, certainly, anyone entering a house of the Lord should be clean both within and without, both in his mind, and in his body. What Is the Responsibility of the Home in Teaching Reverence? The home has the first responsibility of instilling in children their earliest feelings of reverence, hence it is important that a reverential example be set in the home. The observance of family prayers, morning and evening, the blessing on the food, the reading of our Church works, are all helpful ways of teaching reverence to our children. Reverence for the Priesthood should be observed in the home. There should never be any criticism in the home against the Authorities of the Church. While these men are recognized as human beings, still they are individuals who have been chosen by God our Heavenly Father as his servants. In the army, even a second lieutenant is saluted by the enlisted soldiers because he holds a commission from the President of the United States. How much more respect. Should the holder of a commission from. God be accorded. Not only the President of the Church, but every one who holds the Priesthood,. Possesses a commission from our Heavenly Father. President Brigham Young stated: Whenever there is a disposition manifested in any of the members of this Church to question the right of the President of Deugued FOR GIVING JOY TO LIVING The famous EASY-TO-READ Crystal Clear NATIONAL BIBLE No. 452. Leather, limp, gold edges. No. 453. Overlapping covers with Concordence QUALITY €& MADE KING JAMES © VERSION National pipes SINCE 1863 AT YOUR: BOOKSTORE Go "All-Electric'! It's the Modern Way ia BUY,, FROM YOUR DEALER (A Utah Power & Light Co. Message) 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT the whole Church to direct in all things, you see manifested evidence of apostasy— of a spirit which, if encouraged, will lead to a separation from the Church and to final destruction; wherever there is a disposition to operate against any legally appointed officer of this Kingdom, no matter in what capacity he is called to act, if persisted in, it will be followed by the same results.... When a man begins to find fault, inquiring in regard to this, that, and the other, saying, "Does this or that look as though the Lord dictated it?" you may know that that person has more or less of the spirit of apostasy. Every man in this Kingdom, or upon the face of the earth, who is seeking with all his heart to save himself, has as much to do as he can conveniently attend to, without calling in question that which does not belong to him. If he succeeds in saving himself, it has well occupied his time and attention. What is that which turns people away from this Church? Very trifling affairs are generally the commencement of their divergence from the right path. If we follow a compass, the needle of which does not point correctly, a very slight deviation in the beginning will lead us, when we have traveled some distance, far to one side of the true point for which we are aiming (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 127-128; 1941 edition, page 83). It often seems that people who have the great privilege of living near the general offices of the Church, who often may see and hear the General Authorities, do not rightly appreciate such associations as would the brothers and sisters in foreign lands and even in the far-off stakes of Zion. Our appreciation should not be dimmed but enhanced by our close proximity to these great leaders of the Lord. What Is the Responsibility of Parents in Teaching Their Children Reverence for Ward and Stake Buildings? Parents can do much to increase 143 On the Fught TJrack! Are you "on the right track" to economical food buying? —The track which leads you to your nearest O. P. Skaggs System Store? There you will find quality foods at prices that will please you. 0. P SKAGGS D Cificient. Seriice System STORES i USIC CO. 5-5881 SUMMERHAYS M 17 W. First So. AND SELDON N. HEAPS are widely and i a dependably known. Let Mr. Heaps help you. For 25 years he has been helping others. Get acquainted | with him. He will | give you person- | al attention.: WURLITZER ORGANS—""Music's Richest Voice" PIANOS—Finest makes including SPINETS. VICTOR, DECCA, & CAPITOL RECORDS Choral numbers for the Relief Society and Choirs ae and foster respect for our houses of worship. Little children who attend meetings with their parents should be taught and shown by example the proper conduct to observe in the house of the Lord. They should be taught that reverence calls for quiet attention, and that boisterous or frivolous conduct is out of place. It is not becoming nor courteous for children or adults to leave a meeting before it is concluded, except in an emergency. It is observed, especially in general conference, that many people leave the meeting before the last song and prayer. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave us the following instruction in this regard: It is an insult to a meeting for persons to leave just before its close. If they must go out, let them go half an hour before. No gentleman will go out of a meeting just at closing (D. C. H., pp. 338, 339). SURI OULEEE Porter Walton's GARDEN BOOK FREE FLOWERS—tThe new and better annuals, perennials, bulbs, shrubs and trees. See them in our catalog —and have them in your own garden. Their beauty and fragrance will give you thrills of satisfaction. VEGETABLES—Big savings on family food costs and fresher, tastier, more healthful meals can come from your own garden. Plant a "Freedom Garden" to help increase America's food supply. You'll get biggest yields and extra flavor if —_ plant "Mountain Grown eeds.' Porter-Walton Co. P. O. Box 1619 Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Only LESTER builds the famous BETSY ROSS SPINET FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY va Wea 2 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH ¢ 144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1948 HELP... IDEAS.. INSPIRATION! For Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants teachers and classes— Excellent chapters on THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS in SEVENTIES COURSE IN THEOLOGY By B. H. Roberts Numerous selected passages from THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS in By Judge Henry H. Rolapp Related and compared with other scripture. DESERET BOOK COMPANY "BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" SALT LAKE CITY 10, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine GOSPEL QUOTATIONS 44 East South Temple Street $1.25 P. O. Box 958 Three Significant Gifts "WIST YE NOT THAT | MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS 2" The Visit of Jesus to the Temple at Twelve Years of Age ' BY President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. An invaluable reference book on temple ceremonies and sacrifices in the time of Christ. With illustrations. $1.50 postpaid. All rights and royalties assigned to Relief Society. ' ~~ == as THE OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN Blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid gold front with 24 carat gold-plated back, bearing the motto and seal of Relief Society. (Postpaid) 2.0222 22.2..2. Eeceeeeeeeteceeetceees $1.20 K Ke a "A CENTENARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY" An illustrated history of the organization and achievements of the Society through the first hundred years.........0........2.....50c —_- SEND ALL ORDERS TO GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY 28 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City 1, Utah Highs " oa) wt OMA H 19a ¥ THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp - Velma N. Simonsen - Margaret C. Pickering - - President - - - First Counselor - - - Second Counselor - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Priscilla L. Evans Evon W. Peterson Lillie C. Adams Mary G. Judd Florence J. Madsen Leone O. Jacobs Ethel C. Smith Anna B. Hart Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Louise W. Madsen Edith S. Elliott Blanche B. Stoddard Florence G. Smith Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 35 MARCH, 1948 No. 3 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Mission of Relief Society Mark E. Petersen 147 Relief Society Building News 151 The Establishment of the Relief Society in Utah ~....22.00.0...... Louisa W. Luke 162 Mormonism in the Eyes of the Press—IV—Mormon Reaction to Criticism in the Press........ EE sccm James R. Clark 173 FICTION Our Children's Children—Third Prize Story -.........: cccssssssssseccssscsesesesesceecsesessaeeceeeccoeesMyrtle M. Dean 155 The Visitors....... CecccsscecececcoeeseseessseeosesescaceeseessocessensaccnanscenessenensssseseesestoeaseesasireeeescoeseaseerenerenesataeeenaeesFay Tarlock 165 121006) Co § ole Deone R. Sutherland 186 Windy Hilltop—Chapter 2 Ezra J. Poulsen 194 Sixty Years Ago o.... Eccccecceceseeeeeeeeeeees Woman's Sphere ooeneecenceceecescecececeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Ramona W. Cannon 181 Editorial: A Challenge to Our Generation Special Short Story Issue Planned for April.... Cccceececscecececcoceeeeoecesensesenseeneneveneeeveneeee 183 New Serial to Begin in April _; Notes to the Field: Music for Singing Mothers.0....-....2:-: sces: cssssssssosecssesereeeeeeeFlorence J. Madsen 184 Notes From the Field: Fashion Shows, Bazaars, and Other Activities... Ee... General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 200 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Sentiment and Sanitation............. Grace A. Woodbury 177 A Party in the Irish Spirit: 2220.0... Ccc cccecec cece ccceceeceeeessee ecneeseceseeeseessneeseeusenenesElizabeth Williamson 192 Tightening the Kot o. N....... CccccccccceccsesccesesessceusussesseecsecseseeceseseeseneeescaneeseasescanseseseesAlice Whitson Norton 209 Soup—the Heart of the Meal 0.000.000....: Sara Mills 214 POETRY Spring Dusk—Frontispiece ee Christie Lund Coles 145 First Violets. Coeeceveneeensnes ene Romolo 150 Spring Will Come....... Susa Gould Walker 150 The Beauty of a Sunset 2. Ccc ccececteeee estes enteeee Marijane Morris 161 Roads nes. An cose Grace M. Candland 172 Gracious Torch............. Eects eceesesesesscacens seeC. Cameron Johns 183 Spring ire Utter onan eee cecc ec ecceecccesoeecesesecenecsneesncesvessesaeensecanessessnesacesueesusenseenseKatherine Fernelius Larsen 185 ACIS c= --onteentoasconsee es oneesceeeeenesAdeline R. Ensign 191 Remember and Forget oc... CcccccsscssssssnsseesnessesnessesvesvesuesvesessucenesnssussessessevenesnnssnsseeeneDella Adams Leitner 193 Recompense -o....... Cccccceecc seen. Thelma Ireland 193 Twilight 22... CccecccccceccecccscsssesessusovssesvenesouseesesnssesssusanessenssusasasesusntsnssuenssasserssuesesessssasseesseceeBeatrice E. Linford 199 "The Twain Shail Meet". Coeeeee —_- _.. - _uw.. Jeanette P. Parry 216 — a ee... John M. Freckleton 216 ee. Dorothy J. Roberts 216 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 38-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15e. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SPRING DUSK Christie Lund Coles The gray, madonna-hooded hills Lie still tonight, And far as eye can see, the sky Is platinum bright. The crystal air is petal-sweet, And as I pass Brief overtones wake in the trees And in the grass. The sky-born wedge of birds once more Slants near my door, While emerald green, the satin buds Leaf as before. This wild, sweet ache, Lest in this irridescent hour The heart may break. The Cover: Waterton Lake and Mount Vimy, Canada. Photograph by Hileman. VOL. 35, NO. 3 ' MARCH 1948 I make no sudden cry, nor voice Grace T. Kirton TULIPS The Mission of the Relief Society Mark E. Petersen Member of the Quorum of the Twelve Too Relief Society is one of the agencies in the hands of the Lord for the salvation of souls, and the women of the Church may become saviors upon Mt. Zion as effectively through it as they can in any other way. The need to save souls was never greater than at the present time. Probably in no other day have the forces of evil been so persistent as they are now in their efforts to weaken character, undermine the home, violate the sanctity of marriage, and destroy the very foundations of all happiness. The women of the Church have always been champions of the right. In the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith they rallied to protect his life and the lives of his family; they sacrificed to build the early temples of the Church, and when the time came to choose between the comforts of their Midwestern homes and the rigors of pioneer life as the price of religious freedom, they left those homes, crossed the plains, and with their husbands settled the valleys of the Rockies. 'They faced the dangers of childbearing without hospitals and often with no medical aid. 'They endured hunger and cold, attacks from Indians, and the affronts of the world. But, filled with faith and determination, and an understanding of their great objective, they applied themselves to the task. What we now have in the West came in large measure through their efforts. Without them, we never could have achieved so well. Through all their trials, they were saints and mothers combined—like angels of God ministering among men. They helped the poor, nursed the sick, prepared the dead for burial, taught culture, built character, and _ established faith. Great is their glory. In doing these things they carried out the spirit and the letter of the charge given them by the prophets of this dispensation through the medium of the great Relief Society organization which was established by divine guidance. The women of the Church have a great mission. It can be fulfilled most effectively if it is accomplished in co-operation with the organized Relief Society of the Church. The Relief Society is not a charity organization alone; it is a means through which homes are strengthened, communities improved, and souls saved. One day, while addressing the women of the Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: "The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants. The Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." He said that the sisters are to search after objects of charity and administer to their wants; assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community; avoid all evil, even its very appearance; they were to pray for one another, Page 147 148 learn to treat their husbands with mildness and affection, and have mercy on one another. He also told them that they were to practice the principles of holiness. [N the same spirit President Joseph F, Smith said that the Relief Society "has not only to deal with the necessities of the poor, the sick and the needy, but a part of its duty— and the larger part, too—is to look after the spiritual welfare and salvation of the mothers and daughters of Zion; to see that none is neglected, but that all are guarded against misfortune, calamity, the powers of darkness, and the evils that threaten them in the world. It is the duty of the Relief Societies to look after the spiritual welfare of themselves and of all the female members of the Church." On another occasion this great leader taught: "The objects of this organization are manifold. It is not designed to look only after the poor and the needy as to their bodily necessities, but it is also intended to look after the spiritual, mental and moral welfare of the mothers and daughters in Zion, and all who are engaged or interested in ferrale work. I commend the Relief Societies to the Bishops, and say, be friendly to these organizations, because they are auxiliary organizations and a great help to the Bishops." These inspired objectives shine like a beacon of safety now in our day. The homes and families of our communities are confronted with serious problems which require the individual and collective attention of the women of the Church. United effort can solve these problems, and the Relief Society is the one organRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 © ization through which can be channeled best the co-operative endeavors of those women. One of the great tasks before us is the preservation of the integrity of the home. Broken homes are becoming like a plague in America, Recent figures reveal that there is one divorce to every three marriages in the United States and in some areas divorces equal marriages in number. This calamity is moving into our own ranks. We need to be fortified against it. The Relief Society provides a great bulwark. Its program helps make homes more secure by training women in every phase of homemaking. Better homemaking makes better homes, and in better homes will be improved character development. This activity enters into the field of child care, also, giving assistance in this regard from the time of birth on. It is a great avenue of service. OTHERS are prepared in Relief Society more effectively to meet the growth of worldliness with stronger faith and a wider knowledge of the gospel. Testimony bearing and lessons in theology are important phases of its weekly program. Other cultural work further helps mothers to make better homes. The arts are taught. 'Touches of beauty are added to the surroundings. Homes become more pleasant. Leisure time is filled with activities which promote happiness and satisfaction on the part of the woman herself, and joy and commendation in the minds of husband and children. Education in literature is an important part of Relief Society work. New horizons ap- THE MISSION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY pear, bringing fresh hopes and higher aspirations. And then there is the opportunity to help others. Calls upon the Church Welfare Program are tremendous. These postwar years have revealed the great need for the relief work carried on by the Church. Many of our own members suffered much from the late war. Some are still in distress. But need arises at home, also, and in the future, with national and international affairs so disturbed, who can tell when it will be even greater? Budgets worked out by the General Authorities to meet present emergencies, require a great deal of organized assistance from the women of the Church. Sewing, canning, nursing, directly assisting the poor with shelter, food, and raiment, make heavy demands upon the women of the Church. Organized activity is essential. The Relief Society provides it. ORK meetings are arranged periodically, and the women in groups in their Relief Society rooms, canning centers, and gardens, or individually at home, accept the work assignments. Work meetings are not new to Relief Society women. They have been characteristic of the program from the beginning. Sewing and quilting gatherings were held both before and after crossing the plains. When Johnston's army threatened Utah, the women again went to work to do their part in defense of home and loved ones. While frontier conditions still existed in the West, these women studied hygiene and nursing, and were among the principal boosters of home industry. In 1882 they estab- 149 lished the first L. D. S. Hospital in the West at First East and South Temple Streets in Salt Lake City. They saved grain, helped the Red Cross, provided maternity care, conducted exhibits in fairs from coast to coast, erected Relief Society halls for the prosecution of their work, and made connections with other women's organizations on a worldwide scale. These women have never feared work. They have faced every situation as it has arisen. They will face those that will come in the future with the same willingness and determination. Their program is ever widening, in stakes and in missions. Where Latter-day Saints are, there is the Relief Society. Not only does it encourage women to participate in this great program, it urges their husbands on, also, in Welfare activity, in Priesthood work, and in all other righteous efforts. The Prophet Joseph Smith is often quoted as having said that the sisters are to "provoke the brethren to good works." Usually the quotation is not given completely as the Prophet originally gave it. This quotation actually reads: "provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor." Relief Society sisters should be ever diligent in searching out those in need. Bishops should be on the alert to have the Welfare program in their wards efficient enough to meet the needs revealed by the work of the sisters. It is all in the plan. Inasmuch as organized effort on a Church-wide scale is needed to meet the requirements of the day, it is most fitting that the Relief Society now plans for the erection of a women's building to properly house headquarters for these activities, to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE_Marcy 1948 Petpetuate the ideals of the Societ An Man—fro and to serve 4S a great Memorial fo those of th sou and usefulness tot urch and will all mankind of r Ive of those things Which homes and Communities of Part by the Contributions Of the Oday so sorely need. It is God's women thems ves, who are gather Organization for his faithéy] hand éteat undertakin mg funds from f, and near for this Maidens of th Reliof Society Building (en and in Many j ©S to make the demonstrating the fttepeateg h teach backbone of Relj | me teach Velopes in the h Which Relief Society members may place their dim | > Others are leaving smal] Of the Many ingenious m in Talsing the assigned ward | Te the Priesthood © program, In shops are writin ndorsing the ¢ Which g. Omes by Visiting Page 15] | Styles into Which the mone 152 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 Different methods are also being used to chart the progress in a ward. One ward has an arch twined with electric lights and a new light comes on each time a member pays her quota. Another ward had a neon-light building made, and the building is being outlined with light in proportion to the donations to the quota. Letters are reaching the General Board from sisters near and far containing contributions and expressing their joy in the undertaking. The following three are typical: New Jersey We.... Are sending you a check to be applied towards the building fund for the new Relief Society Building. We have five members belonging to the Church and one non-member. This is our last official act before disbanding as a Society. We are placing our names on. The roll of................. May God continue to prosper the work of Oklahoma I have just read the article in the December Magazine about the fund-raising program for the erection of the new Relief Society Building, I am sending my money to you because I haven't any idea where else I should send it. You see, there isn't a branch of the Church near here. My family are the only Latter-day Saints here. Some day we hope to have a branch here so we can enjoy the Relief Society and all the other organizations in our Church. Toronto, Canada Now that the great University of Relief Society is to have a new home, I am grateful to send my small portion. We Latter-day Saint women have been attending free of all tuition for over a hundred years, It's almost fifty years since I became an active member. I have known and listened to all the general presidents since Eliza R. Snow. All my days I have been indebted to the host of great women who have shared their faith and teachings with me, all for the love of the gospel and their sisters of all races and creeds. Nowhere on earth, even today, do women have the rich opportunities that are offered by our Relief Society, on such a broad cultural and spiritual basis. Many valiant ones who have had little formal schooling, because of Relief Society, are in the forefront of all the fine development that goes to enrich our lives here and hereafter, I've always been grateful that women of other religious groups were most welcome as members, ERRATUM: on page 86 of the February Magazine, in the list of wards having sent in their building fund quotas, the Beaver Ward was listed as being in Beaver Stake, Utah. This is a mistake and the line should have read: Beaver Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah). RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 153 STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS SouTH IpAHo Fats STAKE IpaHo Fats STAKE San Dreco Stake (CALIFORNIA) SAN DIEGO (CALIFORNIA), THIRD STAKE TO COMPLETE ITS BUILDING QUOTA Ward Presidents Give Money to Sister Bay to Complete Quota Sister Josie B. Bay, President, San Diego Stake (California) Relief Society, reports that the women of the stake began their fund-raising drive immediately following the October Relief Society Conference. Announcements were made in the wards and on November sth a reception was held at Sister Bay's home for all the women of the stake. From 10 a. M. Until 6 p. M. The house was filled with Relief Society members, reviving old friendships, making new acquaintances, and partaking of the hospitality of the stake board. During the day $1,057.57 was contributed for the new building. Efforts to complete the quota continued until, at the time of the stake convention, November 21st, $1,318.57 had been collected. Finally, a tummage sale was held to complete the quota. Ward presidents, left to right: Fern Wilson, Valencia Park; Stella Holladay, Hillcrest; Verda Willardson, National City; Ann Rogers, Linda Vista; Josie B. Bay, Stake President; Ruth Clinger, Fairmount; Ora Peterson, North Park; Faun Hetzel, La Mesa; Lucile Robinson, Ocean Beach. Mselor; Ry unn Society, Who is receiving the check for the building fund. The ach aS reported jn the F, ebruary Magazine. Ancos Ward, Young Stake ( Colorado ) ationa] City Ward, San Diego Stake (Califomig North Park Ward, San Diego Stake ( California ) Cean Beach Ward, San Diego Stake ( California ) n Taylor Ward, Shelley Stake (Idaho Temonton Second Vard, Bear River Stake ( Utah ) (UTAH), CONTRIBUTES FUND Shird Prize Story Annual Relicf Society Short Story Contest Our Children's Children Myrtle M. Dean lazily stretching her dainty white arms above her head and wiggling her toes beneath the snowy sheets. The sun was already filtering through the filmy white curtains, casting lacy shadows across her bed. More fully awake, she searched her mind for the cause of the depressed feeling that seemed to awaken with her. For a moment she saw only the beauty of the September morning. She heard the chirping of the birds in the maples outside her window. Then she looked about the room, her room, which her mother had made so beautiful and comfortable for her homecoming two months ago. Then she saw Greg's picture on her dresser, his dark eyes smiling straight into her own, his hair waving back from his broad, smooth forehead. It was the picture that brought her sharply awake, and brought back the poignant hurt that had encompassed her last night when she had discussed Greg with her mother. When she first came home in June from music school in Boston where she had studied for two years, she had intended telling her mother about Greg, about their love, - that Cea Dawn Bailey woke, MYRTLE M. DEAN he was coming for her answer in September. But something had held her back, and she had kept. Greg's picture tucked away in her dresser drawer. When she had been with Greg she had been so confident, but with her mother and her people here in Salt Lake it was different. She was afraid they would not understand, for he did not belong to her people and her Church. Yet she had not realized it would be this way, but would it make any difference? Surely, one had a right to love, and she Page 155 156 was sure it was love she felt for Greg. Here in Utah all through the Centennial summer every town had had its celebration. She had watched the thousands of people flocking to Salt Lake City, visiting the monuments, marching in a mammoth parade, unveiling a memorial, raising their voices in song and story in gratitude and honor to the people who had come to settle this valley. Her ancestors had been among the first to come here. When she had spoken to Greg about her religion he had said, "We can be happier without all those rites and ceremonies and traditions that go along with churches and tie one down." She had tried to tell him of her people's sacrifice for their Church, but he had called it a matter of necessity. Civilization would not harbor their practices. "That's what I call following a foolish tradition," he had said, "going through suffering and persecution for a religion and then singing 'All is well, all is well,' about it." Greg had made his argument sound reasonable, and she had heard how Great-grandfather Bailey had joined the Church in England and left all that he had and brought his family to America and started across the plains only to die on the way from exposure, and how Greatgrandfather Brown had frozen his feet as he crossed the Missouri River on the ice and had to hobble around on one foot the rest of his life, and Aunt Mary Blake had buried two children on the plains. Surely, any religion could not be worth all this sacrifice. Yesterday was the first of SeptemRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 ber. Greg would be coming in two weeks for her answer. She still felt that answer must be yes. I love Greg, she said over and over to herself, nothing else can matter as much as love. So she had taken Greg's picture from its hiding and placed it on her dresser. Across the corner of the picture he had written, "All my love, Greg." Carol knew the time had come when her mother must know. HEN, last night, her mother had brought fresh flowers to her room from the garden. Simultaneously, their eyes had fallen upon the newly placed picture. Carol's cheeks flushed a trifle. Her mother, a bit surprised, smiled, questioning with friendly interest, "Who is he, Carol? He is handsome, but—'All my love, Greg,' —why haven't you told me, Child?" Mrs. Bailey's voice did not hold suspicion or doubt. She had always trusted her children. "T love him, Mother. He has asked me to marry him." Carol was angry with herself that her voice was unsteady. Her hands trembled. She did not want to show doubt or indecision. She had made up her mind to fight determinedly for the right to love.. "It's all right, isn't it, Dear? You are sure you love him? You are sure he is right for you?" There was concern in her mother's voice, as she noted the anxiety in Carol's face. "He's right for me, Mother, but perhaps he won't be right for you, for the family. He isn't one of you. He is not a Mormon." Carol spoke a trifle defiantly. "Tsn't one of us, Dear," Mrs. Bailey corrected solemnly, then OUR CHILDREN'S CHILDREN sorrowfully went on, "It is al] my fault, Carol. I just didn't realize my little girl was towing up so fast. Ere have been 50 many things to think of since your father died, and time has passed 50 quickly," "Tt is not your fault, Mother, | fell in love, that's all," Caro] said, with pleading in her voice, But her mother went on dully, as though stunned, "I wanted you to have more than we could do for the I wanted you to do the things I never got to do myswiftly," Her mother kept calling her child. She cannot Tealize I am a woman, I'm twenty and in love with Greg, Carol kept saying to herself. She thought now of what her father had told her when she was a little girl, before he had died, " e named you 'Carol Dawn' because you were born at dawn of Christmas morning." She had almost believed him when he had said, "I think the Yes, Daddy had spoiled her, and too, with his foolish flowers of the garden singing like g ird. 157 Her mother had done for her what had not been done for any of the older children. She had been the last one and had b ling, this can be a Serious mistake." he had seemed so desperately earnest when she had said this. Him, Mother, him. Doesn't that mean anything to you? Does it al] have to be telj. Gion, Church, and loyalty to family and a people?" CAROL sensed that her mother knew there was 4 conflict going Now, s had told him avoided all this Pain and indecision. Eyes lighted with a gleam of hope, "Phil Davis wil] be home from his mission in a fey weeks, he is going to be surprised and disappointed, Carol. Carol brushed this aside lightly, "Phil and I were just kids, Ours Was just puppy love, Mother, | haven't heard from Phil for Six 158 months, not since I met Greg." As Carol continued with her rush of words, Mary Bailey almost 'wished she had not spoken of Phil. "Phil is a fine fellow," Carol said, "but I could never go out to a little town and exist like Bill and Helen or Alice and Don, nor settle down with seven kids like John and Betty. 1 want to be different. I am different. Don't you see?" Still, with patience, Mary Bailey continued, "Phil has spent two years on a mission for our Church." She tried to hide the eagemess in her voice, as though Phil's mission might make Carol feel some sort of loyalty. There was disappointment again as Carol spoke. "Yes, two years for his Church, which perhaps could have been better spent going to college preparing himself for a job that would take him away from this smalltown stuff, or he could have worked and earned quite a sum to make some good investment." "But Phil wasn't thinking of himself, Carol. He was willing to serve others, give them a chance to hear the truth," Mrs. Bailey said. Carol was ready again with her answer. "But Mother, so much time and money spent, and perhaps only one or two, maybe not even one person believing his words. You know our Don only baptized one person and our Bill only two. You and the whole family scrimped and saved, sacrificing for them to go, just for those three people to join the Church." "You do not understand, Child," her mother explained. "Don and Bill perhaps planted the seed of truth in many hearts that will grow and grow until some other elder RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 comes along to harvest what they sowed." Carol had hoped that the morning would bring peace and assurance of what her course should be. Instead, there was still this awful uncertainty and depression. She stood before the open window and gazed down, from her home on the heights, over the city. She tried to draw tranquility from the world outside. Soft white clouds floated lazily over the roofs. The ivy clung close to the white stone wall that hemmed the wide lawn. 'Tall marigolds bloomed in elegance beside the house. "The world is so beautiful and peaceful," Carol thought. "Why can't our lives be like that?" But over and over her mother's words of the night before kept repeating themselves in her mind, "You must choose for yourself, Carol. No one can do that for you." If her mother had not blamed herself, if she had accused and forbidden, it would have been easier to fight back. She did not want to hurt her mother, but she didn't want to hurt Greg and herself either. All through the day she battled this indecision. Evening found her almost ill from the emotional conflict of the day. She walked listlessly about the garden. A cool breeze fanned her flushed cheeks. 'The garden was bathed in moonlight. The fragrance of flowers came to her from all around. In the moonlight she could see the temple spires pointing upward and the angel holding his trumpet. Ever since she was a little gitl she remembered seeing the angel there, but she had gazed at it impassively. In a distant sort of way ighter sounded Tepresented a. Way of life as her standfather Said, "Of Course different from all the World, Now in she will come to her Senses, Ou, the tight Moonlight jt gleamed Carol Dawn wi] Not let ys down, | lal, € is just disillusioneg for the mMoMent. Yon have taught her What is ALL her brothers and her Sisters tight, as you did the others," ~ Nad been Matnied here In this Caro] Moved ag temple, Caro] thought of her olddig not want th He | she had known the ME€ssage the angel knew. 'Her heart felt a little li O r em est brother, Bill, d Ways card, but ¢ Cle was a little bit of CEN so st Y and fine He was 4 happiness n knowing that grand a shop 2 little town im had faith | h » What could Southern h O © would s € do about t? Ave liked ¢ MOve to a Wn where te entered the 4K door ang Is children Could haye better Went up the Stairs to go her room § Schools, but he said that Gog had As she passed her mother's g ed him to x ele Oor, she called hj 4 Position, and he Noticed it wa n the bed Would not ry ut on it "as a collection OF relics of Pioneer ohn liy On a farm jp Weber ays. They had Isplay in Ount € and Dor; » his Wife, town throughout the s Mer and di Tattly old cq > bu Y always went, wasa Paisley hawl ¢ Great-grand and they Paid a tenth f what th mother B yY ha d, greatMade fro beans Potatoes ang tandfather's Pearl-handleq cane, an milk and cream, for tithing, English Prayer book, a beautify] Alice was aS steady as the Rock Of feather fan of Great-aunt Zina's, and Gibraltar. €2 Don went On his aq lovely White satin Wedding gown Mission, She sent Wenty-five that was h Tandmother Brown' ollars fro her me g aNINgs to Carol] touched th gs careful] elp him, aying, "¢ ifice brings € picked UP a leat €I-COvered orth th blessings of heaven," atol book. 48 an old journal kept membered hoping blessings first by G Cat-grandfather Baile t heaven Ould t an the "Ssings of earth for all of hem. CAROL °Pened the ¢ ver. The S Carol neare the house she date Ptil, 1848 She read 159 160 ily, but it seems God wills it otherwise. I cannot go on. I pray our kind Father will take care of my dear wife and our little ones. John Bailey." Then there were a few lines written by his wife. Carol read them, wondering at the faith of these people who were her progenitors. "My dear husband, John Bailey, passed to his reward, June 6, 1848. May God watch over his lonely grave and keep me and our children in safety on our journey, and give us peace in the new land of promise." Elizabeth Bailey signed her name to these few solemn lines. How could they, oh, how could they praise God and ask his blessings when he had taken the father away and left the mother and children alone in that awful wilderness? Carol thought with bitterness. | This seemed to be a family record, for the next entry was made by her father's father after they had reached the Valley. He wrote of tilling the land, making irrigation ditches, of the building of the Tabernacle and the beautiful temple. Carol re-read his last lines. "We have tried to build well all we have done here, that it might stand for our future generations. We came here not for ourselves alone, but that our children and our children's children might grow and increase in faith and become a light to all the world." "Our children's children," Carol said to herself, softly, "and I am one of them. Oh, Grandfather Bailey, you must be so ashamed of me!" There was one more page, which her own father had written on_ his wedding day. "Today is our wedding day," he had said, "Mary Brown and I were married this morning in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 the Salt Lake Temple; not until death do us part, but for time and all eternity. Mary was as beautiful as an angel in her lovely white dress." Mother must have been a lovely bride, beautiful and good, Carol thought to herself, and she is still beautiful. I wish father could see her now. They were married in the Temple. That is the way father would want it for Greg and me, but it will never be that way for Greg, I am sure, Carol thought sadly. Until death do us part. That is how it would be with me and Greg. All this about marriage suddenly took new meaning for Carol. Her grandfather and her own father had both died and left their families, yet they were still theirs, through time and all eternity. Caro] closed the old journal and went slowly down the stairs, holding it in her hand. The radio was playing softly, and the Centennial singers began singing "Come, Come, Ye Saints." As they sang on, she felt that she could now understand how those people who first had sung it with such fervor must have felt when they said, "All is well, all is well." Then the voices sang, "High on the Mountain Top," and then "True to the Faith." As their words came out so clear on the air, Carol followed the words carefully. When they began the refrain she joined with them, and sang the words, "True to the faith, which our parents have cherished; true to the truth for which martyrs have perished; to God's command, soul, heart, and 'hand, faithful and true we will ever stand." She was one of the youth of Zion, and she must not falter. OUR CHILDREN'S CHILDREN As her sweet voice floated out on the air, the voices of her mother and grandmother on the porch became hushed. A flood of tears filled her mother's eyes. Carol went out to them, holding the old journal in her hand. She opened it to the lines her grandfather had written, and, taking her mother by the hand, she read, "We came here not for ourselves alone, but for our children and our children's children, that they may grow and increase in the faith and be a light to all the world." With thankfulness in her face, Mary Bailey said softly, "Oh, you 161 do believe, Carof Darling. I am so happy." "Yes, Mother," Carol said, "I am one of those children." Then, with a bright smile, she continued, "Did you say Phil would be home in a few weeks from his mission? I hope he will be glad to see me. Maybe he will be able to go to school here in Salt Lake this winter, and then I think I would even go out to his little town to live." Her face clouded a trifle for a moment as she said, "Good night. I have a letter I must write to Greg. I hope he will understand." little granddaughter. Time for writing." Myrtle M. Dean, Provo, Utah, has had a story and a poem previously published in The Relief Society Magazine. A busy housewife and mother, Mrs. Dean submits the following brief sketch of her activities: "I have always been interested in writing and have written stories and poems since I was a young girl. I have notebooks full of them, mostly in the rough. Children, four daughters and one son, and now have seven grandsons and one My husband, Charles E. Dean, has been a bishop's counselor for six years in Provo, and I have held offices in most of the Church organizations. So, with my Church activities and my family, I have had little I have five THE BEAUTY OF A SUNSET Marijane Morris The beauty of a sunset Is like some forgotten tune, Living for the moment, Then fading in the gloom. And yet, its loveliness, Like a dart, Will remain embedded In the human heart. Then something tender, Like a sad refrain, Recalls the sunset That did not die in vain. The Establishment of the Relief Society in Utah Louisa W. Luke HE history of the Relief Society is largely a history of the noble women who gave their all for the establishment of an institution which was founded, under the guidance of the Lord, by the Prophet Joseph Smith himself. The years that followed the organization on March 17, 1842, were, for the saints, crucial ones. During the persecutions the Society must have filled a great need. The call was to give aid and succor to the poor, sick, and needy, and to inspire to good works all the members. After the death of the Prophet and the fast-moving events that followed, there were no formal meetings but, as Emmeline B. Wells tells us, the spirit of the work went forward and the women kept in their hearts the desire and urge to aid and comfort each other. Especial mention is made of the service rendered by Vilate Kimball, Eliza R. Snow, Mary Ann Young, and Elizabeth A. Whitney, all these women having been in the organization under Emma Hale Smith, as president. They had little of material aid, but their loving service and spiritual strength helped many a family over the sorrows and trials at the time of the exodus. Those were days when the women were very close to each other. They were welcomed by the sick and sorrowful as they went from wagon to wagon on the long trek to the Rocky Mountains. Great spiritPage 162 ual strength came to them and they lived close to each other and close to their Father in heaven. There was an exaltation to their lives as they endured hardships and _privations, sickness and death, because they were unified in their purposes, in their faith, and in their loyalties to their leaders. We reap the results of the strength and activity of these men and women in the great commonwealth of today. No people could have developed widespread communities from the desert and the wilderness as they did, had they not had spiritual strength from God, unity in their purpose, and loyalty to each other. It may seem strange that a few years elapsed between the exodus and the general holding of Relief Society meetings in the new Tertitory. We know that during those years women were carrying on the work. 'They were aiding the sick, feeding the hungry, teaching the gospel, improving their minds, and all the while carrying on with the hard labor that goes into the establishment of a new community. The earliest organizations after the saints came West were made in 1851 and 1852, when scattered Societies were established and the sisters came together to assist each other in sewing and nursing, and to clothe the Indians. In 1855, President Young called upon the bishops to organize a Society in each ward. Among others, there is a record of Bishop Ara Hoagland of the Fourteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, organizing a Relief Society September 14, 1856, with Phoebe W. Woodruff as president. The work was interrupted, however, by the coming of Johnston's Army in 1858. LIZA R. Snow had found her place among the saints many years before, but these new developments gave her an enlarged opportunity to serve, to express herself, and to use her talents to the fullest. She was a most unusual woman, and in her day there were few with the energy and courage to express themselves in writing and speech as she did. When the Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo, on March 17, 1842, by the Prophet, Eliza was called to the position of secretary. In the succeeding years, she had carried on her duties as a keeper of the records and as a social worker. In 1866, President Young assigned Eliza and Zina D. H. Young the work of aiding the bishops in organizing a Relief Society in every ward and branch in the Church. They traveled over the Territory, enduring the hardships and privations of travel in those days. This was the real beginning of the work of coordinating and directing Relief Society activities from a central organization. Thus Eliza's life was full of great and varied activity. All her talents for writing, for helping her sisters, and for leadership were developed and put into service. This was preparation for the important position she was to hold in the last years of her life. On June 19, 1880, the first central organization of the Relief Society was formed, with Eliza R. Snow as president, Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as counselors, Sarah M. Kimball as secretary, and M. Isabella Horne as treasurer. These women had been schooled and tested for many years in the field of service to their fellow men and to their God. Their faith was deep and true. Their spiritual strength was powerful and enduring, and their talents were many. It was a fitting choice that President Young made at that time and he laid a firm foundation for the modern Relief Society that has grown and become a great power for good in these sixty-seven years since the first central organization was formed. Eliza R. Snow served as president until her death on December 5, 1887. Her whole life of service stands as a monument to her, and her fine writings tell the story of the efforts and achievements of her people and herself. T the death of Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young was called to the Relief Society presidency. Like Eliza, she came of New England parentage. She, too, bent all her efforts toward the intellectual advancement and betterment of living conditions of her people. In May of 1848 she began the journey to Salt Lake, walking, driving teams, and sharing in all the hardships of the saints at the time of the exodus. She taught the young, inspiring them to learn and to be active in their community. In 1870, at the call of President Young, she raised silkworms and established silk culture in the new Territory. In June of 1876 she began a course THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN UTAH 163 164 of medical Studies which helped fit her for Relief Society work in her in the homes of the as "the in home ham Young she was known Interest Other I raised my eyes to her standin Ctore the table we Were using, Suddenly, electric shock, my right-hand, ¢ Profound that they received blessings from God. The history of now and Young, the early Relief Society ptesthe women of the Church, a foundation "pon which the So. Ciety can tow and improve. A communication from Germany bearing the following interesting address was GREATEST WOME Offices of Relief Society: N ASSOCIATION Salt Lake City Nevada, U. S. A. Dents in Utah, 1 The Visitors Fay Tarlock HE news came during breakfast. The First Counselor telephoned that, in the absence of the Stake President, he wished my parents to entertain the daughter of Brigham Young and the wife of a millionaire; and that the illustrious ladies would arrive from Panguitch at about noon, to give a week's course in some special Church work. So began the enchanted week! Even today tiny details remain clear —the bnghtness of the summer morning, the music of the canyon stream, and the figures of my mother and my older sisters as they rushed upstairs and down. The ingrain carpet from the largest bedroom was taken up, beaten, and turned. The entire room was scrubbed, and the curtains and spreads swiftly laundered. My sisters worried about the beds. The springs were known to sag in the middle, but, after all, there was a bed for each lady, and so a little sag wouldn't hurt. Thorough cleanings were given the parlor and dining room. Then, merciful goodness! The large picture of Brigham Young, which had long ago adorned the living room, was found to be hanging at the dark end of the upstairs hallway. Father and mother spoke in favor of bringing it right down to the parlor to hang by Bonheur's horses. The sisters said no, definitely. It would look as if we were trying to impress. After a quick debate, the picture was placed in what was once intended to be the guest room, but which had evolved into a haven for old books and magazines and the winter's supply of dried fruit and com. Everything was done now, my mother said, except cleaning the sitting room. This room was a perpetual clutter of family living. My skin was tight with pride when I called Mother to see what I had done unaided while the others were working. In the kitchen there was a lastminute scurry to prepare the vegetables. Then we all changed into clean summer dresses and Father put on his second-best pants, and sat on the front porch to await the arrival. We were not as calm as we looked. For me it was as if someone had tubbed the magic lamp. Susa Young Gates and Elizabeth Claridge McCune were coming to our home! High Church people had been in our home before, but none so eminent as Mrs. Gates, a celebrity in her own right, in addition to her famous name. And the McCune name was a fabulous one. Rich people, I thought, were of a different world. Their manners, their dress, their very ways of thinking were beyond us. Yet tonight Mrs. McCune would sleep in my bed. It was not a long wait. Soon there came the noise of a car bumping its way to our street. Out of the dust emerged the First Counselor's car. The First Counselor, dark and dignified, opened the rear car door for two passengers, swathed in grayish Page 165 166 linen dusters aud veils. As they came towards us under the shade of the mulberry trees, they shook the red dust of Southern Utah from their clothes. Another year or so, and cars would be gliding over smooth roads. This day, however, some of our roads had a kinship with pioneer trails. The First Counselor brought the ladies hurriedly down the gravel walk to the front porch. He told the ladies, not without anxiety in his well-bred voice, that he was sorry the Stake President was away. They would, he felt sure, be comfortable with Brother and Sister Ollerton. Then he made a hasty exit, his very back showing his relief. The ladies, still swathed in veils, sat in the porch chairs. Among their bags was a large one with foreign labels. My hands itched to touch it. Father, as if he read my thoughts, picked up this bag and a still larger one, and started towards the stairs. Mrs. McCune, a slender, gray-haired woman, rose to follow him. RS. Gates, whose hair was a more beautiful gray, and who was heavier in figure, did not rise. Other than her brief greeting, she had been silent. Now she lifted her right hand, and in the voice of one used to command she said, "Elizabeth! Wait a moment!" Startled, as were we all, Mrs. McCune came back. What could be wrong with our house? It was a white brick one, made of the best native materials and put together by the best craftsmen in Parowan. Guiltily, I thought of the sagging springs. No, Mrs. Gates could not know of them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 Father was silent and puzzled. With us, he waited for the pronouncement, which came after a long, dramatic pause. "We are requested to stay with the Stake President," said the daughter of Brigham Young. Father started to say something, changed his mind, and set down the luggage. He went to the telephone, fastened on the wall. After he had cranked the handle and contacted central, there was a slight wait, probably to give the First Counselor time to get inside his house. Father stated his message almost as briefly and firmly as Mrs. Gates. Turning from the telephone, he told the ladies the First Counselor would come at once. Then with a suaveness of which we were proud, he sat down to entertain the ladies. He inquired about the journey, commiserating with them over the roughness of the roads, the heat, the dust. Mrs. McCune laughed, lightly and melodiously, as a great lady should. "I told Susa this morning," she answered, "that when we got to the railroad, I would faint in the arms of the first Pullman porter." Mother excused herself quietly and came back with a pitcher of ice water. Nowadays, ice water would be only a common courtesy, but that day it was a social triumph. There were few ice houses in Southern Utah, and we had one. The ladies fairly seized upon the water, unable to believe the tinkle really meant ice. Then father asked Mrs. McCune about her father, recalling a time long past. "Ah, my dear Father," she said, and smiled wistfully as she told of him. THE VISITORS Turning to Mrs. Gates, father asked her about some men in Utah's political life. Deftly he maneuvered the conversation to inquire if she were still writing. "It is time," he said, "that you gave us another John Stevens' Courtship." A light came into Mrs. Gates' eyes. She fairly scintillated as she talked. I could not take my eyes from her spirited face; her vibrant voice was like a spell. The chugging of the First Counselor's car was an unwelcome interruption. He told the ladies he would be only too happy to have them as his guests until the Stake President returned. Reaching for the bags, his gesture invited the ladies to rise. Mrs. McCune, on the edge of her chair, was poised for instant flight. Only Mrs. Gates was immobile. "We will stay with Brother Ollerton," she said, facing the now thoroughly mystified First Counselor, who stayed only long enough to tell the ladies he would call for them at two o'clock and convey them to the schoolhouse. Mrs. McCune, with a light step, ran ahead of my father and the bags. Mrs. Gates, walking behind, was dignified, her head high. I wondered if the picture should not be hanging in the parlor, after all. HE next morning, and each morning thereafter, I smoothed my braids, put on a clean apron, and knocked at the visitors' door. At my feet were two enormous white pitchers, one filled with warm water, one with cold. Pridefully I announced that first morning that by next summer there would be running water in the house, from the soon-to-be 157 water system. 'This did not elicit so much as a raised eyebrow from the ladies. I suspect now that they were a little weary of performing their ablutions in water from a pitcher. That was the last and only disappointment they gave me. 'The week became a veritable Arabian Night's entertainment, with two gifted Scheherazades to make each minute seem a second. No two women could have been more charming or gracious guests. Totally unlike, they had a genuine love for each other, and they gave generously from the rich store of their past. It was a quieter and a more innocent day. There were no radios; the movies were not common, The townspeople, awed, perhaps, by the luster surrounding the ladies, gave no entertainment for them. It may be that the ladies themselves requested quiet because of the labor of long classes. Whatever the reasons, we had them to ourselves during the late afternoons and evenings. Nights we sat in the parlor, leaving the doors open to catch the canyon breezes. The room was a large one with a rose-splattered, axminster rug, white woodwork, and ecru net curtains. For furniture there were bookcases, a parlor organ, a congress chair, and a round table, made long ago by Parowan's co-operative society, a low hanging wooden chandelier, wicker chairs, and a leather sofa bought from Sears and Roebuck. I thought it a charming room. The mealtimes were also memorable. The food was wonderful— fruit and vegetables fresh from the orchard and garden. There was thick cream, butter, freshly churned, and ice cream made on the back porch, along with homemade bread, 168 cakes, and pies. Chickens came from our hen house. In the morning there were omelettes, garnished with bacon and ham, home-cured. Mother brought out her best relishes and jellies to accompany her snowy Irish linen and her china with the wildrose pattern. When the sign "Fresh beef for Sail hear" appeared ina local store window, we had roasts and steaks, At first, Mrs. Gates came only to the noonday dinner, it being her custom to eat but one meal a day. One evening, however, she was in the parlor walking back and forth in her long black dress. "Is that what you have for supper every night?" she asked, stopping suddenly, and peering through the arch that separated her from the dining room. "Yes, every night," answered Mrs. McCune, "and it gets better every meal." Mother brought out an extra service and adjusted our seating to give Mrs. Gates her accustomed place at the foot of the table. From then on her conversation enriched every meal. MUc# of what they talked about was over my head, but I listened breathlessly. I sensed the things of which they talked—the universal problems of the human mind. Contact with Mrs. Gates' bright intellect stirred something within me for the first time. Best of the conversations were about travel. Even as a small child Thad a strong urge to see the world. Now the door opened slightly for me. Enchanted, I moved through art galleries and cathedrals. In awe, I watched the Pope give audiences in the Vatican. And I was silent beRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 fore the Roman graves of Keats and Shelley. Mrs. Gates was a leader in the fight for woman's rights. She had represented the women of the Church and of Utah on many a valiant battleground. Thirteen times she had crossed the continent in a chair car as a spokesman for some Utah organization. I can still hear her clear voice telling us that she went via chair car because there had been no money to waste on Pullmans, Mrs. McCune, who had a light heart and a delightful wit, told of being in London with a Utah friend whom I shall call Mrs. X. Mrs. X. Came in one day all aflutter. She had been invited by a member of Parliament to have tea in the House of Commons. Mrs. McCune was to go, also. "Now, Elizabeth," pleaded Mrs. X, "for goodness sakes, forget the Word of Wisdom for once. I could never stand the humiliation if you refuse tea." "I didn't want to humiliate anyone," Mrs. McCune told us. "I said that I would try to be wise and ask for a cup of hot water." They went to the House of Commons. Mrs. X sent up her card. They waited, Mrs. X nervous in her anticipation. The nervousness tumed to anxiety. Still no reply. "I couldn't stand to see her disappointed," Mrs. McCune related, "so I told her that we would go over to the House of Lords. I knew a member there." They went to the House of Lords, and were received by a duke who had been a guest of the McCunes in South America. For tea he took THE VISITORS them to a terrace overlooking St. James Park and Buckingham Palace. "You," said the duke, in his charming way, "do not drink tea." Bowin to Mrs. X, he smiled and said, "I am acquainted with the habits of Utah people. For the three of us today I shall order a special lemonade." That was a lesson to me. I could see the trio so plainly, a duke, with two ladies dressed in silk and ostrich plumes and white kid gloves, sipping lemonade on the terrace. Mrs. Gates took the mantel of Scheherazade. She told us a tale of a European tour in the company of the McCunes, her daughter Emma Lucy, and a number of Utah girls. Emma Lucy was a music student enjoying a holiday. It has never been my pleasure to know Mrs. Bowen. But she is a vivid part of my early memories. To me she is always a fair-haired girl with a golden voice and a radiant smile. All over Europe the other girls complained about the hotels, the trains, and foreigners in general, in the true tourist manner, but Emma Lucy of the golden voice enjoyed it all. One day, because she did not "grizzle," Mrs. McCune gave her a golden guinea. A guinea in those days bought something. There was the delightful story of Mrs. McCune's daughter who had five children and lived in France. A policeman tried to arrest her because she was running a school without a license. Five children, in Parowan, was a small family. And there was the guide in the catacombs. He was frankly showing off his European polish and gift of language before the stupid onefongued Americans. Mrs. McCune listened to him all through the dark 169 catacombs, then she turned to him and asked him a question in the tongue of the Ute Indians. There was one deflated guide. IFE was not all sitting at the feet of these captivating storytellers. There was work to be done! I had to churn. How I hated that chuming! Turning the handle of the big yellow churn while the cream slowly thickened and broke into globs of golden butter was a weary process, I was at the tedious routine when Mrs. McCune came to the back porch. "Would you let me turn it just a minute?" she asked me, as if it were a favor. I was aghast. Surely no one in her right mind would want to churn unless it were a necessity, but I relinquished the handle. She lifted the lid. "Oh, beautiful!" "Oh, beautiful!" "You wouldn't think it was beautiful if you had to do it as often as I do," I countered, twisting my apron. She smiled, and I know now that there was nostalgia in her smile. "J have done it many times," she told me, "not with a churn like this, but one with a heavy dasher." Smiling still, she tumed the handle until the butter was formed. After that I felt there might be a faint hope that I, too, could escape spending all my days with a chum. But I would never call it beautiful, Later, I was to learn more about Elizabeth McCune. Her story is one of the great Cinderella sagas, a motherless girl, who had lived on the socalled Muddy Mission, in Nevada. With the slender hands that I saw wearing diamonds, she had helped she rhapsodized. 170 her father build an adobe house. As a young married woman she had lived above a little store in a Utah village. 'Then, suddenly, just as in the fairy stories, she was wealthy beyond all thoughts of avarice. She traveled the world over, had a great home in Salt Lake City, and how many others I don't know, and knew the great and the near-great of the world. Always, she had the ability to adapt herself without sacrificing her integrity. "When you hear that I am nd of that big wickiup in Salt Lake," she told us, "you will know that it is the happiest day of my life." She wanted a bungalow on a quiet side street. I had an extra duty that week, a duty I did not relish. It was to protect Mrs. Gates from the cattle of Patowan. Occasionally a cow or calf would go astray when it was turned into the street for its watering. Often as not some owner would allow his calf to graze the grass off the sidewalks and streets. On our own place calves were forever on the lawns or in the orchard. Whenever Mrs. Gates walked about I accompanied her, armed with a stout stick. At home I did not mind. I could giggle about it secretly with my sister Sadie, but the day I had to escort the ladies uptown, I was downright humiliated. It was washday. Mother made it known to some of the Relief Society sisters that she wished the visitors invited to dinner. A dear, gentle lady who was related to a high Church family offered her home. We walked the six blocks in the hot noonday sun, I going ahead with my stout stick. There was only one calf abroad; it was dozing in the shade. Hurriedly I left the ladies at RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 the gate. I wanted no request to return later. The week was racing along. One night, unannounced, the Stake President came with his wife. They had returned only an hour earlier and had come to offer their home to the ladies. 'Their house was a large one, far better furnished than ours. The Stake President, himself, was an engaging man, with a charming little wife of Scotch descent, witty and generous. I was fearful lest the visitors would decide to go. Again we were all waiting for Mrs. Gates to speak. Never one to lounge, she was sitting upright in the wicker chair. Quite casually, she faced the Stake President, thanked him, and said she would not think of leaving. Mrs. McCune said quickly that she preferred to remain with us. My heart was suddenly light. THAT night Father got Mrs. Gates to talk about her writing. She was a woman of tremendous vitality. When she talked she imparted some of it to us. I think we would have stayed up all night without tiring. John Stevens' Courtship had not been mentioned since the first day. It was Father's opinion that this book was the best one thus far to come from Utah writers. He wanted to know about its writing. Much of what she told us is gone from me, but I do remember that the fairhaired heroine was drawn from life, with her daughter, the present Mrs. Widtsoe, as the model. She told us that all of the incidents connected with the United States Army were based on actual happenings. The last day came too soon. Dinner was special, with the best of THE VISITORS everything. My sister Anne, who has a light hand with pies, made her choicest. Each was given a generous fourth. We ate the pie almost in silence, a tribute to its delectableness. The silence was shattered bya sudden noise from the foot of the table. It was made by Mrs. Gates clapping her hands together. "Anne!" she called in the vigorous tone I was to hear many times later in Utah tabernacles. Anne hurried in from the kitchen, a startled look on her face. "What other kind of pie have you?" the lady wanted to know. "Lemon," answered Anne, relieved. Mrs. Gates dropped her hand on the table in her regal gesture and said, "I will take a piece." There was a dreadful moment when Sadie and I might have forever disgraced our house by giggling. Not even the pressure of Mother's foot could save us. It was Mrs. McCune who did. "T, too, will have another piece," she said to Anne, just in time. Father immediately ordered a second. It ended with all of us having another piece. Right after dinner Mrs. McCune followed Anne into the kitchen. When that lady had gone upstairs, my sister came in to say in a low voice that Mrs. McCune had invited her to stay at the McCune home during the coming Teachers' Institute. How wonderful, I thought. Mrs. Gates had told us about the great stone house with its pink satin and gold ballroom, the crystal chandeliers, and marble statues brought from Italy. She had made us feel the soft thickness of the velvet rugs, 171 had described the oil paintings from famous masters. And there were bathrooms for almost every bedroom! Yet Anne did not want to go. She was fearful of the elegance and did not want Mrs. McCune to feel that she was obligated to invite her. Mother did not know how to advise her. It was Mrs. Gates, with her understanding heart, who helped in the decision. She told Anne that Mrs. McCune sincerely wanted her. "You do not get opportunities like this many times," she appealed. "You will feel as much at home in Elizabeth's mansion as we have felt in your home." Anne went, taking a cousin with her. Both of them enjoyed every minute. It made a perfect ending to our enchanted week to hear first. Hand about the ballroom and the servants who even made the beds. The last dav was also the one in which I learned a lesson in values. My Aunt Juliette stopped at our house on her way from the afternoon classes. The visitors had not yet returned. Aunt Juliette was a large, handsome woman, beautifully dressed in the basic black of the day, a swishing taffeta, and a feathered hat. "T said to myself," the Aunt was saying, "that if Mrs. McCune could wear a patched dress I needn't be too proud to wear one, too." Then she chuckled, "It wasn't any better patched than if I had done it." OVERTLY I watched Mrs. McCune when she came home. She had worn the same dress most of the week, and I had seen no patch. I watched her raise her right arm. There was the patch, plain as day. Why did she wear the patched the § take Presiden t. Parowan. I shall They got in bumpi When.... Neither did the yj he thank-you letters day the mai] b Mrs, McCune J never sq ough my Parents did But Mrs. Gates | saw first time was in a Sal restaurant, J Was unde W again, ROADS I hold my destiny withi And life wil] give me w n my hands hat my heart demands, I V—Mormon Reaction ( history ) literature since that time, the Prophhe saw name, and sai Pointing 'to the other— This ig my Beloved Son, hear him, Immedig tely encoun tere and Persecution. Fourth and last installment of a Series TO Cririctsy, In TH Press of articles dealing with early Latter-day Saint or livestock for Sale, Ment was; Smith in Claims, and which had taken the form of Malicioys Tumor the body of Alvin Smith, Tother of the Prophet, had Tom its Testing place Smith fo) h e J ith t e future Latter ay Saints ¢, 8tasp What the ne SPaper could Mean in the redress of their Ongs. It is perADS also Significant at this initia] use of the Newspap came not jn the form 6 letter oy article to 4 iendly editor, but; form of a Tr ayed against 3a 7; many Newspapers Published the Prospectus tion may also be Considered to be the "Pet, yet appears have donc. ° calunniate the editor, than Bive Latter-day Saints followed through. Publicity to the forthcoming Periodical] Out the periog from 1824 to 1850, Editors thought to do us harm, while the ly, ¢ of th use of the ublic Saints Tejoiced that they could do nothing wauly, that of the 'ble 'eainst the truth but for it, lished in the Newspapers and circulated in As con troversies arose in Missouri every direction, to prevent People from between the Saints and their neighinvestigating the ork, or e bracing the OTS, Teports of € difficult; b faith, "A éreat earthquake in China, Which to appear in the Newspapers and both destroyed from one to two Ousand jn. D Mi: ti abitants was burlesqu Some papers, §ToUups use © Missouri Papers to as "Mormonism China," Present thejr Case to the Public In a let er writt from K tlland, ti Independence > Missour; With Ww tson Hyde o issouri dif. "'PS as edito first Issue Culties as Published in the Missour; of The venng and th Ornung €publican Said it wa t va T reached Joseph Sm; In Kirtance with the Teports he ha eand, Ohio, in July 1832. In Ccomrelved — through Private letters menting on th; first issue of the (DH. C,; ) Interestin tst La day Sai Penodical, Jo thing about this ™MmMunication Seph Smith said Edward Partridge Is the fact that Jo. Delig ced, was fontemplate seph Smith seem to have given at that the lite] d of brethre d become Cast some credence t, the Teports in ° Be, and grown 80 strong, in so short Missour; Republica even t arts, also, which wout} eatify and enlighten structed Edward Partridge to gaththe humble inquirer after truth, er the correct information and send So embittere was the public mind _ it immediately to Kirtland, Ohio, so b 4gainst the truth, that the press Universally that he could In turn, "give the Pub- MORMONISM IN THE EYES OF THE PRESS lic correct information on the subject." That as early as 1833 Joseph Smith did not overlook the possibility of using a political as well as a religious newspaper, to present the Church point of view, is evidenced by another statement from this same letter to Edward Partridge. He said: We expect shortly to publish a political Paper, weekly, in favor of the present administration; the influential men of that party have offered a liberal patronage to us, and we hope to succeed, for thereby we can show the public the purity of our intenticn in Supporting the government under which we live. The party referred to was the Democratic party under the leadership of Andrew Jackson. Enough has been given from the writings of Joseph Smith to indicate his attitude towards newspapers as an instrument in presenting the Church viewpoint and to indicate that he was conscious of the fact that the press exerted influence in shaping public opinion. The Latter-day Saint Church issue was only one of many controversial issues occupying the press during the thirties and forties of the past century, and the saints were not the only group that was being criticized. But editors seemed to exercise unusual editorial prerogative in their handling of the news of the Church, especially in not printing articles which Joseph Smith and other leaders sought to have published. Although it is quite certain that the Latter-day Saints were not the onl group thus unjustly dealt with by the newspapers, it was undoubtedly this adverse treatment in the public press which called forth from Parley P. Pratt an answer, in book form, which 175 has been one of the most widely printed and circulated pieces of Church literature. In his preface to the first edition of A Voice of Warning and Instruction to all People, published in New York in 1837, Parley P. Pratt said: During the last seven years the public mind has been constantly agitated, more or less, through all parts of the country, with the cry of Mormonism, Mormonism, Delusion, Imposture, Fanaticism, etc.; chiefly through the instrumentality of the press. Many of the newspapers of the day have been constantly teeming with misrepresentations, and lying slanders, of the foulest kind, in order to destroy the influence and character of an innocent Society, in its very infancy; a Society of whose real principles many of them know nothing at all. Every species of wickedness has been resorted to, and all manner of evil has been spoken against them, without the Ppossibility of being heard for a moment, saying we do not wish to hear you, we know enough of your principles already; the newspapers, or our good preachers, have told us about you.... Under these circumstances, what could be done? How were we to correct the public mind? We were few in number, and our means of giving information very limited; the columns of most of the Papers were closed against us, their prosperity being at stake the moment our principles were admitted; it is true we published a monthly paper, in which our principles were clearly set forth; but its circulation was limited to a few thousands.... Having said so much to impress upon the human mind the necessity of hearing, and then judging, I would only add, that the object of this publication is to give the public correct information concerning a religious system which has penetrated every state from Maine to Missouri, as well as the Canadas, in the short space of seven years; organizing churches and conferences in evely region, and gathering in its progress from fifty to an hundred thousand disciples; having, at the same time, to sustain the shock of an overwhelming religious influence, opposed to it by the combined powers of every sect in America. What 176 but the arm of Omnipotence could have moved it forward amid the rage of mobs? Having to contend with the prejudice of the ignorant and the pen of the learned; at war with every creed and craft in Chnstendom; while the combined powers of earth and hell were hurling a storm of persecution, unparalleled in the history of our country.... HIS quotation states the general attitude of the majority of Church leaders toward the press of the period. The following reaction of a Latterday Saint, as recorded in his diary, is typical of a number of comments from diaries of Church members who were not General Authorities. Jesse Wentworth Crosby, born November 25, 1820, in Yarmouth, Nova Scotia of British parentage, emigrated to Chautauqua County, New York with his parents in 1822. In 1838 he was baptized into the Church in Chautauqua County. In an entry in his diary for April, 1839 he said: The time passed... It was now April, and all things being ready we set about for Missouri—one thousand miles distant (1000) traveling by land with horse teams and lodging in our wagons; but before leaving our neighbors called often and _remonstrated with us for taking, as they thought, such a random journey. One said, "Have you read the news: Why the Missourians and the Mormons are at war, they are killing and destroying, and will you persist in going, and running into danger and death?" We replied, "We have warned you by words, now we wam you by light. If danger or death gets in our way, we intend by the help of God to face the same like men of God, and show all men by example that we have embraced no fiction but an eternal reality, and when the secrets of all hearts are revealed, then, if not till then, you shall know that we are not deceived." This excerpt shows that Crosby, learning through the press that the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 Church he had joined one year previously was having serious difficulties in Missouri, still manifests a determination to "gather to Zion" and, if "necessary, give up his life in the cause. The statement also indicates that Crosby's neighbors accepted the newspaper accounts and sought to dissuade him from going into an area where he was certain to meet opposition and persecution. It is also evident from Crosby's reply that he or his family had attempted to proselyte their neighbors and had failed, but that they were still speaking to each other despite the rumors afloat in the press. Certainly, a neighbor who comes on the eve of departure to attempt to dissuade one from a course of action which he feels is 'a random journey," and one fraught with "danger and death," is acting the part of a friend. Why did Crosby and his neighbors seemingly remain on friendly terms despite the unfavorable newspaper comments? Why did they fail to follow the usual reaction to bitter criticism and rumor? An explanation of the continued friendliness of Crosby's neighbors, despite the adverse criticism of the Church in the press, may lie in Crosby's seventeen years residence in the community. I have found numerous other examples which seem _ to indicate that the saints withstood criticism in the press better in those areas where they had been resident for a considerable length of time, and when the uprightness of their characters had been manifest over the years. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? (Matt. 7:6). Sentiment and Sanitation Grace A. Woodbury ARCH conference, in the town where I was reared, was, by the ambitious and thorough housewives of the town, preceded by house cleaning. Room by room, from attic to cellar, sorting, sunning, and cleaning were carried on with a zeal almost catastrophic as far as the comfort of the family was concerned. Regardless of how uncomfortable and tiring it was for the older members of the family, it was a time of fun and excitement for the children. It meant bonfires made from the straw that came from under the carpets, dancing on the carpet spread out on the grass, and playing house in the tents made by quilts and blankets hung over the clothesline for sunning. I recall that the smell of clean straw, freshly whitewashed walls, and bonfire smoke was as much a part of spring to me as were the fragrance of locust and plum blossoms, the croaking of the frogs in the swampy grass, and the meadow larks singing on the pole fence. Along with the happy memories, come those of the days when we cleaned the upstair playrooms. I have a vivid picture of my mother coming up the stairs with an evaluating gleam in her eye, which meant that she was going to sort over our playthings. We, my two sisters and I, had some young aunts, who gave us many, so we thought, lovely things to play with, old fans, perfume bottles, candy boxes, outgrown dresses and hats; in fact, anything they did not want or need found its way into our playrooms. Realizing, as we did, that these sorting days were an inevitable part of spring and fall house cleaning, it was always with justified fears of being plundered that we watched mother, from her low stool-throne render judgment as to what should be done with our possessions. "This," she would say of some limp lawn or dimity dress, "isn't fit for anything but dusting and cleaning cloths, and this," holding up a gingham dress or percale apron, "will make a pretty stripe in a carpet. These woolen skirts I will ip up and use the best part for quilt blocks; the rest I can use in a, braided rug." After our "dress-ups" had been sorted into various heaps on the floor, mother would turn her attention to our efforts at decorating our playhouse. After an appraising glance, she would say, "Hand me those crocheted woolen tidies from your doll bed and little chair—such rubbish—why anyone would want to waste time, eyesight, and yarn on them, is more than I can understand. 'They harbor moths and must be burned and so must these old hat feathers and artificial flowTai 4 Sometimes we wept over the loss of our treasures, but mother cheered us up by saying, "Don't cry. A month from now you will have a new collection," and we always did. Years later when I had the responsibility of deciding what to Page 177 Save and lize and What to burn OT crocheted Tugs Se faded Sofa Elve to the Junkman, | Tealized that Pillow €Is, old Cather 4. S, MY mother had lC€ above ryp. SCarves, and ble r mers that you les" becay of her abj] ty to keep ave used 8; fade cretonne Tom being sno d under with bags "apes and old Preads; yes those Oxes of Nused an unusable Id car Seat covers can be used, and atticles, [¢ ave falle short of athrobes, d even Socks, J shal] WIREMD to hes aNing it js because, tell you More abo Short] 50 she said] didn' have a £00d old an't y JUSt Visualize 4 lot of those Soon as th Y became use] Ss "ag Cutting ang Sewing? If OWever Ith our &tandmothers amd you do Not hay, Y Spare time and Mothers, wh had to ake their do not care & lugs, give your Carpets, Tugs, and quilts, the Saving Materia] to the Rel; f Society Or t Of every Scrap of cloth and old cloth the €seret In ustries, [,, US no Ing wa Necessity, Ho ever, to Set "snowed under" Ithout a thaw use thej Words they liked to in sight €ep their "atpet rags and quilt Now about the Socks, During the Pieces Worked UP; then they did not war J found a large box full of wornbecome a burden, Out ones, that for some Teason, long at Procedure IS as 200d today since forgotten, I had Saved, @ae. AS it was then, and even though we four boys were all away from home, do not have to make Tag Carpets in helping IN various Ways to win the Order not to have bare floors, Woven war. Those dozens 'of old socks Tag Tugs stil] have € in our brought } "ny, shall we sq homes. Y can be made to fit in Poignant an live] Memories Since with any Olor sche 3 they can 5 Couldn't bear to burn the Socks, J Tons, an ayon articles make "ay, "Wi wiiag One Continuous length of Satisfacto ) Better Tugs are yard or more Statifying to Made of al] Ohe king Material. Fing how quick "nough socks to viously, a TUS made of Wool and make g TUg could be Cut and sewed Cotton woulg f wash as Well or Thanks to the yen that the tw Weave as e enly as ag all-wool or younger boys had for tight sty; ed all-cotton fo) H ever, cotton and pattern d hosj Y, the ry has §00ds an ayon underwear 5° Well some Stripes that STM Ont Hille together. 800d deed jn 4 Naughty world, and Make a ha PY contrast with the r lS Teally SUIPrising how Many «dore subdued browns, tans, Stays,; a that silk and rayon Stockings also Since hope js SUPPOsed to spring make attractive Tugs. I made One eterna] €ven in a Collectoy's breast, | 4M justified jn Ty future Plans, be. Found basket. Tug, when fin. Puved of their Tadiance; | have ished is, to describe jt Tamatically, Some newer; €as_ about COverin # Symphony in tan, and lining fiye. Lon roog Paint cans ° Serve the dun "tPOS€ of a has about that old Proverb, "A, a twig lect also Contains 4 sad flatiron, is bent, the tree js inclined." I knoy, clumsy, heavy, and slow, but jt away that thieves if th Id break en, of Course think 6 th M, Would n are to Steal, and in dresses, 4prons, an fled PettiWhich moths fj Tefuge Coats tha ete ironed h it ot enerally Speaking, ang I realize long 480 someone tf, Id m that just Sa do collect tnings—everything, In dependable doorstop, and Suggested fact, from buttons to bric-a-brac. Some provement, designed to things collect O Se-cleaning fully into it © I cannot re me many of th Se last ntioned Member jyst at it was that she Collections given € junk Mentioned ight have ee man, but often 6 € does not have the adorning It with g Petunia or a hollyMoral fortity Part with Colhock > With or wij hout the dec €ction 0 88, either because of Oration, | must Use of that sentimenta] Value, because One iron 4s hopes of doing s Mething with Once | Owne Collection of M some d nicked Cracked, an herwise da NOW whereof speak, for there age dishes, but th t was before Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1888 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women or Att Nations" FREEDOM OF. SPEECH: How fiercely we pounce upon our best friends when iheir opinions are the opposites of our own! How little we tolerate liberty of thought in others, though claiming it so passionately for ourselves —T. Tilton REQUIREMENTS FOR NURSES: The six qualifications for a good nurse are: Presence of mind, gentleness, accuracy, memory, observation, and forethought—The Children's Hospital, London THE SABBATH DAY: The sabbath is to the rest of the week in spirituals, what summer is to the rest of the year in temporals; it is the chief time for gathering knowledge to last you through the following week, just as summer is the chief season for gathering food to last you through the following twelve months.—A. W. Hare PASSING AWAY Is it well to look back to the days that are gone, Is it well to remember the sunshine and song? Do they help us the better life's labors to bear, Will they help us to win to that home over there? I know not, but oft in the twilight's still hours, There steals on my sense, like perfume of flowers, Sweet dreams of the past, and they soothe me to rest Like a message of love from the land of the blest. —Hope MISS ALCOTT'S ADVICE: Girls, don't be in haste to wed. Build up healthy bodies by good food, plenty of exercise, and sleep. Learn all the useful household arts before you attempt to make a home. Cultivate your minds with the best books that you may be able to teach your children much that school training alone will never give them. Choose your amusements wisely, for youth must have pleasure, but need not waste itself in harmful frivolity. Above all, select your friends with care. Avoid girls who live only for fashion, flirtation, and enjoyment, and use the privilege all women may claim of declining the acquaintance of young men whose lives will not bear inspection by the innocent eyes of women. Let no delusion of wealth, rank, comeliness, or love tempt you to trust your happiness to such a one. Watch and wait till the true lover comes.—Selected. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN BEAVER STAKE (UTAH): | Sister Ruth Tyler said the sisters in her ward were trying to take care of the poor and perform all their duties. 'The labor of caring for our families is great, but we must try to devote a portion of our time to the work of the Lord, and he will bless us with his Holy Spirit." Sister Hattie Fotheringham said: "We should try to overlook one another's faults and cherish a spirit of forgiveness toward all. We should try to improve our minds and bless those around us. Sister Mary Ashworth spoke of the responsibilities of mothers in raising their children and said it was our privilege to enjoy the spirit of the Lord in performing our duties. Sister Delia Cox said: "It is not the actions of others, but our own actions that will condemn, or save and exalt us.'"-—Louisa Jones, Stake Sec. Page 180 N excel] man author;. « omen - are more than half of the World's toy VIS. Stewart has also Population. No war Could be con- €en invited to be the honored ucted than eeks with. Woman at the Mortar Board Wom. Out their O-Operation " 2) EDITORIAL co MARCH 1948 A Challenge fo Our G eneration "If the time ever comes that women are organized for the sole purpose of human uplift, it will be a force for good such as this world has never known." —Matthew Amold N March 17, 1842, the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were organized, by a prophet of God, for the sole purpose of human uplift, and for the past 105 years they have been a mighty force for good. During the year just past, the Centennial year of the Church in the West, we have had frequent occasion to look back over the accomplishments of our people during that one hundred years, and we have found their accomplishments great, and the women of the Church, no less than the men, have made great contributions of service for human uplift. The achievements of Relief Society women, both in public life and in the home, stand today as a monument to the power of their faith and service and as a challenge to our generation. Today we stand with our faces both ways. We look backward with pride on the accomplishments of the past. We have walked the first mile. We also look forward with anticipation to the opportunity for accomplishment that is before us in the year 1948—the first step in the second mile. We are the generation Page 182 that will travel the second mile and its accomplishments will be what we, as individuals, make them. What can we Relief Society women do today to wield that great force for good? We need not go out and look for new fields of conquest; we need to concern ourselves in giving of our talents to the problems of our everyday life. Never in the history of our world has there been a greater need for women to strive for the maintenance of the true Latter-day Saint home. Let us get a comprehensive understanding of the gospel and make sure it is being taught and practiced in our homes, Let us rediscover the loyalty of Our pioneer mothers, loyalty to the gospel, to authority, and to our families. Let us establish the practice of family prayer. Let us keep the Sabbath day holy. Let us develop faith, Tove, cheerfulness, and peace in our homes and within ourselves. Then will the spirit of the Lord dwell within us and it will radiate from us, thereby magnifying us and making us a force for good, in our homes and communities, V. N. S. Special Short Story Issue Planned for April THE April 1948 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be a special short story issue, with favorite authors, already familiar to our readers, as well as some new authors, being represented. The editorial department of the Magazine will be happy to receive comments from our readers regarding these stories. New Serial to Begin in April HE first chapter of "Questing Lights," a new serial by Belle Watson Anderson, will begin in the April issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The scenes in this unusual and entertaining romance alternate between the Scotch countryside and the American West. The life-size characters play out their roles in a drama of struggle, strength, and loyalty. The final decision is based upon a serious and thoughtful weighing of fundamental values which might apply to any individual in any period of the world's history. The author, Belle Watson Anderson, is now a resident of Mesa, Arizona. In her writing she displays a keen interest in historical and geographical backgrounds and a deep and authentic analysis of human motives and ideals. Her dramas and short plays have been widely presented throughout the Intermountain Region and her poetry has appeared in the Utah Magazine, The Improvement Era, The Deseret News, and in The Relief Society Magazine. GRACIOUS TORCH C. Cameron Johns Friendship is the sudden widening In the lonely corridors of the heart's defense: It is the gracious opening from the labyrinths Where each of us must walk alone; The torch upon the hidden darkness Where placid conceits and vanities are disclosed; It is the betrayal of all the heart must hide In one great risk to conquer loneliness, Page 183 Society Genera] Board 'Three-Part Sacred Choruses fo Women's Voices Title Composer Publisher God Is Lo € (not difficult ) Shelley, No. 4562 G, Schirmer aith, Hop d Love Shelley, No. 4600 G. Schirmer ay Now Y Spirit (not h h) Seo uetkey-Trehame Willis Music C » 6241 Come to Me (Moonlight Sona: ta) (not high) Beethoven, No 7813 G Schirmer The King of Love My Shepherd Js Shelley, No, 7172 G. Schirmer The King of Glory atks, No, 1776 - Parks Invocation (can be used for fun. Erals Moore, No, 962 A. J. Parks fateful O Lorg Am I (not dif. Ficult) Roma, No, 2W163 Witmark Ow Lovely Are Thy Dwellings Liddle-Cain, No, 1758 Oosey & Hawkes The Good Shepherd (not diff. Cult) Barri G, Schirmer Come Unto Me Schaikowsky Riegger Flammer 9. 89013 The Lord Is My Light Allitson-Samuelson, No. 1470 Boosey & Hawkes Thanks be to Thee andel (no umber ) alaxy Music Corp, Praise Ye the Father unod-Bliss, No, 2797 Willis Music Co, T Come to Thee (can be used for funerals ) (medium Tange ) Roma, No 2-Wis31 Witmark It Was for Me (can be used for funerals) Blount, No 2-Wisi) Witmark Spirit of Go (medium Tange eidlinger, No, 1518 itson Beside Sti] Water (easy Tange) amblen, No, 2426 "noch & Son Will Exalt Thee Lord aris, No, 24 tthur P, Schmidt Jesus, Joy of Man's Desiring (from Chorale, hot difficult ) ach, No, 8388 G, Schirmer The Lord Bless You nd Keep Lutkin, No. 4071 Summy Co ou (easy) Pen Our Eyes ( difficult ) Macfarlane, No 7383 G. Schirmer Cantatas The Easter Sunrise Song (3-part Holton Lorenz adies ) wemories of Fr ster Morn (3- Ellen Jane Lorenz Lorenz Part ladie Ittle Disciple (2-part ladies and 3-part ladies ) Page 184 NOTES TO THE FIELD 185 Two-Part Sacred Choruses for Women's Voices Title Sing, O Heavens For He Shall Give His Angels Publisher G. Schirmer Willis Music Co. Composer Simper, No. 7947 Protheroe, No, 5237 Charge (not difficult ) Father, in Thy Mysterious Presence Kneeling Thy House Forever Lift Up Your Heads Come, (not difficult ) We That Love the Lord Willis Music Co. Willis Music Co. G. Schirmer Willis Music Co. Protheroe, No. 1875 Protheroe, No, 5243 Hopkins, No. 7952 Barnes, No, 5972 The Good Shepherd (not diffi. Barri, No. 5062 G. Schirmer Bese Still Waters (not diffiHamblen, No, 2119 Enoch & Son cu nn SPRING IN UTAH Katherine Fernelius Larsen Grate O Lord, Am I (diffi. Roma, No, W718 Fath We Thank Thee (diffiCastleton, No. 1762 Witmark Boosey & Hawkes Pankapaw Deone R. Sutherland Y husband, Harvey, after I graduating from _ college, signed a contract to teach school in Pankapaw. "Where is Pankapaw?" I asked him, looking at the map. I have never been able to find anything on a map. "You can never find anything on a map," said Harvey, telling me that which I knew already. "Pankapaw is a very important town in the southern part of this State. Pankapaw has fifteen hundred people and a very large high school. We shall be an asset to the community and I will learn a great deal about teaching school." "Undoubtedly," I said, feeling convinced. Harvey can sound very convincing. My brother-in-law loaded his car. "We cannot get anything more in the car or outside of the car," said my brother-in-law. That is very true, I thought, looking at the bed strapped to the top of the car, the toaster on the fender, the quilts and canned tomato juice in the trunk, my hats squashed against the back window. I went back into my mother's house and conferred with Harvey. My sister said she and her husband would also drive a car down. "Two cars," I exclaimed brightly, "we shall go in style to Pankapaw, like a caravan, like gypsies!" Harvey does not like me to get ecstatic. He looked sourly at the flapping, crammed cars. "If the engine doesn't boil over into the Page 186 things there some way. Toaster before we get there—or the bed slide off—or—" My mother handed us a lunch and said that, much as she hated to see us go, we had better go. "Do the cars look too disgraceful?" I whispered to my mother. "J do not want Pankapaw to get a bad impression of us, as if we were sheepherders or gypsies or something." I am a school teacher's wife now and must at all costs appear normal, | reminded myself. My mother frowned at the cars. "Well, no," she replied hesitantly. "After all, you have to get your Reminds me a little, though, of the way your - Great-uncle Alonza used to pack for touring the country. He was a crazy one," my mother reminisced fondly. She is at times very consoling. "Your Uncle Alonza was crazy if a man ever was," my father used to say, pursing his lips at mother, and shaking his head. "Your mother's family—" he would begin hopelessly to us, shrugging his shoulders and then, looking very doleful, he would read the paper again. "The things I could tell you about your father's family—" my mother would always retort. But my father would refuse to be roused from his paper so that we never heard the things my mother could have told us about papa's family if she had only cared to. "I shall trace our route on the map," I said happily. I get very excited when we go on a trip. Even while holding a box of bath towels PANKAPAW and a waffle iron I can be excited about traveling. "You are going the wrong way on the map," said Harvey to me. "We are going the opposite direction." The towns were too far in between and I could not find the correct highway numbers, so I gave the map to Harvey. It discouraged me, also, to discover that I began getting thirsty in the exact center of the distance between two towns. I thought it could be psychological, so I quit looking at the map. There were other things to look at, anyway. "Look at all the sagebrush," I said to Harvey. "It will be any time now," said Harvey. "Any time now we should be in Pankapaw." We had been traveling all afternoon, and the sun was sinking out beyond the gray sage and purple mountains. We began to look for Pankapaw. We found Pankapaw. We stopped the car. "Is this Pankapaw?" called my brother-inlaw to a man walking along the street. He said it was. We were here, I guessed. "Now where?" We went to the home of the superintendent of schools. He was to take us to our apartment. "He is out seeing to his milch cows, but we expect him home any time now," said his wife. Our two cars with the bed on top pulled up and parked in front of the superintendent's house. Harvey walked up the street. We didn't look at the cars. The superintendent's wife stared at the cars, and then her three children came out and stared. We waited. They had an apartment for us. We carried in the things. It was a very small apartment. The bed, when put up, filled the bedroom. We 187 stood out in the hall and talked after we had unloaded the cars. "Won't you stay to dinner?" I said to everyone. Harvey looked at me. The others answered too quickly. They had to get started back, it was very late, they were very tired, they had to get started on the long trip back. "Well, here we are," I said profoundly and cheerfully to Harvey. Harvey was asleep on the bed, surrounded by boxes. I looked out the window. It was dark already. We had been driving all afternoon and were tired. Pankapaw, I mur mured, Pankapaw. 'The night was — dark at the window. There was no answer from Pankapaw. T dawn, from a great distance, I heard Harvey's alarm clock. I turned over. Harvey was sitting up in bed looking at a sheet of paper. "What is it, Harvey?" I asked. It was just beginning to get light at the window. It was dawn in Pankapaw, cold dawn, and I was tired. "T am reading my instructions for today," answered Harvey. "We, all the teachers, are to go on a field trip. Weare to look at various grazing areas." He folded his paper and crawled out of bed. "Right now?" I yelled. He tured around. "Unpack while I am gone." The bed was cold and lonely. I stepped over the boxes and went out into the kitchen. I could hear Harvey gargling in the bathroom. Well, anyway, he won't expect any breakfast with this mess about, I thought. I sat on Harvey's old college alligator bag, which was piled on top of the only kitchen chair that I could see. '"Where's breakfast?" demanded 188 Harvey, poking his soapy head out of the bathroom. I decided that there would be no point in suggesting that we eat out. I got down off the alligator bag. Well, I have plenty of things I can do while he is gone today, I thought. The apartment was very quiet. Perhaps I should look first at the town a bit. I stepped over a box of dishes and the juicer toward the door. It would probably cheer me up to step outside where I could no longer see this—this— I gestured _ vaguely at the mounds filling our miniature living room. I came back in half an hour. The town is very pretty, I thought. I liked trees and country roads and there was a courthouse clock that struck the hour. There was now nothing left to do but unpack. At five o'clock in the afternoon I went down and sat on the front porch to wait for Harvey. Everything was ready for Harvey. He did not come. The wind rustled the autumn leaves, and Pankapaw was a long way from home, and I had seen the whole town in half an hour. I began to feel uncomfortable. At half past five I went upstairs and thought about packing up again. After all, we really didn't know too much about Pankapaw. I turned the heat under the food off and then I turned it on again. Perhaps Harvey would not mind if I went home, briefly, to visit my parents, I said to myself, while picking out the burned parts of the potatoes and throwing them in the garbage. I sat down by the living room clock. I began not to like Harvey a great deal. At six o'clock I turned all the burners on the stove off and went down and sat on the front porch again. I could RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 see the Pankapaw High School across the field. It looked deserted and lonely. A lone leaf hurtled across the lawn, orange in the setting sun. "Harvey," I moaned. A truck stopped in front and let Harvey out. Somebody hollered, "We didn't keep him too long, Mrs. Thompson, did we?" And then, "Ha! Hal hal" floated out. From the inside of the truck. Ha, ha, I thought bitterly. "No, no," I called out. Harvey came up the walk. "Where have you been?" I said to Harvey. "Looking at sagebrush," Harvey said. We went up the stairs. "All day, just looking at sagebrush. Some of it's fenced in and some of it isn't—" I quit listening to him. Something was smoking in the kitchen. I must have missed a burner. Harvey washed and then he ate and then he lay down on the couch and closed his eyes. "Harvey," I said. "Harvey, I unpacked." "Yeah," said Harvey, and he turned over on his side facing the wall. "What good does it do to look at sagebrush, Harvey?" I asked. "Harvey!" "It's all very scientific," said Harvey, still with his back to me. He sounded very tired. "There's a very scientific purpose to the whole thing —T'll tell you about it tomorrow— glub, glub," said Harvey. I went into the bathroom and sat on the edge of the bathtub. I felt very bad. I rested my forehead on the cold water faucet and thought about streetcars and trolley cars and taxis and busses and the lovely din- PANKAPAW Nets we had at home. "Glub," | Choked against the faucet, Harvey rame in and sat by me on the bathtub, He put his 4mm around me, which made me fee] Worse, I moaned into the bathtub, "Do not fee] bad," said Y¥- "Twill tel] you all about the not worry," I said, "An than likely none of the Students wil] © farger than you." TVey Is quite tall, but still he dj not look con soled. So ctimes j very hard to be a helpmeet kind of €. "And you do know a Steat deal about Var- 10us things_» Harvey patted me on the shoulder, Teached for his books, and ran down | was a Harvey bus and then had to be delivered after that. Would doze Of whj Paper to come, Stay awake at night and r, RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE_Marcy 1948 vey, "UD the eaayon."" ie We fOm ug Y knees hurt and I walked found the Paper. Toward the benches 4 er the pines © next night he came in. "Ww, and aspens to Test have to leave for Pankap W Canyo. Teady," looked at the dinner. Back, that We were £0ing on a and old tiding breeches I was Pullside. I found the history teacher shout down elow our dow from en §0t back to the cam; he street everyone was ting and Pattin Come on yelled Harvey, Harvey on the back. Is side had I ran down the stairs and tried to won Sat down by ¢ 00k dignifieg hile Tunning for the truck. "H he fire and Watched th 1 atvey boosted me on and the Students led m ging nettle. Har-. Ing vey brought ME some foo that belonged to e m. Said Harvey Pushed My hot dog at me, and after that I fel} fin » I said. 'Stay in the truck" moon came Pale Said Harvey, S; Pankapaw High School] song and 4d forgotten that we Harvey held ™my hand. Had been in Pankapaw 4 month. 1 "Everything '; fen here a month," | shouted to Harve three cheers for "Beautify] Canyon," | said. With the Senior Class," Said Har In five minute W tes Id. "G none of which had turned Out bad] —and began to hunt for Y Sweaters ang that was the last J Ing on load of Semors began to honk and and brushed the dust and cement H48vey Shouted for me to come treasure hunt. We Chose UP sides of Y Pants when the truck. Caught in 4 thicket on the side of a mountain and helped her §¢t loose. PANKAPAW knew I was being carried away and was being slightly sentimental, but I couldn't help it. I did not even mind the cold windy gale of the ride home back down the canyon. "Hurrah," I gasped, swaying on the truck, losing my breath in the wind. "Hurrah!" It was our anniversary, I decided the next day. One month in Pankapaw. I bought candles and kept stirting everything on burners turned down as low as they would go. Nothing can happen tonight, I said. I went out looking for something to fill our one vase. Harvey came in and sat down. He did not notice the candles. He did not come out into the kitchen to see what we were going to eat. He did not say anything about it being one month. He took out a check and gave it to me. "There were a lot of deductions," he said. T looked at the check and the deductions. "Surely are," I said. "They have deducted the money we were going to pay for the rent." I looked at my budget. "Of course, some of it you get back in the end," said Harvey. "Yes," I said, looking at my budget. It was not the rent money they could deduct. Maybe it would have to be the food money, or something. 194 "Mother can send us canned stuff," I said. "I'm best at opening cans." I patted the sage decorating our one vase. It was gray-green and looked rather nice in a yellow vase, I thought. From the kitchen window we watched the moon rise. "Pankapaw has nice moons, anyway," said Harvey. I agreed. He reached across the table and held my hand. "Real nice," said Harvey. Someone knocked on the door. It was a student. "Mr. Thompson, some of the kids are over to the school waiting to rehearse—thought we'd better—" "Oh, yes," said Harvey. "Tl be right over." He hurried into the bedroom and began putting on his coat. I went over to the typewriter and began to type. I wrote, "My husband, Harvey, after graduating from college—" Harvey leaned over my shoulder. "What are you writing?" "Tt's a story," I said, "about us." "Ts nothing sacred?" asked my husband, hurrying out the door. I could hear Harvey and the student running down the steps, banging out the hall. I laughed and wrote: "signed a contract to teach school in Pankapaw—" > PARTING Adeline R, Ensign There always comes a parting time When we must say goodbye, When sadness fills the lonely hearts And teardrops dim the eye. For time is ever passing on, Nor would we change the plan, For when God gave us life he knew That tears were good for man. And so, as sorrows come along, Oh, give us strength, we pray, And give us faith and courage, Lord, Sufficient for each day. A Party in the Irish Spirit Elizabeth Williamson Own table is decorated. The following suggestions are easy to carry out. Use a white tablecloth, green Paper napkins, Foy Placecards, use potato pigs made of small potatoes, with four legs made of toothpicks, Cut pieces from another potato for the ears and snout. Insert toothFor a centerpiece, arrange ivy in white pots, or, if jt IS possible to find Page 192 A PARTY IN THE IRISH SPIRIT containers. White flowers of any kind, with green leaves, also make an appropriate centerpiece. Remember to keep the color scheme white and green. For favors, you might make the green snakes which are supposed to have been driven out of Ireland by St. Patrick. For these snakes, boil sugar and water to the consistency of taffy, add green coloring and mint flavoring. Make into coils the 193 shape of little snakes. The children will love these. They can be used for placecards, also. MENU Mashed potatoes in a nest of green peas Roast or chops (pork) Chard or spinach Clover-leaf rolls Salad. With lime jello base Shamrock cookies Mint ice cream Drink—green punch or fruit juice REMEMBER AND FORGET Della Adams Leitner Have I—have I forgotten? Stay, my heart; Be not so quick to censure careless ways, Daydreams and laughter and neglected tasks, The disregard of time, the drifting days, All so a part of adolescent youth, Trying the patience of the older mind; Oh, thinking back, rrmember—then forget The intervening years.... You will be kind. RECOMPENSE Thelma Ireland The proudest day of my whole life! Mine is the brimming cup. Today I gain my just reward— My radishes are up. Synopsis Anne anes, influenced b Anne as tryin MMarize he resp nsibility of Jo fter the € garden € was canning them Place, feels g Premonition of trouble ahead —piles of the and ¢ Corn was T was noon of the next day and roming on Promisingly, too Food Anne Stood in th do ay 2 5 S€emed to melt and fuse - +. Joe Seriously injured in accident. * Joe's Condition Continued doubtfy]. Della In her car and took Anne and the children to the City, Where Anne hovered Over her un husband for h to work, not only milking the cows, but Caring for the horses, an for her garden, | Sudden Pride, 5 show Joe she could Teally take Cate of things, She har, Passing of time brief Messages telling of his cond. Tion Page 194 ance "Momie, | Got this row of Carrots weeded," Ctied Dick fom the bot om of t garden, "Thanks, Darling, NOW you can Test awhile." "But I don't want to rest. | want fo help raise ¢ d for the hungry People." Though she Tecognized these " ee one mt heir ranches Joe, plan mg to look for ork in the city, [0 some Caves the Tanch, and A €, worried Over she Picked ¢ "€S€ rapid events and reduce them f ordered Control as Ist green Peas from WINDY HILLTOP ie, I will pick unteered, and her blue eyes sparkling, "Thanks, Honey. I'm afraid you'l] Pick the wrong weeds. You like to help mother gather peas?" "Fine! Betsy lost no time getting busy, A little later, she heard Dick talking angrily, and throwing stones as "The squirrels are eating our cabbages and cauliflowk, they've ruined them!" ANNE hurried to the bottom of the garden. A sudden instinc. "We'll have to fight them, that's all. Get some traps from the granary. I wonder if they've started to bother the Wheat. We'l] have to set out some poison," Anne took off her straw hat and fanned her warm face, then straightened her shoul- 195 ders. She had a little war all of her own, A car came up her somewhat spellbound In an ef. He recognized Howdy, Mrs, Raines," he greeted stiffly. "Seems as if you're hayin a pretty tough time of jt this summer," and sheep to eat it up. Uncomfortably close; his small, deepset eyes searched hers. Une experienced 4 feeling of helplessness. "T can manage," declared. Hadfield lingered, wavering. Be- "Well, Joe's condition makes jt necessary for me to stay till after harvest—maybe longer," A scowl flitted and a mild threat, "J 9?. Staying," Anne teplied fect was equally conclusive. Er, well, I'll be going," he said lamely. "But I'll see you thing. Still, Hadfield was loath to go. He lingered, trying to flatter her with tude compliments, and veiled hints concerning the uselessness of her ef. Forts. Reached the county Dickie called her as he came down from the granary with some traps, and little Betsy sidled up to her. At's the matter, Momie?" she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 inquired, seeing tears in her mother's eyes, Anne seemed to find no words to answer. A hawk sailed th "Let's "chase that haw away. It might kil] some of our chickens," She ran up the path, with the children following, termined efficiency, she crowded the Vaguely, she sensed an approaching Crisis with Hadfield, who seemed ee Kk x ELLA wrote at the end of the week, demanding that Anne presister. In a way, to accept the invitation. She wanted so much to be near Joe. She made several attempts ter, but she tore them up, in the end seemed right, and mattered. Joe was Stil] unable to Write, but he sent Word to let Hadfielg tak Over. "T can' le Stay there any thetic Stranger was equally heartbreaking, Why do dec ave to be so far-reaching? Can't life offer more com she cried in anguish, mourning dove ©00ed in a dig. Tant hollow; she turned and walked down the dusty trai] toward the house, Della finally drove oyt to farm, She was amazed to find her sister milkin © cows, and little Dick tugging at the Pump handle to Set some water for the horses, Even Betsy was doing her bit by Carrying some of the water to the Chicken S She scolded her, and made to help, Was good at atgument. "You can't Stay here an 0 take Care of the crops," Tetorted Anne, 198 some of the large. Responsibilities were still in the future, consequently she still had them to meet, "You'd be surprised what I can do," she finally said, teasingly, as they entered the house. "Surprised! Maybe you think I'm not already. But enough's enough. You're quitting." "Aunt Della," cried Dick, rushing into the house after a mysterious excursion through the garden and up along the edge of the wheat, "I'm trapping. I'm cleaning the squirrels out." "Ugh," Della gasped. You're not letting him—" "Oh, yes, Dickie's a man now." eK ow & N the end Della returned to the city, declaring that she was no longer equal to the task of looking after Anne and the children, Meanwhile, the summer days grew hotter, and the wheat struggled for growth on the hillside, while the lucerne came into bloom in the small field below the ditch. The squirrels began to nibble at the edges of the grain, which immediately responded by turning a sickening yellow; but Anne set out poison and destroyed them. And when the Proper time came, she mowed and raked the hay; then, hired it stacked, Promising to pay for it when the threshing was done. "I'm learning to appreciate the beauty of living close to the good earth," she wrote to Della. "Yes, I'm learning to be a farmer." She was gloating over these achievements the morning Sam Hadfield again drove into the yard. "Well, Mrs. Raines, I see you're sticking it out bettern [ thought you could. But the worst part's "Surely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 coming. Cattle are driftin' in from the montains now, and they'll be crowdin' the fences to get into your wheat. Why don't you let me look after it. I'll get it 'cut as soon as possible, then I c'n let my cattle come right in, I expect to use this place, you know, as a fall pasture." It took a mighty effort on Anne's part to remain unruffled at this poorly disguised assumption of ownership, yet she steadied herself to meet the issue. "Have you actually bought this place from my husband, or did you merely make him an offer?" she inquired as casually as she was able. Hadfield was taken back by this sally, but he was teady for it. "Why —er—I bought it. That is | paid him a payment on it to bind the bargain. He said he wanted some money to pay on a place in town." Anne felt herself growing faint. "Oh, I see." Joe hadn't said anything to her about a payment, and she had been under the impression they had merely come to some sort of verbal agreement which could not be considered binding. "May—may I ask the price agreed on?" Hadfield, still sitting in his Can, tried to dodge the question, but she wouldn't let him, "I'm payin' him ten dollars an acre," be blurted. "Why, that's robbery! It's worth three times that much. | won't agree. T'll fight it.' Anne was trembling from head to foot, but never in her life before had she been so determined. "I'm going at once to see Joe about this. We're not going to sell—at all." "You've already sold," Hadfield half snarled, driving away. (To be concluded) Sentiment and Sanitation (Continued from page 179) to dinner. These dishes were my particular trial because, no matter how far I put them back in the cupboard, they managed to escape occasionally and would show up on the table at the most inopportune times. Yet, regardless of my resolution to send chipped plates and cracked cups to the ash can, as soon as the damage occurred, I kept them around. Do not ask me why. Then I was explaining to Bob L., as hewiped the dishes for me, about my inability to throw away damaged dishes. "T would much rather," I told him, "have had that cracked cup that you drank from at dinner (how you happened to get it is beyond me) smashed in a dozen pieces than to have it just slightly cracked." "Would you really like to have the cup broken?" he asked. I assured him that I would. Without further ado, he picked it up and solemnly dropped it emphatically to the floor, and then asked, "Got any more?" I had, and before I had time to waver he had sent two nicked plates, a handleless cream pitcher, and a soup dish, minus an ear, crashing after the tea cup. It takes high resolve and strong nerve to do such a deed, but you have a grand and glorious sense of achievement once the wreckage is cleared away. Need I tell you that Bob has a standing invitation to dinner! Everyone knows that order is heaven's first law, and we struggling housewives can but hope that the law is enforced. In the meantime, we can put "a little bit of heaven" in our homes. > TWILIGHT Beatrice E. Linford Twilight, that most solemn hour Wraps all the earth in gray, And gives all nature time to pause Before the close of day. Twilight, when the weary world Is straining every power To keep tired eyes from drooping Before the darkened hour, Is soft and gray as a blanket, Silent as a summer cloud, Soothing as a mother's palm Upon a child's head, bowed. Twilight, strange and silent time, Makes all the earth akin, And one may hear the voice of God, And feel the love therein. Page 199 are > Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer FROM THE FIELD Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for October 1946. FASHION SHOWS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ollie Mae Avery FLORIDA STAKE FASHION SHOW, HELD IN CONNECTION WITH THE STAKE CONVENTION, October 24, 1947 Front row, left to right: Kenny Cartin; Rodney Brimhall; Julie Starling; Jane Shuman. Second row, left to right: Ida Starling, stake work meeting leader; Mary Stephens, Jacksonville Ward; Amelia Corbitt, Axson Ward; Nettie Strickland, Springfield Ward; Joyce Bendenbaugh, Lake City Ward; Beverly Mette, Jacksonville Ward; Jinx Jenkins, Wesconnett Ward; Bessie Manry and daughters, Virginia and Martha, Springfield Ward; Delores Williams, Jacksonville Ward. The fashion show and a bazaar were conducted as features of the stake convention, which was attended by First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, of the General Board of Relief Society, and Sister Leone G. Layton, a member of the Board. Well-made clothing, combining both beauty and utility, was modeled by the Relief Society women and their children. The bazaar was successful as entertainment and also as a means of adding to the stake treasury. One of the wards sold more than $100 worth of articles, and the others, also, made excellent financial returns for their efforts. Josephine Jenkins is president of Florida Stake Relief Society. Page 200 NOTES FROM THE FIELD nd beautify] bazaar are Ociety, left to right: Se t Alice Reed Tanner. F; t TK director Della Ose; Secr, Ga Ounselor E]ya Lewis Schafer, Clary-Treasurer Vivian Ww. Cronin, S is President of p Society alo Alto S RD ELFARE ASSIGNMENT XHIBIT 19 All 0 clothin quilts for this assignment were Carefully made, and the Sisters took Ptide in doing their b 40mi Chan 1 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 Photograph submitted by Alberta O. Doxey EASTERN STATES MISSION, CHAMBERSBURG (PENNSYLVANIA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS ASSEMBLED FOR DINNER AND DANCE TO INAUGURATE RELIEF SOCIETY SEASON, October 3, 1947 Front row, left to right: Betty Shoemaker; Dorothea Painter; Helen Meyers; Hillma Robinson; Joanne Painter; Dorothy Robinson; Jeannie Painter. Back row, left to right: Mrs. Dorothy Robinson; Betty Thomas; Beulah Shoemaker, Second Counselor; Edith Tolbert, First Counselor; Hulda Fields, President; Myra Jean Fields, Secretary-Treasurer; Ora Robinson; Mary Ann Fields. Alberta O. Doxey, President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society, submits the following enthusiastic report of the activities of the Chambersburg Branch: "Over one half of the membership is made up of young women, the youngest, eleven years of age. This little girl sews well and contributes her efforts at work meetings. The majority of the members are in the late teens and early twenties. Under the excellent leadership of Sister Hulda Fields, this society has grown and the true spirit of the Relief Society is evident in all of the meetings. On October 3, 1947 this Society successfully launched itself into another year. This was in the form of an installation dinner and dance held in the home of Sister Hulda Fields. The program displayed the talent of the women and included a reading, a vocal duet, and a playlet which encouraged activity by depicting the women with the most responsibility at home as the most active in Relief Society, and so learning to live the most rich and full life. The women all came dressed in formals, but the party was not too formal to enjoy some lively games following the program. Then came a fine dinner and dance. The general theme throughout was the organization of the first Relief Society according to the plan given by the Prophet Joseph Smith. A historical review of the Chambersburg Branch Relief Society was also presented. "This branch has helped two families to help themselves and the members have canned 300 quarts of foodstuffs as their contribution to the Welfare work. These sisters proudly take their places with the 105,000 members of this great internationally effective Relief Society, modern pioneer women carrying on the work so nobly begun by their pioneer ancestors." NOTES FROM THE FIELD Photograph submitted by Elnora M. Phillips ONEIDA STAKE (IDAHO), DAYTON WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE MAINTAINED 100% VISITING TEACHING FOR TWENTY-FIVE MONTHS Center front, left to right, members of ward presidency: Secretary Myrtle D. Bowden; Second Counselor Hazel Housley; First Counselor Leone K. Balls; President Elnora M. Phillips. Upper right are Rozella Smart and Josephine Crookston who have acted as a social committee for work days, socials, and bazaars for seven years. Ida E. Evans is president of Oneida Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Louise Farman NAMPA STAKE (IDAHO), MARSING BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR The sisters of this branch have been organized four years and their numbers have grown rapidly. The bazaar was very successful as entertainment and also netted the branch Relief Society $611. Standing, back row, at the left, are: Second Counselor Bess Larsen; President Louise Farman; First Counselor Lavon Briggs. Ethel B. Andrew is president of Nampa Stake Relief Society. AY 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 Photograph submitted by Sarah E. Price LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), ARLINGTON WARD SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR THE CENTENNIAL PROGRAM March 3, 1947 Front row, left to right: Dora Elsner Witham, reader; Sarah E. Price, music director; Marian N. Pinkston, reader. Second row, left to right: Clara H. Parry; Virginia G. Ibey; Elsie O. Chytrus; Lorinda A. Kendrick; Maud S. LaFrankie; Rea B. Schaap. Third row, left to right: Anna B. Bates, president of the Singing Mothers; Edna W. Sant; Charlotte L. Ray; Bernice F. Bigbee; Emily S. Jensen; Maurine S. Winters, accompanist; Caroline L. Naylor, First Counselor, Arlington Ward Relief Society. Julia T. LeCheminant is president of Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. BANNOCK, IDAHO, AND PORTNEUF STAKES VISITING TEACHERS PICNIC, Lava Hot Springs Idaho, September 16, 1947 Bessie S. Hubbard, Secretary, Bannock Stake Relief Society, reports a tri-stake visiting teachers outing and picnic which was held at Lava Hot Springs, Idaho, September 16, 1947. The purpose of the meeting was to report the splendid accomplishments of the visiting teachers of these stakes and to give them encouragement for the continuation of their important missions. President Milton F. Hartvigsen of Bannock Stake and Sister Emily S. Romish of West Pocatello Stake addressed the sisters on the responsibility and the blessings of their calling. Musical numbers and practical demonstrations of visiting teaching methods followed. Lunch was served on the lawn to 250 people. A vote was taken and it was unanimously decided to make this meeting an annual affair. Eliza B. Christensen is president of Bannock Stake Relief Society; Elizabeth W. Hatch, president of Idaho Stake Relief Society; and Emeline W. Marley, president of Portneuf Stake Relief Society. 4 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Left to Tight: President, Elna H Northern States Mise; - 4taymond, President, North Lois Blackham, 'ssion, Creed Haymond. Tthern States Ission Relief; Mary H Society, Gertr, of 3-435 articles, have just been completed by the Relief S Mission, The Genera] Church Welfare C t signed these layettes to the saints; | i, _ 2¢ven cartons of L T Of 1946 the Northern States 206 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 Photograph submitted by Elna P. Haymond NORTHERN STATES MISSION DISTRICT PRESIDENTS AT CONVENTION October 22, 1947 Front row, left to right: Elna P. Haymond, President, Northern States Mission Relief Society; Emma L. Price; Edna Marie Dixon; Helen Young Page; Sophia Busby Gordon; Hazel M. Branham; Rena Custer. Second row, left to right: Ruby Blombach; Ellen R. Clayton; Melba Turley; Lyall Amott; Minnie Marie Farley; Elva Cotterell Lundquist. Photograph submitted by Arberella Adams RIGBY STAKE (IDAHO), RIGBY FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS WHO HAVE SERVED FOR MANY YEARS Arberella Adams, President of Rigby First Ward Relief Society reports that the Rigby Ward was organized in 1886 with Sally Agnes Cordon as president of the Relief Society. She served in this capacity for many years. On May 10, 1942, the ward was divided, making the Rigby First and Fourth Wards. Since that time the following sisters have served as presidents of the Rigby First Ward, left to right: Arberella Adams; Grace Fisher; Sally Agnes Cordon; Vilate Call; Fern Lake; Nita Jorgensen. Recently this group honored Sister Cordon for her sixty-one years of faithful service in the Rigby First Ward. Sister Cordon is still an active visiting teacher. Ann W. Nielsen is president of Rigby Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Martha W. Brown CENTRAL STATES MISSION, KANSAS CITY (MISSOURI), CENTENNIAL BAZAAR This entire bazaar was composed of booths constructed on the pioneer theme, similar to the booth in the photograph. Note the interesting details of the wagon covers and the wagon wheels. Two large braided rugs may be seen in the lower background. Seated back of the wagon, left to right, are Mary Lou Stillwell, Second Counselor; and Ruby Friesch, the sewing director. Martha W. Brown is president of the Central States Mission Relief Society. <> "THE TWAIN SHALL MEET" Bertha H. Woodland His eyes blinked reflectively, Surveying the bountiful hues Of the good earth, Beholding—face glowing— Each vine and spear Of accurate worth. In brotherhood of East and West, I praised his contribution To patterned crops.... God colored men," he mused, "So selfsame roots Have various tops." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 207 Three books in one! THE AMERICAS BEFORE COLUMBUS by Dewey and Edith Farnsworth Source book of American archaeology. Includes "Grandeur of Ancient America," "Buried Empires of South America," and a wealth of new material. 300 excellent photographs. Ideal for missionary, teacher, or student of Book of Mormon. 176 pages—9 by 12 inches—beautiful binding. Price, $5. Postpaid. Farnsworth Publishing Co. (Available also at leading bookstores) EXPECT MORE a ee | The O. P. Skaggs System wants its customers to expect a 6 ° / abn OC"LaA more than can be had at other food stores. It sees to it that S i; bi they get more, too—more in atuoner Y the way of quality, more in the: m AND EDITION tion and more in the way of. —. PRINTERS AND OD, P SKAGGS DESERET NEWS PRESS Pore System — meal Page 208 4635 Montana Street way of cleanliness and sanitavariety and price savings. E Mes ie ue Service El Paso, Texas COMMERCIAL BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Tightening the Knot Alice Whitson Norton 66 ELL, Dot,' big Dean Alford exclaimed, after returning from their joyous honeymoon, "I guess it's time for us to settle down now and begin tightening the knot. That's just an old saying in this community," Dean laughed, "but you might find it both amusing and helpful to glean the meaning of it for yourself." The young wife thought of the matter as she went about setting in order the cozy little house of which she was now mistress. But, reaching no sensible conclusion, she finally questioned Mrs. Carter, her nextdoor neighbor as to just what her husband had meant.' "Tightening the knot," laughed Mrs. Carter, "is a familiar saying in this particular locality, one which I believe has been handed down from generation to generation among the families who have grown up here." "But what does it mean?" Dot. Asked, with a bit of curiosity. "It means just this," chuckled the — older woman, "the things that men and women do that bind them closer together as their years of married life increase in number." "Oh!" exclaimed Dot, in a tone that clearly revealed she knew very _ little more than she had a moment before. "It's like this," Mrs. Carter went on, "this small community prides itself on the few divorce cases tegistered against it, and one and all agree that it has been through the tightening of the marriage knot that such a condition exists. "I guess I'm a little dull, Mrs. Carter," Dot answered, "but perhaps I will learn later on what weight tightening the marriage vows carries." "IT had to learn," laughed Mts. Carter, "when I fist came. "But Mrs. West, the bride just before myself who came to live in the valley, advised me to visit with the neighbors and draw them out on the subject, and—well—" she finished softly, "doing just that opened my eyes considerably." "But I'm a_ timid soul," Dot argued. "Just the same," answered the woman, "visiting the folks living here and observing them closely will make you think seriously of the nice congenial neighborhood in which you have come to live." T is true Dot was timid, but she was also a keen observer, and through observation she soon discovered Esther Cooper, a very placid type of woman, living on perfectly congenial terms with her husband. She attributed the fact of her happy existence to keeping herself calm when her husband came home in a dark mood. When Dick arrived home like that, she explained, he wasn't the man she married, but only a tired, harassed business man who would recover his amiable disposition ever so much quicker by her leaving him alone. "Oh, yes," she admitted, when Dot questioned her about it, "it Page 209 210 took a little time to learn that. But once I did, I found that it tightened the knot considerably. You see, by one of the two of us remaining placid when the other is glum or nervous, no arguments can arise. And, after all, many a home begins its undoing by arguments. And by refraining from that one feminine attribute," laughed the soft-voiced woman, "I have a very happy home today, and my husband rarely comes to it now in a dark mood." The tightening of the knot took on an entirely different aspect in the next case. Quite an elderly couple were Mr. And Mrs. Burk, whose comfortable home Dot and big Dean frequently enjoyed. Here Dot discussed the matter with the man. "Oh," chuckled the husband goodnaturedly, "I couldn't have accomplished even the half I have, if it hadn't been for my good wife. She's what one might call a seer—you know, good foresight, always looking ahead and planning, and because I discovered early in the game that her judgment was better than mine, we've worked wonderfully together." Another man in the community attributed his success in married life to the rose-colored glasses his wife wore. No matter how dark and threatening the clouds might be above their heads, this good woman could always catch a glimpse of the silver lining. "That," said the old man, as he went about serenely planting a row of bulbs along the old-fashioned walk leading from the house to the big front gate, "tightened our marriage knot." LITTLE Mrs. Tremble, the very busiest housewife in the whole RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 Fine Quality Sheets Type 128 249 each "Harmony House" sheets—long wearing and _ economically priced. Carefully |= woven, smoothly finished for years of service. 81 x 108-inch size. Free Parking Dial 5-6651 Main or State at 8th South THERE IS';, (salle Nother THAN A BIBLE Fridays 'til 9 For Confirmation... For Easter giving give a long-lasting NATIONAL BIBLE STUDENTS TEACHERS SINCE 1863.. AT YOUR BOOKSTORE QUALITY MADE P Bible Need CHILDREN ADULTS "MUSIC FoR SINGING MOTHERS" as suggested by DR. FLORENCE J. MADSEN in this issue of the Relies Society Magazine is available at Summerhays, JUST PHONE..: COME IN "+ + OF send q card to us, We'll do th rest, ie i But it was from little Mrs, Joiner, who shared her home with both her Reverent music Sounds richer when E played on the WUR- [| LITZER ORGAN. Call or write SELDON N, HEAPS | for complete infor- | mation. %G SUMMERHAYS Music co, her about it. "You see," she added very softly, "I came from another state which, I am Sorry to say, carwhen I arrived J Was quick to sense without me, was harmonious M The finest compliment you can pay a friend. * @ gift self-decor. Ated with textile Paints. Buy your Paints, brush- °s and stencils in One easy shopping trip in our Art Needlework DePartment, ZO Second Floor TIGHTENING THE KNOT 17 West First South nes no such teputation as this, and Was unwanted in a family that usband realizing I wanted to be 211 Phone 5-5881 INDIVIDUALIZE GIFTS WITH TEXTILE PAINTS 212 a chance to discuss intimate things in which they felt at that time I had no share. Then I began inviting them to our home, and making them so thoroughly comfortable that they had no excuse for thinking I wanted to monopolize my husband's affections or to break him from his home ties. I made it a point to call his mother every morming, sometimes asking her to tell me John's favorite dish, and frequently requesting her, when she had told me, to come over and prepare it for the evening dinner. 'Then I began asking his mother to let me drive her when she wanted to run into town, or the sister to use my. Car, which was a wedding gift from my father. At first I was keenly aware they were puzzled over my attitude, but when they realized I was sincere in the matter, well—" she added softly, "I simply became one of them, and we've lived in perfect harmony ever since." After that bit of information, Dot went home to do a little thinking on her own behalf. Three miles up the valley lived Dean's people. She had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 been to see them twice, and his famtly had returned her visit both times, but there had been a chilly atmosphere between them. Dean's mother was not her mother, nor was his sister her sister. 'They lived in their house—and she and Dean lived in theirs—yet there were times when Dean had a faraway look in his eyes, and his firm lips drooped a bit at the corners. In a flash, Dot understood why, and resolved, as little Mrs. Joiner had done, she, too, would wipe out any sign of petty jealousy and become part of her husband's family. This took time, persistence, and patience, but today there is not a happier home in the valley than that of Dot and Dean Arnold, simply because Dot learned from her neighbors what it meant to tighten the marriage knot, and of her own accord she tightened the one binding her to the man of her choice. - What about your own marriage knot? Is it slipping? Look well into the matter, and if it is, make an effort to tighten the knot before the cord breaks. —_< BEAUTY Mabel Jones Gabbott There were tall pines in the forest, Weighted with needles, of green, Great, massive oaks stood between them, Dwarfing the cedars between. And there was a slight, slender maple, Gracefully tipped toward the sun, Calmly aloof in a clearing, Wearing her scarlet and dun. Pine needles carpet the forest, Oaks make a windbreak for all; Why am I cheered most, remembering The slight, slender maple last fall? Stamped quilt tops, floral designs. 7.98 and 8.98 Baby Quilts, 3.98 Stamped pillow, case tubing. Cutwork and easy embroidery. 2.69 American Lady tufted rugs. Stamped rug, 4.50, $6, $10 Yarn, ready cut. § 25¢ package Skein, 35c tEDLEPOINT Large chairs - - 6.9810 8.98 Footstools for covering 6.50 to 15.98 NEEDLEPOINT YARN Large skein, 65c — Small skein, 29c ART-NEEDLEWORK — FOURTH FLOOR Dining room chair 1.98 to 5.98 Soup—the Heart of the Meal Sara Mills tion in cooking can be reached only when the elementary flavors are lost imperceptibly in the new one, The man who wrote this had soup-making in mind, of that we are sure. Soup is the heart, the very life beat, of the meal. Indeed, it can, and should be, often, in these days of zooming prices, the meal itself. Too often soup is, ignored, unless st comes in cans. Not that canned soup should ever be spoken of lightly. It is one of the comforts and wonders of our age and should be well-stocked on the pantry shelf. But, now, we speak of soup as if we were first cousin to the French— soup that simmers gently and effortlessly on the kitchen stove. It is delicious to the taste, warming to the blood, and nourishing to the body and soul. To know how to make it is to be a master of one of the finest arts of cooking. For this kind of soup there is no definite recipe. 'The know-how is all important. 'Today, for those who are venturesome, we will try to con dense in a paragraph or so the knowledge we have gained from many pots of simmering soup stock. Ata later day, we will give some cup-by-cup recipes for hearty soups, which can be prepared by anyone who can read. [ has been written that perfecBASIC SOUP STOCK 2 Ibs. Beef shank, cut in pieces 1 veal knuckle 1 cracked beef bone Page 21+ water to cover generously herbs, thyme, rosemary, parsley, basil, marjoram, bay leaf, chives, etc. 5-6 peppercorns 2-3 leeks, sliced 1 large onion 2 carrots, sliced 3-4 stalks of celery, and celery leaves, dry or fresh 1-2 whole tomatoes, or tomato juice whole cloves salt and peppet Variations Vegetable soup Tomato-rice soup Tomato soup with pastes Start the soup cooking either the day before, or early on the day it is to be used. For the very best results, you should have a big pottery vessel. A porcelain kettle is next best; after that, a heavy aluminum kettle. Cover the soup meat and bones well with water. You may add as much water as you wish, but remember, the more water, the weaker the stock. Let the soup stand for one hour, then bring the kettle to a boil. Let the stock boil rapidly for a few minutes until the scum is formed. Now gently and patiently remove all the scum. After this, give the kettle a handful of salt and a few good shakes of peppct, and let it simmer gently for four or five hours. About midway in the simmering process, add, the onion, into which the 3 whole cloves have been firmly pressed. Add, also, the carrots, cut lengthwise into about four pieces, the Jeeks, split lengthwise, the celery, the peppercorns, and the herbs. Seasoning, said a very great cook, should be done with grace, and grace applies particularly to herbs. If you are an herb enthusiast, you will need no advice. If the art is new to you, use only a slight pinch until you become more expert. You may use all the herbs listed above, and more, or only part of them, but use herbs. Tie them in a little bag, if your soup is not to be strained. SOUP_THE HEART OF THE MEAL OW, you have a basic Stock with Which ery, turnips, Italian Squash, or fr Cook them the stock Just lon Cook these together until the rice Is thoroughly tender. Serve this Soup, which Pastes, or the tiny Shell-like Pastes, ver. Micelli, or Spaghettj, Add to this, or any. Other Soup, leftover vegetable juices A slice of lemon or lime sharpens the 4vor of the SOUPS. Serve 2 dish of 216 If you are still willing to experiment, try making brown stock. This is done by rendering out the bone marrow and browning the lean meat in it. Dried lentils, such as split peas, beans, lima beans, and garbanzos (chick-peas) are also good cooked in the stock. When the soup stock does not seem rich enough, don't be afraid to add bouillon cubes. Give the kettle plenty of salt and a farewell shake of pepper. <i _> CLOUDS Jeanette P. Parry I love a wispy, chiffon cloud Wind-serried, soft, and white, In cobalt blue of sunset's glow That melts into the night. A flame-edged cloud at early dawn, Marking the new day's beam; Even a thunderous black one That hides a rainbow's gleam. —see = PATTERN John M. Freckleton In perfect understanding, Peace, And perfect growth Of love prevail, For giving thoroughly In faith, Engenders trust That cannot fail, —— SOMETHING IS GLAD Dorothy J. Roberts Something in the eager child is sad And wise, and too all-knowing and resigned. And something in the older heart is glad In dreams, despite his unbelieving mind; Something incorruptible and good, Something of creator that conceives, Some power captive in the restless blood That shapes his far perfection and believes. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 POPULAR SELECTIONS 0F MUSIC For SINGING MOTHERS 1776 The King of Glory—Parks.__..20c 962 Invocation (can be used for funerals — not hard) — Moore 6c 2W163 Grateful O Lord Am I (not difficult)—Roma _..... LSc 1758 How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings—Liddle-Cain __.___.. L5¢ 89011 Come Unto Me—Tschaikowsky-Riegger......._______...... 15¢ 1470 The Lord Is My Light— Allitson-Samuelson __.... 15c¢ 2797 Praise Ye the Father— Gounod-Bliss _...-... 10c 2W1531 I Come to Thee (can be used for funerals—medium range)—Roma __.____..15c 2W1511 It Was For Me (can be used for funerals)—Blount ____..15¢ 15183 Spirit of God (medium range)—Neidlinger ______.. 15c 724 I Will Exalt Thee, O Lord— Harris 5c 4071 The Lord Bless You and Keep You (easy)—Lutkin 15c Orders filled same day received. All postage prepaid. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stocks for. Schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines. Records and musicians' supplies.... FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY Daunes y aes > MAIN STREET SALT Mew ciTy 1, Me A Child's Soul Unfolds Like a Beautiful Flower Under the Influence of (OOD BOOKS. Es A Few of the Many in Our Mie ~~ Rich and Varied Stock— TELL ME ABOUT JESUS By MARY ALICE JONES Simply. Sincerely written to warm the affection of children for their eternal $2 00 STANDARD BIBLE STORY READERS By LILLIE FARIS Skillfully graded, colorfully illustrated stories from the Bible. The children Books 1, 2,3, 4,5 each. ILLUSTRATED BIBLE STORY BOOK BETSY BUTTONS By ERLA YOUNG Charmingly illustrated, true pioneer story of a little Mormon girl, who crossed the plains and had as thrilling adventures and as much faith as $1 50 MY PICTURE BOOK OF SONGS By ALENE DALTON, MYRIEL ASHTON, AND ERLA YOUNG Big, beautiful, colorful pictures and many bright, tuneful songs which the $2 50 DESERET BOOK COMPANY "Education lives as long as you read good books" Please send me the books marked above. Herewith $ SURAT cr cer ccn enn annnecceee----* 4 We Ce bo -¥-1— a When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine "Friend."' read them with delight. In two styles, one at $1.25 and the other at the big, grown-up Pioneers. Children sing with glee. 44 East South Temple Street D $l 25 $2.00.. Salt Lake City, Utah A MOTHER'S TIME IS THE GREATEST GIFT A MAN CAN LEAVE HIS CHILDREN j If you should die today, could your wife afford to stay home? Guarantee your children their mother's time by carrying adequate BE JEFICI AL LIFE life insurance. INSURANCE Con Home Office—Beneficial Life Building Salt Lake City 1, Utah George Albert Smith, President THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - vecretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Priscilla L. Evans Evon W. Peterson Lillie C. Adams Mary G. Judd Florence J. Madsen Leone O. Jacobs Ethel C. Smith Anna B. Hart Leone G. Layton Marv J. Wilson Louise W. Madsen Edith S. Elliott Blanche B. Stoddard Florence G. Smith Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C, Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 35 APRIL, 1948 No. 4 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Jesus Christ, Our Lord Relief Society Building News Elder Don B. Colton 219 229 SERIALS Questing. Lights—Chapter 1 Belle Watson Anderson 235 Windy Hilltop—Chapter 3 (Conclusion) Ezra J. Poulsen 263 SPECIAL SHORT STORIES The Gift Dorothy Clapp Robinson 224 A New Stove for Mother.... Norma Wrathall 240 Bright April Sweeter Than Any Story aeManey, S. Stewart 251 azel K. Todd 257 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 246 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 247 Editorial: The Annual General Church Conference Marianne C. Sharp 248 Congratulations to President Smith on his Birthday 249 A New Feature for the Magazine 249 Notes to the Field: Changes in Regulations for Membership in the Mormon Handicratt Gift Shop Notes From the Field: Regulations Governing the Submittal of Material for '"'Notes From the Field".. 274 Relief Society Bazaars, Conventions, and Other Activities............. General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering ae From Near and Far FEATURES FOR THE HOME A New Coat for an Old One Blanche N. Coe 268 Tt's Fun to Make Pie. U........ CccccceececcessececereceeceeeeecceeccaeneeesnereseesneeseuecsteeeessegnesecesencoesenmeesVelma N. Simonsen 270 The ''Basic-Seven'' Pattern for Nutrition Bernice Stookey Linford 271 POETRY For Long Remembering—Frontispiece Berta H. Christensen 217 New Promise Christie Lund Coles 234 Metamorphosis Anna Prince Redd 239 More Than Love....... Le eS a Grace Sayre 245 Until They Rise........ CrLeRoy Burke Meagher 245 Debut of Spring.....: Aileen M. Overfelt 249 Now We Are Wed.. Mabel Jones Gabbott 250 My Latest Inspiration Nan S. Richardson 250 Desert Cacti Blooming Lydia Hall 256 From Loam of Lebanon: Dorothy J. Roberts 262 Plea Margaret Jenkins 267 7 S30 000 be Loie M. Beach 267 Inseparable 0.2... Ees ae a Alice Whitson Norton 285 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 32-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15¢e. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 35, NO. 4 # APRIL 1948 FOR LONG REMEMBERING Berta H. Christensen The moon is white above Gethsemane, The shadowed night is radiant as the day, For he is risen and at last is free Of earth—free of the tomb wherein he lay. I bore my Son to live. In days to come— When they who sought to snare him as a bird Are one with dust, and nothing but the sum Of their deceit remains—his every word, Treasured for long remembering, shall be As living water never found before. And even they beyond the barrier sea Who are athirst and drink, shall thirst no more. But they shall find his word a sign to tell Which way the shining road to Sychar's well. The Cover: "Spring Blossoms" by Hal Rumel. Jesus Christ, Our Lord Elder Don B. Colton Director, Missionary Home, Salt Lake City, Utah that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen: And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain. Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God; because we have testified of God that he raised up Christ: whom he raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not. For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised. And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable" (I Cor. 15:12-19). It is safe to say that all well-informed people now accept without question the historical fact that Jesus, surnamed the Christ, was born in Bethlehem of Judea at the beginning of what is known as the Christian era. 'There are grave differences of opinion as to who and what he was. Those who accept the Bible as the work of divinely inspired men have little difficulty in showing that his coming was revealed centuries before the event occurred. However, it is doubtful whether, without revelation, the divinity of the Savior can be incontrovertibly proved. The Lord does not work that way. 6 'Nts if Christ be preached Without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must beheve that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him (Heb. 11:6). No man can say that Jesusis the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost (I Cor. 12:3). One having the gift of the Holy Ghost may know. The Lord and his apostles stated clearly the steps that are necessary for us to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. On the day of Pentecost, when many "were pricked in their hearts," they "said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Then Peter said unto them, Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost" (Acts 2:37- 8).: Faith, repentance, and baptism by immersion in water by one having authority must all precede the gift of the Holy Ghost, and, therefore, precede the knowledge that Jesus is the Lord. The writer is mindful that the power of the Holy Ghost manifests to faithful seekers the truth concerning God. "By the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." That power works upon us. We feel its convincing influence, but it may depart from us unless we obey the Lawgiver from heaven and take the steps necessary for us to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. Page 219 220 We should be always grateful that faith is necessary. 'Those who find must diligently seek. The reward for diligent search and research is the scientific and reasonable way. Great scientists tell us that prior to the discovery of great truths they have worked earnestly for long periods of time. Suddenly a great truth would come to them as a flood of light. They then proceeded to prove the new idea. That is what the true religionist does. He seeks earnestly for a knowledge of God. He shows his willingness to do the things required of him by obeying God's laws. In solemn and sincere prayer he asks God for a testimony. It works. He finds that for which he is seeking and knows that he has found it. Is it not the better way? Why should we expect that some man will incontrovertibly prove that God lives and that Jesus is our Savior and deny to all the rest of us the joy of seeking and the glorious joy of reward after we have found it? There are only one or two exceptions to this general rule. Cornelius is one notable exception (Acts 10). This was for a purpose and the Lord has revealed in our day that if Cornelius had not later been baptized the Holy Ghost would have departed from him. May We Find and Know? HERE are many facts which may be cited, all of which tend to prove that Jesus of Nazareth was divine. Among these we should probably name first his teachings. Did ever man teach as he taught? A ruler of the Jews said to Jesus, "We know that thou art a teacher come from God" (John 3:2). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 We know there are many who say that Jesus was not practical, that neither his teachings nor his plan can be adapted to modern life. Beautiful, they say, but not practical. Will these critics say that uninspired men are more practical? The condition of the world today is the result of man's planning, or should we say, scheming. What man, not inspired by Jesus, has shown, a practical way of life? If conditions 'do not improve more under man's teaching and planning than they have during the present generation, there will be few if any people left to teach. How can we say that the way of life as taught by Jesus is not practical? Where has it ever really been tried and failed? We have one striking example where it was tried and proved very, very successful. After his resurrection, Jesus came to the people upon this continent and established a new order. His way of life was workable and practical for about two hundred years. Let us quote from the historian: And it came to pass in the thirty and sixth year, the people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another. And they had all things common among them; therefore there were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free, and partakers of the heavenly gift.... And there were great and marvelous works wrought by the disciples of Jesus, insomuch that they did heal the sick and raise the dead.... And cause the blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and all manner of miracles did they work among the children of men; and in nothing did they work miracles save it were in the name of Jesus.... And the Lord did prosper them exceedingly in the land; JESUS CHRIST, OUR LORD the People, in mighty mir. Disciples of it came to Pass that there was NO contention Ccause of the love of God the conclusion that th Save this Wal-Weary world is to adings, Only by teachings can d selves, and ing it, he said: "If the People of the would liye that ] SOspel of Eyring has The Savioy's Influence on uman Life Frollowing his resurrection and in Preparation for his leaving them, €sus gave his apostles detailed Instructions: 222 teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world (Matt. 28:19-20). In obedience to that injunction those apostles gave up everything dear to them and spent their lives teaching people everywhere they went that Jesus is the God of this world. After enduring great hardships and persecution, most of them _ gave their lives as a final testimony of the life, death, and resurrection of the Lord. Hundreds and thousands of their converts did the same thing. Surely those who knew him best believed him divine. We need go no further than the lives of the noble pioneers who came West for the sake of the gospel to find examples of the effect of Christ's teachings upon the human heart. If they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city (Heb. 11:15-16). If we study his personal life, we find exhibition of the noblest in life. "He went about doing good." While miracles are not always proof of divine power, their absence shows lack of that power. The magicians of Egypt imitated, in a small way, the miracles performed by Moses. The careful student, however, notes the difference in power and majesty. The miracles performed by Jesus were all for the blessing and comfort of the people. His was not a "black art," practiced to deceive. He exercised divine power for the comfort and blessing of people. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 If one will study the way of life as taught by the Savior, one will recognize the divine in the teacher. No one has ever found that his law of health is not beneftcial and healthpromoting. So far as we know, he was carth's greatest. Healer. Whence came this wisdom and power? There is but one answer—he was divine. If space permitted, we might fill pages discussing the Master 'T'eacher. Can anyone read the Beatitudes and say he was only human? He touched every pathway of life and lighted that way with the effulgent rays that "proceedeth forth from the presence of God." Who else ever touched the human heart as did he? Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light (Matt.. 11:28-30). Millions have bome_ testimony that they have felt and known his comfort. Go to the grief-stricken mother who has put her trust in God and try to convince her that Jesus is only a great teacher or a great man. She knows better. His divine influence has uplifted her and she knows it. Read of the experience of Zacchaeus as recorded in Luke, chapter 19, if you doubt the power of Jesus over the human heart. Have not Christian men and women been the greatest benefactors of the human race? Florence Nightingale, the founder of Red Cross work and the hospitalizing of wounded soldiers on_ battlefields, was a firm believer in Christ and was inspired by his mercy and humanitarianism. 'The man who ren- JESUS CHRIST, OUR LORD dered such splendid service in making it possible for every boy and girl: n America to get at least a common school education was 4 devout follower of the Master. Lincoln was changed from a disbeliever to one who believed and trusted the Savior as the greatest power in the universe. Is it possible that all the Christian agencies for good during nearly two thousand years have all been set: n motion by a fraud? He said he was God, All of his actions, all of his teachings, the whole scheme of the Christian religion are built on that premise. If you take away the foundation, the building will fall. He cannot be a deceiver and a God at the same time. The two ideas are wholly incompatible. Jesus Was a God ig is basic in the philosophy of the Latter-day Saints that Jesus cre ated this world. "The Father gave him power before the earth was Created. He became perfect through obedience, service and sacrifice. We cannot fully understand why, because he was a God, that he should choose to live a human life and die a human death: Such was his choice, however. "All things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things." Paul gives us one of the most impressive and all inclusive testimonies we have concerning Jesus the Christ: Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the 'nheritance of the saints in light: who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear son: In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the 223 forgiveness of sins: who is the image of the invisible God, the first-born of every creature. For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by him, beginning, the firstborn from the d that in all things he might have the preFor it pleased the Father that dwell (Col. 1:12-19)- Testimonies That Christ Lives Long before the Lord was born of the virgin Mary, Job said, quoting from the Douay version: For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and in the last day I shall rise out of the earth. And I shall be clothed again with my skin, and in my flesh I shall see my God. Whom I myself shall see, and my eyes shall behold, and not another: this my hope is laid up in my bosom. (JosEPH FreLpinc SMITH, Restoration of All Things). In this our day, a glorious testimony has been given: And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father—that by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God (D. & C. 76:22-24). Latter-day Saints should be deeply grateful for this truth: "O the sweet joy this sentence gives, I know that my Redeemer lives." Thousands of honest, God-fearing people in the Church solemnly affirm: "T know he lives." The Gift Dorothy Clapp Robinson "Uh-huh." Gloria did not raise her eyes. In this book Papa had borrowed there were six illustrated pages of horses. Just horses. She could draw everyone of them by heart, if she wanted. She would draw them when Marie gave her pencils back to her. She could draw Starlight, too, by heart, but not very well, for she had never been close enough to him. "Gloria, get your nose out of that book; and you can't take it with you." Marie stooped impatiently and took the book from the floor. Gloria rolled over on her back. "Why don't you go?" she asked her sister hopefully. "Gloria Amold, you are working for Mrs. Horne this afternoon, so you can earn money to buy Papa a birthday present." "And you will have to hurry if you get the money earned and spent," her brother Levi spoke over a huge slice of bread and honey. "This is his birthday, and it is ten miles to the store." "Yes," Marie added, "this is your very last chance. If you hadn't been so selfish you could have been going with us." Nothing she ever did was right; and the old pec'cy pain began gnawing at Gloria's heart so that her breath came fast and hot. She put her fingers in her ears. That always made Marie furious, but because Marie was twelve and the boss while Mama was away she thought she Page 224 66 (Gui it is time to leave." could say anything. Gloria wished she was like Marie, then she wouldn't be having this pain—no, no, she didn't either; but Marie was a worker, and all the valley people said how wonderful she was to take hold. "We are going to get him a widerimmed straw hat that will keep the sun from his eyes." Since Gloria hadn't asked what their present was to be, Marie felt an urge to offer the information. "And if we have money enough we will get some work socks," Levi added, "that is, unless you want to get them." "Work socks—ugh!" Gloria knew at once she should not have said that, and it did ease her pain a little, but it started Marie again. "At least we are getting him something. If I hadn't spoken to Mrs. Horne about work, you wouldn't have anything for him. You don't love him." "Don't you say that. Don't you dare say that." Gloria sprang to her feet. © "Why—why—I love Papa more than...." "Actions speak louder than words," Marie reminded virtuously. "He spends practically all his money on pencils and drawing pads for you, and you don't want to work one afternoon for him." Gloria started to deny that, but 'stopped short. It was no use. She could never make her sister understand, for no words could tell how she felt about Papa. "Let's go." Levi had a half-day leave from the harvesting, and he THE GIFT was eager to get to town. He started for the yard gate where old Bally stood hitched to the buggy. The horse's head was down, and only the occasional twitching of his tail revealed that there was life in his body. GLOWLY Gloria went for her bonnet, and more slowly followed her sister to the gate. She wanted to go to town, too. Levi picked up the reins as Marie climbed into the buggy and sat beside him. Gloria watched, but she could not see too well. Her brother clucked to the horse and Marie turned for a last word of warning. "Be sure and wash all her dishes, and don't undress the baby." Their laughter floated back. Undressing the baby was the valley's standing joke. Gloria stood motionless in the dusty road while the sound of the rattling wheels died away and the gathering silence from the fields enveloped her, but no silence was thick enough to smother the sound of that laughter or kind enough to ease the pain in her heart. Why did people always laugh at her? No one laughed at Levi or Marie. Undressing the Wilson baby hadn't been a laughing matter at first. The only trouble was that Mrs. Wilson had come home too soon, and she had made a scandal of it. "Gloria, why did you undress Buster?" Mama had demanded. Mrs. Wilson had been standing back of her and that had sharpened Mama's voice. "His clothes were ugly." It hadn't taken that story long to go the rounds, but along with the laughter had gone quick glances and 225 much head shaking. Papa and Mr. Wilson had laughed, too, but not that way. 'Theirs had been a secretfun chuckle; and for Christmas, Mr. Wilson had given her a box of precious paints. He'd had the store man send all the way to San Francisco for them. For that box she would listen to a million laughs. The girl walked slowly, reveling in the feel of brown dust between her bare toes. She followed a winding road up a low hill, and at the top stopped to look over the wonder of the canvas spread for her inspection. The blue mountains, the rolling hills, the weather-stained buildings she could see and those she could not see offered peace, and at once the hurt was gone. On the south slope her father was riding the binder, and the falling bundles left a golden trail behind him. As she watched he stopped the team while he stacked the bundles. Helping him would be more fun than washing dishes or tending a baby. Resolutely she put one foot ahead of the other. She must go to the Horne's. She tried to count the | heat waves that shimmered across the hills, but she couldn't, and that was queer. She couldn't draw them either, but they were there and she could see them plain as day. Phew! It was hot. Quickly, without the pain of deciding, she turned from the road and went down a swale where a grove of quaking aspens marked a patch of grass and shade. YING on her back, she watched a lazy wind shoo popcorn clouds above the quivering aspen leaves. In the high blue a hawk hung motionless. It was all so beautiful some- 226 thing inside her chest kept swelling and swelling, and she was going to burst if she didn't get her pencils and drawing pad. She knew where Marie had hidden them—on the top shelf of the kitchen safe behind Mama's best plates. In some ways Marie was awfully dumb. Wouldn't she be surprised if she came home and found the pencils gone? Gloria could go back for them, if she wanted. She had been four days without them, and tomorrow was a long time away. She half rose, and then lay back. Marie was right, she did spend too much time with her pencils. Why couldn't she be like Marie? Why couldn't she be like anyone but herself? Course, she was like Papa— some. People laughed at him, too, because he didn't have big barns or good machinery, and because he used words they did not know. Like pec'cy. When she had asked him what it meant he had held her close to him for a moment. "Peccancy? When did you hear me use it? It could mean a cancer of disintegration, a too-keen sensibility to innuendoes and_ thinly veiled smiles. It could mean being hurt instead of facing facts." Gloria did not understand all the words but she knew exactly what he meant, and she could always tell when the pain was with him. Sometimes when he came in from the fields or from town she could see it on his face, and then she got all tight inside just as she did when Mr. Wilson gave her the paints. How could Marie think she didn't love him? She couldn't explain her love for him, she could only feel it, and Marie could not know feel without words. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 She would do anything for him, anything. She would even give up drawing if he asked, but he wouldn't ask. She sighed and, as if in answer, the quaking aspen bent low, its leaves rustling, just asking to be painted. She must have a pencil. She was going home right now and get one. No—no, she would prove to Marie that she did love Papa. Mrs. Horne would give her twenty cents for the afternoon. What could she buy for twenty cents? Work socks were two pairs for twenty-five cents. Work socks! She wouldn't be guilty. What could she—oh, no, could anything be more exciting than the way the leaves of that one branch twinkled and danced? One moment they were points of light and the next they were blobs of shadow. If only she could find something as beautiful to give Papa. A horse would be beautiful, and a horse was exactly what he needed. He didn't have a riding horse like the other dry-farmers. If she could give him one. Stangers had a threeyear-old roan that was the most beautiful thing she had ever seen, except Starlight. GHE sat up suddenly. If Papa could ride into town on him! Starlight was a wild stallion, a Palamino, that roamed these hills and coaxed the mares away from the farmers. 'They all hated him, and everyone had had a try at catching him. All but Papa. He would never help when a try was made. Course, he didn't have a horse that could keep in sight of the stallion, but she knew he would not try if he did have a horse. Once she had gone to the field to tell him something and had found THE GIFT him on Bald Knob, watching. She had looked, and there, feeding across the valley, was Starlight and. His mares. 'The look on Papa's face had been exactly like the feeling that came with painting. If only she could catch Starlight; but what was the use of wishing. She bet she could lead him if she could get her hands in his mane, but he would never let her get that close; and Stangers would never sell the roan for twenty cents. They probably wouldn't even take the twenty cents as a down payment. She would have to think of something else. Likely, she couldn't find another brush. Gloria squirmed as she thought of that present. They were still throwing it up to her—bringing home a sagebrush for a bouquet. She had been down by the river visiting an Indian camp. Her friend, Pete Jim, was walking home with her when they discovered the limb. It was bent and twisted. Back on itself in a way that had immediately _reminded her of Papa's brass bowl. The olive-gray leaves, the stringy bark of the sage, and the old country bowl had been made for each other. She and Pete had tugged and twisted and pulled until the limb broke from the main brush. She had carried it very carefully. Once home, Mama had ordered her to throw it away. "I have to burn the dirty stuff, so please don't give me a bouquet of it." "But it is beautiful." They had laughed, as always, but Papa had caught Marie's arm when she would have thrown it out. He had handled it carefully, almost lovingly. "It is beautiful, Glory, and don't let anyone tell you differently —now or ever." 227 With a start Gloria brought her mind back. 'There must be a rancher among these hills who would sell a horse on time; but she still lacked the twenty cents, and it was a cinch no one would let her have a horse without something down. It would almost be easier to catch Starlight. She rose slowly to her feet and looked at the winding road. Why didn't it go to the river? 'That was an idea. She might trade for an Indian pony, but first she would have to find the camp, for it had been moved last week. Oh dear! Anyway, she would not buy work socks. LORIA started over the hill, picking her way carefully lest she step on a prickly pear or a sharp stone. A quarter of a mile farther on she came to the road again. Over the brow of the next hill she could see the top of a windmill that marked the Horne ranch. Mrs. Horne would say she was late again and why wasn't she like Marie. Suddenly a horse came galloping around a turn in the road, followed by a paint pony—Angus Johnson and Pete Jim. "Stangers have corralled Starlight," Angus yelled as he passed. "Starlight!" Pete echoed, lashing his pony from side to side. Gloria froze. Dust switled about her face and she did not know it. What had Angus said? Stangers had corralled Starlight. Stangers had... With a sudden leap, she sped down the road toward home. Stangers had corralled Starlight. 'Throwing open the kitchen door, she reached into the cupboard for her pencils and pad. Even by cutting over the hills, it was four miles to the Stanger ranch. 228 Gloria's face was red and streaked with dust as she came panting into the yard where the stallion was being held. Men of every age, ranchers and dry-farmers, even a few from town, were crowding about and onto a high pole fence. "Get back," a man spoke rudely as the girl tried to force a way to the top pole. "Get gone. This is no place for girls. 'That animal is a killer." "Leave me alone!" Gloria kicked at him with one foot. "Come on, wildcat. Beat it. Go home to your mother." 'The man laid his hands on her and would have lifted her to the ground, but just then a hoarse shout went up from the crowd. The man turned hurriedly lest he miss something. Gloria sat on the top and nudged her toes between two lower poles. She drew a deep breath. There he was. There he was, her Starlight. Never in all the world had there been another like him. He was—he was unbelievable. Her fingers moved. Surely, smoothly over the paper. Indifferent as to how the stallion had been corralled, indifferent to the sweating, swearing men; only vaguely conscious that men, horseback and on foot, were venturing into the corral and dashing out again; through all the dust and confusion Gloria's attention was on her never-quiet model. Once the stallion plunged straight toward her and the fence emptied like magic. When the men climbed back Pete Jim was on one side of her and his father on the other. Then, for one priceless moment, Starlight stood in the center of the corral, his tail high, mane blowing, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 eyes dilated with terror and challenge. Don't move, oh, don't move! Line by line, stroke by stroke, the horse grew on the paper; a horse so perfect in form and arrested movement the Indians lost interest in the live animal. Five minutes more... "He's wearing down!" "Watch out, everybody!" "Now is the time to get him!" "Jim Stanger is going in on his roan!" GLORIA sensed the tension at the gate. She saw Starlight gather his muscles for the try; she saw him leap; she knew he had scattered the men at the gate and was gone. A roar of disappointment went up from the crowd. Men flung themselves on their horses and gave chase. The yard was suddenly empty. Gloria sat motionless, except for her arm and hand. She must catch those last lines before the picture faded from her mind. When at last she had finished and, with a tired sigh, raised her eyes, she was alone on the fence except for Pete and his father. The older Indian, a braid hanging over each shoulder, pushed, back his hat and black eyes looked into blue ones. "Good," he said shortly, and the gitl's tired, reddened face brightened. "We are camped down by the Narrows," Pete told her, as he slid from the fence to follow his father. The four miles home were endless. Gradually the fever of creation left the girl, and what she had to face at home loomed unendurable. They would not laugh this time. They would have tight mouths and hard eyes. Papa might.... Oh, Papa, Papa. His birthday was nearly over, and she had nothing for him. (Continued on page 283) Relief Society Building News able to provide themselves g suitable home." He also said that in doing so they would find great happiness, 230 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 entre Church of Jesus Christ of —— Saints se ae C "See Dhan At Mt CENERAL PRESIDENCY "CERTIFICATE OF ACHIEVEMENT" One of these certificates bearing the signatures of the general presidency of Relief Society is being sent to stakes and wards, missions and branches as 100% quotas from them are received. The certificates have been made the size of the ward and stake record books so that they may be punched and kept in the record book if desired. A WORD OF CAUTION We call attention to a paragraph contained in the "Financial Plan for the Relief Society Building" dated October 21, 1947. A copy of this plan was sent to each Relief Society stake president and sufficient additional copies were enclosed so that each ward Relief Society president could be given one. The general board is not unmindful of the fact that the circumstances of some sisters are not such that they can contribute the full amount of the individual quota. For that reason we are publishing the following excerpt from the "Financial Plan" as set forth in October 1947: "This plan is predicated upon our wish, our hope, and our prayer that the money for this new Relief Society building shall be collected, in large part, by the Relief Societies throughout the Church; that every member RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 231 shall participate toward its erection. We want this to be a building for and by Relief Society women. 'To this end, a quota of $5 for each enrolled member has been set as the goal necessary to achieve this objective. However, the general board realizes that there are some members who may not be in a position to make so large a contribution, and it is not intended that any woman shall be burdened beyond her means and, particularly, we are anxious that no member shall be embarrassed if she is not prepared to contribute as much as the assigned quota. Nevertheless, we should like some contribution from each member, be it ever so small." HONEYVILLE (UTAH), BEEHIVE GIRLS CONTRIBUTE TO RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING FUND Seated, left to right: Carol Hunsaker and Leota Hunsaker. Standing: Nora Harper; Rea Nielsen; Diane Burke. Sister Lois G. Hunsaker, North Box Elder Stake Bee Keeper, has submitted the following interesting letter regarding this active group: "Our Relief Society president told me she thought I ought to send you this picture of my five bee hive girls. They have all contnibuted one dollar to the new Relief Society home to be built in Salt Lake City. They not only helped the building fund, but also benefited themselves by filling cell No. 7 in the field of public service for gatherers. The picture was taken last summer in the Salt Lake City Rose Gardens when the group went to see "The Promised Valley." They are a very conscientious and active group of bee hive girls, having filled all their requirements and they are preparing to graduate next year as honor bee hive girls." STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS SoutH Ipano Faris Staxe (Ipauo) Ipauo Fats Stake (IpsHo) SAN Dreco STAKE (CALIFORNIA ) WELLs STAKE (UTAH) TETON STAKE (IDAHO AND WYOMING) GraniTE STAKE (Urtan) Norts IpaHo Farts Stake (IDAHO) WELLS STAKE, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, COMPLETES BUILDING FUND QUOTA Stake Relief Society President Cacia F. Margetts turns check over to General President Belle S. Spafford, who is a member of Wells Stake. Others in the picture, left to right, are First Counselor Josephine Brower, Secretary Hazel Midgley, and Second Counselor Ida Isaacson. Wells Stake is fourth in the Church to complete its quota.. WARDS AND BRANCHES IN STAKES AND MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the March Magazine and prior to March 10, 1948) Antimony Ward, Garfield Stake (Utah) Aurora Branch, Chicago Stake (Illinois) Banida Ward, Oneida Stake (Idaho) Basin Ward, Cassia Stake (Idaho) Bates Ward, Teton Stake (Idaho) Beaver Creek Branch, Rigby Stake (Idaho) Belvedere Ward, Wells Stake (Utah) Bern Ward, Montpelier Stake (Idaho) Bonneville Ward, Bonneville Stake (Utah) Bremerton Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington) Bristol Branch, Southern States Mission (Florida) Browning Ward, Wells Stake (Utah) Bryce Ward, St. Joseph Stake (Arizona) Burton Ward, Rexburg Stake (Idaho) Cache Ward, Teton Stake (Idaho) 232 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 233 Cedar Fifth Ward, Parowan Stake (Utah) Cedron Ward, Teton Stake (Idaho) Chapin Ward, Teton Stake (Idaho) Clark Ward, East Rigby Stake ( Idaho) Clawson Ward, Teton Stake (Idaho) Clifton Ward, Oneida Stake (Idaho) Coltman Ward, North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Columbus Ward, Granite Stake ( Utah) Darby Ward, Teton Stake (Idaho) Davis Dam Branch, Moapa Stake (Nevada) Driggs Ward, Teton Stake (Idaho) Elizabeth City Branch, Central Atlantic Mission (North Carolina) Emerson Ward, Minidoka Stake (Idaho) Fairfield Ward, Berkeley Stake (California ) Fairmont Ward, Granite Stake (Utah) Fish Haven Ward, Bear Lake Stake (Idaho) Forest Dale Ward, Granite Stake (Utah) Fort Washakie Branch, Western States Mission (Wyoming) Fruita Branch, Western States Mission (Colorado) Gainesville Branch, Florida Stake (Florida ) Garden Park Ward, Bonneville Stake (Utah) Glencoe Ward, Oneida Stake (Idaho) Glendale Ward, Oneida Stake (Idaho) Glenns Ferry Ward, Boise Stake (Idaho) Grand Rapids Branch, Northern States Mission (Michigan) Groveland Ward, Blackfoot Stake (Idaho) Grovont Branch, Teton Stake (Wyoming) Hercules Ward, Oquirth Stake (Utah) Hillcrest Ward, Grant Stake (Utah) Idaho Falls First Ward, North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Idaho Falls Fourth Ward, North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Idaho Falls Seventh Ward, North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Independence Ward, Rexburg Stake (Idaho) Ivins Ward, Wells Stake ( Utah) Jackson Ward, Teton Stake (Wyoming) Kanarra Ward, Parowan Stake (Utah) Kingman Branch, Moapa Stake (Arizona) Laramie Ward, Denver Stake (Wyoming) Leland Ward, Palmyra Stake (Utah) Lincoln Ward, Granite Stake (Utah) Lyman Ward, Rexburg Stake (Idaho) McKay Ward, Wells Stake (Utah) McKinley Ward, Temple View Stake (Utah ) Miami Ward, St. Joseph Stake (Arizona) Moccasin Ward, Kanab Stake (Arizona) Monument Park Ward, Bonneville Stake (Utah) New Harmony Ward, Parowan Stake (Utah) Nibley Park Ward, Granite Stake (Utah) North Twentieth Ward, Ensign Stake (Utah) Oasis Ward, Deseret Stake (Utah ) Ogden Thirty-first Ward, Ogden Stake (Utah) Oklahoma City Branch, Central States Mission (Oklahoma ) Osgood Ward, North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Oxford Ward, Oneida Stake ( Idaho) Park Ward, Utah Stake (Utah) Penrose Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah) Pratt Ward, Teton Stake ( Idaho) Preston Fourth ard, O da € (Idaho reston Thirg Ward, Oneida Stak, ( Idaho ) TOVO Fourt ard, Utah tah) Iverdale W. » Oneida Stake (Idaho ver Height. Ard, Mount €4an Stake ( ) lx-Seventh ard, Temple View Stake (Utah) South Cottonwood Ward, Big Cottonwoog Stake ( Utah ) War, a) Partanburg Ward, outh Caroling Stake (South Caroling ) terling Ward, American Falls Stake ( Idaho) Stone Ward, Bear River Stake ( Utah) s win Fal] td Ward, Twin Fy Is Stake ( Idaho) con d, North Idaho Falls § ake (Id Valley v, ard, Big Cotton, d Stake (Utah) ICtor W. » 4€ton Stake (Idah ashak d, Malad Stake ( Idaho) tak Are shimmering With green of emerald leaves, And there is beauty jn the Spting's rebirth The petaleg branches, in a bouffant host, Ate lyrics of poetic Majesty, man's country, | have heard YOu say so many times inges, and Yourself, and yet you are leaving It all," Sat an end. Years, coming tonight, She - Opened the front door and saw him caning against the luxuri that "Mant hedge Sew in front of L Igion, security, g ~ Home of my o The moon was Tesplendent, silKettle. "But Scotland Andrew Called excitedly to Jane, "What a Wonderfy] Picture to Carry « € new Country wil] unite us, ing? Some. Jane." Andrew was trying hard to feel th explain, "Tp won', €N We will PEN over Which we always be together in ave no contro], Sickness, accidents, home. And eyen death," Our new ome." Jane sighed a] 8, deep sigh Ndrew turn DXlously to Jane Andre turned and Spoke tender Her Worry and fear Were tounding y- "Don't Jane. No Man is worth to him. Of such devotion, but if 4 an can She wen n "Perhaps I'm disa be, Tam 80ing to be that man," Pointing y, When I telj you that J Reassured, Jane looked UP and Y Were befor YOu joined the drift of clouds She Church an made up your mind to §0 to Utah." Her f. Ous—far too serj sO many times efor Ous, "Come With me tell your par among th White clouds, like a silver early tonight to spend some time Vering the beautify] Village of King's Onestly wish They tood silent for a Watching the ™MO00On sail in 4 d out shuttle Weaving its Way across the heavens, "Scotland Is q Sweet Country," she egan Speaking again, "good enough f Ings 'Were Just as smiled, sunshine bursting through 3 Oment, ents 800dbye, before we attend the atewel] arty. I must get home ith mother and I'll neeg to rise carly if | Set the coach in Dumferline tomorrow " ** # « 236 large crowd of friends, neighbors, and relatives were at the Rumgay home the next morning to wish Andrew good luck on his journey. Andrew was busy. He had borrowed a wheelbarrow from the foreman of the mine, where he had been working as cage-hoister. He was packing all of his clothing and books into a large brown kist that had belonged to his father. This was to be placed into the barrow, with his other belongings, and pushed to Dumtferline. Andrew loved books. Since he began working, every twopence that could be spared from his pay envelope had gone for the purchase of books. Jane had made several fruitcakes and some shortbread, and was waiting her chance to slip them into the kist unnoticed. Each member of the family came with a gift, something Andrew could use on the way, although it perhaps had cost only a halfpenny. His mother's gift was precious and a complete surprise to her boy. She had taken the fleece of a sheep, washed and carded the wool, and then spun the wool into soft yarn. With this she had knit him under. Wear, a sweater, a tam, gloves, and a muffler. Andrew was deeply touched. He thought of Joseph's coat of many colors and knew now just how Joseph must have appreciated it. T'aking his mother in his arms, he said, "Such a mother! And these hands! No others are as beautiful. I remember the day, almost the very hour, that every wrinkle was worn and beaten into them. Someday | hope to soften and adorn them, dear." He kissed them tenderly. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 "It isn't easy to leave my loved ones, but while I'm away the weanies will work just a little harder, and be just a little kinder because I'm not here." "I am sure they will," answered Mrs. Rumgay, drying the fast-falling tears on the hem of her apron. "Don't fret about us, Andrew. We will get along grand while we are apart." Andrew patted her stooped shoulders, lovingly looked at her, then turned back to his work. Janet Rumgay was quite through with emotional demonstrations. She had patiently endured so many sorrows and hard trials since her husband had died. And there was no other way. Andrew had gone over it with her many times, had fasted and prayed about it, and always received the same answer. He did not wish to be selfish, but it was the One way out for them all. They would soon be together in a new land of opportunity. KK Ke NDREW was packed and ready. Jane could see something must be done about the next few minutes. She spoke to Mary, and then pushed the wheelbarrow in through the front door. "Your coach is waiting, Sir. Now, we will bring in the horses." Mary, Andrew's sister, walked around and stood by one of the handles. Jane took her place by the other. Andrew's uncles placed his luggage into the barrow while he began bidding all his loved ones goodbye. "Now Pete and Bally, get up," Jane shouted. The girls picked up the barrow, pushed it down the stone walk, through the gate, and into the long, QUESTING LIGHTS country lane that would lead them onto the highway to Dumferline. Trying to remember all the loving admonitions and messages he had just heard, Andrew went running down the lane calling to the girls to wait for him. When he did catch up with them they refused to turn the barrow over to him. They walked the old road together, the road where they had spent so many happy childhood hours and, since they grew older, had often strolled together on moonlit nights, passing to and from church at Dumferline. Young Rumgay was quite the Beau Brummel this morning, walking along fully a head taller than his companions. Jane and Mary could not keep their eyes away from him, he was so brave in his new black suit, white shirt, and black tie. He wore his mother's gift—the tam. The girls were breaking a tradition in wearing their Sunday clothes today. Andrew had noticed it and appreciated the honor. Maybe his going away really meant a great deal to them. Mary looked up at Andrew and gave a quick roguish giggle. "When I am old and gray and have my grandchildren sitting around me, I shall tell them about today." Looking over at her brother, she added, "I shall tell them that when I was seventeen I walked to Dumferline with their Uncle Andrew, who is now a millionaire in America, and I wore my Sunday clothes. I can see them now, the darlings, inconceivably shocked, and...." "Hold on there, Mary," Andrew put in, "tell them I am a faithful Latter-day Saint instead of a million- 237 aire. You've missed the purpose of my going away, my dear." "As you wish, my brother, but they shall be shocked." Fourteen miles walking and pushing a wheelbarrow is a trying experience, but no complaints were registered, for parting was at the end of the road. Jane was fine in her new Paisley cashmere, a clear tan background, colored with every delicate tint of spring. Mary's dress was a winecolored alpaca, with fitted basque, circular skirt, and creamy lace collar and cuffs. Both girls wore poke bonnets with ribbon ties. Jane's golden curls were forcing their way out of every curve and ripple of her bonnet. * KX *K * Al Dumferline, they were met at the station by a young elder, Hugh Shand, who had been doing home missionary work with Andrew for two years. Now they were emigrating together. Andrew and Jane, with only a little time remaining, left the party and walked down one of the city's most beautiful flagged streets, to an old monastery. "Scotland's Westminster," drew quietly remarked. "Yes," returned Jane, "so many of the great people of Scotland lie buried here, among them Saint Margaret and Malcolm Canmore. Faithful in life—faithful in death." "These old walls could tell the real romances of Scotland, if they could only speak," Andrew responded. "They were always true and loyal to each other," Jane added. "That seems to be a virtue of the Scotch." She turned to Andrew wistfully. An- 238 "We will be just as true, won't we?" "We will'? Andrew assured her, taking her arm. Jane led Andrew to a stone bench near the old, time-worn wall. "I must tell you of a dream I had last night. Oh, I know you do not believe in dreams, and do not want to hear me tell them, but this one has kept me worried all day. I dreamed that you and I were in a deep fog, and we could not find one another. I could hear you calling me, and I think you could hear me calling you, but you were always beyond me. I never found you." "The dream was caused by your worry at my going away. Soon, when I have gone, you will get over fretting and the fog will clear away." He looked at his watch. It was time they were getting back to the station. Taking Jane's hand, he began running and pulling her after him. They were children again, as they had been in old King's Kettle lane, x Ke KK S they reached the station, the coach came to a stop. Andrew caught Jane in his arms and whispered, "The dearest > and most precious sweetheart that a man ever loved, and you will be mine through all eternity." He kissed her tenderly, and jumped on the moving coach. Andrew slumped into the first seat he reached. Hugh joined him. Neither spoke. Andrew had known it would be hard to part from Jane, but how hard he had never guessed. He turned and looked out of the window, watched one field and another mile pass by like a dream in a strange panorama. He studied the people about him, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 strained, work-hardened faces, men, women, and children crowded into the cheap compartment. He spoke to Hugh, "We little know what lies before us, but all the joy and sweetness of life have been worked out of these good people, the best that live on the earth." After awhile Hugh spoke, "Say, fellow, come out of it and listen to what I have to say." He shook Andrew and began laughing at the mood they found themselves in. "Say, let's forget it. Father was telling me last night of another Andrew who left Dumferline, sometime ago." "Who was it?" Andrew began showing some interest. "Did he belong to the Church?" "No. His name was Andrew Carnegie. He left and went to America to make money. He was doing all right here, but he could make it faster over there. Lots of men make fortunes over there." Both boys became silent for a time. Andrew spoke first. "My fortune, I hope, will be in spiritual values. I shall be content to live with the people of God, own my own home, and have enough to make my loved ones secure." "That's the way I feel, Rumgay." "It will be wonderful to be with those who love the things that I love, whose ideals and principles are those I have learned are true. They will by my people and my fortune." They traveled mile after mile, station after station, city after city, until they came to Liverpool. "Change cars for America," Hugh shouted, picking up his suitcase. "Yes," returned Andrew with en-_ thusiasm, "Zion, we are coming!" (To be continued ) A New Stove for Mother Norma Wrathall ()* that balmy autumn day, October first, mother's birthday, things might have been different if the Center City bus had arrived a little later than schedule, or if Harry had phoned earlier than he did. It was nearly noon, and we three gitls had been at mother's old home since five that morning. Kate, the eldest of us, always laughs when I say girls, for we're all on the best side of forty. Kate and I were working like fury, putting the finishing touches on mother's apartment before her arrival on the bus, and Em was polishing the stove. "T must say," she grumbled, pushing her damp gray hair back with one smudged hand, "these old-fashioned stoves might be wonderful to cook on, such a big top, and all, and maybe mother never would get used to a modern one; but they're miserable things to clean." _ "Tt was your own idea, Em, you know it was," retorted Kate. "Dot and I wanted to get her a new white enameled range, but you said...." "Mother will be pleased as punch," I interrupted quickly. "You know what store she has always set by her old things. It's lucky she didn't sell anything when she went to Center City to live with Aunt Celia, even though it looked, at the time, as if the arrangement might be permanent." "It was a funny thing, though," Kate mused, "Mother kept all her other things—warned us to store everything, not sell a thing—but she Page 240 gave her stove to that man who used to go around fixing lawn mowers. He had a wife and seven children, and _ he told Mother, that fall when she moved, that he didn't have a stove good enough to last the winter. So Mother gave him her old Kitchen Queen; didn't even ask him to do any work in return for it." "Yes, it's the only improvident thing I've ever known Mother to do," said Em, "but she may have regretted it. I remember, she said to me, at the time, 'Sometimes, when I think of giving my stove to that poor man, I feel almost guilty" "That's what I think," I agreed. '"Mother's good heart got the best of her judgment. Later, when she thought of how she'd had the stove ever since she was married, she felt sort of sentimental about having given it away." S I placed the ornaments on the whatnot which Pa had carved from native wood so many years ago, I was thinking of how nice it was that Mother could come back here to live. She had moved out to Center City to live with her sister Celia, soon after Harry left to join the navy. He was one of the first to go, two years before the war actually started, so it had been several years since he left. Mother had felt that she couldn't keep up the big place, and Aunt Celia being alone at the time, they had decided to combine households. Harry is the son of our only broth- A NEW STOVE FOR MOTHER er, who was killed in World War I. His young wife at that time was living here at the old home with Mother, but a few months after the baby was born, she skipped off with another man, leaving the infant Harry with a note pinned to him, leaving him for Mother to care for. Mother already had a load of sorrow, for Pa had died suddenly a few years back, so I guess Harry filled a need in her life. As he grew up, there was always a strong bond of affection between them. But she was strict with him. Why, I remember how, when he was just a little tad, he used to carry water, and coal, and wood. Mother rented out the farm, but even so her income was small, so she saved and made over everything she could. That may have been one reason she took such good care of her furniture. In later years, she was offered a good price for some pieces, such as her spool bed, the old-fashioned highboy, and the grandfather's clock, but she wouldn't part with any of them.. When Harry came back from World War II, he said at once that he was going to take his G. I. Money and the savings he had, and fix up the old home for mother. He said he knew she wasn't really happy living in someone else's house. So he had the rambling old house remodeled into a duplex, with new plumbing and a furnace. Mother was to have one apartment, and rent the other. Harry would stay there with her, and go back and forth to his work in an electrical supply factory. Thus it was that on her birthday, she was to come home. We had ' planned a little party for her, open 241 house for her friends during the afternoon. Since Em's house is the closed to Mother's, we had the lunch ready there, to bring over at the last minute. We had planned the whole thing about two weeks earlier, while we were at Em's place one afternoon, helping her tie a quilt. KK FE, were trying to think what to get for Mother's birthday present. Harry had already spent so much that we felt we should get something special. Kate was saying that about the only thing Mother lacked was a cook stove. If the three of us went in together, it wouldn't. Be too expensive. "But how would a new whiteenameled range look in here with all these fine old pieces?" demanded Em. "Besides, I ethink Mother would never want to cook on anything but a Kitchen Queen range. You both know how she took such pride in it, polishing it every morning, no matter what. Remember how she used to tell us, 'the stove and the floor, girls; that's what people notice first.' " Kate was a little doubtful. "Mother took pride in keeping everything clean, as far as that goes. And I don't know...." But Em and I won her over. To us, our happiest childhood memories were blended with the great black range, the firelight glowing around the rims of the lids on winter evenings, the warmth from the open oven door on shivery mornings. I can remember coming home from school, stiff with cold, and warming my spraddled-out fingers over the range. As we sat there talking, Harry 242 came breezing in. Even as a little boy he'd had an irritating habit of barging in, just when you were talking about something. But if you said a word, he'd cock one eyebrow, and stay right there. "Hi, Aunts," he said, helping himself to one of Em's oatmeal cookies, "what's the big discussion?" I explained carefully that we were planning a little surprise for Mother's birthday. But I wouldn't tell him what it was. "T think you should let me help with it," he insisted. "After all, she's been Mother, Father, and Gramma, all rolled into one, to me. And Besides, I know just what she wants." Kate said patiently, "Not this time, Harry. You've done enough already. And perhaps we understand old people a little better than you do. You could just get her some flowers, or something." Harry kept right on insisting, until he'd finished all the cookies. He said he certainly understood old people, especially Gramma. What about that time he took her over to Center City to a show, and bought her a new hat for Christmas, when we'd suggested house slippers? But we were firm with him, and he left, not knowing what we intended to get. S it turned out, maybe we should have taken him into our confidence. It was the night before Mother's birthday before we could get the range installed, because Em had such a time finding one; it seemed the company had stopped making them some time before the war. Em's husband, Jim, and a neighbor, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 put the stove up. Harry had gone out of town on business for his firm for a day or two, which made it all the easier to keep the secret. But by the morning of October first, he still hadn't come back, and we hoped he hadn't 'been delayed. Mother would be terribly disappointed if he wasn't home to welcome her. Em put the can of Shining Sun stove polish on the warming oven— it was the kind Mother had always used—and gave a few extra touches to the nickel trimming on the stove. She was standing on newspapers, because I had waxed the linoleum. "Well, what do you think of it?" _ She stepped back to admire her work, Kate put the blue willow-ware pitcher up into the cupboard, and climbed down from her chair before answering. "Well, it's in good shape," she said, after a moment. "But it's so—black looking." "Black—of course it's black," I said hastily. Em was warm and tired. "But oh, doesn't it remind you of school mornings, when Mother would stand there, frying hot cakes for us? And that blue pitcher full of syrup on the warming oven—so the syrup would pour easily." I could almost see Mother, her tall, spare figure bent over the griddle, a clean, faded apron tied around her waist. "T can just about taste those hot cakes—melted butter on them, too," sighed Kate. "And can either of you, for all your electric ranges, bake bread like Mother's?" "No," admitted Em. "And I have never been able to bake a decent batch of popovers. As soon as: A NEW STOVE FOR MOTHER Mother gets settled, I'm coming over and hint strongly for popovers." Kate said, "How that stove takes me back! Don't you remember, when we were little, and the threshers were there for dinner? My, those were the meals! Meat and potatoes and vegetables, and two desserts." "Yes, and popping corn on winter evenings," said Em. She was at the sink washing her hands. I began gathering the newspapers from the floor. It was nearly bus time. I wish Harry would come," said Kate. Do you think we should have told him about the stove?" "No need to; surely we could do this much ourselves," I answered. Yest then, the phone rang, and Em went into the hall to answer it. I heard her saying, "But Harry! Why didn't you tell us? Oh, dear, goodness knows what we'll do now...!" Before I could ask her what was the matter, Kate had run to the front door. "It's Mother—the bus is here!" she cried, and the next instant we were all at the door. Mother stood there smiling, looking so nice in the new print dress she'd made herself, and wearing her little straw hat. She never would wear her felt hat until winter had set in. She exclaimed over everything as we led her through the rooms. "Oh, it's all so nice, real nice," she kept saying. "But where is Harry?" "Oh, he'll be along," said Em, vaguely. "He phoned, and...." She didn't finish the sentence. Kate had tied a handkerchief over Mother's eyes, and was leading her into the kitchen. "This is the best surprise of all," she said. 243 We stood around smiling, as Kate removed the blindfold. Mother didn't notice the stove at first, because her back was toward it.. Her cheeks were pink with pleasure, and her eyes misted as she saw the crisp red-and-white dotted swiss curtains at the sparkling windows, the familiar ornaments on her own corner shelves, the dishes, shining through the glass doors of the cupboard. There was a bowl of chrysanthemums on the table, and her own reund, rag rugs on the floor. It looked so comfortable and homey, you could almost smell the homemade bread baking. Then Mother turned around and saw the stove. I have seen Mother happy, and sad, and even angry, at times. But the look on her face was a mixture of all these, plus amazement. A. Dull red replaced the flush of pleasure in her cheeks. 'Tears came into her eyes. But I think we all knew that they were not tears of happiness. "Girls—is this—my old stove?" she asked, at last. Em swallowed. "Why, no, Mother. It's a newer one, just like yours. I—that is, we thought...." Her voice seemed to fail. Em had an odd look on her face. Kate faltered, "We thought you'd like it, to remind you of old times...." I couldn't say a word. After a pause, Mother said, in a dull voice, "It does. Yes, it reminds me of old times. Times that managed somehow to be happy in spite of it." She cleared her throat. "It's funny, how something like that stove can take you back. All the years I stood over it in the heat, cook- 244 ing and baking and putting up fruit, and the summers, when there were threshers and hay hands to cook for. And getting up early to take out the soot and ashes, after Pa died and wasn't here to help me. And blacking the old thing every morning of the world before the fire was made! There was a place in the grate where the fire would fall out, and the oven get cold if you didn't place the fuel just right." OTHER made a little helpless gesture with her hands, and sat down in her rocking chair. 'Then she said, gently, "There, now. I shouldn't have said that. But it took me so by surprise—I thought it was the same one, after I'd thought I was rid—that is, it's been so many years. My goodness, I know how hard you've all worked to make things nice for me. And you'll never, never, know how wonderful it is to be home again. Don't let anyone ever tell you there's a place on earth like home! I appreciate all you've done, and the money that's been spent—all my lovely old things, kept just like new." She gave a little laugh. "You girls will have to forgive me. I guess there's nothing like an old stove, to bring out the worst in a woman's nature." Her words echoed away into the silence. I tried to say that, of course, we could take the stove back. But I couldn't get the words past the lump in my throat. All at once, I knew just how she felt. 'To see that great black stove, and all that work starting over again. As Kate pointed out later, it's fine to revere the past, but you don't have to live in it. For once, it was a relief when Harty came bouncing in. "Hi, everyRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 body. Well, look who's here!" He leaned over, and gave Mother a resounding kiss. "Why are all of you so quiet? And why did you put that stove up in here? I thought we were going to put it on the back porch." He was standing near me, and kicked me, hard, on the ankle. Mother began, "Now, I've made a mistake...." "Never mind that," laughed Har- "Come out to the front porch, and see how you like your birthday present." "You mean there's something else? What is it, dear?" "Oh, just some flowers." winked at Kate. As we all trouped out, he stepped back, and hissed into my _ ear, "Lucky, Jim told me in time. Maybe after this...." He had bought her some flowers, all right. A dozen long-stemmed American Beauty roses. And they were lying on top of a brand new electric range. Mother's face was radiant. "Oh, Harry—" she choked. "An electric stove! After all these years! Oh, you shouldn't have!'"" She covered her face with her hands. "Why, sure, Gramma. 'There, there, now. You're not going to cry, are you? On your birthday?" He put his arm around her, and pulled a handkerchief from his pocket. Somehow, we three made our way back into the house. "We'd better go over to Em's and get the lunch," Harry muttered Kate. As I followed Em out the back door, I saw she had something hidden under her apron. It was the can of black stove polish. Though In tabernacles I shal] Weep until al] Osannas sha hey, too, have Tisen n Easter, in his men's I] Proclaim with the Christ Name. Page 248 E VERY-DAy WORK The SWeetest lives are those to duty Wed, hose deeds, both, teat and small, Are close-knit Strands of one unbroken thread,: Plenty of poi and fish, or Meat, g &'ass hut to Shelter one from the storms, and the simplest 'of summer Clothing— thes. Ate the Hawaiian', NECESsities Here is 3 Tief description the kalo Plant, fro ch poi js Made Ves are ve. Much € those of the cal] lily, T € root, wh ch is the Part eaten, &TOWs to Z€ not ex Ceeding six in h Ong, and three inch through, € kalo cq ased, pulled and garnered for future © aS are most of Our temperate vegetables, by be used Within a month after it is Nipe; and after having been 8athered, jg not cooked immediate. Ly, dries and is spoiled. "++ bout once a Week occurs the family aking —Homespus ment. Her death noy leaves the Organization Wit a; b Young was her first Counselor, Jt js "OW moved and Seconded that she be made presi. | OUS vote, dent, Sister Young was chosen by unanim ote OLD old! My home—ang to a str ger; one Will neve no how the eart clung t ery stone an board and bri of that 9 crumbled se, OW in its Very ruins it Was dearer than he palaces of kin he years ¢9 Id never tel] d €Y could never know, all the unshine, aj] the pla SS, all the SOrrow all the Sadness that 18 Woven in our lives in the d sweet Precious hom » the mem Ones! Hey al com gain; my eyes are dq » My heart aches, the home is A WORD TO YOUNG MOTHERs. Mothers, let me Plead with you first to Study the future Welfare of your Children, Tather than the Present Etatification of al] their little Whims and appetites, [¢ you know What is best for your child, as YOu, most of a.. ': WISDom. We should endeavor to Purchase the 800d will of aj] men, and quarre} With no man needlessly, since any man's love May be useful, and every man's hatred js - Barrow 'THE eight N elected this She Was almost nin year to the Salt Lake City Coun 48€. Her con Cul of Women' Hall of Fame ar, "al culture of Mrs algaret B less, Charter Ough sh President of the coun 1, Maugurator of the nine children, she; (6) Miss Rose Anna Jones, Outstanding ed- (ata Latter-day Saints C ucator, founder of the nursery Schoo]: Movement jn Utah, SOcial Worker, P TS, 'Cornelia S. Und, Worker in Par. De: ent-Teacher Associations for twenty-five the song's first Years, leader jn Salt Lake City Women's The Choir leader fo) Ts. Ella Napier Paul, Organizer of youth groups to combat juvenile delin. Tor of the famous Orchest quency, Brownie Scouts Worker, attendance and Miss Florence =. Wate, Outstanding lastic about Miss Olsen's 1 vocational gu: Instructor in children's activities director T4ckinann Y is a | sc ial art bits,: nm Utah' entennjq] exhib Lizzie O Borgeson r. € Dori ah] uist, State q a Tector of Minute wy during orld eranddaug Diann Olivia ar Tl, chairman f Centennial Commitabout two little I friends ) tee of th ouncil of ome lan and le, and their com ts. Ruby azlet W, Y, director o mon interest in ¢ he women' Wision of ar bond 00k of r sales com Permanent ch i of garde ouneil POnsored j; tetnationg] Peace T be Publish ed in Elections are held every five Ant Ology of P. Aitlotic Decl, Yeats; service to the ¢ munity is mation, 1948; is Mrs Bertha A the basis f choic einman's m, ", for nearly twenty-six Yeats tries jn the Thanksgiving Contest of leader of the Salt Lake Stake Relief the Nationa] Poetry F, Oundation, jt Society Chorus, and member of the Teceived 4 merit Citation. It has 4 Tabernacle Choir for More than fine, Matching thythm, ang sonorfifty Yeats, passed away January 9- ous, Tinging diction, Page 247 APRIL 1948 NO. 4 She rma General Church Conference S the season approaches for calling together the greatest assemblage held on earth—a general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—all members have cause to reflect upon the deep significance of the occasion and the great responsibility resting upon the leaders of the Church and upon this people. It is a time appointed for the gathering in of the saints from near and far, to learn the will of the Lord from the lips of his chosen servants during these last days of prophetic import. To one but recently arrived from a distant land, attendance at a great general conference in the Tabernacle is a never-to-be-forgotten experience. Instead of meeting with a mere handful of saints, often under stringent circumstances, he now finds himself crowded into a magnificent and unique edifice made hallowed by the faithfulness and sacrifices of its pioneer builders and the stalwart saints who have succeeded them. He sees those living prophets, seers, and revelators, previously revered hames, seated in majesty behind the tising tiers of pulpits. He notices the great center of the building filled with members of the priesthood, leaders in the stakes and missions of the Church. Page 248 Even to a regular attendant it is a sight which never fails to thrill and inspire, and, as the anthems of Praise to the Lord rise ever higher, accompamied by the deep and mighty tones of the organ, the beholder seems to become a part of heaven on earth. All saints who are privileged to attend a general Church conference should come with broken hearts and contrite spirits, offering themselves as receptive vessels into which may be freely poured 'the blessings, exhortations, injunctions, and commandments pronounced by the liying prophets. While this Church has a promise that the gospel will never be given to another people, the tempo at which the will of the Lord may be done on the earth depends, in great measure, upon the faithfulness and obedience of the members of the Church who must prove themselves worthy _instruments in the hands of the Lord that he may speedily accomplish his purposes. Let each saint, then, live by the Master's words, "Not my will but thine be done," and whether or not he can attend a general Church conference in person, let him in reality be a_ participant through reading, studying, and obeying the words of EDITORIAL, 249 the prophets as enunciated therein. Be done on earth as it is in heaven," Then will the passing of each genand look forward with eager expecteral conference mark an increase in ancy to the fulfillment of this prayer the righteousness of the saints. On earth. Then can they truly pray "thy will M. C. S. —~—>- Congratulations to President Smith On His Birthday, April 4th HE world-wide membership of Relief Society extends birthday greetings to President George Albert Smith on the occasion of his seventy-eighth birthday. We wish him health and happiness and the strength to continue his great work in a world which needs the faith and vision of men of God. People everywhere are seeking for leaders who have the courage and the wisdom to chart a way through the difficulties that beset all countries today. We, as Latter-day Saints have been given a great leader, a kindly, understanding man, who walks close to his people, and whose lofty spirit is ever in tune with God. May the faith and prayers of the women of the Church be manifest for our dear President and may the coming years bring him comfort and joy in the service he loves. A New Feature for the lagazine new feature—"From Near and Far'—makes its first appearance with this issue of the Magazine. This page is designed to feature comments from readers, notes about authors, and other items of interest. Readers are invited to submit brief paragraphs of opinions, suggestions, and interesting notes "From Near and Far." > DEBUT OF SPRING Aileen M. Overtelt Clean and cool, the April rain Glistens on each window pane, Sprinkling diamonds on the town, Shimmering beads on branches brown, Cleansing everything anew For Lady April's spring debut. Notes TO THE FIELD C™ ein Re ulations or Membersh; in the g g 'pP viduals, will no longer be able to submit articles under the stake ang ward memberships, but will be Tequired to Pay an individual membership fee of —. NOW WE ARE WED Mabel Jones Gabbott So young in love, we Spun our tale Until dawn tinged the night. Now we are wed, our glances meet Are known In one long look. I MY LATEST INSPIRATION Nan S. Richardson Sometime ago, about eighty-six years, I came to this world of joy and tears. 'm thankful for parents who Came with the band ut I don't like arthritis, ] would be very pleased I could buy hinges that would limber my knees, Page 250 Bright April Margery S. Stewart visiting teaching for the month would be done. Nora Linden took a deep breath of the sunsplashed autumn air and turned into the walk that led to the very small duplex at the end of the street. She stepped over red toy trucks and scattered blue doll dishes, climbed the steps, and tang the bell. In the glass that decorated the door she could see her face. She noted, with a wry dismay, the lines that ran upward from her eyes and the powdering of gray in her bright, brown hair. She could hear a baby crying inside, and suddenly an older child wailed sharply. Not a propitious moment for a call. But her finger found the bell again. The door was opened by a girl, she was not more than that, who held the knob with one hand, while a wailing baby on her other arm kicked and a little boy of two clutched at her knees and roared in angry grief. Somewhere beyond the wildly disordered room, a voice shrieked for "Mommy!" "I'm Nora Linden." She held out her arms. "Let me hold the baby, then you can tend to him." The girl laid the baby in Nora's arms and knelt beside the boy. She lifted his hand, covered a bruised forefinger with kisses, "There, darling, there. It will be all tight. See it's all better." Nora saw that the gitl's hands were shaking. "Smile, Bobby." "It's bwoke," he said. Ice one more house and her She rose. "Thank you. My name is Ann—Ann Bentley." Nora looked at the gitl's long, dark hair, at her drawn, but still lovely, pointed face, her amazingly beautiful eyes, blue, tilted at the corners, at her slim, rough hands. "You were Ann Phillips, weren't you?" "Yes." "I went to school with your mother. I remember you, especially when you drove around in that bright red convertible... Most beautiful girl in town." "Most beautiful girl in town?" The gitl's smile was a distorted twist of her lovely mouth. "Sounds like someone I met... Not me." Tears crowded hot and thick down her white cheeks. "Ann Phillips, the little girl with the large dreams." "¢ ANN?" Nora looked helplessly at the girl. 'Tm sorry. It's been... A rugged day." She hid her face in the baby's blanket, her young shoulders rocked. Nora led her to a chair, brushed blocks from it, and eased the girl down. She lifted the baby higher on her shoulder. "I know just what it's like. I've cried many and many a time." ed children, six of them." Laughter strangled in her throat. "We've three, and we can't take care of Page 251 252 them. 'Three, and our lives are a rotten, quarreling mess." "T know it's a struggle." "Struggle!" She lifted her face to Nora. "I can't struggle any more. I'm going to get a divorce." "No," Nora said. "Please.. A "Yes," the girl cried. "Yes and yes and yes! I'm not going to stay home, fight dirt, meals, never on top of any of them, while Ted rides high, having fun, afraid to soil his hands. I won't take it any more." For the first time, Nora permitted herself a look around the room. It might be a pretty room under the dust and the litter of magazines and the chair filled with unironed clothes." "Isn't ita mess? Dotty, my little girl, has been sick for two days, besides I just can't seem to get things organized. I didn't know how to boil water when we were married, and..." faint laughter touched the words, "I'm still burning it." She sat up. "I'm all right now. Rm sorry I bothered you with my troubles." But Nora saw the strain it was for the pale mouth not to tremble, the hands to knot tightly so they could not shake. Exhaustion. How well Nora knew the signs. "Took," she said, "knowing your mother makes me practically an aunt, and you know how aunts are always interfering. First... How long since you've been to town?" "Three weeks." "Good gracious! Well, you pop into the tub and get dressed. Make an appointment to get your hair done tomorrow, make a date for lunch, and right now you'll just have time to meet this Ted of yours for dinner and a show. I'll baby tend." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 "But Dotty?" "What is it?" "A cold." "Tish!" Nora sniffed. "Colds run when they see me coming." "But your own family?" Ann was wavering. Expertly, Nora fished in the chair load of clothes for a diaper, carried it and the baby to the couch. She folded the dry cloth around the dimpled legs. "We just live up the street. I'll call and tell them not to wait for me. There's a casserole dish in the oven." "I can really go?" Nora watched the delight kindle beauty in the young face. "Go, child, and don't worry about a thing." WHEN Ann had left, Nora made a quick survey of the house and went to work. She changed the linen in the baby's bed under the grave scrutiny of the four-year-old Dotty, who trotted after her in pink pajamas and fluffy blue slippers. "You're handsome," Dotty said largely. "Grandmother is handsome, too, but she's in California." "What's California?" Bobby wanted to know. He brought his red chair and thumped it down on the bedroom floor. "Let's talk about lions." Laughter ran through Nora. "I... I don't know any lions." "They eat people," Dotty prompt: ed, "to get their vitamins, Daddy says." Nora found store cookies and milk, settled the children at the kitchen table, and went downstairs to tackle an overdue wash. She was hanging diapers in a long, neat line when Mrs. BRIGHT APRIL Finch, next door, came across the lawn. Whatever "Why Nora Linden! Are you doing?" Nora took Clothespins out of her mouth, "Neighboring." Mrs. Finch shaded her eyes from the last rays of the sun. Nora watched the thin lips purse, and braced herself. "Honestly, Nora Linden, as if you didn't have work enough of your own! Down here doing the work of a great, strapping girl!" "Tt's hard," Nora said. "Remember? You were in tears more than once," "Tears? Ever see such a house? Cry night and day." "So did ours Fiddlesticks! Did you Her children O99 9 5 4 Nora shook out a nightgown and pinned it on the line. "There's an answer to it." "Tell me if you find it," Mrs, Finch said acidly, and went in direction of the house. Names and problems. Ann's name slipped in... "Help me to help her, and bless her children | pray...." GHE finished hanging the clothes, went in and bathed the children and the baby. She fed them and tucked them 'in smooth, clean beds. The kitchen was a cheerful toom, 253 especially when she had washed the floor, and Under her the living Cushions that brought out the vivid coloring in six nese prints. A. Slim book of poems lay open on the table. Nora Picked it up and read the lines Ann had been teading, Nostalgia stabbed her. "When T am dead and over me bright April shakes out her raindrenched hair...." With the familiar lines, came the temembrance of the defenselessness of youth, the intensity and anguish of its loves. She closed the book and put it gently on the shelf It was almost midnight when they came home. Nora, nodding Over the mending in her hands, straightened and smoothed her hair. Ann flung open the door. "Are they all right?" "Yes, indeed." Nora noted with approval the sparkle in Ann's face, the relaxed curves of her mouth. A tall, young man, with a mop of curly brown hair and a quick, white you look at the Place! Why can't this be a daily event?" Nora watched the laughter die on Anns' lips. She introduced Ted, her voice low. The children woke and, hearing voices, sent up a demanding shriek, Ted reached for the evening paper and slid into a chair. "Quiet them, Ann." Nora rose. "I'l yun along. Be back tomorrow, around twelve." 254 Ann came with her to the door. "Thank you, ate such inadequate words." "You're very welcome." Nora went eagerly down the steps and up the street toward home. They had all gone to bed. She tiptoed upstairs. Tom, senior, had fallen asleep over a magazine. She took off his glasses, put them on the night table, slid one of the two pillows out from under his head. 'Tom, junior, had taken advantage of her absence to invite Spot upstairs. The puppy's tail thumped in greeting when she tiptoed into her. Son's room. Carol's long lashes made _halfcircles on the lovely cheeks. Nora stood over her daughter for a long time. Fifteen... A tender year, fragile and fleet. Nora noted the smooth, slim fingers, no vestige of the stubby childhood hands. Soon they would be a woman's hands. Nora looked around the room, at the dress limp on the floor, the closet door open, shoes spilling out. Carol's lashes fluttered and lifted. "We had a party, Mother. Bill came. Bill Carlos!" "No!" breathed Nora, with expected enthusiasm and a wild mental groping. "Oh, yes, the high-school football star. Darling, how wonderful!" "Mother, he said he might come again." Nora bent and kissed the radiant face, inside the fierce pleading, "Help me to help her, to show her the way...." She went downstairs. The kitchen was a Shambles. Glasses, plates, silverware stacked helter-skelter on the long tile drainboard. Wearily, she began to gather them up. She RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 thought of Ann and paused. She put the plates she had gathered back in the places where she had found them and marched upstairs into Carol's room. She shook her daughter awake. "Put on your robe and slippers and come downstairs and clean up that mess." Carol sat bolt upright. "Mother! Are you mad? Dishes this time of night?" Nora flung back the covers. "Revolting, isn't it? But I've a new job." "A new job?" Carol squeaked. She reached for her robe and fumbled about for slippers. "Mother, what on earth?" Nora, sitting on the stool by the refrigerator, eating leftover chicken, told her about Ann. "So I'm going back tomorrow, and when you come home from school you'll have to get dinner... Might as well scrub and wax this floor." Carol lifted her hands out of the soapy water. "But I've never scrubbed a floor in my life." "I know," said Nora, "neither had Ann. It's hard to learn everything at once." THE days sped by. Nora saw that she was wearing a path in the lawn where she turned down to go to Ann's house. Now Bobby and Dotty ran to meet her, fighting over her hands. Ann came swiftly to the door, lovely, eager, brimming with gratitude. Nora could not persuade her very often to leave the little house. Ann preferred to follow Nora, watching, listening, asking questions. The little house shone every day. Fragrance poured out of it, bread baking, beans simmering in molasses and mustard, apple pies browning. BRIGHT APRIL 255 ner, her arms frighteningly so. The delicate bones showed in her neck. Was it Ted? Nora made excuses to run over in the evenings. Ann sat alone, mending or reading the thin book of poems. Nora asked, point-blank, one even ing. 'Ann bent her head above het mending. "Ted? He's bowling." "He likes sports?" "Mad about them, baseball, basketball, there's always something going on." She jabbed the needle through the darning cotton. "I used to think I couldn't go on if he didn't stay home. Now I'm glad he's gone. Glad. Glad." Nora's heart turned sick. She'd known, of course, that it took two. Not all Ann's effort, her courage, her willingness to learn were enough. Nora remembered Bob, in the early years of their marriage, walking the floor with the babies. He said once that something tangible and lovely came into being between two people who were doing a job together. Nora said, "I heard Ted used to be tops in scout work when he was a youngster. My sister lives in his old ward." Ann shrugged. "Now I can't get him to go to Church. I'll go alone, take the children. 'They should be learning." She bent over her work again. Something in the young shoulders, bending so quietly to their task, made tears burn in Nora's_ throat. «even if you should lean above me, I shall not care.. " Ann was putting away from her the ecstasy and the longing, not knowing, as yet, that emptiness was the greatest burden of all. Pillow, could not drive away the memory of Ann's face, her bent shoulders. She was awake when the phone rang at three and ran swiftly to answer it before the repeated rings should arouse the household. It was Ann. Dotty was very ill. The doctor was out on call. Would Nora mind coming over? Nora dressed swiftly and ran down the block. A white-faced Ted met her at the door and led her to the children's room. Nora went to Dotty's bed and leaned past Ann. Dotty's face was scarlet, her forehead dry and burning under Nora's hand. Her wheezing was the loudest thing in the room. Ann lifted the thermometer to the light. "One hundred and four," she said. Nora worked swiftly, using all the time-honored remedies. Ann fetched and carried. Ted paced from bedroom to living room window and back. "That doctor! Him?" Nora watched him bend over his daughter. He looked very young, with his tousled hair, his shirt open at the neck. The words pushed themselves out of her throat, "You... You are an elder?" Ted glanced up sharply, "Elder? Yes, that is, I was.. - I guess I am _,_.. Haven't been to Church for years." Nora was silent. Ted made another pilgrimage to the living room. What's keeping He came back. "I'm not good enough." Nora smiled at him. She said nothing Ted leaned over his daughter, his Yet Nora saw that Ann grew thinNOB tossing sleeplessly on her 256 big hand closed on her wrist. "T've been aheel." He put her hand down gently on the coverlet, then con tinued his pacing. He went to the kitchen, and returned with a small pottle in his hand. "This oil has been blessed," he said. Peace came into the room while Ted was yet speaking. Peace that was almost tangible, and love that swelled Nora's heart until she felt it must break. Ann cried. 'Tears splashed on her hands. Nora looked up at Ted's face. It was very white. He finished and put the bottle on the little table. He went to Ann and took het in his arms, his face hidden in her hair. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 Nora reached for her coat. "I'm oing home," she said. "We know that Dotty is gomng to be well." She walked slowly up the street, carrying the wonder, not willing to relinquish a moment of the beauty, marveling at the Father's love - + - his tenderness with boys like Ted... Who sometimes lost the way, with him. Nora turned into her own front door, ""Wuanle you, for letting me help." ee DESERT CACTI, BLOOMING Lydia Hall And there is one who always passes by, As many do, in search of greening fields And buttercups beneath an azure sky; Who thinks he gamets nature's richest yields Because he loves a narrow country lane Where lilacs blow; because he lingers where Sweet grasses feel the silver touch of rain And pampered roses freight the heavy ait. He'll live his long life through and never know The wonder of this desert's blossoming: "These pright-winged things that are like sunset glow Or crimson flames that waken in the spring, When God, more than in any other land, Flings loveliness act oss the arid sand. Sweeter Than Any Story Hazel K. Todd writer on the desk. For a brief minute she looked at the rows of keys with their millions of unwritten words. But she was too tired. Instead, she went out on the porch and sat in the late daylight on the red porch chair that had been scratched by little feet climbing up and down. It was a relief just to sit for a few minutes with no babies tugging at her skirts and no immediate pressing task. The three smallest children were in bed. Peter and Beth, seven and nine, were playing with a group of neighbor children. Frank had not come home to his evening meal yet, so she had a few minutes before she cleared away the supper things. But she had no heart for anything but just to sit. Since before the twins were born a year and a half ago, it seemed she had hardly had a night's sleep without uncomfortable feelings or crying babies. Then there was all the sickness of the past year, tonsils and measles, and little four-year-old Terry s ruptured appendix. Now, with the thoughts of a new one to nurse through cutting teeth and all the other baby hardships, she was filled with self-pity and resentment. Besides, there were all the stories she meant to write some day. How her fingers itched sometimes to tap out on the typewriter some of the things that came and went mystically through her mind while she ironed little dresses and sewed shirt buttons. She had thought, with the children growing older, she might J it paused before the type have a chance. But now another baby was coming to take all her time. Across the yard in the early twilight she could see Mrs. Nelson, her newest neighbor, working in her flowers. How carefree she looked, cutting roses, slim in her cool dress with a bright kerchief around her hair. Morning and evening she had time to trim roses or tie up sweet peas. But then, she had no children, never any little dirty faces to wash, or baby food to prepare. Now. She was running across the grass to her husband, coming up the walk. Julie bit her lip. She used to run to meet Frank. Now she wondered if she would ever run again. She watched them standing by a half dozen lilies with long, slender stalks. She had seen Mrs. Nelson fuss with them often. She looked at her own shaggy garden. Only today the twins had madé' the kitten a bed in the middle of her double petunias. They lay mashed and broken, just a ragged mess of leaves and wilted color. Suddenly hot tears sprang to her eyes. It was so easy to cry now. GHE brushed the tears away and the hair that had fallen over her face. As she did so, her glance reached across the yard again. Mrs. Nelson was looking at her curiously. She was alone, now, holding a bouquet of sweet peas. Since early spring they had lived with only a lane between them, and there had been no more conversation than a Page 257 258 few words of greeting. Once the babies had strayed through the gate someone had left open, and she had caught them just before they went into the Nelson's yard. As she had hurried them back, she had caught Mrs. Nelson looking at her strangely. Afraid they would get into her flowers, thought Julie. Now Mrs. Nelson was coming toward Julie's own gate with the flowers. At the same time Frank came around the house. Julie stood up, a little confused. "I wondered if you would like a bouquet of flowers," Mrs. Nelson asked quietly. "I didn't think you had any sweet peas." Of course she didn't have any! How could she have sweet peas when at the time they should have been planted both babies were cutting teeth, and she could barely get them out of her arms long enough to do the necessary things. "That is very thoughtful of you," Frank was saying. "You have beautiful flowers, Mrs. Nelson." Juice at last found her tongue. "Oh, yes, of course," she said, her face pink. "I don't have any." At that moment Beth and Peter came racing through the gate with laughter and excitement. At sight of the visitor, Beth, always shy, stopped by her father. But Peter, seeing the flowers, pulled down his mother's arm and buried his nose into the blossoms. "Do you like flowers?" Mrs. Nelson asked, with an'amused smile. — "Oh, sure," he said and turned a somersault which landed his shoe against the visitor's leg so that she stumbled to keep from falling. "Go into the house!" Julie spoke — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 sharply, in humiliation. "I'm so sorry,' she stammered. "Oh, that's quite all right," said Mrs. Nelson. 'Then, as Julie still stood embarrassed, she added, "I think my husband is waiting for me." And, turning, she walked quickly down the path. "Seems to be a pleasant person," Frank remarked. Again Julie swallowed the tears back in her throat. "If I had nothing to do but fuss with flowers, I could be pleasant, too," she snapped back at him. Frank looked at her quickly. "Julie," he said, putting his arm around her shoulder, tenderly, "this isn't like you. I know you are not well. Why don't you go to bed and get some rest?" "Rest!" she retorted. "Probably one of the babies will fuss all night." Then, hating herself for saying it, she tured, leaving him standing baffled and hurt. ER work finished, she stopped again by the typewriter and let her fingers run lightly over the keys. But there was no use to try to think of anything now. You couldn't write stories when your mind was in a turmoil and your body was tired out. She must go to bed and try to get some rest. At the door was dark-haired Beth for a good night kiss. She came to her mother a little hesitantly. Julie kissed her and watched the little girl go to her room, her dark hair bobbing up and down on her neck. She stopped by the door of the room shared by the two boys. Peter had gone to bed without saying good night. Switching on the light, she saw them lying there side by SWEETER THAN ANY STORY side, Peter and little Terry who had had appendicitis when he was only four. She looked at them a few muinutes and then walked slowly to her y, then the little girl, she pulled were so sweet and still so small, too small to be pushed aside by another. The next day everything went wrong. Frank had suggested at the breakfast table that she take the children to the carnival that was in town, "T suppose that would be a pleasure to drag five children around a carnival!" she had answered impulsively. So he had gone away without saying goodbye, just as Peter had gone to bed without saying good night. All day it had rankled through her mind unpleasantly. Then the twins poured a pitcher of dresser drawer. She Peter and little Terry trying to clean up 4 mess of soap suds and glass on the floor. "What in the world are you doing?" gasped Julie, with a shudder at the mess. "But Mother, I was going to do the dishes and all the soap came out at once and when I was going to dip it out with the bottle, it fell could stand in one day! In exaspet ation she slapped his face soundly. He looked at. 259 shocked and frightened, and then ran crying into the bedroom. The twins took up the chorus and screamed loudly at the unexpected things happening. Peter slipped silently through the kitchen door, and Beth began fearfully to pick up bits of glass from the floor. WHEN the confusion had subsided, Julie, out on the porch, tried to calm herself. She sat on the scratched chair and f hands in her lap. Fence. She watched the bright colors sway and nod gently, her body gradually becoming relaxed. In a few short seconds ' her thoughts were off and away, past the land of crying babies, broken dishes, and unprepared dinners. In her mind new characters came into existence, walked mistily through new paths, and spoke bits of fascinating conversation. But suddenly they were the wrong words. "See! See!" Then tiny muddy fingets caught hers and wrapped themselves around her own. Away flew the land of enchantment on wings of suddenness. ~ Before her stood a little girl and a little boy, each with a tall flower clasped in a muddy hand, a tall flower, 4 stem and dangling roots. "Qh!" groaned Julie. "Mrs. Nelson's lilies, the ones she was showing her husband!" She snatched the flowers quickly from the two lit: tle muddy hands that reached vainly into the air. Pushing them away, she started down the porch steps, the two whimpering pabies following her. 260 This was something that must be explained, apologized for. But how could she make Mrs. Nelson understand that children, something she had never had, could do impossible things. She must have left the gate unfastened herself when she hurtied back with the two older children. Oh, what in the world could she say? At the door she tang the bell and waited, the two babies hanging to her skirt with muddy hands, At last the door was opened and Mrs. Nelson looked into her face quizzically, then at the lilies, "My babies—they must have slipped through the gate and, Mrs. Nelson, I am so sorry, they have pulled up your lilies!" Mrs. Nelson's gaze went from the flowers to the children. "Oh, so you pulled my flowers," she said, The two crept farther behind the mother, and Mrs. Nelson laughed. JULIE was thunderstruck. Was ~ she using this way to shame her for the thing her children had done! She put an arm protectingly around each little neck, "] cannot replace them of course, Mrs. Nelson, but I assure you that they shall not come into your yard any more." With a quick gesture she took the babies by the hand, biting her lip to keep back the tears. But she was detained by a hand on her shoulder, "Please do not go." Julie looked up into the strange expression. "T didn't mean to embarrass you. Don't you see, I am not concerned about the flowers? ] can have more flowers. I was wondering why you always take your children away from me so soon." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—ApPRIL 1948 Julie looked at her, but she went on quickly. "I know you have a lot to do and cannot always keep track of them." Julie could hold back the tears no longer. Dropping on the couch, she buried her face in her hands and cried bitterly, while two scared little children clung to her skirts and whimpered. She heard Mrs. Nelson speaking to them in a quiet voice, felt her take them away gently, and presently she could hear her talking brightly about shoes and cars and airplanes from a magazine that rattled as she turned the pages. Then Julie felt a soft touch on. Her shoulder. "Can you tell me what is the matter?" Julie forgot her Testraint. "It's just that I'm going to have another " she said through quivering "Another baby!" Mrs, Nelson looked at her in astonishment, "But surely that is nothing to cry about." "But I already have five!" wailed Julie. "Five to cook and sew for, ] never have any time to do anything for myself." "She wiped the tears away. "Don't you see, there are. Things I should like to do, too, like you plant flowers. Well, I have always wanted to write stories." The words tumbled out, one after anothct, and suddenly sounded so childish to Julie that she dropped her eyes miserably, Mrs. Nelson was Silent. Presently Julie looked at her, but she was staring at the babies now happily looking at magazines. She said without turning her eyes, "You know, I would give all the flowers I could ever Taise, all the stories in SWEETER THAN ANY STORY the world, if I could just have one little child like that!" Julie looked at her in amazement. "You mean you would like children? I thought...." "Yes, I know you thought I didn't want children because they would spoil my flowers. I raise flowers because I cannot raise babies. I can never know what it is to feel my little soft baby in my arms, and feel its tiny hand on my face as I have seen babies do. You," she turned and looked at Julie, and the anguish in her face wrenched Julie's heart, "you have had five babies to cuddle. Now you are going to have another one, but I must go on with my foolish flowers!" Her eyes were misty, and she wiped them quickly. "Forgive me," she said again. "I am sorry if I have sounded harsh. I know you are tired. But if I could just make you realize what priceless treasures you have." ULIE was ashamed. She had never been so ashamed in her life before. If it had been a gentle rebuke, she had certainly needed it. Now ' she saw how foolish she had been acting lately; how unfair she had treated Frank that morning; how irtitable she had been with the children. ' The slim figure sat beside her, and laid her hand on Julie's. "Why don't you let me help you? It would be a pleasure to watch the children while you have a rest or go to a movie with your husband, and let me help you sew for the new one. What a thrill it would be to make little things for a baby! If you knew how hungry I have been to hold one of your twins, to brush little Jane's curls!" 261 Julie felt fresh and' new. "Oh, thank you so much, Mrs. Nelson!" "My name is Ruth, and let me call you Julie." "Thank you, Ruth." Then she remembered it was nearly suppertime. Frank would be home, and she wanted to have something he especially liked. Maybe there was time for an apple pic. "I'd better be going." She stood up and started for the babies. ' But Ruth caught her hand. "Please let them stay awhile." So she left them, still happy with their magazines. Then, as she came up the steps of the porch, she thought of little Terry. She had punished him because he had tried to help. A sudden need to have his forgiveness awakened in her. She found him on his bed asleep, his little tear-stained face streaked with dirt. His shirt was pulled out, revealing the long appendicitis scar, vivid to her now as a token of remembrance. How could she have scolded him for breaking a bottle of water? What did it matter if he had spilled a dozen bottles of water? How glad, how lucky, she was to have him. She dropped to the bedside and stroked the hair of his head tenderly. _ The child stirred in his sleep, then opened large brown eyes, unknowingly, first, then, seeing his mother's face friendly and close beside his. Own, he smiled warmly with no trace of past grievances, and gave her a big kiss on the cheek. "Mother, why are you crying?" Julie brushed the moisture away. "Oh, I guess I'm just happy, Terry." And she knew that the warmth of her arms around him was all he 262 needed to understand why she cried when she was glad. Then, while she sat with him in her lap, she thought of the stories she meant to write some day. There would be long years ahead when the children would be grown and away in houses of their own, with their own little Terrys. Then she could write stories, and they would be filled with the smiles of little children twining around the heart, with the mischief of twins, and with dark hair bobbing up and down on a shy girl's neck. Oh, they would be sweeter than any other stories! Her thoughts were interrupted by Beth and Peter, who came trooping into the room, glad to find their mother in a happier mood. Then the twins came home, each with a clothespin doll. "See! 4 See!" they said joyously RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 holding out the dolls in chubby hands. "Mother, read us a story." It was Peter, with his tongue in the vacant spot of his upper tooth row. "Please do," put in Beth, and the twins added, "Tory, tory," as if they knew what a story was. It was here Frank found them when he came home, unheard. Julie looked up and saw joyous relief in his face. "What is this?" he said with a grin. "Daddy, daddy!" piped the twins racing to reach him first. "Mother, read us a story," announced Beth standing up and straightening her pinafore. "Yes," agreed Julie, "I was going to make an apple pie, but I read a story." "What I found tonight," - said Frank, with his eyes on Julie, "was sweeter than any story." 4 FROM LOAM OF LEBANON Dorothy ]. Roberts Sown with the kernel of his word, suspended, still, Waiting the promise of an Easter sun, The shadow of the cross fell dark upon the hill, Winter-dark, as loam of Lebanon. After the sorrow and the waning light, Its full-blown flower of fertility Burst into a bloom so vast and bright It gilded the riffled blue of Galilee. Now every sea, the Easter time returning, Repeats upon its breast the ancient gold And every Easter Sabbath, children, learning, Mark the lily, from a tomb, unfold. And Bethany, Capernaum, Judea, The loved geography disciples know, The sepulcher of him from Arimathaea, Gleam eternal in the lasting afterglow. Was the on] MNNe smiled. "Not — "Can we Manage to Set along without it?" "You know better than | do, Tr, it go," he murmured in g tone of Stark disillusionment. Anne threy herself down by him, and broke into Sobs, "Tm, SOITY, 50 Sorry, dear, It's my fault," Page 263 264 back the cattle were like fighting a war. Anne tried to carry out the analogy in her own mind. For the life of her she had never been able to picture the tremendous clashes of two opposing armies. But she did understand, now, the meaning of struggle against elemental forces in nature, and she was learning the strategy of combat. She could leave Dick and Betsy playing in the dry creek bed while she lugged a heavy bucket of poisoned oats around the wheat field, criss-crossing through it a half dozen times until her body was wet with perspiration, and her mouth was as dry as cotton. She could also set a broken fence post, tie and. Tighten a broken strand of barbed wire, even drive the cattle back over the ndge, yelling at them until she was hoarse. She could do all this, and more, at the same time worrying lest a snake or a porcupine molest her chickens or her children.. Then, there was Joe lying in the hospital. 'The latest reports indicated he might have to have another operation on one of his legs. She often found relief in tears, but she also smiled bravely, and inwardly rejoiced over the discovery of hidden strength in her own nature. She laughed and joked with Dickie and Betsy, and made up whimsical little games by which she turned their daily duties into play. She even laughed at her hard, blistered hands and brown face. "What would Della say now," she wondered. X eK UDDENLY Joe started to write regularly. He had his arm and one of his legs out of the cast, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 what was even more wonderful, the threatened second operation was not going to be necessary. "Just a little longer," he declared, "and I'll be out. Then, you're going to have it easy the rest of your life. I'm already dickering again for the house I hoped to get in the first place. My first act is going to be to get you into it." She wrote back, without mentioning the house: "I went up to the top of the hill last night, and let the breeze blow in my face for an hour, while I thought of you and watched the lights come on in the valley. Oh, how I wished you were here." A week before the grain was ready to cut, Hadfield rounded up a bunch of his hungry cattle, and put them in his dry pasture above the Raines homestead. Anne woke at dawn to hear the defiant bellowing of a range bull. Before she was out of bed, the crashing of a post, and the whining of tight wires, giving way before the impact of heavy bodies, smote her ears. She sprang to her feet and ran outside. At least twenty head of hungry cattle were fanning out at the top of the wheat field, tearing it up in great bunches with their huge mouths, and trampling it under foot, while a score of others were coming over the ndge, bent on similar destruction. "Whoo—oo—oo," she cried running up the hill. Halfway through the wheat, she felt her lungs burning from the exertion, but she kept on. '"Whoo—oo—oo," she cried again, nearing the first animal. "Get out of here! Sic 'em, get out of here!" Whirling her hat in her hand, she attacked the animal with a fury that made her feel capable of tearing it to pieces with her bare hands, WINDY HILLTOP but the bovine giant merely ran a few paces and turned to look at her with oxlike stolidity, as if wondering if she were some new kind of fly or other nuisance. She ran at another of the animals, shouting and clapping her hands. But they mere ly circled around in the grain, tear ing more of it up with their great mouths and wallowing more under their feet. Others were pouring in along the edge of the wheat. Anne's temples throbbed, her heartbeat choked her, and she real-; zed with sudden terror that she was on the verge of collapse. But she couldn't stop. Something had to be done. She wished blindly she had the power to wave her arm and strike this terrific mass of invading power dead with a single stroke. She was in the midst of the milling herd now, but danger to herself mevet came to her mind. Once she would have been frightened to death at the more presence of these wild, relentless animals, but at the moment, she was aware only of the havoc they were doing to her precious wheat. She was thinking of the hard work Joe had done, plowing, harrowing and planting it. She remembered the night he had come down to the corral with the dull after finishing the last round. He was as black as a negro, she had said, but as lighthearted as a schoolboy, and she had gone out to meet him in one of het most dissatisfied moods. "WWhoo—ooo0—00, she cried. "Get out of here!" Suddenly, the cattle stirred uneasily, as if the very desperation of her efforts had at last stricken them with fear. In a moment they began moving back out of the grain, starting at first slowly, then breaking in- 265 to aun. 'Then, for the first time, Anne realized a dog was barking, and nipping savagely at their heels. Man's voice, too, broke upon the morning stillness, echoing along the ridge like shrill thunder. She saw him ride down the gully, jumping his horse over the sagging wires, and circling around the remnants of the cattle with amazing speed. _ Of course +t was Hadfield. "Confound it!" he yelled, "[]1 be glad when yuh get this wheat cut. We'll have nothing but trouble, now they've found it" He passed in a flash of speed. 'This long-limbed, hawklike man in 4 broad-brimmed hat, and high-heeled boots seemed like a character riding directly out of the pages of an adventure story. How could anyone cope with him? Anne drew her arm over her hot, perspiring face and sank down on a boulder. A few minutes later, she was aware he had come back. "When'll Joe be home?" Hadfield demanded. "|_I—don't know." She looked up, half admiring Hadfield's mag: nificent strength. She could never have driven the cattle out, alone. "Thanks for helping me," murmured. "Pll fix the fence," he replied, not unkindly. She ANNE was numb with weariness when she started down through the wheat, and the morning sunshine was directly in her face. She was nearly down to the house, therefore, before she realized a car ha Betsy running from the house, realized it was time she could bring all her tired faculties to bear on the scene, she 266 not only saw Della, but also Joe getting out of the car. Then she found herself running again, her weariness forgotten. He came toward her with the help of his cane. "Oh, Joe, Joe, darling, I'm so glad!" she cried, almost collapsing in his arms. "Sweetheart," he murmured, holding her tightly. "This has been terrible for you. But it's all over now. I've bargained for the place in town. We're going to move." Anne braced herself with sudden alertness. "But darling, the wheat's got to be cut. I've arranged for the headers to come next week. Then of course, you know we've got to thresh. Besides there's a lot of stuff in the garden yet to dig. Why, we've got enough food to last us all winter." "Honey, I saw you chasing those 'cattle when we were down in the valley, and I knew what a killing ordeal you were having. I've tried it myself. And I said to Della, then, 'Sis, you're right, the meanest thing I ever did was to bring Anne out to this forsaken place." Joe's voice quivered. "But, dear, youre here now. Everything'll be easy. I don't want to leave, not yet. Our job isn't finished here. I'm a changed woman, Joe; I've learned to see so many things your way." "And I've learned to see things your way," protested Joe. "I guess it was just stupid of me to get so attached to this place." They began to follow Della and the children to the house, but before they had gone many steps, they were aware of Hadfield riding into the yard. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 "Hello, Joe," he said. "I'm glad to see you back, and I want to tell you this little wife of yours has sure looked after things." Hadfield leaned on the horn of his saddle and looked down into their serious faces. "T hope your: legs are all night." "They'll be as good as ever in a few more weeks," replied Joe. "Well, how about the deal?" Hadfield came to the point. "Oh, yes, the deal for the place. Well, honestly, Mr. Hadfield, we've decided not to sell for the present, but we'll still give you a chance if we decide to later," replied Joe, reaching the decision so quickly he was half-afraid, and looked at Anne to see if she approved. "That's right," said Anne. "We're going to make ever so many improvements first, however, so we can get a good price for it." Hadfield's face clouded. "I've already made a payment on it, you know." "Oh, yes, the check." Joe fumbled in his pocket, and finally produced the one evidence of the sale. "Here it is. You see, I didn't cash it. I was able to make other arrangements for my hospital bill." He held it up, but Anne took it, and tore it to bits. "Mr. Hadfield doesn't want it. His money's all in the bank and everybody's happy." Anne laughed impudently, then hysterically, but in a moment she was crying again. "You won't try to hold us to it, will you?" The scowl on Hadfield's hawklike face broadened into a grin. "You win," he said, "good luck." HE sporting wind was cool and soothing when Anne and Joe reached the hilltop to watch the sun WINDY HILLTOP go down, and a lone hawk was spreading his wings to cut a true course directly against the current. Hand in hand, they stood silent against the benediction of the sky, surrounded by the vast solitude. "How often I pictured this place in my mind when I was lying in the hospital," Joe said reflectively. "And were unhappy to think of losing it," prompted Anne. Joe grinned. "Yes, I admit it." They survéyed their rough acres, partly subdued by their toil, and a mutual pride of achievement possessed them. "Darling," said Anne, "as soon as you were hurt, and I started to feel responsible, I began to love everything here, and with you gone, I began to realize how it bound us together." Fervently, he drew her to him. "Dear, you are wonderful. I don't believe any other man ever had such a heroic little wife. And because of 267 that, your little cottage in town is still going to come true." She looked up questioningly. "We're about the last of the homesteaders, and we can be thankful to have had such an opportunity. This humble heritage should always be ours and our children's. I have a good trade, and there are still other things I can do in the winter. And, you know, we don't owe anything on this place." Anne caught the vision instantly. "What wonderful summers we'll have here while the children are growing up, and what grand things we'll raise to eat. All our friends in town will be jealous because we have a country home and a city home, too." She laughed as the wind blew her golden hair in wisps about her face. Looking up, she saw the hawk make a magnificent dive into the wind. "Qur wings ate set right," she murmured, putting her lips up to be kissed. PLEA Margaret Jenkins O Savior, thou who suffered all, When sorrow fills the night, Help us to put our hands in thine And walk towards the light. ———< A SIMILE Loie M. Beach A baby is like a breath of spring, A tiny, sweet, refreshing thing, Each day a change, and as it grows, It blossoms like a summer rose. A New Coat for an Old One Blanche N. Coe Woes cia you like to convert an old, straight coat into a new, flared model to wear with full, long dresses? By carefully following the directions given in this article, you can perform this transformation. Before you begin the remodeling rocess, carefully observe the way in which the bottom of the coat is finished so that you can refinish the new one in the same way. First, make a chalk mark around the sleeve halfway between the inside of the elbow joint and the wrist joint. Cut at the chalk mark. (See Diagram A). Carefully press with a damp cloth the pieces you have cut off as you are going to use them later. Open the underarm seam of the sleeve almost to the armhole. Also open the inside seam of the lining of the sleeve almost to the armhole. Remove the padding at the top of the sleeve and at the shoulder and insert the new-style padding for the shoulder. After you have placed pad correctly, put a tailor's mitt in the top of the sleeve and shoulder, cover with a cloth wrung from warm water, and steam-press into shape. If the material in your coat won't shrink into a nice shape, the top of the armhole seam can be opened and part of the old sleeve cut out to make it fit the new pad. With a thin piece of tailor's chalk, or a piece of soap, mark the new hemline of the coat evenly, about a quarter of an inch below the finger-: tips when the hands are hanging at Page 268 the sides. Use a yardstick so that the bottom of the coat is exactly the same distance from the floor at every point. Cut on the dotted line of the chalk marks. (See Diagram A). Diagram B represents one of the pieces cut off from each sleeve. From cach piece cut a triangle (1.) with which to widen the sleeves (See Diagram C). Make a triangle pattern with paper as long as the arm seam opening and as wide as the goods allows and lay the pattern on the cloth as shown in Diagram B. Sew the flare (triangle) in place as shown in Diagram C, with the wide part of the triangle at the bottom of the sleeve. Open the side seams of the coat and lining almost to the armhole. From the piece which you have cut off the bottom of the coat cut two flares, (triangles 2 and 3), to put into the side openings of the coat, one for each side. Also cut — the circular pieces (4) to be. Put in the bottom of each sleeve from this same piece of material. Cut these circles as large as possible. The diagrams (D-1 and D-2) show two ways of doing this. If the piece of material cut from the bottom of the coat is sufficiently wide, and the pattern of the material is such that it can be used crosswise, then cut as in Diagram D-1. If the pattern of the material, however, such as a stripe, cannot be used crosswise, then cut as in Diagram D-2. Join the pieces carefully, matching the notches of 2 and 3, and press the A NEW COAT FOR AN OLD ONE 269 S€ the same Pattern ang ™method Coat. Sew the of Cutting and S¢wing for makin straight side of th triangle to the lining into flare, and for makront seam of the Coat, ing the new lining for the sleeves ew the circles to the bottom of dj €rent materia] May be needed to the sleeves (Diagram E). Bing the line the sleeve circle. Y, Observed inside of the circle to form 4 cuff at the Onginal bottom fin h on your € wrist Id coat. Ven the side flares 'and Tess all the seams Carefully with Inish the New coat the same w 4 steam iron or with a cloth wrung And here's your new coat ( Diagram Tom warm Water, ). => ee 9 e It's Fun to Make Pie Velma N. Simonsen Second Counselor, Gen eral Presidency of Relief Society Nie fun to make pie, and it » NOodles, or an tolled dough. With this Pastry cloth Tolling pin Jackand Tolling pin Jacket you can hanet! €s€ can be Purchased in an dle a Much softer dough as they store, but it is much ¢ €aper to make Prevent the Sticking of the dough your own, to the board and the rolling pin. WY a Piece of White Canvas at They also eliminate frequent adding any farm store. The canyas comes flour whe aking p Stry, there IN various idths from 3° inches to Y assuring you of lighter ang more © inches, Wo-thirds of 3 yard of tender Pie crust € 30-inch Canvas will mg € two Have YOu ever tried hot water pie Pastry cloth Cut the edges with 'Tust? Here is a Never-fai] Tecipe: Pinking shears Or turn a smal] — = % cups flonr ' Tow hem on the raw edges, % tsp, baking powder or the tolling pj Jacket by ' tsp. Salt small pair of child's white stockings Cut off the feet, and: " cup shortening you have two = Tolling pin jackets, p 4 cup boiling water; "Ul one jacket Pour boiling water Over shortening and Over the Tolling pin If he Stock €at until creamy, Sift in flour salt, and Mg Is too long turn the ends back ba aa Powder. "Stir and roll ut. Makes 2 crusts, m on themselves, Many Tecipes advise chilling in the ice efore usihg, Work or Tub as much box, but With Pastry cloth this is un Our into th Jacket and cloth as ee, ' nd fii ge a " cn to. Amare and makes more flaky crust "y ee abso i. St not leave "i ake at oven temperature Suitable for cess flour on the sur ace. SO use € type and size of the pie, betw the cloth an Jacket to rol] Cookies and 500° F €en 400° and j and with Ing. We unger, the aftermath of war, Cat food Primarily for Nutrition, itaming are vitg substances Food at best is EXPENSive, byt malfound natural, £ €sh, an Proper] Nutrition js often foung in families Preserved fo, T. Tegulate which Spend the most money for Y Processes 4 build UP Tesistfood. This may be due to lack of ance against disease, « €stroy information PoOr selection Or ing angel shal] Pass b em" —can Preparation. Hy Overweight P€0- this not mean th health Could b Ple are malnourished because they 5 fortified th t © not have a balanced diet itamin > SO potent in Protecting health, n the Word of Wisjg "manufactured in the body by ex. OM, as well as the ha ul effects Posing the x M to direct sunlight, f the use of | quor, tobace tea, cof. Food, " € season thereof," €at: €e, and drug-containing drinks, €N Taw, cook d, Canned, or frozen wholesome f bs Cod hath or. 48 Tich in Itamins. The Cost, in dained for the constit on, nature, ang use many Cases, can b duced more man— herb; the Season thereof, than I o, and t food IS more and eve fruit in ¢ Season thereof: aj] Wholesom d better flavor d if ae tob ae, mee Fence aa se Prepared at _ well-balanced > an e ° 5 5 fowls of he air, I, the Ord, have Ordained let, 'ncluding h ay, Proteins or the use of man With thanksgiving. Never. Car bohydrates, fats, mj eral salts theless they are + be used sparingly vitamins, and Water wi] Supply bod All grain is Ordained for the use of man needs wj ut adding thetic Vit and of } S, to be the Staff of Jj e, not am only for man but for ¢ € beasts of he field,: ae "» and the fowls f heay, 7, and all wilg aniThe following basic-seyen patmals that run °F creep on the carth (D. Tern js recommended by the Nation. C. 89:10 ff.) al Food and Nutrition Board, Jj Is "In the on thereop" n T€cognized as 4n idea] ealth pat. My Opinion, efer to © natura] foods tern, Include some foods at proper Maturj ty—fres TV from each or Properly gtoup in the diet each d G Preserved. Mux AND Mig Each ay er Tings t: ten by foo Or unsafe, Page 27] 272 a 1-pint can of evaporated milk or % cup dried milk are equivalent to 1 quart fluid milk. Ice cream and various types of cheese, too, can be used to make up this group, 4° American cheese, and cottage cheese. GREEN AND YELLOW VEGETABLES (One or more servings ) Cabbage Broccoli Lettuce Carrots Spinach Sweet Potatoes Asparagus Yellow squash Peas. Pumpkin Beans Yellow turnips ORANGES, 'TOMATOES, GRAPEFRUIT (One or more servings ) Fresh or canned juices Raw cabbage Raw vegetables in salad POTATOES AND OTHER VEGETABLES AND FRUITS (One or more servings ) Potatoes (at least once daily) Grapes (fresh or canned, frozen Beans or dried) Cauliflower Berries Onions Melons Com Cantaloupes Turnips Peaches Pears Dates Apples Figs Radishes Prunes Meat, POULTRY, Fisu, Eces One serving of meat, poultry, or fish daily One egg daily (at least four a week) Dried beans: (an excellent source of calcium, as well as of minerals and protein ) Peas Nuts Peanut Butter Breap, FLOUR AND CEREALS (Enriched ot whole-grain ) Bread, or its equivalent at each meal, according to age and energy needs of the individual. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 BUTTER AND FortTIFriED MarGARINE Wirti VITAMIN A ADDED Two to three level tablespoons. Serve some with each meal. Other animal and vegetable fats as needed. Sx to eight glasses of water should be included in each daily diet. A glass of warm water taken early in the morning is beneficial. 'The juice of one half lemon added to the water and taken thirty minutes before breakfast, before any food is taken into the body, is an effective regulator and also corrects bad Families with low incomes may find it impossible to include as much meat, poultry, €g8%: and butter as desired, but in all diets it is recom mended to include liver, heart, Or kidney, at least once 4 weck, Liver is our most valuable meat. Liver from calves, beef, pork, or sheep is similar in nutritive value. The milder the flavor, the higher the price. Stronger flavored liver may be ground and sage, onion, celery, and bread crumbs added to make liver | loaf. If changes must be made because of low income, natural molasses, soybeans, dried beans and peas, pea nut butter, and rice—especially brown tice—should be included often. Increase the use of whole grains, as whole-wheat cereals and breads. Serve more fruits and veg etables, fresh, 'canned, frozen, OF dried. But most important, increase milk and milk products. Milk is our most perfect food. It supplies energy, protein, vitamins, and minerals. It is our best insurance against diet deficiencies. It is also our best source of calcium, which is essential for the functioning of every cell in the body, for building teeth, bones, and blood, and for all body processes. When meat, cheese, and fluid milk are scarce, or unsafe because cows are not properly tested, dried milk can be used. Dried whole milk should be kept under refrigeration, since the fat becomes rancid. Dried skimmed milk may be used in many ways and is very reasonable in price. One half cup of dried milk contains milk solids equal to one quart of fresh milk. Use it in creamed soups, breads, gravies, puddings, ice cream, cookies, and add it to cooked eELLoW VEGET Age. Cereals. Dried milk has the advantage, too, that an extra amount can be added, if necessary, for protection of health. For cooking, it is much easier and quicker to measure out the amount needed for the. Recipe, then mix or sift the dried milk with the dry ingredients, instead of putting it in with the moisture, as is usually done in recipes. The particles of milk absorb moisture very slowly; it takes a long time for the milk, if mixed with water, to make a smooth paste, but it can be done quickly by putting milk in a small (Continued on page 285) THE "BASIC SEVEN" PATTERN FOR NUTRITION 273 SS FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE SUBMITTAL OF MATERIAL FOR "NOTES FROM THE FIELD" (All notes and photographs are to be submitted through stake and mission Relief Society presidents). HIS section of the Magazine is reserved for narrative reports and pictures of Relief Society activities in the stakes and missions. Its purpose is threefold: (1) to provide a medium for the exchange of ideas and methods for conducting Relief Society work which have proved successful in some organizations and which may be helpful and stimulating to others; (@ to recognize outstanding or unique accomplishments of Relief Socity organizations; (3) to note the progress of Relief Society work in various parts of the world. It is recognized that personal accounts of individuals who have long served Relief Society, OF who have otherwise distinguished themselves, are always of great interest, but the space available for "Notes From the Field" is so limited in relation to the number of stakes and missions that it must be reserved for reports on the work of the organization rather than that of individuals. Wards and branches desiring to submit reports for publication in "Notes From the Field" are requested to send them through the stake or mission presidents. It often happens that one or two wards or branches in a stake or mission will send reports on special activities which are being conducted on a stake-wide or mission-wide basis, and, in such instances, it would be to the advantage of the stake or mission to have the report cover the entire activity in the same issue of the Magazine, with all participating wards or branches represented. Reports and photographs should be submitted as promptly as possible after the events described have taken place in order that they may be published while the activities are still of current interest. Where narrative reports are submitted, with or without accompanying photographs, the name of the stake and ward, or mission and branch, should be given together with the title of the activity reported, the date, and other pertinent data, including the name, address, and position of the person making the report. Pictures which are submitted for publication can be used only if they are clear and distinct and will make good cuts for reproduction. Black and white glossy prints reproduce most satisfactorily. Pictures should have the following information written clearly on the back: Name of stake and ward, or mission and branch Title of picture, stating the activity represented or the purpose Date picture was taken Name, address, and position in Relief Society of person submitting the picture Identification of persons in the picture should be made on the reverse side. Names should be given from left to right, written clearly, and spelled correctly. The given names of the women should be used, not their husbands' names (for instance, Sarah D. Erickson, not Mrs. James Erickson). The positions of the executive officers: president, counselors, and secretary-treasurer If the photograph has reference to some particular activity, such as sewing, visiting teaching, etc., the name of the leader and her position should also be listed. Material submitted for "Notes From the Field" should be addressed to the General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Page 274 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 275 RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAARS, CONVENTIONS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Zelma S. Muir BEAVER STAKE ( UTAH), SUCCESSF UL RUG PROJECT CONDUCTED Seated, left to tight: Phylis S, Warr, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society; Lydia R. Smith, Welfare Counselor. Standing, left to tight: Marian Tolton and Alice Heslington, counselors in Beaver East Ward; Minnie Griffiths and Ruby Grimshaw, members of the Tug committee; worth, Stake Employment Placement Counselor. This interesting and successful Project has utilized many rags and much cast-off clothing that might otherwise have been wasted. Between March 1947 and the end as the supervisor of the visiting teachers and is still directing this work with great efficiency. Regardless of weather, physical handicaps, or the sorrows that have been hers, Sister White has faithfully performed her duties. She is a Gold Star mother of World War Il. he proceeds from utiful bazaar Supplies for the ward kitchen, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 277 Photograph: submitted by Mae Matis FINLAND MISSION, HELSINKI BAZAAR Left to right: First Counselor Vieno Tyren; Secretary Hellevi Niemi; President Ida Helio; President of Finland Mission Relief Society Mae Matis; Second Counselor Hilma Hellsten. Sister Mae Matis reports that none of the articles in this bazaar were made from new material and yet each article was beautifully made and will be very serviceable. In commenting upon the activities of our Finnish sisters, President Matis writes: "From this faraway country the sisters of the Relief Society send their choicest greetings.... We now have four active Relief Society groups in Finland, at Helsinki, Turku, Larsmo, and Jacobstad. All the sisters are willing and anxious to do their part and we are looking forward with a great deal of anticipation. 'Two of the groups held bazaars in December. 1 admired their spirit to even try with so little material to work with. It is impossible to buy material or yarn of any kind here. The sisters unraveled old sweaters, socks, and shawls which had already been made over several times and remade them. They were happy with their efforts and it was 4 goal for them to work toward." TAHITIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS MAKE GIFTS FOR OROFARA LEPER COLONY Sister Ruth M. Mitchell, President, Tahitian Mission Relief Society, reports a unique project recently completed: "Ten days ago the Papeete Branch Relief Society _ presidency laid plans for a charity project. Within eight days every family of Church members was contacted and the women 'avited to help toward the making of seventy- _ five plain and fancy cakes to be given to the leper colony at Orofara as a New Year's greeting. Sixty families donated materials and thirty-three women assisted in making the cakes. I translated into Tahitian some basic recipes, adapting them wherever POS sible to available foods. The simple presentation of the gifts, which included in addition to the cakes, fifty pineapples and other articles of food, was made to the head of the colony and the elected representative of the lepers by the Relief Society women as @ group. President Mitchell accompanied us. Later, we received a nice formal letter of thanks. "The women here are very much in need of equipment for their sewing activities. They borrow two treadle chain-stitch machines for work day and sew on the mission home porch." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— APRIL 1948 Photograph submitted by Naomi Chandler WEISER STAKE (IDAHO), SINGING MOTHERS AT STAKE CONFERENCE Ten wards are Tepresented in the miles to practice. Mary Gilchrist, the Idaho Falls Temple in November Naomi Chandler is president of Photograph and some of the siste chorister, took a chorus from the 1947.. Weiser Stake Relief Society Ts traveled fifty Stake to sing in Photograph submitted by Annie Parker NORTH CARBON STAKE ( UTAH) » CASTLE GATE WARD VISITING TEACHERS Elaine Miller; First Counselor Ruby Taylor; President Anne Huff: Past presidents: Violet Ross; Marie Gilbert; Dessie Durrant, ' a Green; Inez Robertson; Edna Hardee; Tressa Johnson; Mary Babcock; Josephine Houghton; Helen Houghton; Pear] Stage. Back row, left to tight: Virginia Lewis; Clea Davis; Pear] Wilstead; Sylvia Barmey; Mabel Peterson; Jennie Nielsen; Mary Wilstead; Thalia Thacker; Elnora Nougaret; Ruth Johnson.; ty-Treasurer Agnes Harrison; Second Counselor NOTES FROM THE FIELD Photograph submitted by Lula P. Child WESTERN STATES MISSION, FORT LUPTON BRANCH (CO O), RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS DISPLAYING QUILTS MADE FOR EUROPEAN RELIEF These sisters are wearing the dresses which they made in the Relief Soci classes. Left to right: Second Counselor Shirley Hollest: President Avis Photograph submitted by Lula P. Child WESTERN STATES MISSION, ALBUQUERQUE BRANCH (NEW MEXICO), RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS WEARING DRESSES MAD E ESPECIALLY FOR THE ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17> 1947 First row, left to tight: President Electra P. Hilton; Laney; Second Counselor Myrtle T. Davis. Second row, left to right: Fern C. Wilson; Marjorie Stradling; Zelpha Ponder; Anna §. Davis; Elizabeth R. Stradling. E Prize-winning box lunch is shown on the table. It was made by Second C 280 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 Photograph submitted by Erma M. Stewart MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE, EL PASO (TEXAS) WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HOSPITALITY HOUR, December 1947 A special "Hospitality Hour" entertainment was held during the Christmas holidays at the home of Ione Wilson. The ward Relief Society officers are, left to right: First Counselor Della O. Taylor; President Ida W. Jackson; Second Counselor Freda Foster; Secretary-Treasurer Ruth L. Richmond. Erma M. Stewart is president of Mount Graham Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Orlene L. Henrie GUNNISON STAKE (UTAH), CENTERFIELD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Front row, left to right, members of the bazaar committee: Vaudis Jorgenson; Edna Sanders; Agnes Jensen; Vannetta Peterson; Crystal Follet. Back row, left to right: First Counselor Johanna Peterson; President Naomi Jensen; Second Counselor Alivera Hansen. This very successful bazaar was held for the purpose of -securing funds for the ward's contemplated Relief Society room. Orlene L. Henne is president of Gunnison Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 281 Photograph submitted by Bessie W. Dayley WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), FIRST WARD PRESIDENCY AND VISITING TEACHERS ASSEMBLED AT A PARTY HELD IN THEIR HONOR, August 7, 1947 Front row, left to right: Allie Schiffner; Julia Christiansen; Marie Ames; Malinda Forrest; Ada Jensen; Sara Austin; Hattie Jensen; Olive Larsen; Emma Hurst; Mamie Bird. Back row, left to right: Emily S. Romish, President, West Pocatello Stake Relief Society; Sarah Jensen; Eleanor Maughn; Vilate Crouch; Rebecca Knowles; Persis Thomas; Mildred Newey; Laverne Skidmore; Phoebe Derricott; Second Counselor Myrtle Stoddard; First Counselor Karen Jensen; President Alice Jensen. This ward achieved 100% in their visiting teaching for the year ending in the spring of 1947. Emma Hurst, Allie Schiffner, Marie Ames, and Olive Larsen have never missed visiting their districts each month for three years. Photograph submitted by Bessie W. Dayley WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), THIRD WARD, TEN LIVING PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY Seated, front row, left to right: Pearl Watson, 1924-26; Mary Cox, 1916-17; Martha Pugmire, 1917-1920, who later served as stake Relief Society president for thirteen years; Mollie Merrill, who served for three months. Standing, back row, left to right: Matilda Galloway, 1930-34; Dora Western, 1936- 37; Hannah Sessions, 1937-38; Evelyn Thornock, present president; Margaret Nelson, 2938-4 5, how first counselor in the stake Relief Society presidency; Stella Price, 1945- All of these women are still residing in Pocatello. Emily S. Romish is president of West Pocatello Stake Relief Society. 282 RU (INDIANA ) BRANCH MOTHERS | garet Schmidt; Margaret ight: Francis Schmidt, Mar, er; Betty Jean Bail y Layton; A delheid Meek. _ Organist; Dorothy Ras. » Was not Present Times, Organization Many other attractive ticles, esa Stake Relief Society, » 2onita Crook J Mussen, chorister, "s. All part of the Many beautify any beautiful] Ibert; Anna Gr Sident of the Icles exhibited at ade quilts, aprons, embro; ) The old Pec'cy pain tightened jn. Worse, she had forgotten his bitthside Gloria. Her 'yes stung and her day. She had forgotten everything heart wags broken 'in two, but she and for a moment her heart Pound. Thing," would haye been better than nothgive it to him?" tear the Paper across, No-o. No, eyes away from Papa, If only she ° hi ° 5 un away? She Could find the [p. Flung up her head. Lan camp. The Indians liked her "T got Starlight for him." apa likes his hat 80 well he won't take it off," Marie added. Gloria wet her lips with her tongue. The hat was wonderfy]. Phone 4-4025 Same Location Since 1890 186 N Street Opposite Main Entrance City Cemetery "Di ou lose Our tongue?" Levi & "T know," Marie's Voice. Took on that know-it-all tone. "She has her Pencils, You didn't buy Papa a birthday Present, did you?" Salt Lake City Page 233 but this She looked critically at the Paper, ed with Pride; but €ven work socks Ing. In quick anger, she Started to This was Starlight, Stangers had lost could never TUN away from her, as she was, her to earn money, but she couldn't leave Papa, no matter what, would not Jet Martie know. Course, I brought him ~ some. "Where is it? Why don't you They all Waited. She kept her had found 4 horse—if only she had temem bered, Oh, well -.. Site They wouldn't eat ate silence was thick in the room. They didn't believe her. Then Ma. Tie and Leyj laughed like everything, 284 PN NANA AT YOUR FINGER-TIPS... UNSURPASSED TONE From our Famous-Make SPINET PIANOS @ Sohmer @ Story and Clark @ Shoninger @ Conover-Cable HEAPS Noted Radio Church Organist.. And Manager of our WURLITZER ORGAN Department.. Reand lies on an_ instrument with musically perfect tone. SUMMERHAYS MUSIC CO. 17 West First South Phone 5-588] BRBRaweaVWeesaeaaesaaand SS (> SD) ED (ED () SD ¢ ) I ¢) ED () (ED () -NED () D () D ( ( Professional an *S cal, Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1. Utah = RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1948 way, trying to see the front gate. "Did you lead him home or did he just follow you?" The defiance in Gloria crumbled fast. Her nostrils flared, but her head was high and her voice steady. "Here he is, Papa." The sudden stillness was horrible. Papa held the paper before him. He pushed back his hat to get the benefit of the fading light. Marie and Levi were back of him, looking over his shoulder. Gloria waited. If he would scold her she could stand it. "Glory! Glory!" was all he said, and in a frenzy of regret she threw herself into his arms. "T do love you, Papa," she sobbed. "Don't believe her when she says | don't love you. I love you more than all the world." One hand still held the paper to the light, and it was trembling. With the other arm, he drew her close against him. There was a queer note in his voice when he spoke, as if he were laughing and crying at the same time. "Glory, you have killed my peccancy humor. We shall never use the word again." Marie and Levi exchanged glances. This was queer talk, even for Papa. "It is good, isn't it? I mean really - good?" Marie had forgotten her impatience. "Tl bet anyone who has seen Starlight would recognize it," Levi added. Papa spoke to all of them. "Some day this sketch will be exhibited as an example of the early work of a famous painter of animals in action. This is the most precious gift a man ever received." Gloria looked into his eyes and THE GIFT knew that something very special had happened to him, and it was her drawing that had done it. Once again that pain swelled and swelled inside her, but it was not pec'cy anymore. A> - The Basic-Seven Pattern for Nutrition (Continued from page 273) bottle, adding water to make the thickening, and shaking well before adding to the soups. Whole-wheat cereals and flour, brown, unpolished rice, oats, and other whole-grain products contain the "enrichment and vitamins" nature produced in them. They are more valuable as food and less expensive than synthetically enriched flours and cereals. Far-sighted home-makers will protect health by including daily in the family diet milk and milk products; fruit and vegetables; meats, fish, cheese, or eggs; cereals, wholegrain or enriched breads; butter, margarine, or other animal and vegetable fats. They will reduce expense by planting gardens and preserving food at home. With "prudence and thanksgiving," they will gather the harvest in the time of plenty "in the season thereof" and store it for the lean days to come. —<— INSEPARABLE Alice Whitson Norton Through age I've learned the solemn truth Gay fairies are a part of youth; And though I know the truth it seems ~ They're still entangled with my dreams. 285 MY SERVICES ARE MY WAGES Opi, ARE Low,/ WN R ly Kee wcll Ou Twice as much for your money as you received twenty years ago! That's what the average users of household electricity get in the territory we serve! UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. At ( your SEARS service. X CATALOG ORDER DESK SHOPPING SPECIALIST.. « to answer questions, take measurements, help select items, write and mail orders. Phone calls get same service, too. Phone or vist your nearest Sears Store. SEARS wnites: "There are four sets of twins in my immediate family. My father was a twin, I am a twin, IT have twins, and one of my twins has twins, T have a son on 4 mission in Finland, and 4 daughter with her husband and two children in Germany, hree other daughters liye in three dif. Ferent sta tes in "A New Stove For Mother" Was writaround the sides. My f. A real old Surrey with Perched on someone's knee, the dust from billowin MARGERY 5s. STEWART, Salt Lake City, who Wrote "Bright April," con. Tributes some unique thoughts: they grow UP, and that is the most thril]- ing thing of all. Are men barred from teading The Re. Lief Society "Women and Their Apparel" in February issue), and I think it is fine — M. D. Beauregard, Salt Lake City, Utaly, Thank you most heartily and cordially for the lovely tribute and birthday Wishes Published in'the February issue. It was so enerous of you and the Magazine to thus "emember me and J 4PPreciate it most sin. Editors, May the choicest blessings of our Heavenly Father ever be with you, is my earnest prayer, Sincerely and affectionate. Ly—Amy Brown Lyman, Salt Lake City, Adjustable Dress Form $19.98 Save 14 The Cost of: Clothes By Home Sewing js v Our Piece Goods Department is newly enlarged, remodeled and redecorated! In it are the loveliest new fabrics you've ever seen... And the White Sewing Machine and Pattern Departments are at your service. Cottons—.49 yard and up Rayons—.79 yard and' up Woolens—$2,98 yard and up Ask for details of the National Sewing Contest beginning March 1—Grand Prize winner gets a trip to New York and $100! Piece Goops—Srconp FLoor 10M — NNN NNN NNNNINANNAAAL SY For the bride-to-be... A National Bible or Testament bound in WHITE No. 46PW New Tesfoment with Psalms. Genuine' White \W& round corners, a page. No. 63PW Testament with KING JAMES Psalms. No. 122W Bible olso bound in VERSION =I White Fabrikoid. National Bi IBLES AT YOUR BOOKSTORE SINCE. 1863 NN NNN NINN Responsibility We feel a certain definite responsibility to our 'customers. That responsibility includes the furnishing of the very finest of foods through spotlessly clean stores and markets at a minimum cost to the consumer. More than that, we protect our customers with an iron-clad guarantee of satisfaction on every purchase. P. SKAGGS Page 288 POPULAR SELECTIONS 0F MUSIC For SINGING MOTHERS 1776 The King of Glory—Parks__..20c 962 Invocation (can be used for funerals — not hard) — Moore ~16c 2W163 Grateful O Lord Am I (not difficult)—Roma _._..._....... 15c 1758 How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings—Liddle-Cain ___........ 15c 89011 Come Unto Me—Tschaikowsky-Riegger —............-.-----. 15c 1470 The Lord Is My Light— Allitson-Samuelson ______._.. 15c 2797 Praise Ye the Father— Gounod-Bliss 2W1531 I Come to Thee (can be used for funerals—medium range)—Roma ______.. 15c 2W1511 It Was for Me (can be used for funerals)—Blount ___.. 15c 15183 Spirit of God (medium range)—Neidlinger _._..__..15c 724 I Will Exalt Thee, O Lord— Harris 15¢ 4071 The Lord Bless You and Keep You (easy)—LutOrders filled same day received. All postage prepaid. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stocks for schools and home use, Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos. Band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies.... FIRST OF ALL—RELIABILITY Daynes, 45-47 SOUTH OOOO SS OOOS OOOO OO SOOO OOOO SOO SOOOSOSOSOCO OOD OOOOOO® MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY Tf, Muse QUALITY MADE kin \\y Fabrikoid binding, presentation 15¢ Make Lessons from JESUS THE CHRIST Vivid. With. Pictures. GROUP 1 Nativity Shepherds Wise Men Jesus in Temple Flight to Egypt Among Doctors Temptations Heals Woman Walking on Water Healing Dumb Man Healing Deaf Man Healing Blind Man Draught of Fishes Calms the Sea 2.00 GROUP 3 Chooses Disciples Cleansing Temple With Children "Consider the Lilies" Mary and Martha Preaching from Boat Woman at Well Strangers Nicodemus Peter's Confession Peace to This House Rich Young Ruler Come Unto Me Twelve Sent Forth Transfiguration 52.00 GROUP 2 Feeding 5,000 Healing.. Lepers Man at Pool Jairus' Daughter Lazarus Parable of Sower ad Leaven Wheat and Tares Talents Ten Virgins Prodigal Son Good Samaritan Widow's Mite Pharisees Fisherman In Grain Field 52.00 GROUP 4 Jesus Enters Jerusalem Last Supper Gethsemane In Gethsemane Arrest of Jesus Jesus and Peter Jesus and Pilate Pilate Washes Hands Before Caiaphas His Robe He Is Risen To Emmaus At Emmaus Jesus Appears to Apostles Great Commission Ascension 2.00 rT "oo ra Large, poster size—19 x 23", Four colors. DESERET BOOK COMPANY "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send large, four-color pictures of Life of Christ as indicated above, for which find $-. W. Name = Address......---------.------- Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE _2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 PROGRAMS of Inspiration The music of the great Tabernacle Choir and Organ, heard each Sunday for more than 18 years, is but one of the five-hundred KSL programs of inspiration, information, and entertainment which are yours for listening every week in the year. SALT LAKE CITY BILE Ky Soc MAGAZIN SBS et. Aer> VOL. 35 NO.5 MAY 1948 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spatford oa President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Priscilla L. Evans Evon W. Peterson Lillie C. Adams Mary G. Judd Florence J. Madsen Leone O. Jacobs Ethel C. Smith Anna B. Hart Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Louise W. Madsen Edith S. Elliott - Blanche B. Stoddard Florence G. Smith Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - -: - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor -~ - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 35 MAY, 1948 No. 5 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES Let Every Day Be Mother's Day. Camilla Eyring Kimball 292 Relief Society Building News 295 Seven to One Geneva E. Wright 303 What About Cancer? Jess H. Rolph 306 Planning Food Buying for Health and Economy Bernice Stookey Linford 312 Nahaka Branch, New Zealand Mission, Sends 'Big Canoe'' Quilt 305 SERIAL Questing Lights—Chapter 2 Belle Watson Anderson 340 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 308 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 309 Editorial: A Blessing for Women Marianne C. Sharp 310 Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings 311 Magazine Subscription Percentages for 1948 311 Magazine Subscriptions for 1947 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 314 The Magazine Honor Roll for 1947 318 Notes From the Field: Flower Shows, Handicraft, and Other Activities General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 349 From Near and Far 360 POETRY Lullaby-—-Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart 291 Treasures Mabel Jones Gabbott 294 Small Boy With New-Born Kittens Katherine Fernelius Larsen 304 Too Deep the Peace Marijane Morris 311 For the Bereft... Christie Lund Coles 346 Legacy «...: Gene Romolo 348 Freedom's Loaves..... Hallie Grigg 348 There Is Music: Alice Whitson Norton 357 Friend Grace B. Davis 358 Mother's Scrapbook Ida R. Allredge 358 The Eternal Feminine Again Olive C. Wehr 358 Secrets Ella J. Coulam 359 SUMMONS....-. Eeeceeeeceoeeee Marion Garibaldi 359 Father in Heaven, I Thank Thee Arabella Hoke 359 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. Vhe Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Created by Your Dem a One-Stop Garden and for Landscaping Headquarters Grace T. Kirton APPLE BLOSSOMS THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LULLABY Margery S. Stewart Tuck the coverlet of night « Around all small and helpless things, Babies in their broken cribs, Babies in their silken beds, While the wind in locust sings Lullabies for nodding heads. Let the tumult of the day Be folded now and put away; Let the troubles and the fears Be lost with the unsolaced tears. Light the lamps of little stars, Let new clouds float by to see That no small one cries in vain, That the reaching hands are filled And the lost held tenderly; Every anguished sob be stilled, Moonlight kiss the cheeks of boys, Leave them silver dreams for toys. Through the braids of little girls, Weave your white and fragile pearls. The Cover: "Fish Lake, Utah," by Glen Perrins. VOL. 35, NO. 5 MAY 1948 Let Every Day Be Mother's Day Camilla Eyring Kimball HE observance of Mother's Day has become an impressive outward demonstration of the latent love and gratitude to mothers. It comes by a gift, words of appreciation, acts of kindness, or letters on the part of everyone. Mother is a magic word, calling forth a train of memories in_ the mind of each individual, accompanied by a variety of emotions depending upon how some woman has fulfilled this sacred trust. Motherhood is a career of the first magnitude and is the instinctive ambition of every girl. Nature may endow her with the physical potentiality of motherhood, but to become an ideal mother will take the combined training of home, church, and school. Above all must come her own realization of the tremendous responsibility which this sacred calling entails. Her physical, mental, moral, emotional, and spiritual development are of prime importance to the generation she mothers. To be daughter, mother, and grandmother, is to make the destined cycle of womanhood and to know the joys, responsibilities, and development which these experiences bring. Because they call for personal sacrifice and self-mastery, their value is enhanced. The child accepts the care and devotion of a self-sacrificing mother as his birthtight. But the law of life exacts full payment for everything we get. This nurturing of our childhood may be repaid in part by loving devotion to parents, but the debt is never paid in full until the child bePage 292 comes the parent and so in tum cares for a succeeding generation. The laws of God operate in perfect justice and bring happiness so long as we live in accordance with them. It is only when we selfishly seek to thwart them that troubles and disappointments come. The laws of compensation and retribution are never failing, though payment may be sometimes deferred. There may amass an ever larger and larger debt, but eventually it must be liquidated. Wise indeed is the individual who pays as he goes in so far as this is possible. Love and you shall be loved. Serve and you shall receive service. Protective mother love is the guardian of youth, but protection too long continued makes for weakness, not strength, in the child. To watch the tiny, helpless infant grow and develop under your constant, watchful care is to see a miracle wrought. To live again in the enthusiasm and activity of youth with your children is to intensify and enrich life's drama., To be counselor and protector, knowing when to assist and when to recede into the background, that your child may learn to walk alone, calls for almost superhuman wisdom. Wise indeed is the mother who has found the source of divine aid through prayer and who begins with the little child at her knee, teaching him to pray to our all-wise Heavenly Father for the strength which will protect him against the forces of evil. A true mother's objective is to teach and train wisely until she can say with ~ ests. LET EVERY DAY BE MOTHER'S DAY assurance, "My child is strong enough to walk alone with faith as his guide." That home is ideal where the true, spiritual perspective of life is the operating force. Not what is expedient or what will bring immediate satisfaction will be the governing factors, but what are lasting and eternal values. 'The mother can do much to establish the spiritual tone of the home. She must first have deep-grounded faith herself. She must have become emotionally stabilized and self-controlled so that her own feelings may not interfere with the frictionless operation of her home. It will be she who arranges schedules so that there may be time for regular, peaceful, family devotion. She must be persistent in planning and helping carry forward the family evenings, family picnics, and other occasions which will build family solidarity and common interOne of the greatest safeguards a child will have is the knowledge that his mother trusts him and that the family looks to him to maintain family standards and family honor. 'sTT is more blessed to give than to receive" is an axiom often misapplied by mothers. In their anxiety to serve their children they forget that there must be reciprocity in giving if all are to share in the blessings. If she insists on doing all the giving, she deprives her children of the joy of service. Some mothers enjoy being martyrs. They get a certain morbid satisfaction out of feeling that they do all the giving and take nothing in return. Mothers must learn to accept favors graciously and appreciatively that children may know this satisfaction. 293 Often it is easier to do a job than to accept the untrained help of children, but they can learn to do only by doing. At the other extreme are the spoiled, pampered mothers who feel that they have brought children into the world at great personal sacrifice and are justified in exacting unmeasured servitude in return. They continually complain of aches and pains. They are habitually tired, nervous, and irritable. They enjoy being waited upon and continually remind the children of the great debt owned to mother. Between these two extremes is the well-adjusted mother who accepts motherhood as the greatest blessing and the greatest opportunity which life can offer. She takes good care of her own health that she may more efficiently care for her family. She is careful of her personal appearance, that her family may be proud of her, realizing that there may be times when it will be wiser to buy a new dress for herself than something extra for the children. She knows that an immaculate house may not always be a happy home. She keeps up constructive interests outside her home that she may be a more vital and interesting individual. She remembers that she must be a good wife as well as a good mother, striving to keep abreast of her husband so that when the children leave the home nest, they too may still find true companionship in life's evening. Full measure of joy comes to the devoted mother when in her declining years she can look at her children, strong in mind and body, fortified in moral strength through a knowledge of God's command- 294 ments, and with the strength to live by his teachings with prayerful understanding. 'l'o see them take their place with honor in church and community life and rear families of their own, gives her the joy of fruition. Her anxieties will not decrease, for she will feel responsibility for each new grandchild, but who wants the dull life where there is no anxiety? Her compensation comes as each of those she loves makes the climb to life's fulfillment. THE aging mother who has given the full measure of care and devotion to her children should look forward unafraid to her declining years. Her greatest desire will be to maintain her independence to 'the end of her days, but she will look longingly for words of appreciation and love. She should not want to hold her children near, if greater opportunities are to be found in other localities, but she will be just as anxious to know of the daily activities of her children as she was when they were little and needed her care. Frequent letters and visits will give the joy that makes*life worth living. Her hunger for affection and thoughtful consideration from her children is just as real as was their need for her when they were little, and this she gave unstintingly. And so the cycle of life repeats itself. The laws of life which God RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 has given us, if we obey them, make this pathway one of gradual development and joy in accomplishment. The loving, obedient child becomes the wise and helpful parent who merits, in turn, the love of thoughtful children grown strong. The once-a-year observance of Mother's Day should only serve to stimulate in us a greater appreciation for the responsibility of family | life. The possibility that this special day may become commercialized is ever present. 'There are those careless children who feel that they can make up for a year of neglect of their mother by lavishing upon her expensive gifts and attentions on this day. Mothers are appreciative and grateful, but nothing can take the place of consistent love and devotion. Flowers will fade, but the gift of a pure life dedicated to righteousness lasts through eternity. Modest mothers accept the public acclaim and special attention with a feeling of reservation and humility. Motherhood has brought to them the greatest joy that can be known to woman. With that joy has come tremendous responsibility, and if she can feel that she has faithfully discharged her trust, she knows the peace and joy that passes understanding. "Let every day be mother's day" where there is love and understanding between mothers and children and where there is joy in companionship and service of each for the other. TREASURES Mabel Jones Gabbott She who has roused at night to heed the cries Of wakeful children, coaxing sleep-filled eyes To open that she may attend their need, Though grumbling silently, is rich indeed. Relief Society Building Tlews EPORTS are constantly reaching the general board telling of the active part being taken by the brethren throughout the Church in > supporting and encouraging the sisters in collecting their building fund quotas. For over one hundred years the sisters of the Church have labored to help erect Church buildings of all kinds which have been enjoyed by their sisters and their children and helped to build up the Church. Now the sisters are asking and receiving the support of the brethren in erecting a building in which the sisters may do the work asked of them by the brethren. As they work together in any righteous cause in the Church, the results are certain. An interesting incident is related in one ward. Near the conclusion of the March 7 program "Building For Eternity," one brother arose in the meeting and moved that the quota for that ward be finished that evening. This was seconded by a boy of eight and another brother and before the sisters left the building that evening, their quota was filled. A wonderful spirit of love and sacrifice on the part of the sisters had preceded that meeting. 'They had advertised throughout the stake that they would clean, scrub, baby tend, or cater for anyone in order to help earn the money and had raised a great part of the quota previous to the March 7 meeting. Other examples of the activities of the brethren are quoted below: A member of our bishopric remembered his departed mother who had been a faithful Relief Society worker. We were short a few partners for some of the districts, so the bishop went with one teacher and Brother................2-----2+---+ with another. On the date that was designated, we met as a group of visiting teachers with our bishopric and our stake Relief Society president. At the meeting our bishop told us of the benefits that would be derived as a result of this building, and of the privilege that had come to us as Relief Society sisters to be asked to help. Many brethren are giving memorial gifts to honor their mothers and wives, both to support the work so dear to their loved ones, and to know that the names of their wives and mothers will be preserved in the cornerstone and the records of the general board. The work of gathering the money is rolling on, gaining momentum as the months pass. Page 295 296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 EMIGRATION STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) COMPLETES BUILDING QUOTA, March 17, 1948 First row, left to right: Emmeline B. Nebeker, former member Relief Society general board; Ruth May Fox, former president, M. I. A.; Winniefred S. Manwaning, standing, President, Emigration Stake Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, standing, General President of Relief Society; Florence G. Smith, seated, member, general board; Louise W. Madsen, member, general board and former president, Emigration Stake Relief Society; Lillie C. Adams, member, general board and former president, Emigration Stake Relief Society. Second row, left to right: Mary Jordan, Leah Cheever, Florence Smith, Ethel Goates, Mery] Cardall, Sarah Barrett, Vervene Pingree, and Effie Yates, members, Emigration Stake Relief Society Board; President Amy Brown Lyman; Presidents Elsa Carlson, (University Ward); Cary Linford, (Twelfth Ward); Myra Peterson, (Eleventh Ward.) Third row, left to right: Sarah Jarrell and Berta Christensen, members, Emigration Stake Relief Society Board; ward presidents: Margaret Richards (Stadium Village); Mina S. Wignall (East Twenty-seventh); Veda Rockwood (Twenty-seventh); Elva Broadhead (Twenty-first); Veda Whitehead, Secretary (North Twenty-first); Presidents Emma Brooksby (Thirteenth) and Mary Rasmussen (Eleventh). Jetta Johnson, President, North Twenty-First Ward, was not present when the protograph was taken. Emigration Stake Relief Society commemorated the 106th birthday of Relief Society with an outstanding, suc¢essful social. Over 400 attended. The theme, "A Light Upon a Hill," symbolized the growth of the society and its mission, and was climaxed by the presentation of the building fund quota. An unusually beautiful setting and music by the Singing Mothers contributed to the enjoyment of the occasion. STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS Sourn Ipano Fars StaKe (IDAHO) EMIGRATION STAKE (UTan) Ipano Fauis STAKE (IDAHO) Mesa STAKE (ARIZONA) San Dieco Stake (CALiForNIA) RexsurG STAKE (IDAHO) WELLS Stake (Urtan) Uvapa Stake (Nevapa anv Utan) Teton Stake (IpAHO AND Wyominc) Uran Stake (Uran) Granite Stake (UTAH) SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON) _ Nortu Ipano Farts Sraxe (IDAHO) SourH Los ANcELEs Stake (CauirF.) MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS NorTHERN CALiForNiA MISSION EASTERN STATES MIssION YY presidents Bessie FH son, Carolyn Littke, and T, 'Bri ent, Granite Stake, st n ittee, the Owell, Ruth Durbin, Sentel], elma Brimley. Carl w. Ehn » Stands at the back, left, WARDS AND B ES AND MISSIONS WHICH 100% BUILDING QUOTAS lication of the list in the Apri] Magazine and prior to April 13, 1948) a a Miss; ( California ) os Mission ( Wyoming) » Seattle Stak ( Washington €lvedere » Pasade Stake (California Inghampto B iSsi Mi tah) or tes Mission (Montana uffalo B h, Eastern Stat Mission ( York) aliente ard, Uvada Stak ( €vada) ampus td, East Provo § ake ( Utah) anandaj Branch, Eastern Tadford ynum Branch, Northwester > Eastern § tes Mission (Pennsylvania) tates Mission (Montana) Capitol Ward, Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Cascade Branch, Weiser Stake (Idaho) Cedar Second Ward, Parowan Stake (Utah) Chambersburg Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Chandler Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona) Chehalis Branch, Seattle Stake (Washington) Chowchilla Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Cincinnati Branch, Northern States Mission (Ohio) Coolidge Branch, Mesa Stake (Arizona) Cottonwood Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Croning Branch, Norther California Mission (California) Dodge City Branch, Central States Mission (Kansas) Downey Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) East Garland Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah) 7 East Twenty-seventh Ward, Emigration Stake (Utah) Eleventh Ward, Emigration Stake (Utah) Elmira Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Elwood Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah) Enterprise Ward, Uvada Stake (Utah) Ene Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Eureka Branch, California Mission (California) Everett Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington ) Fairfield Branch, Lehi Stake (Utah) Fairmont Branch, East Central States Mission (West Virginia) Ferron Ward, Emery Stake (Utah) Fidelity Ward, East Rigby Stake (Idaho) Firestone Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) Freedom Ward, Star Valley Stake (Wyoming) Fruitvale Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho) Garland First Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah) Gilbert Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona) Glendale Ward, Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Gloversville Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Grant Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) Grants Pass Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon) Greenwich Ward, Sevier Stake (Utah) Hagerman Ward, Blaine Stake (Idaho) Hermiston Branch, Northwestern States Mission (Oregon) Herriman Ward, West Jordan Stake (Utah) Hiko Branch, Uvada Stake (Nevada) Huntington Branch, East Central States Mission (West Virginia) Huntington Branch, Weiser Stake (Oregon) Huntington Park Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) Hydesville Branch, Northern California Mission (California ) Tona Ward, Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Ione Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Ithaca Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Jamestown Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Jessup Branch, Southern States Mission (Georgia) Junction City Branch, Central States Mission (Kansas) Kimberly Ward, Nevada Stake (Nevada) King City Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Kingston Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Klamath Falls Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon) Labelle Ward, East Rigby Stake (Idaho) Lakeview Branch, Northem California Mission (Oregon) Lamison Branch, Southern States Mission (Alabama) 298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 299 Lancaster Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Larned Branch, Central States Mission (Kansas) Lawrence Branch, Emery Stake (Utah) Leadore Branch, Lost River Stake (Idaho) Letha Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho) Lincoln Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington) Linton Branch, Northern States Mission (Indiana) Logan Sixth Ward, Logan Stake (Utah) Logan Fourteenth Ward, Logan Stake (Utah) Lorenzo Ward, East Rigby Stake (Idaho) Lyndhurst Branch, Northern States Mission (Wisconsin) Manchester Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) Matthews Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) Maywood Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) Medford Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon) Memphis Branch, East Central States Mission ('Tennessee) Merced Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Mesa Second Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona) Mesa Third Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona) Mesa Fifth Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona) Mesa Seventh Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona) Metuchen Branch, Eastern States Mission (New Jersey) Midvale Branch, Weiser Stake (Idaho) Monongahela Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Mount Hebron Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Newburgh Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) New Plymouth Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho) Norfolk Branch, Central Atlantic States Mission (Virginia) North Fresno Branch, Northern California Mission (California) North Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake Stake (Utah) North Twenty-first Ward, Emigration Stake (Utah) Nyssa First Ward, Weiser Stake (Oregon) Nyssa Second Ward, Weiser Stake (Oregon) Oakdale Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Ogden Tenth Ward, North Weber Stake (Utah) Ogden Twentieth Ward, Ogden Stake (Utah) Olympia Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington) Ontario Ward, Weiser Stake (Oregon) Orland Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Osmond Ward, Star Valley Stake (Wyoming) Pacific Grove Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Palisade Ward, East Rigby Stake (Idaho) Palmyra Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Panaca Ward, Uvada Stake (Nevada) Park Valley Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah) Parma Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho) Parowan West Ward, Parowan Stake (Utah) Payette Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho) Penrose Ward, Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Petaluma Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Philadelphia Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Phoenix Third Ward, Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Phoenix Fifth Ward, Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Pioche Ward, Uvada Stake (Nevada) Pittsburg Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Placerville Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Plymouth Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah) ry; Rhinelander Branch, Northern States Mission ( Wisconsin ) Richfield First Ward, Sevier Stake ( Utah) Richfielg Second Ward, Sevier Stake (Utah) Richfielg Third Ward, Sevier Stake ( Utah) Verton First d, West Jordan Stake (U Ochester Branch, astern States Ission W York) ohn Branch, €ntral States SSiO. (Kansas ) Ugustine Bran h, Florida Stake (Flori Salinas > Northern Californ Mission ( California ) an Rafae] Branch, No €m California Mission (California anta Cryz h, Northern California Mission (Cali Ornia ) Schenectad Tanch, Easter ates Missio (New York unnyside Branch, Northwestern States Mission ( Washington ) unnyvale Branch, Orthern California Mission ( California ) > Bear R Twelfth Ward, Emigration Stake ( Utah Twenty-first Ward, Emigration Stake ( Utah ) Twenty-seventh Ward, Emigrat; Tulare Branch, Northern California Mission ( California ) Tulelake Branch, Northern California Mission (California ) Twin Falls Fourth Ward, Twin Falls Stake (Idaho) Ukiah Branch, Northern California Mission (California) University Ward, Chicago Stake (Illinois) University Ward, Emigration Stake (Utah) University Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington) — University Ward, Utah Stake (Utah) Ursine Branch, Uvada Stake (Nevada) Vale Ward, Weiser Stake (Oregon) Vermont Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 'Virden Ward, Mt. Graham Stake (New Mexico) Virginia Ward, Portneuf Stake (Idaho) Walnut Park Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) Washington Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Watsonville Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Waycross Ward, Florida Stake (Florida) Weiser Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho) West Seattle Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington) West Suburban Branch, Chicago Stake (Illinois) Willows Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Wilmington Branch, Eastern States Mission (Delaware) Wilson Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Worland Ward, Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) York Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania ) Young Ward, Logan Stake (Utah) - Yreka Branch, Northern California Mission (California) CARDS OF ACKNOWLEDGMENT TO BE ISSUED AS RECEIPTS FOR DONATIONS TO BUILDING FUND Three types of cards have been designed as receipts to be filled out by ward Relief Society secretary-treasurers and presented to persons making contributions to the Relief Society Building Fund. The above card (to be printed in gold and white) which will bear the name but no designation of the amount of the donation will be presented to all Relief Society members who are credited with a quota donation or less. RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 301 302 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 The first card pictured below (to be printed in pink and white) will be issued to Relief Society members who make a "Special Gift" (any amount over the $5 quota) and to all other persons making gift contributions. The amount of the "'Special Gift" will be recorded.; The lower card (to be printed in blue and white) will be issued as a receipt to all persons who make a "Memorial Gift." Both the name of the one making the "Memorial Gift" and the one in whose honor the gift is made will be written, as well as the amount. These cards will be available for ward secretary-treasurers to issue to all persons who have paid up to April 20, after the receipt of the April 20 bi-monthly report and a request by each secretary-treasurer of the number of cards needed in her stake. Additional cards will be mailed thereafter to stakes at two-month intervals as the bimonthly reports are sent in and reports are received of the needs in each stake for each type of card. Uiling Fund, ift in honor of "OP Beg x. Pp PZ Seven to One Geneva E. Wright HIS isn't a scheme to get something for nothing. It is, however, a sure-fire plan which pays big dividends on a small investment. People say, "I hate to write letters, but I love to get em." Being one of that class myself, I worked out a plan whereby I get seven letters back for every one I write. With mature families scattered, since the war, all over this globe, many of them, like Humpty-Dumpty, will never be together again. Letters are the cheapest means of contact with them, but letters, even to loved ones, have a way of being spaced farther apart as time goes on, unless something special is done about it. My scheme is an adaptation of the old "round-robin" applied to family units, and the bigger the group the better. Everybody in the family joins in writing a letter and adds it to the envelope as it reaches him. After it makes the rounds once, each person takes out his old letter and puts in a new one. And around it goes again! Many people have contributed to a round-robin at one time or another, which flew around on strong wings a few times, then fluttered weakly and died en route. But a family robin is a healthier bird, hatched as he is in a nest of affection, fed by seeds of kindness, and bathed in smiles and tears. His life expectancy should rate him A-1 on an insurance policy, and with a few crumbs of imagination and understanding sprinkled on the window sill for him as he makes his rounds, he should be good for many years as a messenger of family love. I was lucky enough to be born in a family of seven children, knit close by the needles of necessity into a fabric rich in pride and self-reliance. We all grew up eventually and "married off," scattering from Florida to California, and when mother and father died, the. Threads which had held us together became tenuous indeed. Correspondence dwindled to a printed card at Christmas time or a cursory letter betimes, until the robin idea was finally hatched. Since then he has been flying high, making his visit about every three or four months, and when the big manila envelope arrives marked "letter mail," there is always a family reunion of those living near. A brother in California writes that he is a cub scout leader and would like some Indian beads to decorate war bonnets for the cubs, and, since I live on an Indian reservation, asks me to please send him some. Another brother makes up a booklet of snapshots of his new home, beginning with a view of his wife and family welcoming us at the front door and taking us on a tour of each room, with appropriate remarks written underneath the pictures. A sister tells of her ensign son in the South Pacific and includes pictures and clipping of his adventures as published in the local paper. Page 303 304 UCH occurrences as graduations, special awards for achievement, and weddings are, of course, rich grist for the letter mill. One round is occasionally taken over by the inlaws, providing an objective viewpoint, for a change, and we see ourselves as others see us; and, on another flight, the nieces and nephews do the honors. Another sister is interested in family trees and keeps the births, deaths, and marriages of everyone down to the latest tick of the clock, besides delving into the family skeletons of the past to determine who fought where during the Revolution, and where the fighters came from before that. Poetry of a sort creeps into the letters when another sister can't express herself adequately in prose. The weather and superior climate of various parts of the United States furnish many a hot debate, especially between Floridans and Californians. Quizzes and questionnaires proved diverting for a time and, of course, pictures are always a must. One clever letter was made up entirely of printed words, phrases, and pictures RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 clipped from magazines and put together with finesse and imagination to fit the situation, and was good for a dozen chuckles. In fact, there is no end to the variations which can be used to make each round a surprise. Naturally, the basis for all of this is the good newsy letter telling what Jane has been up to, that Dad just got over the flu, of the party that Sue attended and brought home the prize, and, most important of all, simply saying, "I love you all." An unwritten rule is that personalities and unpleasant topics, if any, are to be reserved for individual letters. The robin is a harbinger of joy and can thrive only when cartying pleasant messages. And, strangely enough, the urge to write some individual letters also has developed as a result. Something Ruth says in her letter makes me want to tell of my experience which wouldn't be of interest to the rest of the family, so off goes a separate letter to her, and thus the chain lengthens and strengthens. If your family relations need perking up, try starting a cheery roundrobin. He makes sweet music and is a welcome lovebird, besides. —> SMALL BOY WITH NEW-BORN KITTENS Katherine Fernelius Larsen He kneels, hands still for once, enrapt Above the mother and her five; Wondering at the squirming things So small and softly warm—alive! He moves one finger just to touch, Then runs on urgent feet to tell... Only to find words not enough For his first miracle! Nahaka Branch, New Zealand Mission, Sends "Big Canoe' Quilt to President Spafford GENERAL President Belle S. Spafford and Sister Elva T. Cowley, President, Pacific Mission Relief Society, are shown admiring the unique quilt. Sister Cowley reports that when she first went to New Zealand the women knew nothing about the making of quilts. She conducted a campaign and taught them to quilt. The central motif of this design depicts the large canoe which brought the Maoris to New Zealand. The names of these people are embroidered above their heads. Each of the outside blocks of the quilt was made by one of the sisters of the Nuhaka Branch and has her name embroidered on it. Each block represents, also, a scene or a symbol representative of New Zealand. One block shows the "Tiki," which is a good luck charm of great significance to the people of the islands. Another block shows the flax plant which is very important as it is used in all the weaving and handcraft. Dyes for the flax strands are secured from the bark and roots of various plants. Another block shows the ornamental fence which surrounds each small community in which the people live. The almost extinct Moa bird is represented, as well as other birds, trees, flowers, and animals peculiar to New Zealand. Page 305 What About Cancer? Jess H. Rolph [Prepared for the Utah Division, American Cancer Society] OT many people know what cancer is, yet one person out of every eight in the United States dies from it, or as a result of its deadly action.. True, there are many unanswered questions about cancer, many false notions conceming it, but, thanks to the work of the American Cancer Society, there is much we do know. It is not a disease that is infectious, nor does it enter the body from the outside, but, like the stealthy sneak it is, it comes from within! Cancer has been defined as a group of normal body cells that start abnormal growth, pushing aside the other cells in their ruthless conquest of the body. Though the causes of cancer are varied, it is known that it never develops in healthy body tissue. For example, irregularity of eating does not cause cancer, but it may result in unhealthy conditions within the digestive system, which sooner or later give rise to it. One half of all cases of cancer are found in the djgestive tract; approximately onethird are in the stomach. One factor in the development of this disease is continual or chronI¢ irritation. It is as though the cells of some body tissue lose patience, break into open revolution, and begin building up their rebel army through cell division. There are three types of irritants: chemical, thermal, and mechanical, Page 306 Continued Over-exposure to hot sun and high temperatures may be the cause of skin cancer. Constant rubbing of a mole, wart, or old scar may be sufficient mechanical irritation to cause rebellion and growth of malignant tissue. Certain people are more susceptible to cancer. Whether this is due to the faulty functioning of certain chemical substances in the body, or to some other condition, is, as yet, unknown. One job of the Ameri. Can Cancer Society is to have tesearch done on this puzzling phenomenon. Cancer victims are to be found among young and old, men and women, married and unmarried, No age group is free from it. Babies are sometimes born with it and over two thousand people under twentyone die of cancer every year. Among men the danger zones for cancer are the lips, lungs, stomach, prostate gland, intestines, rectum, throat, and mouth. Among women the _ hazardous spots are the womb, breasts, intestines, rectum, stomach and genitourinary organs. An unmarried woman is more likely to have cancer of the breast than a married woman who nurses her children, while cancer of the cervix occurs more often among married women who have borne children. Cancer can be cured—but only WHAT ABOUT CANCER? When diagnosed early and treated adequately! There are many things you can do to guard against cancer. Many cancers can be cured if*caught in time! There are danger signals. Memorize these seven signs. 1. Any sore that does not heal—particularly about the tongue, mouth, or lips. 2. A painless lump or thickening, especially in the breast, lip, or tongue. 3. Imegular bleeding or discharge from any natural body opening. Do not wait for pain. See your doctor! 4. Progressive. Change in the color or size of a wart, mole, or birthmark. 5. Persistent indigestion. 6. Persistent hoarseness, unexplained cough, or difficulty in swallowing. 7. Any change in the normal bowel habits. Do not attempt to diagnose yourself. Go to the doctor! A very good idea is to arrange for periodic health examinations for yourself and your family. Imagine the joy that knowing you are all right would bring! A thorough examination should include: 1. Careful inspection of the entire body surface and heart, blood vessels, and a lung examination. 2. Examination by sight and touch of all body openings that can be so examined, such as the mouth, nostrils, ears, throat, sinuses, vagina, and rectum. 3. Examination of stomach and _intestines by X-ray; microscopic examination of blood, urine, and any suspected tissue. 4. Examination' of the eye, bladder, prostate gland in man, and special examination of breasts of women. Education on the subject of cancer is of utmost importance, and each state has a divisional cancer 307 society. These organizations are supported by contributions from the public and every donation made goes toward furthering the study of and the eliminating of this dreaded disease. Families have been kept intact; breadwinners have been helped to stay on the job; emotional tragedy has been averted and financial suffering has been decreased. Only you can save yourself from cancer. The cancer societies have but one mission to perform: through your contributions and the efforts of thousands of volunteers and active members an endeavor is made to eliminate this scourge, cancer! Public education, through the press, radio, literature, films, display, and public speakers, helps enlighten the public. All this magnificent work is dependent upon the contributions made to the Cancer Fund. Three paragraphs which appeared in the Montana Cancer News express completely the feeling that goes into the making of contributions: In religion we are taught that the good deeds we do on earth store for us jewels in a heavenly crown. But I like to think that man need not wait for heaven to receive his reward. The well-known truism "It is better to give than to receive" has often been proven by the wealth of personal and spiritual satisfaction one acquires from giving of oneself freely in unselfish service to others. There is no greater fuel to feed the flaming fire of the human spirit than unselfish service to mankind: The server serves without thought of payment, but the joy of service and the knowledge that a job which needed doing has been done, brings its own reward! Give to the cancer society! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1888 For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL NarTIons THE SALT LAKE SANITARIAN: We have perused the prospectus of the Salt Lake Sanitarian, a monthly journal of medicine and surgery, about to be issued in this city. It will be devoted to the laws of life and health, diseases and their treatment. It will be edited by the Doctors Shipp, who are well known to the medical profession here, and have had quite an extensive experience in the treatment of cases in this Territory. These ladies are graduates of the Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia, and have made good use of their opportunities since they graduated, among the people here. That such a journal will be a desirable acquisition to the home literature of the Territory no one can deny. We wish these sisters every success in their new undertaking, and have no fears as to their capability to make the paper interesting and helpful to the people.—Editorial UINTAH STAKE: The first conference of the Relief Society held in Uintah Stake convened in the Ashley meeting house, April 1, 1888, with Sarah Pope presiding. Reports from the different branches were read. Sister A. K. Bartlett said that she felt this was a feast of rejoicing. Gave the sisters some good instructions concerning their daughters marrying; she said the daughters of Zion should go to the house of the Lord when they were married. Sister McAlling expressed her desire to do good, said she belonged to the first Relief Society that was organized in the Church. Counselor Hatch said she felt well in meeting with the sisters and gave them some good counsel. President Sarah Pope addressed the congregation on the duties of wives and mothers. She said: "It is not right to be proud and haughty, but we should be humble and prayerful and learn to govern ourselves, before we are fit to govern others."—Ada Longhurst, Secretary THE BLUE FORGET-ME-NOT There is a flower which oft unheeded grows, And blooms unnoticed in some shady spot; Modestly it hides, nor gaudy petal shows, But whispers coyly to the breeze, "Forget me not." The bride should wear it when she leaves her home, The dead should have it on their coffin laid; Our friends most prize it when afar they roam. —M. A. Greenhalgh WHAT WE ARE CREATED FOR: Too many of our sex think it necessary to cultivate only the external part of our organizations. That is why they seem to think if they adorn themselves with all the frills and furbelows of fashion, that they are very attractive, no matter how uncouth their manners. They do this to the total neglect of the mental and physical and, I am sorry to say, sometimes the moral parts of their beings also. The body is only a casket for the spirit to dwell in; the spirit is the immortal, imperishable portion which we have inherited from our Heavenly Father. Who ever heard of a person's name being known to posterity because of the beauty of her dress? All can study fashion, but those who spend most of their time in that may perish with their clothing, and are soon forgotten. Then while we have respect enough for ourselves, our associates and our God to be neat and clean in our appearance and pleasant in our intercourse, let us not spend too much time in adoming ourselves to the neglect of cultivating our minds and manners.—Aunt Bird Page 308 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HE two scholars who most influenced the high moral pattern of Chinese thought were Confucius and Mencius (around 4oo B. C.). Both were reared by widowed mothers, to whom Chinese historians give much credit for the accomplishments of their sons. Mencius' mother early noted his talent for learning and imitating. He would re-enact the solemn scenes of burial, occurring in the near-by cemetery. When she moved near a market place, he pantomimed every phase of buying and selling. Finally, she moved near a college and found that her plan worked. KATHERINE ROMNEY STEWART (Mrs. Charles B. Stewart) aged seventy-two years, died January 19, 1948, in Los Angeles. For fifteen years she had the privilege—unique among our women—of practicing on the Tabernacle organ. As assistant organist to Joseph J. Daynes, she was always prepared to accompany the Tabernacle Choir. In 1903, attending the World's Fair at Chicago with the choir, she played for three days before the Women's Congress as accompanist for the vocal solos of her sister Mary (Mrs. Charles Ross), and individually as organ soloist. In Los Angeles, as branch president, then in 1923 as first stake president, she pioneered Relief Society work for twelve years. Her favorite exKx. < 4S,! Pression of the Relief Society spirit was to gather up old folks and shutins for thoughtfully planned entertainments, or doing kind things in their homes. She was very devoted to her husband and eight children. GAIN an American woman has won a Nobel prize. Dr. Gerti Theresa Cori shared with her husband, Dr. Ferdinand Cori, the 1947 prize for medicine. Both are faculty members, at Washington University, St. Louis. ASSOCIATED Press editors selected Princess Elizabeth as Woman of the Year; as internationally most outstanding woman in her field: beauty, Barbara Jo Walker; science, Gerti Cori; drama, June Lockhart; radio, Dorothy Shay; public service, Eleanor Roosevelt; business, Dorothy Shaver (President, Lord and Taylor department store); education, Sarah Blanding (President, Vassar College); literature, Rebecca West (British author); movies, Ingrid Bergman; sports, Babe Didrickson Zaharias. FjLDORA J. MAUGHAN, of Preston, Idaho, has been appointed to the National Congress of Parents and Teachers. One of the eight national vice-presidents, she is responsible for activities in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming. She is the mother of seven active Latter-day Saints. Page 309 VOL. 35 Q-> EDITORIAL c~O MAY 1948 ' A Blessing br Women S the season arrives for the discontinuance of weekly Relief Society meetings, there comes to a faithful member a feeling of release from the more arduous and exacting duties of the past eight months, and at the same time a deep sense of satisfaction for the benefit she has personally received and the good which has come to others as the result of her and her sister's work in Relief Society. It is a feeling separate and apart from the contemplation of participation in any other activity offered by women's groups. One of the benefits to mothers which comes from Relief Society was voiced by a brother in a Relief Society meeting. He was praising the work of the society as a whole and then testified of the blessings which had come into his own home through the activity of his wife in Relief Society. He related that when their children were young it was necessary 10r him to be absent from the home a great deal. His wife spent so much time shut within their own walls with the responsibility of the children and the incessant caring for their needs, that finally matters came to such a crisis that their very married life was at stake. It was at this juncture that a Relief Society was formed in their vicinity and his wife became a member. Almost at once he found that her attitude had changed. Her outlook became broadened and she discovered that other women were goPage 310 ing through the same experiences as she. As her interests increased she found time to take thought for her own advancement and improvement. In addition to the self-development which came to her through studying the lessons, she experienced a feeling of satisfaction and fulfillment through the good she did to others as offered in Relief Society work. He ended his talk, in substance, with these words, ~"T have always felt that our married happiness was saved by Relief Society." This testimony of one of the worths of Relief Society to women finds echo in the hearts of thousands of members-and in the hearts of their husbands. The spirit of the gospel which permeates Relief Society meetings carries to each member, according to her desire and faithfulness — understanding, — enlightenment, and a truer evaluation of her own problems with the wish to solve them in all righteousness. A woman who allows trivial pleasures or worldly interests to interfere with her attendance and participation in Relief Society is partaking of the spirit of the foolish virgins who did not keep their lamps trimmed and burning. Relief Society was instituted by the Prophet Joseph Smith under the inspiration of the Lord. He knows the needs of his daughters and blessed them with the Relief Society. M. CSS. WYiotes v0 THE FIELD Summer Work Mleetings [' is the desire of the General Board that a work meeting be held each month, as heretofore, during the summer period, June through September. Church Welfare sewing should take precedence over all other work activities. Magazine Subscription Percentages for 1948 to Be Based on January Enrollment EFF ECTIVE for 1948, instead of the membership figures on which the Honor Roll percentages will be based being counted as of December 1948, they will be counted as of January 1948. This will allow the Magazine representative to obtain from the secretary, at once, the membership figures of January 1948 on which her Magazine percentage for 1948 will be figured. In this way a Magazine representative will know all through the year the number of subscriptions she must obtain in order to be on the 1948 Honor Roll. No longer will her standing be imperiled by new members being added near the close of the year. It is hoped that this procedure will enable more Relief Societies to be on the Honor Roll. TOO DEEP THE PEACE Marijane Mortis This soft spring day that lolls upon the grass, This languid sun asleep, warm on the land, This breeze upsetting startled leaves to pass— Here is a peace to seek and understand. This day the earth spreads out her color quilt, Upon the hills, the seeded garden plot;, Along unguarded way the flowers lilt While nature paints a quiet beauty spot. And now I hear a sound that reaches up Where flame-tipped blackbirds wing the topaz sky. It does not matter that my own frail cup Must be the symbol faith will justify. I'll hold today as proof against the years, And peace will be too sweet... Too deep for tears. Page 311 Planning Food Buying for Health and Economy Bernice Stookey Linford Iron County, Utah, Home Agent _ [This article is published with the suggestion that mothers of missionaries will call it to the attention of their sons and daughters in the mission field—Ed.]} diets first for health, and then make adjustments to meet the family income. To be thrifty and wise in selection one must first know food values, not only of fresh foods, but of commercially canned and prepared foods. Radio programs, magazines, and newspapers are saturated with attractive advertisements, some of which are fraudulent half-truths which may deceive even the most intelligent. By heeding these deceptive appeals the homemaker may not only undermine health, but may greatly increase the cost of living. 'Many young mothers buy practically all fruits and vegetables already canned, especially for young children, although fresh fruits and vegetables may be wasting in their orchards and gardens, which could be cooked fresh, frozen, stored, or canned at home at a great saving. The needs and income of each particular family should determine the plan for health. The resources of a family living on a farm where fruits, vegetables, milk, eggs, poultry, and meats can be produced will cut living costs greatly. However, the extra time needed to produce and prepare home-raised food will Page 312 Draiers fis homemakers plan require good planning for the work schedule of the homemaker. Bargain buying of food in bulk if storage space is available, buying perishable fruits and vegetables at the close of the day, or taking advantage of "specials" will also cut costs. Be cautious of specials on meats, fish, and poultry, especially ground meats. 'These foods deteriorate rapidly. 'The present high prices of these products may tempt dishonest sellers to destroy the odor of spoilage by adding harmful preservatives which also preserve the natural color. Spices and herbs, too, may be added to conceal the taste and odor of spoiled meat. Commercially prepared foods are great time savers, and are used a great deal by most homemakers. It should be kept in mind, however, that no frozen, canned, or highly processed food is as healthful as fresh food, but the careful planner will always include enough fresh foods to keep a balanced diet. Climate, season, geographical location, and transportation will determine the "best buys" in all foods, especially fresh foods. Homemakers will make a better selection and save time and money by planning food for several days at a time. First check supplies on PLANNING FOOD BUYING hand, then make out a shopping list. The picture chart of the "Basic Seven" pattern for nutrition published in the April Magazine will help inexperienced cooks plan menus for health and economy. ~ Available supplies, Price, and necessary time for preparation will determine choice of ready prepared and fresb foods purchased. Try making 4 simplified list based on the following classification: 1. Yellow and green vegetables 2, Oranges, citrus fruits, tomatoes, Taw greens 3. Potatoes, and other fruits or veee tables 4. Milk and cheese 5. Meat, fish or poultry, 88% beans, Or dried peas 6. Bread and whole-grain cereals. 7. Fats (animal and vegetable ) dried FOLLOWING is a three-day menu and cost list for two missionaries. 'The demonstration was given to a group of 274 missionaries Teaving the mission home for their fields of labor in September. The menu meets all the requirements for health as advocated by the "Basic Seven." A double boiler was used in cooking since missionaries usually have access to only a hot plate or single burner, Ot in foreign countries, a small space on the family cook stove. To conserve time and heat, cereals were soaked overnight and cooked in top of a double boiler. To save time in preparing the evening meal, potatoes were cooked in their "jackets" in the lower part of the double boiler while the cereal was cooking. Eggs were broken in a tea cup and set down in the cereal, oF cheese could be melted in a tea Cup, making a "three-story cooker." Rice 313 pudding was cooked in the top part of cooker while vegetable soup was cooking in the lower part. The meals were planned to be quickly prepared. Canned, frozen, dried, and fresh foods were all used, and _ fresh, evaporated, and dried milk were used to demonstrate each type, each missionary having the equivalent of one quart of fresh milk each day. 'The actual cost of the eighteen meals for three days was $5.10, including tax. THREE-DAY MENU FOR TWO MISSIONARIES OR PERSONS OF SIMILAR ACTIVITY (Actual cost: 8sc per day pet person at September 12, 1947 prices). Friday: BREAKFAST One large grapefruit Cooked cereal Soft-cooked eggs Bread Butter Milk LUNCH Peanut Butter sandwiches Sliced tomatoes Raw pear Milk SUPPER Warmed up potatoes with canned sausage Chopped cabbage (boiled 4 minutes ) Bread Butter Sliced peaches and top milk Milk Saturday: | BREAKFAST Stewed prunes Cooked cereal Soft-cooked eggs Bread Butter 1 (Continued on page 347) Magazine Subscriptions for 1947 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp HANKS and gratitude are extended to the officers, Magazine representatives, and to _ all subscribers of The Relief Society Magazine for the excellent work which has been done throughout 1947 in obtaining a subscription of 80,978. Faithful Magazine representatives have been blessed for the long hours of work which this record has required. Increase in Magazine Subscriptions Particular appreciation is felt for the way in which the number of subscriptions has been maintained and even increased 420 subscriptions over 1946, in view of the increase in subscription price to $1.50 as of July 1947. Once more Relief Society members have demonstrated their loyalty to the Society and appreciation for the Magazine. Improvement in Content The general board is constantly endeavoring to improve the content of the Magazine and to give to Latter-day Saint women the opportunity of improving their wniting skills,. And have their work preserved through the pages of the woman's: magazine of the Church. It seeks to impart a message of spirituality, so much needed in the world today, to promote the work of Relief Society and publish Relief Society lessons, as well as offering reading enjoyment and articles of special interest to the homemaker. HONORS FOR HIGHEST RATINGS STAKES South Los Angeles Stake, 140 Per Cent Magazine Representative—Nancy M. Reepp WARDS Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Stake, 300 Per Cent Magazine Representative—NellieA. Harter MISSIONS Western Canadian, 95 Per Cent Mission President—Holly Wood Fisher MISSION DISTRICTS San Gorgonio District, California Mission, 118 Per Cent Magazine Representative—Mariam Robinson MISSION BRANCHES Vidor Branch, Texas-Louisiana Mission, 475 Per Cent Magazine Representative—Epsie Wright FIVE STAKES ACHIEVING HIGHEST PERCENTAGES South Los Angeles (California).. 140.... Cassia (Idaho) -02020...2.. E. Eeeeeeeeee-117... Page 314 Magazine Representative Nancy M. Reepp Jane R. Hale South Salt Lake (Utah)................117... Hedy T. Davies Rexburg (Idaho)..........2220.022.....----- 116..... Daphne Nef Provo (Utah) -..0.2022.2202.222..2020220e20-115... Flora Buggert FIVE MISSIONS ACHIEVING HIGHEST PERCENTAGES Western Canadian........00000000000..... 95.. California 2... Leet 85. Australian o2....0.0. Ccccccecccceeeeeeeeeeee 82... Texas-Louisiana _....20........0.0000000...---82.. Northern States -2..........0000000.222.2--- 80.. Holly Wood Fisher (Pres.) Vivian R. McConkie (Pres.) Violet Cook (Mag. Rep.) Christie J. Smith (Pres.) Elna P. Haymond (Pres.) STAKES IN WHICH ALL THE WARDS REACHED 100% OR HIGHER Florida Granite (Utah) ~...0..0.0.22022022.22022222eeen North Jordan (Utah) Pasadena (California) Rexburg (Idaho) ~......2....22.22.-2-2-20:--:0--- South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles Carrie V. Burman Leone E. Carstensen Mable G. Morgan Sadie Liebig Daphne Nef Valeria Blatter Nancy M. Reepp WARDS AND BRANCHES IN STAKES AND MISSIONS ACHIEVING 200% OR HIGHER Vidor Branch (Texas), Texas-Louisiana Mission....475.... East Point Branch (Georgia), Southern States Epsie Wright Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Stake ~...................--300..... Nellie A. Harter Washington Branch, Eastern States Mission............267..... Virginia Danley Glen Huon Branch, Australian Mission......................240... Gwen Bender Athens Branch (Georgia), Southern States Mission 233... Irene Dixon Sahara Village, North Davis Stake (Utah)................221.....§ Maragane Adams Burton Ward, South Salt Lake Stake (Utah)............219... Inga Denstad Iona Ward, Big Horn Stake (Wyoming)..................200... Rose Hoffman Texarkana Branch, Texas-Louisiana Mission............200... Elene Buse Tyrells Lake Branch, Taylor Stake (Canada)......... 200..... Clara E. Selk Woolahia Branch, Australian Mission........................200... Florence Wardingly These societies are to be congratulated on their outstanding records. There were 24 stakes which had 100 per cent or over in subscriptions; 436 wards; 3 mission districts and 128 branches. The stakes as a whole in 1947 made an average of 78 per cent. New Rates for Some Foreign Missions In order to put the Magazine on a sound financial basis, it was found necessary to increase the subscription rate to $2 for Australia, Great Britain, Europe, New Zealand, and South Africa, because of postal rates. MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1947 Mission Hurstville, Australian Mission Manavu Ward, Provo Stake (Utah) 315 350..... Geneva Dubrauski 241..... Elsie F. Parton 237... Flora Buggert 316 This has made it difficult for some foreign missions to maintain their previous high rating. This is true of Australia which has been in the forefront for so many years. The general board sincerely regrets the circumstances which have necessitated the increased rate of $2, and is sympathetic to the increased burden thus placed upon them. Modernizing of Mailing There has been a marked improvement in the last six months in the mailing of the Magazine to subscribers. A modern system is being installed and prompt delivery from the printers has resulted in the Magazines being in the mail before the month of issue. This has greatly decreased the amount of correspondence and resulted in improved relationships between the Tepresentatives and subscribers. Percentages for 1948 to Be Based on January Enrollment Effective for 1948, instead of the membership figures on which the Honor Roll percentages will be based being counted as of December 1948, they will be counted as of January 1948. This will allow the Magazine representatives to obtain from the secretary, at once, the membership figures of January 1948 on which her Magazine percentage for 1948 will be figured. In this way a Magazine representative will know all through the year the number of subscriptions she must obtain in order to be on the 1948 Honor Roll. Stakes by Percentages The following list of stakes gives their standing in percentages according to Magazine subscriptions. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 STAKES BY PERCENTAGES South Los Angeles 140 Cassia 117 South Salt Lake 117 Rexburg 116 Provo 115 Oquirrh 113 West Pocatello 109 North Jordan 108 Park 108 Burley 107 Pasadena 107 Sugar House 107 Kolob 106 North Idaho Falls 106 Wasatch 106 San Fernando 104 South Idaho Falls 104 San Bernardino 103 Nampa 102 Cottonwood 101 Florida 101 Granite 101 Ogden 101 Salt Lake 101 Shelley 99 Bannock 98 Rigby 98 San Francisco 98 Inglewood 97 Pocatello 97 Big Horn 96 Liberty 96 Phoenix 95 Taylor 94 Emigration 93 North Rexburg 93 Sacramento 93 Alpine 92 Bear Lake 92 Raft River 92 Twin Falls 92 Ensign 91 Moapa 91 Sevier 91 Union 91 Boise go St. Joseph go San Juan go Young 89 Big Cottonwood 87 North Box Elder 87 Zion Park 87 Bear River 86 Reno 86 Bonneville 85 MAGAZINE guBsCRIPTIONS FOR 1947 Wells Yellowstone Seattle Uintah Weiser Los Angeles East Provo Mesa Southemn Arizona Frankii Grant Idaho Riverside South Box Elder Spokane Temple View Ben 'Lomond Kanab Millard Roosevelt Minidoka North Sevier Alberta East Jordan Lyman 85 Benson Berkeley Lost River Nevada New York West Utah Gridley Montpelier East Mill Creek Emery Wayne Duchesne Lehi Parowan Smithfield Teton Deseret Lake View Humboldt Maricopa Blaine Mount Logan North Carbon Pioneer St. Johns San Luis Webet Orem Summit Garfield Grantsville Logan Morgan Nebo Palo Alto South Seviet Carbon Gunnison Portland Beavet Juarez Woodruff South Summit Sharon South Sanpete Juab Lethbridge Gantaquin-Tintic Relief Society Alberta Stake Aetna Cardston Third Cardston Fourth Hartley Kimball Alpine Stake Alpine American Fork First Enrollment 20 90 66 20 6 641 87 69 American Fork Second 66 American Fork Third 118 American Fork Fourth 52 American Fork Fifth 80 American Fork Seventh 70 Hyland Bannock Stake Bench Central Cleveland Grace Grace Second Mound Valley Thatcher Bear Lake Stake Bloomington Fish Haven Garden City Lanark Liberty 42 No. 16 70 Subscriptions Pet. HONOR ROLL Magazine Representative Iris S. Jensen Hattie Creed Frankee Ellison Annie B. Orr Necia Bennett Edna L. Meredith Belva Strong Olive Kirk Mildred Peters Donna Tregaskis Ann C. Hansen Lu Pril Okey Marie Reimschussel Lowella M. Binns Ida J. Sorenson Rose Hansen June Welch Mary B. Anderson Ethel Sant Afton Robinson Blanch Wright Alice Smith Nina Michaelson Bertha Thornock Carol Howell Celia Langford Fontella Parker Laura Poulsen Cottonwood Holladay Valley View Winder Big Horn Stake Basin Belfry Burlington Byron Cody Cowley Jona Lovell Penrose Powell Otto Worland Blackfoot Stake Blackfoot First Blackfoot Third Blackfoot Fourth Groveland Pingree Riverside Riverton Stirling Wapello Enrollment No. Big Cottonwood Stake 676 108 587 110 Subscriptions Pct. Magazine Representative Oa J. Cannon Frances Remund Norma T. Ritzman Lorraine R. Miller Ethel A. Smith Jessie J. Robertson Louise Y. Tuttle Mary Youst Virgie Allen Sally Griffin Mary Way Hope Eyre Rose Hoffman Christina Norton Tilda Wasden Mrs. Elton Asay Nellie Ericksen Zella Averett Zela Clegg Mary Winkler Lillie Farnes Afton Johnston Sarah J. Chopman Sarah E, Cammock Tacy Winmill Cassie Brown Annie R. Nelson Mrs. Enon Tucker 318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 Relief Society. Ovid - 36 St. Charles 76 Elwood 39 Howell 30 Park Valley 25 Tremonton Second 120 Ben Lomond Stake Ogden Twenty-Ninth 60 Benson Stake Berkeley Stake Jessie Jensen Rosa Grandy Lillias Grimmett Carrie Pugmire Hazel Long Edna B. Ward Pearl Perry Dora Shaffer Janusine N. Peterson Celina Johnson Myrtle Holmgren Blodwin Sorensen Elaine Palmer Lena M. Jensen Janice W. Nicholis Cora Daley Alta Hickman Mildred Bunnel Helen Bolton Deca Deamer Edith Anderson Mrs. R. S. Henderson Edna Robson Rose Gleason Eva Rae Rindlesbach Jessie Stubbs Madge Davis Leona Dalbey Blaine Stake Carey Deitrich Hagerman Richfield Shoshone Boise Stake Boise First Boise Second Boise Third Boise Fourth Boise Fifth Glenns Ferry Meridian Mountain Home Bonneville Stake Bonneville i Garden Park Monument Park Thirty-third Yale Yalecrest Burley Stake Burley First Burley Second Burley Third Burley Fourth Burley Fifth Declo Pella Star Unity View Virginia Eldredge Mary. Cleveland Stella Farnsworth Ivena Brown Gladys E. Huntley Vella A. Evans Arlene Redford Neva Kingeford Lillian Jensen Lillis Worthington Maybel Richardsen Leola Thurman Mabel Roylance Gladys Ferbrache HONOR ROLL Mary R. Young Florence P. Backman Lucille S. Boyer Pearl Bills Virginia B. Collins Aimee P. Romney Louise Nielsen Jane R. Robinson Mary Bateman Ella Boatman Amy Morgan Mildred N. Moss Leona Hall Fanny Tanner Ellen C. Mitchell Gertrude Durfee Lucynthia Halford yy Paris First Paris Second Sharon Bear River Stake Deweyville East Garland Garland: First Garland Second: Penrose Promontory Snowville Stone Tremonton First North Ogden Richmond Trenton Claremont Fairfield Napa Pittsburg. Walnut Creek Thelma Taylor 66 93 '17 971 51 31 74 ' 80 20 12 32 27 132 139 105 69 59 23 40 49 19 bv-) Enrollment Relief Society Cache Stake Logan Third 72 Logan Ninth 91 Logan Sixteenth 89 Logan Seventeenth 78 Carbon Stake Price First 68 Wellington 81 Dragerton Branch 38 Cassia Stake Basin 16 Marian 31 Oakley First 51 Oakley Second 50 Oakley Third 31 Chicago Stake Milwaukee 59 North Shore 43 Aurora Branch 9 Milwaukee So. Branch 10 Racine Branch 20 South Shore Branch 13 West Suburban Branch 24 Cottonwood Stake Grant 49 Mill Creek Murray First Murray Second 83 Murray Third South Grant 52 Valley Center Subscriptions No. Pet. Magazine Representative Grace C. McOmber Charlotte M. Linder LaVaun Hawkins Genevive B. Bradley Effie W. Darley Zelma McIntire Annie M. Blackburn Evadean Hansen Jane R. Hale Marion McIntosh Sarah Adams Ada L. Hale Jane R. Hale Mabel Boren Anna Belle Unger Vivian Hart Clara M. Force Louise Erekson Hertha Rathke Gladys Kline Amy M. Landeck Naoma Beau Dora W. McMillan Mrs. K. R. Sanders Jean Albrand Myrna Hiller Martha Margetts Clara Duffin Hazel Clark Myrtle Vincent Enrollment Midvale First 53 Midvale Second 79 Union Second 86 East Mill Creek Stake East Provo Stake 359 Provo Eighth 75 Provo Ninth 6l Provo Thirteenth 56 East Rigby Stake Clark 44 Milo 42 Rigby Second 62 Shelton 44 Emery Stake East Twenty-seventh 69 Relief Society Subscriptions No. Pct. 83 82 81 Magazine Representative Afton Warner Mary E. Jenkins Estella Atkinson LaVeta P. Domenko Florida W. Hengley Folles Treglown Sarah H. Passey Verna J. Black Norma B. Nelson Ruby W. Hawkins Dale Burtleshaw Ellamay Anderson Hattie Jacobsen LaRetta Tibbitts Elsie Barnes Hazel Whittle Inez E. Laughlin Dale Burtleshaw Jane Larsen Ida V. Litster Lillian Oviatt Udean Olsen Leah M. Cheever Viola L. Walton Gertrude Russell Alma Erickson Emma Curtis Florence E. Murphy 320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 Cummings Evergreen Grandview Fidelty Lorenzo_ Ririe Clawson Cleveland Elmo Emery Emigration Stake Twelfth Thirteenth Twenty-first Twenty-seventh 104 49 118 8 28 99 16 61 37 98 831 107 97 85 68 Davis Stake Centerville First Centerville Second Kaysville First Kaysville Second North Farmington * Denver Stake Cheyenne Denver First Denver Second Laramie Pueblo Deseret Stake Delta Third Leamington Lynndyl Sugarville Callao Branch Duchesne Stake Arcadia Bridgeland East Cache Stake Benson — Logan Fifth Logan Eighteenth North Logan East Jordan Stake Fast Midvale First East Midvale Second Garden View 43 52 75 76 88 91 84 aS 79 118 94 88 117 75 110 103 85 76 133 126 84 84 84 156 105 102 78 84 87 Dora M. Smoot LaVon Bergin Grace White Emily R. Barnes Pauline M. Waterfall Doris Rigby Alice B. Bateman Edith P. Nelson Lucille Blunt Lilly B. Williams Rose Eads Leona Butler Marcella Ross Eva Duston Mrs. Kay Aitken Lillian Ivie Inez Tripp Ora N. Holgate Naturitch Neilson Anna N. Stettler Audria M. Ballard Abby G. Jenson Margaret H. Swenson Mrs. Oliver Larsen Rose Alexander Ida Leafquist Hazel Anderson University West Eleventh Ensign Stake North Eighteenth North Twentieth South Eighteenth South Twentieth West Ensign Farr West Stake Farr West Harrisville Mariott Mound Fort Florida Stake Axson Jacksonville Lake City Oak Grove Palatka Springfield Waycross Wesconnett Gainesville Branch Sanderson Branch Franklin Stake Fairview Linrose Mapleton Preston Second Preston Fifth Weston 92 95 769 198 127 168 111 110 384 66 65 35 82 342 31 87 22 22 37 60 24 21 12 19 59 27 30 70 28 103 Vera D. Stringham Anne Delange Charlotte W. Spencer Ruby A. Walter Blanche S, Kelly Mary W. Osborn Myrtis S. Thompson Ethel S. Young HONOR ROLL Irene M. Crowther Elizabeth Garlic Alice E. Hellwell Mildred H. Slater Phyllis Hufstetler Carrie V. Burman Margaret Mizzell Corene Bethea Francie Douberly Iva Williams Hilda Anderson Camillus McRae Arzella Jordan Elizabeth Jammes Doris D. McCall Mattie D. Stringer Bertha N. Cole Ruby J. Tanner Cora Knapp Martha K. Belnap Carrie C. Condie Gladys O. Merrill 321 Relief Society Garfield Stake Circleville Kingston Granite Stake Columbus Fairmont Forest Dale Lincoln Nibley Park Wells Grant Stake Smith Gridley Stake Chico Grass Valley Oroville Gunnison Stake Gunnison Highland Stake Highland Park Imperial Park Avenue Parleys Stratford Hillside Stake Laurelcrest Mountain View Wasatch Enrollment 74 19 692 70 76 144 135 Subscriptions No. 539% 107 116 51% 540 142 Pet. 85 132 101 100 107 100 101 101 101 101 102 100 81 93 80 75 104 102 76 94 79 101 76 98 Magazine Representative Rose B. Beebe Mrs. Gail Coats Leone E. Carstensen Ida Hand Mary Springer Catherine Crane Evelyn Edgington Emma Armstrong May Fife Rubelle B. Francis Carol H. McIntosh Nora M. Medlyn Violet Gray Orvilla Wilkenson Rae J. Ashton Rhoda Hyland Margaret Harris Adlia Andrus Erma W. Bernston Susan E. Inkley Erma B. Williams Pearl J. Boyle La Rue Furse Malaone Mumford Relief Society Springville Second Springville Third Springville Fourth Springville Fifth Springville Sixth Lake View Stake Hooper First Kanesville Riverdale Lehi Stake Lehi First Lethbridge Stake Claresholm Orton Stavely Liberty Stake Eighth Harvard Liberty Ninth North Second South Second Logan Stake College Young Long Beach Stake Bellflower Compton Enrollment 110 Subscriptions No. Pct. 103 73 82 122 92 62 27 67 112 27 18 10 640 113 127 148 84 66 49 41 25 819 88 68 111 81 91 130 102 81 84 102 102 Magazine Representative Louisa Wainwright Ellen Giles Rose Roylance Belle Childs Lottie Gurr Florence Naisbitt Elva R. Schultz Pearl Champneys Hazel May Bone Pearl Erickson Javana Orr Ida L. Rodgers Lila B. Pressler Emma Liebelt Reva Thomas Alice Russell Lila B. Pressler Amelia Marsh Bertha Huntington Nettie S. Abrams Emma Speth Ethel Spongberg Susie Elsmore Georgenia Silver RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-MAY 1948 322 H umboldt Stake Winnemucca Hyrum Stake Avon Idaho Stake Bancroft Hatch Kelly-Toponce Lund Idaho Falls Stake Idaho Falls Fifth Idaho Falls Ninth Inglewood Stake Brentwood Centinela La Cienega Mar Vista Redondo Torrance Juarez Stake Dublan Kanab Stake Glendale Moccasin Orderville Kolob Stake Mapleton Springville First Hortense B. Smith Compton Center Leona Brinkerhogs F ullerton Agnes Cook Adams Arlington h H Olly wood Lost River Stake Lost River Moore Leadore Branch Lydia B, Anderson Frances D, Kolarik Lillias M. Dalton Lyman Stake Green River Manila Mountain View Rock Springs First Superior Elizabeth Blunt Malad Stake Cherry Creek Holbrook Malad First Malad Second Malad Third Pleasant View Portage St. John Woodruff Melvina Jones Sarah E. Black Margaret Heaton Hester P. Heaton Mary Clegg Ada T. Lee Addie Underwoog Los Angeles Stake Henney S. Thomas Erthe| Thatcher HONOR ROLL iy a he jaa) a & a3) Ada Ipsen Mary A. Castleton Sarah Pierce Afton C Ward 323 Relief Society Maricopa Stake Mesa Fourth Mesa Eighth Pine Mesa Stake Alma Gilbert Mesa Second Mesa Seventh Superior Branch Millard Stake Fillmore First Fillmore Second Fillmore Third Flowell Minidoka Stake Emerson Hazelton Paul Rupert First Moapa Stake Basic Boulder City Bunkerville Charleston Davis Dam Kingman Las Vegas First Las Vegas Second Littlefield Enrollment 82 63 21 61 38 108 113 19 73 3) 90 36 25 26 42 39 Subscriptions No. 602 100 125 17 Pet. 82 76 81 87 92 76 79 105 Magazine Representative Fern Shelley Irene M. Merrill Iva P. Hunt Lola White Betty Fallett Ethel Davis Thelma C. Millett Leona Robertson Lila Day Gladys Warner Ora B. Hanson Jennett Dimmick Louie Mae Mecham Delilah Wickham Veda Platts Maybell Stevenson Lavon Adams Vera H. Mainor Ruby Averett Fern Waite Grace McNatt Mae Richard Nila Hatch Arlene Potter Della O. Wittwer Minerva McKnight Relief Society Mount Ogden Stake Ogden Twenty-third Nampa Stake Caldwell Homedale Marsing Melba "Nampa First Nampa Second Nampa Third Nampa Fourth Star Branch Nebo Stake Park Payson Fourth Nevada Stake Garrison Lund Ruth Kimberly Branch New York Stake Manhattan Queens North Box Elder Stake Bear River Brigham Third Brigham Fourth Brigham Seventh Corinne Enrollment 74 488 72 55 34 Subscriptions No. Pet. 84 107 Magazine Representative Edith Larson Sarah E. Squires Theodocia Garner Lorena Davenport Oneta Burman Myrtle Wood Blanche T. Woolard Lucile B. Hennis Lilly Loveland Grace Romph Amanda Hansen Ethel T. Hiatt Laura Cloward Agnes Dearden Edith Reid Maud Mifflin Isabell Hansen Alma A. Lang Viola W. Fulton Mary N. Rigby Mary Anderson Eliza Taggart Geneva F, Wright Lila D. Wright Rose B. Nelson 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 Montpelier Stake Mon tpelier Second 102 Raymond 15 Ward boro 26 Morgan Stake North Morgan 45 Moroni Stake Moronj West 80 Mount Graham Stake Lordsburg 29 Mount Logan Stake Logan Seventh 73 100 80 - 100 82 82 75 94 93 8] 100 120 76 86 75 88 110 100 109 100 81 82 136 81 84 Evans Branch Be North Carbon Stake Castle Gate 60 Storrs 25 Scofield Branch 19 North Jordan Stake 513 Bennion 65 Granger First 116 Granger Second 115 Hunter 98 Redwoog 51 Taylorsvitle 68 North Rexburg Stake 630 Hibbarg 71 New Dale 37 Plano 46 Rexburg First 146 Myrtle Webb Norma B, Smith Lorraine D, Archibald Liona R, May La Voy H. Chlarson Margaret Smith HONOR ROLL Mary Babcock. Marie Erieson Sarah Donaldson Florence S. Barber Susan Argyle Logandale Overton Bern Cokeville Geneva Nounan Croydon Richville Slide F Treedom Harper H Oneyville 55 65 22 38 33 18 14 21 21 12 23 64 2eliel Society Salem Sugar Teton City North Sanpete Stake Fairview North Fairview South Milburn Mt. Pleasant North Mountainville Branch North Sevier Stake Aurora Salina First Oakland Stake Alameda Dimond Elmhurst San Leandro Ogden Stake Huntsville Liberty Ogden Fourth Ogden Sixth Ogden Thirteenth Ogden Twentieth Ogden Thirtieth Ogden Thirty-first Oneida Stake Banida Clifton Glencoe Enrollment Me 148 110 131 125 15 162 13 No. Sy 161 91 Subscriptions Pet. Magazine Representative Eva Price Florence Bean Mary Nibley Ruby Ella Clement Hazel Tucker Fannie M, Graham Annie W. Jensen LaRue Burnside Hazel Curtis Zeretta Folster Lila F. Graham Lavine McRae Hattie Robison Jessie Stock Olive Goodman Pearl G. Williams Veoma B. Pass Florence Hill Thelma Newman 'Lottie E. Ellis Magdalene Brown Nina Christiansen Madge Crawford Rozella FE. Crews Joy K. Williams Ada Bell LaRee Croshaw Mary B. Larson Relief Society Princeton Tenth Thirty-first Webster Parowan Stake Cedar Fifth Enoch New Castle New Harmony Summit — Pasadena Stake Alhambra Baldwin Park Belvedere Eastmont El Monte El Sereno Las Flores Mission Park Monrovia Montebello Pasadena Rosemead Whittier Phoenix Stake Capitol Glendale Phoenix First Phoenix Second Phoenix Third Phoenix Fifth Enrollment 138 69 105 87 95 32 20 35 25 Subscriptions No. Pet. 104 123 104 90 Magazine Representative Dora Conrad Lanecia Pierce Sarah Harmon Ada Flandro Viola Bauer Cora Murie Georgia Hanison Lula W. Mathis Sylvia Stapley Sadie Liebig Ruth Harper Alfa Caldwell Ivy Elwood Mable Buffman Ida Hatch Mrs. Gerwine Dora Larson Sarah Booth Martha Hanks Nell Maiben May Phillips Dorothy Steffensen Kneisley Zola Stapley Rowena Bretzing Julia Kremer Claradell Dewitt Phoebe Thomson Rynthia Naylor Eula Davis 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 Glendale Oxford Preston Third Preston Fourth Preston Seventh Oquirrh Stake Garfield Hercules Magna Pleasant Green Spencer Orem Stake Sharon Windsor Palmyra Stake Leland Palmyra Salem Spanish Fork First 'Spanish Fork Second Spanish Fork Third Birdseye Branch Palo Alto Stake San Jose Naglee Park Branch Park Stake Duncan Emigration First LeGrand 14 at 64 0 94 385 92 15 107 112 59 35 81 45 a) 94 81 100 118 11 é2 28 749 62 Uz 85 131 807 134 100 Eulalia W. Larson Oneida Anderson Amy Kern Mrs. B. G. Weaver Myrtle D. Anderson Hazel B. Jones Katie Cahoon Hazel Mae Bertoch Izella Jeppson Myrtle D. Russon Hannah E. Coon Edith Duke Blanche Nielson Annie Harvey Ruth Roach Christy Sabin Agnes J. Beck Lucy Hill Hazel J. Christiansen Rachel Spender Marjorie Jenks President Julia Webley Hattie S. Hanigan Anna Buie Maud Smith Clara Dittman Jean Mortensen Scottsdale Buckeye Branch Pioneer Stake Edison Thirty-second Pocatello Stake Pocatello Second Pocatello Fourth Pocatello Sixth Pocatello Seventh Pocatello Eighth Pocatello Twelfth Pocatello Thirteenth Pocatello Fourteenth Portland Stake Eugene Kelso Branch Portneuf Stake Cambridge Garden Creek Lava Hot Springs McCammon Marsh Center Merrill Swan Lake Virginia Provo Stake Manavu Provo First Provo Fifth Provo Seventh Provo Tenth 468 118 100 77 97 97 104 103 92 105 87 90 114 138 108 75 79 114 100 80 78 76 9@ 83 92 115 237 80 104 82 78 Mildred Smithson 'Barbara McElmury Ida Deters Edith Murry Alta Swallow Norma Newbould Margaret Heath Lily Woodland Josephine Barrett Marion Tubbs Ramona Lowe Mary Howell Cora Hartergsen HONOR ROLL Viola Thorne Sophia A, Parrish Ada L. Parris Vella Bloxham Lucelle Capell Florence H. Byington Zina Orgill Gertrude Parris LaVene Pilgrim Marie Henderson Marrion A. Shappert Flora Buggert Flora Buggert Lola Thurman Fanny Whimpey Mary Josie Teresa Burgi 327 Relief Society Raft River Stake Elba Malta Moulton Sublett Yost Reno Stake Carson Hawthorne Lovelock Sparks Susanville Westwood Portola Branch Rexburg Stake Archer Burton Independence Lyman Rexburg Second Rexburg Third Rexburg Fourth Rigby Stake Annis Grant Hamer Lewisville Menan Rigby First Rigby Fourth» Roberts Enrollment 169 29 Sil 10 10 15 388 12 32 20 95 32 28 33 548 78 50 36 56 Subscriptions No. 155 22 69 1] 10 17 126 58 Pct. 92 76 135 110 100 113 Magazine Representative Alice O. Neddo Inez Pettingill Alice O. Neddo Julia H, Clark Sylvia Olsen Eva Montgomery Rosetta C. Gillies Mary Bennett Ada M. Jensen Florence Milich Elmina Cummins Genet Johnson Mary A. Young Myrel Sarbach Daphne Nef 5 LuDean Grover Zina Clark Pauline Perry Celia Hales Ellen Cook June P. Ricks Mary Moore Amelia Stallings Artemissia Anderson Rachel Taylor Sarah E. McClure Melba Kinghorn Gail Raymond Margaret Chandler Elma Holbrook Ruth Marriott Relief Society St. Johns Stake Eagar Luna Nutrioso St. Joseph Stake Bryce Central Eden Ft. Thomas Globe Miami _ Pima Thatcher Salt Lake Stake Capitol Hill Fourteenth North Seventeenth Seventeenth Twenty-second Twenty-third Twenty-fourth San Bernardino Stake 415 Colton Fontana Ontario Pomona Riverside San Bernardino First 80 59 San Bernardino Second 54 Victorville Branch 23 Subscriptions Pet. No. 61 23 15 483 15 44 23 43 35 58 120 145 919 82 119 184 188 100 111 88 426 43 25 50 65 82 70 42 28 77 85 115 Magazine Representative Frances Hall Ethel Reynolds Thelma Mangum Lily Mae Allen Nellie Dixon Laura Lofgreen Eliza Carpenter Lucy A, Chesley Annie Elledge President Ella Sims Opal Cluff Callie C. Haggard Rebecca P. Bean Melba Barnes Mary A. Kirkham Mary Pack Clara Woodbury May S. Hawkes Nellie A. Harter Lona Nelson Marjorie M. Hamrick Louie Westover Alice S. Walker Vienna F". Stuart Lois S. Higgins Ida K. Woodbury Laura Lee Hilliker Flora Harber Fay Adams 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 Terreton: 43 Beaver Creek Branch 9 Riverside Stake Twenty-ninth Roosevelt Stake Roosevelt Sacramento Stake St. George Stake Gunlock 18 Mt. Trumbul 7 Santa Clara 63 Washington 65 Marie Acor Ann Thomas Hillevi Daniels Eleanor H. Davis Fannie Todd Doris Haslem Leona Jorgensen Jessie P, Pickup Ruth L. Ostler Virginia Fenn Olive V. Johns Elsie Jones Fern I. Todd Nida B. Morey Morghereta Singleton Jennett E. Rooker Olive V. Johns Sarah Davis Vendla Gordon Effie B. Syphus Maybell Hunt Martha Hafen Genavive Bundy Maude C. Gardner Eunice M. Blazzard Elma Miles Emma C, Abbott Selina Hafen Lydia Stevens. San Diego Stake Fairmount Hillcrest La Mesa North Park Valentia Park San Fernando Stake Burbank Elysian Park Garvanza Glendale East Glendale West North Hollywood Reseda San Fernando Studio City Sunset Van Nuys San Francisco Stake Balboa Mission San Francisco San Juan Stake Blanding Grayson Moab Monticello Bluff Branch Lockerby Branch San Luis Stake Morgan Branch 100 Ruth V. B. Rigby Gertrude Cluff Gladys Brimhall Mary Johns Nancy Bird Elsie Weber Jane Reynolds Francis Kelland Elizabeth Burnett Elizabeth Brower Ruth Truman Helen Yaple Zola Larsen Faye Ord Penina Anderson Lucille Switzer Cleo Hupp Florence M. Fitzgerald Mary C. Shernack Hulda Noether Ann E, Savard Lucille P. Wright Bertha R. Hurst | Bernice M. Burtenshaw Genevieve Hayes Lucinda W. Frost Beatrice P. Nielson Maxine Johnson HONOR ROLL 329 Grace Price Riverside Ballard Bennett Leota Randlett Roosevelt Second Arcade Modesto Roseville Sacramento Stockton Sutter Tracy Branch Woodland Branch Ivins Pine Valley St. George Fourth St. George Fifth St. George Sixth 63 48 19 19 32 68 47 63 71 92 82 80 24 28 14 12 64 59 54 Relief Society Santaquin-Tintic Stake Seattle Stake Bellingham 34 Bremerton 40 Everett 24 South Seattle 21 University 55 West Seattle 66 Chehalis Branch 9 Port Orchard Branch 24 Sevier Stake Glenwood 66 Greenwich 15 Koosharem 71 Richfield First Richfield Second Richfield Third Richfield Fourth Venice 48 Sharon Stake Firth ii 68 Enrollment Ne. Subscriptions Pet. Magazine Representative Harriet E. Barney Melba Hansen Wanda M. Pugmire Ella M. Petrie Ida L. Gould Grace Hudson Emily Heath Vilate Richardson Venice Baldwin Beth Robinson Hazel B. Doble Mabel Langford Edith Duvic Ruth R. Rowley Vera Parsons Mildred Nielson LaBeth LeLange Lorana R. Fish Jane Pollett Laura Wilson Fern Kimball June L. Christensen Mary C. Cluff N. Florence Hanny Thelma Hoskins Beth Lyon Mattie Christensen Relief Society ment South Los Angeles Stake Matthews Maywood 111 Walnut Park 102 South Ogden Stake Ogden Eighteenth 89 Ogden Twenty-seventh 55 South Salt Lake Stake Burton 74 Central Park 93 Eldredge 87 Haven 80 Miller 96 South Sevier Stake Annabella 57 Monroe North South Summit Stake EnrollSubscriptions No. Pet. 140 15 161 147 138 136 133 110 185 138 125 104 127 117 219 100 100 138 100 82 94 90 81 79 100 Magazine Representative Nancy M. Reepp Florence F. Heath Anna Struhs Josephine Mugleston Cora Wilcox LePriel Bair Ramona Wells Clara Willis Marie E. DeSpain Erma M. Hartley Laura Kusch Mary R. Chapelle Josephine Swensen Hedy T. Davies Inga Denstad Alice Frandsen Vera Worthington Hanna Dietrich Eliza Meacham Nellie Fillmore Sarah Farmer Lillian Bridges LaRue Atkinson Norma Wright Francell Gines 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 Elberta Eureka Queen Anne Tacoma Central Pleasant View Shelley Stake Basalt Goshen Downey Firestone Park Grant Huntington Park Manchester Southgate Vermont Sevier Marion Peoa Woodland 18 87 57 67 80 572 48 75 83 38 51 88 101 127 74 21 32 34 38 Jamestown Kimball Shelley First Shelley Second Taylor Woodville Smithfield Stake Smithfield First Snowflake Stake Flagstaff Heber Joseph City Lakeside Linden Pinedale Snowflake 21 118 South Box Elder Stake Brigham City Second 112 Brigham City Sixth South Davis Stake Bountiful First Bountiful Third Bountiful Fifth South Idaho Falls Stake Ammon Idaho Falls Third Idaho Falls Sixth Idaho Falls Eighth 104 Virginia C, Gray Florence Gifford Alice Eaton Vera Adams Marvel L. Peterson Ethel Speas Jessie Littledike Margaret E. Smith Martha Thomas Nadine Reidhead Maurine DeSpain Louella Burke Etta Seymore Jane Jackson LaVerne Crandall Ezma L. Knudson Clara C. Larsen Anna Bangerter Mrs. Reeve Hill Ada Norberg Valeria Blatter Christie Heath Rebecca Lenzi Elizabeth Perry Rosa Waters Southern Arizona Stake Douglas St. David Whitewater Spokane Stake Spokane Central 52 58 38 58 Bonners Ferry Branch 23 Coeur d'Alene Branch 14 Sandpoint Branch Star Valley Stake Afton North Afton South Bedford Fairview Freedom Thayne Turnerville Branch Sugar House Stake Bryan Emerson Hawthorne Marlborough Richards Sugar House Summit Stake Hoytsville Upton Wanship Taylor Stake Magrath First 22 683 544} Mary Haynie Florence Bateman Ethel Gardner Nellie Bliss Mary Ellen Peterson Emma Masten LaVira Jeppesen Roene Barrus Grace Walker Maud Nield Duane Casto Maud Ranzenberg Liza Robinson Leta Coffman Myrtle Turner Melissa K. Wallace Annie Buckway Liahona H. Smith Louise M. Cahoon Ada C. Sears Elmea Flora Alice Jones Jemima S. Crittenden Phylis Staley Fawn W. Smith Lisadore B. Crookston Lucile Gurney HONOR ROLL 331 Relief Society Magrath Second 72 Raymond Second 65 Raymond Fourth 62 Welling 31 Tyrells Lake Branch 10 Temple View Stake Jefferson McKinley Teton Stake Timpanogos Stake Pleasant Grove Third 75 Tooele Stake Tooele Fifth Subscriptions No. Pet. 104 100 100 91 82 - 103 200 117 Magazine Representative Annie Steel Minnie B. Litchfield Iva M. Jensen Esther J. Anderson Loretta Heggie Anna Wild Clara E, Selk Edith S. Jones Valeer Jolley Lily Fox Alta Warren Maurine C. Dustin Leatha Kunz Eva Hillman Beth Robertson Nora Macfarlane Martha A. Larsen Ella C. Smith Marie Brown Anna H. Nelson Marjorie Weeks Clara Smih Pearl Spray Esther Matsen Elva Benson Relief Society Panaca Pioche Ursine Wasatch Stake Center Charleston Daniels Heber First Heber Second Heber Third Heber Fourth Midway First Midway Second Wallsburg Washington Stake Washington Greenbelt Branch Wayne Stake Fremont Hanksville Lyman Teasdale Grover Branch Weber Stake Ogden First Ogden Nineteenth Weiser Stake Cascade 119 75 508 18 Subscriptions No. Pct. 75 168 Magazine Representative Eva T. Lee Hertha Kroencke Elva Hollinger Marion D. Clegg Lila Christensen Lucy E. Winterton Ina Orgill June J. Wheeler Lula Hicken Sarah Carroll Verna M. Hicken Martha Burgie Margaret C. Kelly Orpha Edwards Lynn T. Olsen Ruby D. Mikesell Dortha Taylor Joy Mechem Annetta Maxfield Clea Durfey Wyla Rymer Robena Harris Winnona Hartman Fannie Chandler Clara McMurdie 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 Raymond First Raymond Third Arbor Thirtieth Bates Cedron Darby Jackson Grove Lindon Manilla Pleasant Grove First Tooele First Tooele Fourth Stockton Branch 52 65 87 99 28 20 20 30 71 82 52 92 99 99 30 Twin Falls Stake Buhl Kimberly Murtaugh Twin Falls First Twin Falls Second Twin Falls Third Twin Falls Fourth Castleford Branch Filer Branch Uintah Stake Ashley Bonanza Maeser Tridell Vernal First Vernal Third Whiterocks Union Stake Baker Imbler LaGrande First LaGrande Second Union Utah Stake Park Provo Fourth Provo Sixth Uvada Stake Caliente Hiko 472 66 434 Goldie Tolman Josephine Fehlman Nina Beth Cunningham Naomi Egbert Lenore Carroll Ruth Shockley Vera Holland Bertha Bolton Mable Sparks Martha Taylor Elsie M. Palmer Annie Morrison Zora Gurr Rhoda Hatch Martha Morrill Mary A. Eaton Alice O. Billings Myrtle Hoopes Jennie Berry. Sadie Shelton Lee Ellen Coe Lillie Woldrop Geneva Westenskow Clarice Kohler Bertha Memmott Mebel Shaw Hilda K. Daniels Jane B. Evans Hertha Kroencke Isabell Fernley Jewel Hansen Emmett First Emmett Second Huntington Letha McCall New Plymouth Nyssa Second Vale Weiser Owyhee Branch Wells Stake Browning McKay Waterloo Wilson West Jordan Stake Bingham Bluffdale Herriman Riverton First Riverton Second South Jordan West Pocatello Stake 718 American Falls Arbon Pocatello First Pocatello Third Pocatello Fifth Pocatello Ninth Pocatello Tenth Pocatello Eleventh Rockland 42 20 88 123 97 84 93 95 76 Ella Scott Rebecca Rynearson Blanche Macri Edna Hunter Violetta Smith Rachel Rasmussen Ruth Lewis Asis Belnap Leda Aldred Allie Hartley Ida Arnold Isaacson Lucy Grames Mabel Wood Jennie Waldron Merle Wennbold Olivia Egbert Hazel J. Robinson Vina Webb Agnes Dansie Judith Morgan Blanche Myers Elsie J. Merrill Reta C. Austin Clara Wagstaff Mamie Anderson Emma Hurst Maude Selover Afton Furniss Hattie Richardson Ethel Morgan Hattie Tolman Miss Zina Eliasen HONOR ROLL Relief Society West Utah Stake Provo Eleventh Woodruff Stake Randolph Yellowstone Stake Ashton Chester Egin Farnum Green Timber Heman Parker St. Anthony First Wilford Kilgore Branch Young Stake Farmington Jewett Kirtland Red Mesa Shiprock Allison Branch Durango Branch Kline Branch Zion Park Stake Hurricane North Hurricane South Springdale Touquerville Enrollment 65 70 Subscriptions No. 54 57 Pet. 83 81 Magazine Representative Ruby Peay Mary Kennedy Leona Lords Juanita Osbourne Edna Rose Eva Dexter Geneva French Dora Stegelrneier Fanny Hunter Sarah Grover Ada Christensen Beulah Willyerd Hedwig Hirschi Lois F. Palmer Georgana Lillywhite C. Mae Hunt Lois F. Palmer Elizabeth Huffman Josephine Maher Essie S. Pope Ruby Wilson Ida Eaton Bertha N. Richards Mary Stout Helen Hall Vera Allred Gladys S. Olds Relief Society Mojave Desert Barstow Bishop Mojave Ridgecrest Trona San Gorgonio Banning Beaumont Elsinore Hemet Santa Barbara Oxnard Santa Barbara Santa Paula South Coast Fallbrook Laguna Beach San Dieguito Central Atlantic Virginia East Elizabeth City Newport News Norfolk North Carolina West Colfax Durham Jackson Springs ment Enroll- 94 14 16 No. Pet. Subscriptions 89 114 154 Representative Magazine Addie Smith Velean Kuykendall Leone Hilton Laree E. Humphrey Helen Harris Zelia Stevens Mariam Robinson Beatrice Nielsen Eva W. Symons Virginia Gardner Reva Kribs Ruth Wimer Myrtle Altman Eileen Godbey Tressa Leary Elizabeth C. Andersen Mary Petersen May Little Effie Stapley Betty M. Chesnutwood Lorna H. McPherson Edna Henderson Mary Eubank 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 MISSIONS., Australian Adelaide -' Enmore Glen Huon Hurstville Nambour Woolahia British Burnley Luton North London St. Albans California Arizona Chino Valley Hayden Wickenburg Bakersfield Delano East Bakersfield Taft Imperial Valley Brawley Indio Yurna Las Flores Paso Robles San Luis Obispo ' Santa Maria 257 = 210 17 15 Violet Cook Ivory Crane Barbara Bain Gwen Bender Elsie F. Parton Nellie E. Wicks Florence Wardingly Vivian R. McConkie Ita Turley Clare Hubbard Elfen Richards Elizabeth W. Winn Juanita Brooks Dorothy Camp Clara E. Lloyd Irene Wadell Irene Wadell Miriam Hale Cora Rogers Gladys B. Carmack, Acting Maurine Chrisman Leah P. Godfrey Lydia B. Triplett Central States Belleville Chanute Claytonville Dodge City East St. Louis El Dorado Enid Hutchinson Junction City Larned Leavenworth Oklahoma City Rolla Stillwater East Central States Bluefield Fairmont Goldsboro Grantham Howard's Chapel Knoxville Lexington Memphis Tarboro Eastern States Buffalo Canandaigua Jamestown Lancaster Oneida Palmyra Philadelphia Shirley M. Manire Thelma Croley Ada A. Fridel Pauline Parsons Lora White Ila Lovelace Emily Reese Dorothy C. Clay Lucy Ellis Ruby M. Freeman Myrtle E. Asbury Dagmar Patterson Carolyn Greer Clara V. Nelson G. Christine DeBust May Sloter Henrietta Cogdell Vonnie Mae Brock Mrs. A. R. Howard Eva Russell Madeline Shrout Mary Kennedy Francis Phelps Louise C. Winspear Ellen Bell Esther Strom Goldie Frey Vera M. Downing Grace L. Bump Carrie J. Obendorfer HONOR ROLL & Relief Society Pittsburg Princeton Reading Schenectady Syracuse Washington North Central States Billings Duluth Ft. Frances Ft. William - Faribault Glasgow Lewiston Mankato Minneapolis Sioux Falls Tower Williston Willmar Northern California El Dorado Tone Placerville Fresno Chowchilla East Fresno North Fresno Enrollment 15 6 4 19 16 No. 25 6 6 15 12 Subscriptions Pct. Magazine Representative Virginia Birtcher Marion D. Thoburn Pearl D. Yeager Vivian M. Stroble Anne Mallery Virginia Danley Ann Jane R. Killpack Linda Asay Mary A. Hansen Kathleen Robertson Florence C. Stanford Nellie Viller Betty Bailey Mabel Sawyer Elvira White Florence Synnes Geneva Runeberg Rosmyn A. Bruneau Ellen Grimmer Mabel Lindblad Theodora R. Thomas May H. Frasure Luella L. Major Verna F. Christoffersen Nellie Powell Hazel Facer Antoinette Wightman Relief Society Central Indiana Cambridge City Indianapolis North Indianapolis South North Indiana eru South Bend South Indiana Linton Terre HauteEast Iowa onaparte Tri Cities Waterloo West Iowa oone East Michigan Pontiac Toledo West Michigan Jackson Lansing Central Ohio Columbus Dayton North Ohio kron Cleveland South Ohio Cincinnati Enrollment 109 17 29 49 99 27 Subscriptions Pet. No. 83 14 23. 39 84 33 Magazine Representative Ellen R. Clayton Bertha L. Lilly Clara R. Smith Frieda Surface Ruby P. Blombach Julia Gilbert Martha Hakes Maza Overlade Nellie Centers Hattie Gibson Melba Turley Effie Burns Dora Mostert Irene Lee Winnifred M. Cannon Mrs. S. B. Vance Nora Souter Lucy McClain Harriet S. Cooper Annie B. Watt Helen Y. Page Peggy G. Black Doris E. Hunt Edith L. Amott Agnes Ann Murray Edith L. Amott Lelia Cotterell Linquist Adeline Taylor 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 Klamath Falls Alturas Monterey Bay Gilroy King City Pacific Grove Watsonville Redwood Arcata Rouge River Ashland Etna Grants Pass Medford Santa Rosa San Rafael Santa Rosa Sonoma Sequoia Hanford Shasta Orland Northern States Illinois Clinton Decatur Galesburg Peoria Quincy Springfield West Frankfort Blanche Fuller Theressa W. Bowman Bernice Cutler Letha Nuttall Leah J. Butler Veda West Mrs. E, E. Burrows Clarecie E. Bounds Marie Johnson Marie Demming Eva Owens Norene B. Deaver Agnes Grass Doratha Skipper Elizabeth Wray Mabel Heaton Elna P. Haymond Rena P. Custer Lettie Crews Freda Belle Allen Rena P. Custer Grace L, Diepenbrock Sophia Bliss Frances Canady Ethel Baker Wisconsin Eau Claire Lyndhurst Sheboygan Northwestern States British Columbia Victoria Butte Deer Lodge Dillon Helena Central Oregon Coos Bay Corvallis Cottage Grove Dallas Reedsport Roseburg Sweet Home Great Falls Bynum Goldenridge Great Falls Missoula Allendale Charlo Hamilton Kalispell Polson St. Ignatius Northern Montana Chinook Shelby 14 11 13 18 4 93 164 100 Luella Schroeder Selma Hoffman Mrs. Paul Henneman HONOR ROLL Christena Barker Pauline Hitz Emma Mast Lucile Rossiter Idell B. Lee Lucile Hardman Farris S. Jolley Ileda Orton Beth M. Raynes Louise Duvall Mary E. Lewis Ruth W. Packer Lucy R. Stott Leah Eddington Mrs. Wm. Henry Sarah Farnsworth 'Bernice Allen Esther B. Swainston Oretta Blodgett Henrietta Robinson Venetta Brower Georgia Pierce Lois O. Webb Beatrice Kraut 337 Relief Society Oregon The Dalles Rainier Buckley Yakima District Grand Coulee Klickitat Leavenworth Pasco Kennwick Quincy Sunnyside Toppenish Wenatchee Southern States Alabama Azalea City Bayou La Croix Pascagoula Central Florida New Smyrna Beach Orlando Tampa Winter Haven South Florida Ft. Lauderdale Miami West Florida Bristol Olive Sink Creek Telogia Enrollment 14 17 is 13 Subscriptions No. Pct. 93 76 Magazine Representative Hazel Clark Ruby M. Smith Leona Hickman Ada C. Richardson Dora M. Love Mildred M. Despain Delma Westover Norma E. Tree Agnes Ferguson Pauline M. Baird Effie F. Meeks Mary McIntosh Mary McIntosh Ellen E. Ladner Jane Sullivan, Secretary J. Marie Moore Lucy Mikell Rose Gorg Clyde Legler Merle O. Green Violet A. Pettley Ida Lewis Mamie Streeper Jennie Simms Mrs. L. V. Adams Julia Mae Kennedy Mrs. Lep Sims Julia Fischer EnrollRelief Society East Texas North Central Texas 94 Cleburne 8 Dallas 26 Fort Worth 25 West Dallas 5 Wichita Falls 14 Bay City 3 Beaumont Calumet 52 Orange 9 Port Arthur 11 Vidor 4 West Texas District 78 Austin Corpus Christi 4 San Antonio 21 North Louisiana Many 23 Monroe 16 Subscriptions No. Pct. 5 20 625 100 125 82 Magazine. Representative Mrs. Cecil Haney Elizabeth Noblin Christie J. Smith Velma Richardson Elizabeth Sue Moss 'Elene Buse Mary Humphries Nell M. Roper Mae Pool Lydia Swanson Ora S. Brown Bobbie Hamilton La Priel White Minnie Bell Ray Grace Miller Lulu Unice Lillie Mae Lowe Blanche Cox Pauline B. Detrick Edna Barrett Carrie Davis Epsie Wright Louise R. Turley Susie M. Ricks Inez Searle Mary E. Harris Lola Jordan Vera Clupepper Clara A. Methson 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948. Seneca Spartanburg Texas-Louisiana Enoch Nacogdoches Texarkana North Texas Amarillo Lubback South Texas - Natchitoches ment 5 16 758 32 5 4 44 9 9 152 17 Georgia Athens Augusta East Point Gibson Macon Milledgeville Georgia-Florida Douglas Genoa Moultrie Perry South Georgia Ridgeland Savannah Mississippi Columbia Red Star Seminary Sonewall Utica North Mississippi Senatobia South Carolina Columbia Darlington Hartsville Ridgeway West South Carolina Gaffney Greenville 102 Caroline Willson Bertha Cook Irene Dixon Geneva Dubrauski Addie Black Lucille Bennett Vallie Taylor Tottie Brown Ollie Mae Adams Florence Milton Mildred Barlow Tottie Brown Bertha Cowley Vivian S. Lowther Annie L. Woods Otilla K. Griner Katie Smith Betty Speed - Annie Milstedt, President Lottie Strong, President Mrs. R. W, F loyd Ida Smith Christine Ginn Vernie Mae Martin Christine Ginn Shreveport Winnfield South Louisiana Albany Bogalusa Gonzales New Orleans Pride Western Canadian Cherry Grove Edmonton High River Medicine Hat Regina Saskatoon Western States Mission Alamogordo Baggs Bridgeport Delta Ft. Washakie Fremont Fruita Glenwood Springs Lamar Meeker Montrose Rifle Riverton Santa Fe Scottsbluff Sheridan 8 20 13 Elva R. Cobb Esther Ann Connor Delores Fife Edith A. Davis Sarah Ward Elsie P. Marchand Mayola Miltenberger Gertrude Aucoin Holly Wood Fisher Mawser Taite Ruby Lacy June Fitzgerald Eva Kemp Ilo Evans Velma Hakes Mrs, Ray H. Ellis Vera Eddings Lillian Vincent Bernice Twitchell Mrs. Lloyd Eaton Hazel M. Hawks Lula Dunsdon Roxa Merrill Vera Park Afton Holt Florence Robertson Lucille Jensen Alta Jordan Emma N. Brown Mildred Cox HONOR ROLL 339 Questing Lights _CHAPTER 2 Belle Watson Anderson Synopsis: Andrew Rumgay bids farewell to his mother, his relatives, and friends in Scotland and joins his friend Hugh Shand to emigrate to America. Andrew's fiancee, Jane Allison, is broken-hearted and fears that she will never see Andrew again. HEN Andrew and Hugh arW rived at the wharf, some of their buoyancy left them. As they carried their luggage from the dray over to the ship, they became very serious. "Let's set our things down for a time, and rest on this bench," Hugh suggested. England was different from Scotland. Nature seemed more controlled, subdued. The boys sat gazing at the soft, blue sky and the glorious sunset., "More like a painted picture than the real thing," Andrew voiced his opinion. "In Scotland those white clouds would soon get to tumbling over one another and scampering hither and yon." "Aye, but look at that harbor. Things don't happen in the Forth the way they are happening out there," Hugh volunteered. "T was just looking at it," Andrew responded. "Ships, boats, tugs, running about, getting ready for the sea." "They will soon be leaving for -about every port in the world." The boys watched the moving scenes, whistles blowing, men shouting orders, vessels moving from the docks, others taking their places. A Page 340 sailboat, like a bird with raised pinions, was gracefully maneuvering about. "There's the ship Thornton," Hugh slowly reiterated. His eyes seemed fairly glued to the ship that was to take them to America. "Well, there's the ship, and here's the ocean. It seems if we hang around for a time, we may take off for some place." "You're right, Andrew." Some of Hugh's natural cheer returned. They arose, picked up their luggage, and began moving toward the vessel. The ship was loaded with freight and several hundred passengers and the order of the hour was choosing permanent quarters. The bunks, upper and lower, reached all around the ship and down the center. The galley was on one side and tables were built and pegged on the stanchions, to be raised and lowered at will. "Andrew! Hugh!" It was Bob MacKinlay coming toward them as fast as he could push through the crowd. The boys smiled when they saw him, and hurried to meet him. "We had a mind, if we looked about we would find someone we knew," Hugh said. "Our bunk is over this way. There is an empty one next to it. Mother would like you to have it, so she can look after you. She would never be content with only one chick to scratch for. Will you come?" QUESTING LIGHTS "Will we come?" Hugh laughed. "Lead the way, your mother has just acquired a family." Bob took them over to Mother MacKinlay who was happy to see them. They had often stayed at her home in Cowdenbeath when they were doing home missionary work. HE ship was fast filling up. Soon there would be more than six hundred saints aboard. Andrew slept well that first night. He woke early, and as Hugh was still asleep, rose and went on deck. It was a beautiful morning. The ship was rising and falling with the waves., The elder's heart felt like that— rising because he was on his way to Zion—falling when he thought of home and loved ones. Once again he wonderd if he was doing the right thing. It would not be long until the ship would be sailing, then he could not turn back if he wanted to. He meditated for a few minutes, then went almost running to the bunk. Hugh was making the bed. "How long have you been up, Andrew?" His friend did not answer. Hugh looked up. "Come sit by me on the bunk. You are taking this trip too seriously." "Andrew covered his face with his hands, trying for self-control. "Let's have prayers, Hugh, before the saints begin moving about. You pray. I just can't this morning." The boys knelt and during prayer peace filled their hearts. Andrew found his anchor. The boys were hungry. The fresh, salt air was doing things to their appetites. _ hymns. 341 Hugh returned from the galley, half laughing. He handed Andrew his breakfast. "Strange work for a Scotchman. I never served a meal in my life." "Nor I," Andrew responded. "That's what mothers are for. I guess we've taken our mothers too much for granted." | "By the way, Rumgay, how are your mother's scones this morning?" "Fine," answered his friend, "and your mother's griddle cakes?" "The best ever!" Hugh answered as he half-choked on his porridge, "a special treat from our mothers this morning." Andrew washed the dishes and put the table in place. He opened his kist and took out his Book of Mormon and his father's hymn book, which his mother had given him as a keepsake. He opened the hymn book and for a time read hymns. He began humming some of the tunes. He had always wanted to sing the gospel He turned to his mother's favorite, "Lead Kindly Light." He used to sing it with her. He began to sing, smoothly for a time, but when he got to the middle of the verse, he was at the end of the tune; when he got to the end of the verse he was in the middle of the tune. He tried again, with the same results. Hugh came up unnoticed. Andrew determined not to give up and kept on singing. Shand, holding his sides with laughter, fell: on the bunk. He laughed until Rumgay began to see the funny side, too, and joined him in the fun. 342 HE British mission president attended the priesthood meeting. Brother Byron Wood was chosen president of the company. Andrew Rumgay was made first counselor, and Erick Nelson, the second. William Walker was sustained as clerk. The president explained that the organization represented the conference in the mission field or the stake in Zion. Later, wards would be organized and fully officered. He asked the people to take care of their health by cleanliness, right health habits, and by keeping the Word of Wisdom. After the meeting Andrew was greeted by the officers and _ his friends and acquaintances who promised him their help and support. He could not believe that it was true. Hugh was delighted, for, as he told Andrew, the best way to forget one's own troubles, is to help others solve theirs. The shades of evening were falling fast on the harbor and on the city of Liverpool, on the towers of its churches, and on the joys and cares of its people. A tugboat was puffing and spouting, its lines fast to the Thornton. "All ashore that's going ashore!" Andrew's heart stood still. Could it be possible? Yes, the ship was moving. He went on deck. A fair wind was blowing down the river. The sails were being loosed to the breeze. Andrew watched the ship move forward—first on the power of the tugs, then on its own power. He stood in meditation and in prayer. Hlis life was like the ocean, every wave a second on the sea of time, and each persistently passing; the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 inland waves were moving towards home and security; the outgoing waves were strangely adnift. The responsibility of over six hundred people was divided. The officers followed the mission president's recommendation and divided the stake into wards and chose officers for each group. In this way the president could know the condition of every saint aboard. The Scotch Ward was asked for entertainment for one Friday afternoon and Brother Coleman, the choir leader, prepared the program. He chose talented members of the group to take part. These included Hugh who sang tenor and had thrilled so many Latter-day Saint gatherings in Scotland, Brother Coleman's daughter Kathleen, who had studied music in Edinburg, and Fannie and Agnes Ramsay as highland fling dancers. The choir held several rehearsals and, after one of them, Hugh came back dancing and singing. "Today I met the real Scotch heather. What a girl! Have you met Brother Coleman's daughter?" Andrew looked up with a questioning smile. "Don't tell me you've fallen again, Shand? I was thinking you were cured. You haven't been in love since we came aboard." "Miss Coleman is different." "That much I can say for them all," Andrew responded. "Imagine meeting her right here on the Thornton," Hugh continued. "Ladies travel the seven seas, too. There's no law against that," Andrew answered. Next morning Hugh was busy shaving, brushing his clothes, and getting ready to meet Kathleen Coleman. Andrew wasn't worried. QUESTING LIGHTS This had happened many times before, and it would probably happen many times again. The saints had a good time at the party and after the program they danced until late. Andrew danced several sets, then went on deck. Hugh was having the time of his life dancing with all the girls, Scotch or not, and Kathleen Coleman certainly wasn't being neglected. Andrew watched them for awhile, then turned his attention to the ocean. The moon and stars were very bright. Andrew felt near to his loved ones. The skies tonight belonged to him and to Jane. The Scotch melodies from the organ, violin, and accordion rising from the steerage, mingled with the rhythm of the water, set his emotions in time and tune with his longing for his sweetheart. "Elder Rumgay, we've been looking for you." It was Hugh, Kathleen Coleman, and her friend Margaret Purvis. "Don't tell us you left the party to come up here to be alone. It doesn't say very much for our company, now does it?" Kathleen Coleman asked. "Does he love Andrew?" Hugh was teasing. He knew how to get quick response from his friend. "He spends half his time on deck— alone." "T love the ocean more, if you can believe that, after listening to Brother Shand." "Now we want to capture you, Brother Rumgay," Margaret Purvis was speaking. "We can howl like the ocean, dance like the waves, and sing like the wind. Doesn't that sound inviting?" Andrew was very much amused. 343 He was sure he liked Margaret Purvis. "But," the young lady continued, "wouldn't you just know that anything we could offer wouldn't compare with Miss Allison's charms?" "I wonder what the young lady expects, when she turns her man over to the wiles of scheming women?" Kathleen asked laughingly. "She's optimistic," Hugh added. "T'm sorry to be so disappointing. Lll try and improve my ways," Andrew assured his friends. Ee Kk & GATURDAY was a dark and cloudy day. The ship had just been cleaned from bow to stern and was as neat and shining as Mother Mac's proverbial new pin when they heard the winds blowing and the patter of rain on deck. Portholes were closed and hatches were bolted down. The air, not too good in the steerage when they had some ventilation, became stale and offensive when fresh air was shut out. The constant rocking of the boat, the confinement in the small quarters, the changed diet, were beginning to be evident in the health of the people who had been accustomed to outdoor life. They were used to getting up early and out to their work, in many cases the women going with their husbands to the fields, to the factory, and to the pits. Sunday was fast day and the time was given over to the saints for testimony bearing. If stormy days were taking a toll of their strength, their faith was just as strong and evident, perhaps even more so, than on fairer days. Several of the congregation led in hymns, some in prayer. One sister read, a poem: I am Zionward bound To the saints' peaceful rest To the valleys of Ephraim, Their home in the West. Far remote from sin, Oh, may God give me strength All things to overcome. Andrew Rumgay spoke for a few minutes.. "As a child looks to its parents for support and comfort, so our Father in heaven expects us to look to him, casting all our cares upon the Lord, for he in very truth loves us. He bids us ask and we shall receive, to prove him and see if he will not open the windows of heaven to his children. He declares where there are two or three gathered together, they shall ask and his spirit shall be with them." The storm continued. Monday morning found a large number of the emigrants ill, many of them seriously. The well volunteered to take care of the sick. Every ward tried to take care of its own. Andrew assisted every place possible. Night and day, he was at someone's bedside, following out the orders of the ship doctor. One afternoon Andrew, tired out, went to the bunk to rest. Hugh wasn't up, and yet he wasn't sleeping. He was reluctant to answer the most casual question, saying he was just too tired. Andrew sat down on a box near the bunk. He felt Hugh's head. It was hot. "How long has this been going on, young man?" Andrew questioned. Hugh did not answer. Andrew thought, why don't the winds and rain stop? We haven't a chance in this gloom and darkness. He arose and walked over to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 Mother MacKinlay's. She had just come back from nursing the sick. "It's the last straw, Mother," he said. "What is it, Andrew?" Mother MacKinlay asked. "Are you ill?" "No, but Hugh is. His life is more precious to me than my own. He's mother, sister, brother, sweetheart, wrapped up in one. What are we going to do, Mother?" "Well, you are going to stop your worrying, this very minute, and bring the elders. We will begin right now to take care of him. You remember, Andrew, when two or three shall ask, it shall be given." "Sometimes, Mother it's so very hard to have faith." The elders, Brother Wood and Brother Nelson, came and administered to Hugh. The doctor came as soon as he found time. Brother Nelson volunteered to stay with Hugh all night as Andrew had to have some rest. Mother MacKinlay would not leave the sick boy and she assisted Brother Nelson. The winds went down and the skies cleared, yet Hugh remained a very sick man. Mother Mac could see that the doctor was very worried, and she was worried, too. Finlly, through prayer and fasting, a great change came over Hugh. His face became natural, his temperature began going down, and the hearts of the watchers were filled with joy and thanksgiving. ANOTHER week, and Hugh was out of danger. Kathleen still watched at his bedside. Every afternoon she would read _ several chapters out of Andrew's books to him. | The sun was radiant in the skies; QUESTING LIGHTS health and thanksgiving were in the hearts of the people. Day after day the reading continued. Andrew was beginning to wonder if his friend would ever get well, but in time he got about again, and became strong and well. One afternoon Hugh asked, "Have you ever been best man at a wedding, Andrew?" "Indeed, I have not, and probably never will, until I'm best man at my own," Andrew answered. "That's where you ate wrong, sir, for I'm asking you to be best man at mine." "Hoot mon," Andrew returned, "what is this that the lad is saying? Hardly has his voice changed, and he jokes about marriage." "This is no joke. Kathleen and I are going to be married Wednesday afternoon. We talked it over with Brother Coleman tonight. He thinks it's fine." Andrew sat on the bunk, almost stunned for a moment, then he arose and went on deck. The low song of the swells was soothing. The moon was at its zenith; the water white-black, as it played with the moonbeams. A ship was a dreaming thing; it brought fairy folk over the crest. Of the waves, then carried them away, as far as King's Kettle. Now in the moonlight he saw Jane coming towards him. She seemed so close to him that he could reach out and take her in his arms, then she was far away in the dimness of the night. He was alone. Everyone was sleeping, but the watch at the wheel, the waves, and himself. The night seemed long, quiet, and lonely. His friend was to be married. 345 It was different to plan a wedding. The saints had been living 'the dark side, the serious side, now they switched to romance and happiness. Captain Collins invited Kathleen and Hugh to be married on deck because they were the handsomest couple ever to be married on the Thornton. The Scotch people decided to make it a grand affair. The women began putting their heads together. One came with a beautiful wedding dress. It had to be altered, but soon it was made to fit perfectly. Another brought treasured flowers, a third a pair of slippers. It was a beautiful wedding party that stood at the improvised altar. President Wood was waiting. "And for Bonnie Annie Laurie I would lay me doon and dee!" were the strains of music sacredly played, as Kathleen and Hugh happily answered, "I do." The Captain ordered the American colors hoisted. A program of music, songs, and Scotch solo dances followed, and then refreshments. Andrew's contribution was Jane's fruit cake and shortbread. Andrew had intended to return to his bunk after the ceremony, but after the program he danced with Kathleen, and, as he couldn't be tude, he then danced with Margaret, and so the dancing went merrily on. Everything was forgotten but the rhythm and harmony of the— dance. Andrew sat one out and Margaret joined him. "Oh, I think everything is so wonderful tonight. Kathleen and Hugh are so happy. 'They are so suited to one another, a perfect couple, I would call them." 346 "They are fortunate in finding each other." "You are wonderful, too," Margaret modestly addressed the young elder. "You were so helpful during that terrible siege of sickness. Not many saints aboard the Thornton will ever forget you." Andrew was surprised and confused. "You're very kind, Sister Purvis. You know the Scotchman's weakness—it's hard for him to be useful around women folk. The lassies spoil their men." "Well, they seem to have missed you," she responded. "But we are letting the music go to waste, Sister Purvis—will you dance?" "T'd love to, Brother Rumgay." "If a: body, meet a body Comin' through the rye, If a body kiss a body, Need a body cry." The party began breaking up. "Happy sailing, Hugh and Kathleen," everyone was shouting. "Happy sailing!" Margaret and Andrew echoed as he left Margaret at her ship home. "Happy sailing," Andrew prayed aloud, as he folded his Sunday clothes and put them back into the kist. His friend and companio was married. Ew OK HE day after the wedding, work was the order of business for everyone strong enough to help RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 with the making of tents, and tops for their handcarts. The patterns had been made and cut, now the material had to be measured, cut and sewed. The steerage hummed with busy people. It was wonderful just to have something to do. The work was hard. It made sore hands, and aching backs. Days ran into weeks. They were nearing the other side. One morning Margaret went almost running past Andrew's bunk. He had been reading. "What's your hurry, Margaret? No use running on shipboard. 'Time is the one thing we have in quantity.". "Not any more, Elder Rumgay. The captain was just saying if it wasn't for the fog on the harbor, we could see the lights." "Oh, that is good news!" "Margaret, it hasn't been such a bad trip, yet I'm longing to set foot on the sacred soil of America." "Oh, if it's just land, Brother Rumgay, any old land. Many nights I have thought the ship was sinking." Margaret went running with the news to Mother Mac and Kathleen. Soon the ship was moving slowly into the harbor. Once again came the pilot and the tugs. "That's the way I have been guided all of my life by my Pilot and tugs—to the shores of Zion." Andrew gratefully thanked the Lord. (To be continued) FOR THE BEREFT Christie Lund Coles These words are for those who have lost their love, Who must walk bereft the whole world wide With only their courage for sustenance— And their pride. Planning Food Buying for Health and Economy (Continued from page 312) LUNCH Beef and vegetable soup (soup bone, 6 carrots, 2 onions, 3 potatoes, outer leaves of cabbage) Sliced tomatoes Bread Butter Rice pudding with raisins Milk SUPPER Soup left from lunch Bread Butter Rice pudding left from lunch Milk Sunday: BREAKFAST Cantaloupe Cooked cereal Soft-cooked eggs Bread: Butter Milk LUNCH Creamed peas (frozen or canned) Tuna, and potatoes Sliced cucumber Bread Butter Milk Grapes SUPPER Creamed peas, tuna, and potatoes left from dinner Bread Butter Sliced peaches and evaporated milk ilk Cup cakes Note: Two tablespoons of dried milk were added each day to the cereal after it was cooked; % cup was used in the rice pudding; and % cup in the creamed peas, and tuna, used on Sunday. Compare this well-balanced, carefully selected diet with this poor example of food buying for families with low incomes. Actual cost, September 1947: 1 pound shelled pecans $2.50 2-8 oz. Cans lobster at 1.05 2.10 1-4 OZ. Can mushrooms 42 5-02 tax +10 Total $5.12 Families with sufficient incomes could afford "luxury" foods as shelled pecans, lobster, and mushrooms, but there would be no more food value in the pecans than in a pound of peanut butter, no more value in the lobster than in tuna. Missionaries who wished to spend more for food might add more meat, liver, butter, cream, prepared desserts, etc., but this three-day diet as planned meets health requirements. FOOD LIST WITH COSTS FOR THE THREE-DAY MENU FOR TWO MISSIONARIES Cereal—oatmeal or cracked wheat $.06 Bread—3 loaves +39 Butter—% pound 44 Peanut butter—'% pound 12 Milk—3 quarts 51 Milk—z cans 24 Dried milk—1% cups 112 Soup Bone—about 1% pounds -30 Carrots—6.06 Onions—z2.02 Potatoes—g medium 12 Cabbage—1 pound (1 small head) 10 Peas—1 package frozen.20 Brown Rice—% cup 04 Raisins—2/3 cup 05 Prunes—z2 dried.10 Eges—6 39 Tomatoes—6 large.20 Peaches—8 large.29 Grapes—1% pounds 12 Pears—2 large.10 Grapefruit—1 large.09 348 Cucumber—1 large.04 Sausage—1 can 4 OZ. 18 Tuna—1 can 8 oz. 47 Sugar and salt 05 Cup cakes—2 packages Bo) Cantaloupe—1 large 12 $5.02 Tax 10 Total Cost $5.12 The cost list was checked in October, November, and December. There was little change except seasonal changes to be expected in fruits and vegetables. In October, due to surpluses on the market, lettuce was special at 3c a pound; cauliflower, 6c a pound, tomatoes and cucumbers had passed the peak and were raised to 23c a pound; head lettuce was used in place of tomatoes and cuRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 cumbers, cauliflower in place of cabbage; fresh peaches were so high, canned fruit was substituted; squash was the cheapest yellow vegetable in November, celery the cheapest green leafy vegetable. Pears and grapes remained the same price during October and November but were higher in December. Oranges and apples were the best buys in raw fruit in December. Cabbage, potatoes, and tomato juice the best in their respective groups. Regardless of location, the "Basic Seven" given by the United States Department of Agriculture is our best food pattern. It may be altered to meet family needs and incomes, but is fundamental as a guide in planning food for health. —-< * LEGACY Gene Romolo A legacy of love cannot be lost As other legacies may disappear, For they who build it never count the cost Of their heroic efforts year by year. The memories my mother left to me Are like bright tapers burning through the night Before a shrine within a sacristy— They fill my life with such a lovely light! I think of mother banishing her tears With voice of song, and answering demands Of life with patient faith in the lean years That stamped work's dignity upon her hands. These memories, with others left to me, Are my imperishable legacy. FREEDOM'S LOAVES Hallie Grigg Heaven may use methods By men, not understood; Five loaves and two fishes Once fed a multitude. Some day there will be a feast, If we will not despair Freedom's loaves will be increased For all the world to share. tes From the Fielg" FLOWER SHOws, HANDICRAFT AND OTHER ACTIVITIES, CENTENNIAL FLOWER SHOW ugust 15 1947 Left to night: Marianne Brunt; Sherron J Hansen; Caro] Eckersle ay W. Drus, President, th Idaho Falls § ke Relief Society, Ports that this unique flower SNOW provided "unusual interesy and ntertainment. " © hundred and fifty Men assemble at the flowe how and Social. The flora] theme was brought ut in Songs h Inging Mothers d the ch Idre (Pictured above) in Song and ance, Stake acle was fragrant with a mult; ude of olorful Varieties of flow €rs which he stage and covered Pedestals, "traced tables, 4 Steps at Various angles, revealing the be M floral plo S entertainment climaxed the €ntennia] Cautification Program, the eme of which Was 'Let the People plant eve d flower tha il f] MSh in this climate, to mak fe) and our h Wells of tatitude t, Page 349 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 Photograph submitted by Bernice McKinnon; TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, FORT WORTH, (TEXAS) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, December 6, 1947 Elsie Fox, sewing instructor and Alice Allred, work director, are shown at one of the booths of the varied and beautiful bazaar. Note the attractive aprons and the children's clothing. The rug at the right was especially colorful and well-made. Christie J. Smith is president of the Texas-Louisiana Mission. Photograph submitted by Lula P. Child WESTERN STATES MISSION, SCOTTSBLUFF BRANCH (NEBRASKA) MEMBERS OF RELIEF SOCIETY WEARING DRESSES MADE IN THEIR SEWING PROJECT Front row, left to right: Tommy Brown; Secretary-Treasurer Emma Brown; President Elizabeth Price; Second Counselor Anna Goodell; chairman of work project Marilyn Parberry. Back row, left to right: Maude Perkins; Ramona Price, missionary; Esther Yeamen; Dema Parberry; Irene Barrett, missionary; Doris Faulhabert; Esther Parberry; Grace Swanson; Violet Petersen. First Counselor Allie Pitchford was not present when the photograph was taken. Lula P. Child is president of Western States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Doris Anderson SAN FERNANDO STAKE (CALIFORNIA), SUNSET WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO ACHIEVED 100% VISITING TEACHING RECORD IN 1947 Photograph taken January 18, 1948 Front row, left to right: Eunice James; Beth Allred; Alzina Werner; First Counselor Myrtle Widdison. Second row: visiting teachers supervisor Mary Bolander; Stake Relief Society President Mary Cutler; stake visiting teachers supervisor Mae Griffin; Ward Relief Society President Doris Anderson. 'Back row: Alzina Cordon; Harriett Taylor; Donna Rose; Olga Holman; Bernice Erskine; Ruth James; Golda Stinson; Second Counselor Georgia Eddington; Marjorie Heninger; Cleo Gass; Serene Zeimer. WESTERN STATES MISSION, PAONIA BRANCH (COLORADO) RELIEF SOCIETY FLOAT Seated in front, left to right: Second Counselor Verna Pyle and First Counselor Myfanwy Cowan. Standing at back, left to right: President Mary Rogers and Secretary Fay E. Holder. This attractive float was prepared by the Relief Society members as their contribution to Paonia Cherry Day, July 4, 1947. It was very much admired and accomplished some effective missionary work for the society. Lula P. Child is president of Western States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Lula P. Child NOTES FROM THE FIELD 351 Photograph submitted by Clare K, Claridge MOUNT GRAHAM STA, RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTI Photograph submitted by Erma M. Stewart MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE, L ORDSBURG WARD (NEW SOCIETY BAZAAR, November 21, 1947 Left to ni Maude Hatch; Secreta NOTES FROM THE FIELD 353 many handmade aprons, crocheted chair backs, laundry bags, embroidered scarves, embroidered and stenciled luncheon sets, the majority of these articles being made from feed sacks. The display of pillow slips was particularly outstanding, with intricate and beautiful designs in cutwork, applique, and embroidery. Many useful and wellmade articles for babies were exhibited, including dresses, jackets, sunsuits, gowns, bibs, baby quilts, and stuffed toys. Among the household articles were potholders, dish towels, shoe bags, cosmetic bags, house shoes, knitting bags, hose driers, and many other useful articles. Homemade pies and cakes were also sold at the bazaar. In all, 514 articles were made by the thirty members of this Relief Society. Erma M. Stewart is president of Mount Graham Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Melva O. Stratford NORTH WEBER STAKE (UTAH), WILSON WARD, THREE GENERATIONS OF RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS ASSEMBLED IN REUNION AT THE CLOSE OF UTAH'S CENTENNIAL YEAR In the front row are nine of the thirteen women who have acted as ward presidents since the society was organized as a "Female Charitable Organization of the Wilson Precinct of West Weber Ward, July 10, 1878." Left to right: Carol C. Nash, present president; Elizabeth H. Wilson, whose parents were early settlers of West Weber. The Wilson Ward was named for her husband's people; Laura C. Platt, granddaughter of one of the founders of Nauvoo, Illinois; Lillian B. Belnap, whose grandmother, Genet Bingham, was the first president of the Wilson Ward Relief Society; Drucilla H. MeFarland, whose grandmother, Sarah Ann Martin, was second president of the organization and counselor to the first president; Melva O. Stratford, present president, of North Weber Stake Relief Society; Gladys H. Sorenson, granddaughter of West Weber pioneers; Esther E. Bingham, granddaughter-in-law of Amanda Bingham, first secretary of the society; Rosalia B. Strickler, whose parents were converts from Switzerland. Representative of the group in general, is Idella M. Johnson, seventh from the left in the next to the top row. She attended the first meetings of the society as infant daughter of Sarah Ann Martin, young pioneer wife who came to the ""West-of-Weber"' country when it was still inhabited by Indians (1856). Sister Martin was president for twenty-eight years. Sister Johnson has served as treasurer and as a visiting teacher. The minutes of this society, through the years, show many interesting accomplishments, such as the gradual development of the welfare plan from the time the women went visiting with a baby on one arm and a basket for gathering contributions on the other arm. Carpet rags, homemade soap, wheat, flour, thread, and other items were contribyted. Now, many of these faithful sisters, descendants of the pioneers, are working efficiently in canneries and sewing centers where shiploads of provisions are prepared to aid the people in lands far distant from the home valley. 354 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1948 Photograph submitted by Louisa Stephens MONTPELIER STAKE (IDAHO), BERN WARD 1947 WELFARE: ASSIGNMENT This assignment was carefully and promptly completed by the twenty-two members of Bern Ward Relief Society. Many of the articles were handmade and others were beautifully hand-finished. Louisa Stephens is president of Montpelier Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Pauline B. Hick EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, VIRGINIA EAST DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, October 2, 1947 District officers, left to right, beginning fourth from left in front row: First Counselor Edith Johnson; President Pauline B. Hicks; Second Counselor Agnes Wilmoth; Secretary-Treasurer Betty Chesnutwood. Hilda M. Richards, President, East Central States Mission Relief Society, reports that increased enthusiasm and much joy have characterized this district during the past year. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 355 PARK STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), TENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CLOSING SOCIAL, June 2, 1947 The ward officers are seated in the front row, left to right: Secretary-Treasurer, Elnora N. Day; Second Counselor Ruth Wilkinson; President Grace Read; First Counselor Mary Haws. This social was held in the garden of the ward chapel grounds. Relief Society officers and visiting teachers were honored and a pioneer theme was carried out in costumes, program, and refreshments. Fifty women attended the social, but some of them could not stay for the photograph to be taken. Ruby S. Karpowitz is president of Park Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Amanda Johnston EAST PROVO STAKE (UTAH), BONNEVILLE WARD WELFARE ASSIGNMENT WORKERS ASSEMBLED AT EXHIBIT, June 1947 Front row, left to right: Ann Ferre, in charge of dinners; Secretary Nethe Jensen; Dorothy Nelsen, work director; Maud Chase, in charge of quilts. Back row, left to right: First Counselor Hilda Farr; President Wilma Hawkins. Amanda Johnston is president of East Provo Stake Relief Society. You will find the gift for her in our. Store. Complete lines of GREETING S Come to Pembroke's for all your School and Office Supplies Pembrokes 24 East 3rd South Salt Lake City, Utah ~ Professional P| se | Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah JOSEPH WM. TAYLOR MEMORIAL MORTUARY Salt Lake City, Utah =e Three consecutive generations have devoted their lives to the funeral service standards of this community. Wer" JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Intermountain West's first mortician — appointed by Pres. Brigham Young in 1864. Oe JOSEPH WM. TAYLOR Eldest son of Joseph E. Taylor, starting his career with his father as a boy of 15 years, established his own business in 1882. DRE" MARGUERITE TAYLOR BECK Daughter of JOSEPH WM. TAYLOR who now is carrying on the family tradition, assisted by her husband Charles Asher Beck. SO ED SED ED 0) ED ED ED D-DD) a Page 356 125 No. Main Phone 3-7624 THERE IS MUSIC Alice Whitson Norton Purchase your favorite pat- 4 terns at Sears: a Fabric Center 4 4 A A "Ri In a forest of tall trees; In a field of waving clover And the hum of golden bees. There is music, sweet, exotic, In a gay canary's throat; In the lark, and in the linnet, And a wee wren's magic note. There is music, gentle music, In the ripples of a mill; And a steel saw lends enchantment BUTTERICK—McCALLS To a common timber mill. SIMPLICITY That has through the ages rung, UNDERWEAR OPPORTUNITIES Now Available ||| ARE BETTER - - rayon for men and women. Ames Write us and Prices ®» is fully approved for G. I, training. Special rates for returned | missionaries. Write for free literature L. D. S. 36 BUSINESS COLLEGE | SOUTH MAIN i It Lake Cit Salt Lake City, Utah 70 North Main Salt Lake City Page 357 There is music, wistful, mystic, Yet, by far the sweetest music Are but words of praise and kindness Uttered by the human tongue. Wartime shortages are over— Our factory is again operating to capacity—We can now fill underwear orders in fine cotton and for Styles OFBUCK AND Co. CFADS gil aa —e' Sela ease: 50 to Geely "Til 9 Thorough business training is an effective connecting link between a general education and employment in business or civil The L. D. S. Business College FRIEND Grace B. Davis For all the beauty of this lovely tree, For stately grace and verdant mystery Of restless leaves whosse movements lightly trace Their graceful patterns as they interlace In shadowed arabesques upon the velvet sod, My heart sends up its grateful thanks to God. Her brooding branches gently sway and bend ' To moods of wandering winds that lightly tend The tiny nestlings as their cradles high Swing gently to a twilight lullaby. For shadowed coolness, strength, and majesty, My heart rejoices in this friendly tree. Fe - MOTHER'S SCRAPBOOK Ida R. Allredge I was too busy and too carefree then, And she, too patient far to reprimand. In comradery, she sought to understand; The years slipped by and she was laid to Test. Oh, how I longed to counsel with her then, Her arms around, my head upon her breast, To feel her calm assurance once again. One day I found her scrapbook, wom with age, And hungrily I scanned each fingered page— My baby face, a lock of golden hair, Choice sayings and a simple little prayer; I shed my worries like an old, worn cloak, For from these yellowed pages, mother spoke. —~ ——_> THE ETERNAL FEMININE - AGAIN Olive C. Wehr Why will a girl proclaim her hopeful lover The perfect man in every way, And then proceed to make him entirely over Immediately after the wedding day? Page 358 With a Smile We are proud of the steady progress of our O. P. S. Stores and it is to you our customers, that we give our thanks and _ heartfelt smiles. We want to please you and help to keep you smiling with easier shopping days.. SKAGGS For BIBLE Students Designed for the teacher and advanced student. Over 60,000 center references. Easy-to-read type. Concordance, Atlas and Maps. No. 163. Genuine leather, overlapping covers, round corners, 4 amber under QUALITY ° headbands, book mark KING JAMES:- VERSION National pipes AT YOUR BOOKSTORE SINCE 1863. MADE gold edges, SECRETS Ella J. Coulam I told my deepest secret To a little humming bird. She vowed that she would keep it And never tell a word. Today, I saw her whispering To each flower in the sun— I know she's told my secret To every listening one. When next I have a message Of love and kindly word— ° Y'll pretend that it's a secret And tell a humming bird. > SUMMONS Marion Garibaldi Twig-colored bird, Stir the gray bough! Infinite purpose Everywhere, now! Rainbows and flowers Out of the murk— Mystery, power, _ In springtime lurk. Lily and weed Their work must do; Courage, comrade, Joy summons you! Ie FATHER IN HEAVEN, | THANK THEE Arabella Hoke Father in heaven, I thank thee tonight For sleep and for rest And for the stars so bright; For angels to protect me Till morning light, Father in heaven, I thank thee. Father in heaven, I thank thee today For health and for strength To go on my way; For food and for raiment And the wind that blows free, Father in heaven, I thank thee. Keliof Saciely Music or se) Day Little Mother of Mine _.. 20c M-O-T-H-E-R 20c Mothers Lullaby 15c Mother O'Mine 20c My Mom 15c Song of Mary (Asper) 15c Songs My Mother Taught Me _____. 20c That Wonderful Mother of Mine __. 15c Those Songs My Mother Used to Sing 15c Any of above sent postpaid upon receipt of price or may be charged and paid for later. We pay postage on all sheet music and books. FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH | é d "Sb 6 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH AE E> 0 ED 0 ED ED 0D 0D () ED SED 0G 1) <0) GD 1) Page 359 For My Mother Mother Machree 15c 5c From Near and Sar Camilla Eyring Kimball, author of our feature "Let Every Day Be Mother's Day," was bom in Colonia Juarez, Mexico. She attended B. Y. U. And U. S. A. C., and taught home economics at Millard Academy and Gila Academy. She is the wife of Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Quorum of the Twelve, and they have three sons and one daughter; the eldest son, with his wife and three little daughters, is studying at Oxford University in England; the daughter, with her husband and baby girl, lives in Salt Lake City; the second son is a missionary in New England; the youngest son is a student at the University of Utah. It might interest you to know that your beautiful temple in Hawaii is shown many times on our projection screen from color photographs, which my husband took there on his way home from the islands of the Pacific, Our friends always gasp with delight at one taken of the grounds, a blue pool surrounded by trees. Although my work is unknown to you, your work is quite familiar to me—because of those pictures.—Erma Myers Arthur, Vallejo, California. I should like to thank you for the very fine things you are giving us in the Magazine. Recently my little daughter tore her plastic covered umbrella beyond repair. We read and followed the article by Mrs. Perschon (January 1948) on how to cover an old umbrella frame to our mutual benefit. Now she has a new umbrella; I have a new experience and knowledge. Happy and proud to be a contributor to such a magazine as our Relief Society Magazine. May you find great joy in your work and inspired help for every problem — "at Jones Gabbott, Salt Lake City, Utah. Our dear author, what a delightful story "Pankapaw," by Deone Sutherland, (March 1948). Surely you make the comPage 360 I am. Monplace sublime. I think of Bret Hart making "'Miggles" a soulful story through his love for the plain and unnoticed, Write some more, please.—Cloe B. Rogers, Ogden, Utah. Incidentally, I surely enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. I read it and pass it on. —Karl Spafford, New England Mission. Your very fine magazine has an important place in our home. I find my mother and my daughter enjoy it as I do. Success to you in your work is the wish of all Relief Society members everywhere.—Helen S. Hughes, Farmington, Utah. Charlotte Ann Dunn Lindsay, ninetytwo, of Powell, Wyoming, still enjoys doing beautiful handwork. She knits mittens and bootees for her grandchildren and great-grandchildren, crochets, quilts, and makes colorful, attractive rugs. Parents of eleven children, Charlotte and her husband David E. Lindsay pioneered Big Horn Basin. For more than forty years, Sister Lindsay has served as a worker in Relief Society. Maka SLossons From JESUS THE CHRIST Vivid. With Picturos. GROUP 1 GROUP 2 Nativity e Feeding 5,000 Shepherds Healing Lepers Wise Men Man at Pool lauaweine Temple Jairus' Daughter: E Lazarus Flight to Egypt Parable of Sower Among Doctors " ——— Temptations ™ Wheat and Tares Heals Woman. Talents Walking on Water 7 Ten Virgins Healing Dumb Man i Prodigal Son Healing Deaf Man. Good Samaritan Healing Blind Man _ Widow's Mite Draught of Fishes tal Calms "$9.0 0 In Grain Field GROUP 3 GROUP 4 Chooses Disciples Jesus Enters Jerusalem Cleansing Temple Last Supper With Children Gethsemane '"Consider the Lilies" In Gethsemane Mary and Martha Arrest of Jesus Preaching from Boat Jesus and Peter _Maemen at Well Jesus and Pilate St Pilate Washes Hands es dal Before Caiaphas Nicodemus c 0. His Robe Peter's Confession He Is Risen Peace to This House PORE waninee Rich Young Ruler i ——— Come Unto Me Jesus Appears to Apostles Twelve Sent Forth Great iaiatasion ° 2.00 $2.00 Large, poster size—19 x 23", Four colors. DESERET BOOK COMPANY "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST' 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send large, four-color pictures of Life of Christ as indicated above, for which find $0... _ herewith. Name. Severteeeeeeeeeeee Address... Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers Transfiguration Ascension VEN though their - "daddy" has been taken away, this mother and daughter can still play together because their "daddy" made sure they would have a Beneficial Life Income to provide for their daily needs. BENEFICIAL LIFE } Insurance Company Salt Lake. City 1, Utah George Albert Smith, President JUNE 1948 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Priscilla L. Evans Evon W. Peterson Lillie C. Adams Mary G. Judd Florence J. Madsen Leone O. Jacobs Ethel C. Smith Anna B. Hart Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Louise W. Madsen Edith S. Elliott Blanche B. Stoddard Florence G. Smith Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - ~ - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 35 JUNE, 1948 No. 6 ' Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Women and Narcotics.....-.-.-.---csessccsececsescceseceeenceses seceers a. Elder Joseph F. Merrill 365 Contest Announcements—l948 o... Cecccecccccseesees coeeeeeeens scence senueenseneensensenmensenetes 367 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest............ 367 Relief Society Short Story Contest... I rere er poe OES 368 For Makers of Rhythmic Beauty -............0 ccc seeeeeceeenescseen ee renseeeerensenenenseress Carlton Culmsee 370 You Can Write a Prize Winner wee a Relief Society Building News....--...--ssccscsccsssescseeeecneesesecssserensercensneuanaseecons craves cogesseomasnoeseesaaaeaasaneraeargsoneraggs The Latter-day Saints in San Bern noe Bececo nop eco oncaeccoe eon eoEvelyn Wilde Heath 385 SERIAL Questing Lights—Chapter 3... EsscsccsssssecsceessrsensssnesssaeenecenneersareeneesanecsaseesnsssBelle Watson Anderson 41! SHORT STORIES A. House by Fridcry ----e-c-sccsssssensessessessoessnecosesnescnseseeeeessnssnsennannncsnssnssenasecsseensonecassnnasenssssanesereresFay Tarlock 379 Far Country. N. CcsesssscosscsscceesneesenecesscnssnecnnssscensesnssenseancensuesnscsesssenssssacenssonsssaneestemereseeassstseesGladys I. Hamilton 397 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago nae 392 Woman's Sphere in en rrr: Ramona W. Cannon 393 Editorial: Of Fathers and Daughters Vesta P. Crawford 394 Annual Family Life Institute at Brigham Young University 395 Addition to the Magazine Honor Roll for 1947........-..:----scsscesescossssenrecserserteesenees 395 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Socials, Bazaars, and Other Activties General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering Fi From Near and Far FEATURES FOR THE HOME Remember Pomanders? Elizabeth Williamson 400 Let's Have Cake Ethel C. Smith 401 Pressed-Flower Pictures Dorothy J. Roberts 407 POETRY Petals and Wings—Frontispiece. Eva Willes Wangan 363 Stay-at-Home Lael. Hill 369 Adventuring......... A Bertha A. Kleinman 395 Let the Heart Soar C. Cameron Johns 396 Definition............ John M. Freckleton 396 Wayside Rose....... Anna Prince Redd 400 Badge of Triumph........2.. Scsscsscssssssescsseecneencennesnes: seeseeessaes Maryhale Woolsey 406 Then and Now Della Adams Leitner 406 The Graduate Nurse...........----.---- Olive C. Wehr 410 Soyerey fieie Gt IDYeiwispoWteye eee Margery S. Stewart 416 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 8-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, lic. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Heartbreak... Ccccssscssscssscscecececseceecserseeccccenenenessssnsesssnesenecsnensesscases Cherry McKay 410 Special Z. C. M. |. Stationery Snooth Whiting Surface with Ddhled Edge Pink, white, In open stock, handy note sheets. Gray and green. 24 sheets and 24 envelopes......------ 1.00 90 sheets and 25 envelopes.-.-----~1.25 2.00 Table form 72 sheets and 50 envelopes...----------- STATIONERY.. - STREET FLOOR / | (M/ SUMMER IN THE WASATCH THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE PETALS AND WINGS Eva Willes Wangsgaard A copper-colored butterfly Upon a copper rose, And which is petal, which is wing, The slow eye hardly knows. A passing breeze an hour hence And copper will be found With here a petal, there a wing, Unpatterned on the ground. We well may weep for perfume spent, For wings bereft of flight, For weeping clears the eyes of dust And strengthens inner sight, Envisioning how each has stored The precious copper loot— The butterfly in oval seeds, The rose within the root. Che heart, too, stores what it has loved. While yet lost beauty glows, New rapture rests its copper wings Upon a copper rose. 'The Cover: "Summer Roses," by L. V. McNeely VOL. 35, NO. 6 JUNE 1948 Women and Narcotics Elder Josep h F. Merrill Member of the Quorum of the Twelve E live in a changing world— a world that has perhaps changed more past fifty years than t did in all the previous 1,000 years. For illustration, let us ask what electricity, gas and oil fuels, motor cars, airplanes; radios, television, and atomic energy nave done for our mechanical civilization during the lifetime of everyone fifty yeats old. And these astonishing changes in the field of mebeen accompanice by _changes lm out thinking, believing, acting and living. Is not the privilege of voting largely responsible for to an extent previously unk smoke OF indulge as freely as As a result of all these changes in the fields of mechanics and the picture of living ls greatly what it was worse? The correct answet depends on the point of view. Mechanically, yes d ly. Socially, in some respects, YES and in others, no. Been a deterioration life of multitudes of homes. Divorces are far more Nr merous, ] i has multiplied, morality has sunk to lower levels, crimes have increased and faith in God has waned. In all of these deteriorations the use of narcotics—particularly alcohol and tobacco—has played an important part. The Lord said: "That inasmuch qs any man drinketh wine oT strong drink among you, behold it is not good - - " (D&C. 89:5): Drink brings cruelty into the home; it walks arm and arm with poverty - -, + it puts chastity to flight; neither honesty nor fait dealings; it is a total stranghomes, committed more crimes, filled more (First Presidency, 1942)- arms the critical faculties, reasonableness and prudence, ness of perception and taste, without necessarily creating the state i No arguments are needed to estababove statethe effects of alcoand experience As to the nature of alcohol we may read: Alcohol is a poison inherently, absolutely, essentially; ina in a gallon, in quantities, it is a poison. Plainly the quantity cannot affect the chemical com: osition (The Journal American Medical Association) - WOMEN AND NARCOTICS Cocktail Lounges Now, telative to the Participation of Women in drinking alcoholic beyerages, the records show drinking js alarmingly increasing among them. Behold, It is not coming; it has come— the cocktail America, | lived through &eneration of the saloon, old deeper, Nn one of cently saw gq Cocktail lounge—J beg your pardon, a t | Some six hundred years before Christ there lived a hero by the name of Jere. | | are among my he would exclaim: "What a ture of the liquor brood and all their co. Horts" (Dr, Elmer Ellsworth Helms, in Voice). Kathleen Norris wrote: this curse has represented Petate effort of the; 1; ervent prayer of their hearts, It is a Sorrowful thing, it is a bitter re. T code and Character of American women today, that this curse js | include them; women—anqd by no 365 and are frequently, Or » drunk, Of to be much gteater than among men, the United States €partment of Commerce, nearly nine billion dollars ( $8,770,000,000 ) This js ing the types of public and private schools, including schoo] and university libraries, and for state to consider the question and g swer, your Teply will Probably differ 366 answers may be consolidated into one—you began and continue to drink because other people drink. 'To a greater or less extent drinking has become fashionable—is believed to be the smart thing to do, especially by those who are ambitious to be socially O. K. Now all of this has come about because Satan and his hosts operate ceaselessly among our Father's children with the objective of leading them away from the path given by the Lord for them to follow if they would please him and experience the joys of living that he has promised them through obedience. "... Men are, that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25).... In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warmed you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation— That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good... (D. & C. 89:4-5). HIS is a divine truth. Human observations and experiences have verified it over and over again. Now as to "evils and designs... In the hearts of conspiring men," let us refer to advertising. In a hearing relative to this matter before a committee of the United States Senate in May 1947, Senator Capper said: The national bill in 1946 for alcoholic beverages was nearly nine billion dollars, eighty-nine dollars for every person in the United States over eighteen years old— about one-fourth of the federal budget for the coming year. Now, Mr. Chairman, I believe that the tremendous amount of advertising seeking to whet the appetite for drinking, seeking to create new customers, especially among women and children, has much to do with the greatly inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 creased amount of alcoholic consumption during recent years. It is generally agreed in the business world that advertising is one of the most fruitful means of increasing business and of promoting sales. Certain it is that the vast sums (more than one-hundred million dollars) annually spent for widespread, alluring, deceptive advertising have had much to do with greatly increased consumption of alcoholic beverages during recent years, especially among women and teen-agers. But what shall we do about all this?—a simple question for all Latter-day Saints. 'They know the answer—total abstinence; have nothing to do with the manufacture, sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages —easy to say. Then, why do they indulge? Let each one answer for himself, remembering what the Lord has said relative to the matter. Is it not an admission of weakness or lack of faith for any Latter-day Saint to indulge? Yes, so the men of the world say. Then, does indulgence help or handicap a professed Latter-day Saint in his efforts to win the respect and confidence of non-members? Weaklings or hypocrites are never trusted—never wanted in positions of responsibility. Let every Latter-day Saint remember this, particularly every one ambitious to climb. Moral courage and dependability are among the essential qualities in the lives of professing Church members who would succeed in the business world. Many examples illustrating the truth of these statements could be recited. But this is needless here, for every observing and experienced faithful member can tell them. Contest Announcements—]948 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the general board of Relief Society to stimulate creative wiiting among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who. Qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests bliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest 2. Only one poem may be submitted by:. Each contestant. Opens with this announcement a a ae ay and closes September 15, 1948. The lines and should be typewritten, if posamount of the prizes has been Insible; where this cannot be done, it creased and will be awarded as folshould be legibly written. Only one side lows: of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate:; copy of the poem should be retained by First Prize 2...$25 contestant to insure against loss.) Second prize ae$20 4. The sheet on which the poem is Third prize $y 5 written is to be without signature or other hee ae identifying marks, Prize poems will be published in 5. No explanatory material or picture the January 1949 issue of The Reis to accompany the poem,... 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by lief Society Magazine. A stamped envelope on which is written Prize-winning poems become the the contestant's name and address. Nom property of the Relief Society gende plumes are not to be used. Eral board and may not be pub- 7- A signed statement is to accompany lished by others except upon writthe poem submitted certifying: ten permission from the general a. That the author is a member of the board. The general board reserves aa fof Jesus Christ of Latter-day the right to publish any of the other b. That the poem (state the title) is poems submitted, paying for them the contestant's original work. At the time of publication at the c. That it has never been published,. D. That it is not in the hands of an regular Magazine rates. Editor or other persons with a view to publication, Rules for the contest: e. That it will not be published nor 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day submitted elsewhere for publication Saint women, exclusive of members of the until the contest is decided. Relief society general board, and em. 8. A writer who has received the first ployees of the Relief Society general board. Prize for two consecutive years must wait Page 367 368 two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest, 9. The judges shall consist of one mem. Ber of the general board, one person from submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1948 a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the Purpose of the poem €. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1948, 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Con. Test, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Relief Society Short Story Contest 'THE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1948 opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1948, The amount of the Prizes has been increased, and this year will be as follows: First Prize wn$50 €cond prize$40 Third Prize$30 The three Prize-winning stories 1 | consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1949. Prizeand may not be published by others €xcept upon written Permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, Paying for them at the ad at least one literary Composition published cr accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) are not to be used. 5. A signed Statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author ls a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, b. That the author has had at least one literary composition published Or acyet published, ance for Publication. ) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the Contestant's original wor: it has never been published, is not in the hands of an editor or other Person with a view to publication, and that it will not I nor submitted else. Where for Publication until the contest is decided, 6. No explanatory material Or picture is to accompany the story. - The ber of the Engli Institution, ognized Writer, agreement 4 Judges shal] general 5 sh department of an and Mittee for fing n eligible to will b Consist of one memOard, one 9. Entries mu a - ae STAY-A T-HOME Lael w. Hill e wild Winds Over the land, d the Sea, OM Water and sand Me, "Pearl. Tinted Shells lie down Nder warm Ndian Streams, "Silent, the Sphinx w CEPS Vigil Ith his Close to the Nile eps the da der the ma 2. 2nd Peru,» that hold Ww Ickly—ang Spin it around. ) € given to th aacters and lot development essage of th niting Style Relief Society Short B St be Postmarked 8 are to onder, cloth-bound, | decision, € stories € follow; their € story. 369 » CONsidera tion Ng points: Presentation Not later Must wait Person from €valuatin C. Poem Contest. —E4.] But they differ prodigiously in theit ower to evoke sn others the feelings that come to them. That some of them "olay by eat » while others acquire 5, Because the gift for penning poet is cultivable, ont may make old to offer 4 few sug: omen poets. Stitutes good poetry: A true poem may be said to be a contribution in rhythmic and melodious words to Page 3/0 poets who plan to enter the Fliza R. Snow Shakespeare 40 ordsworth and Coleridge, Frost and Fliot could not have done t if they 4 wished; and neither can we. Hould we wish to cut ur roots The great poets have ained strength and stature by build ing upon ountain of he past, and so can We FOR MAKERS OF RHYTHMIC BEAUTY Emerson urged, "Trust ty heart vibrates to that g." You yourself are truly 4 Creation in the Sense of being a unique Personality, sre and feel with the Sensitivity of fF you have nourished your verbal Conscientiousness, you will fee] acute discomfort When you use a word that falls short of ful] and honest expression, You are flatting gest the inexpressible. Close to the mysteries as reason and through the Most suitable symbols —that is the poet's hardest task, which delight with their beauty and inspire with their hints of Inexpressible meaning, besides abstractions and prosy state. Ments, | tive, let 1. Threadbare idea, 2. Threadbare Words, figures of speech, and modes of expression, moral as he Wishes, but he Suggests rather than preaches, k ending; failure to Sustain the Original impetus, TOsiness, meaning lack tion, lack of fresh, of sufficient intensity and elevation of Style; in short, lack of poetry, Cxpress? 2. Contribution. Is it the finest contri. Bution to beauty that you can create at this time? Suggested Readings Hubbell and Beaty, An Introduction to 'J. Zillman, The Elements of English Verse (Macmillan ) is also helpful. 7 Traditions, Pitcher, Baker, and Schramm (Farrar and (Stanford mentals of the art, You Can Write a Prize Winner Olive W. Burt Magazine Editor, The Deseret News [Prepared by special Tequest as an a Short Story Contest ] [ isn't Casy to write a Ptze-winTecognize it. What is a 800d story? Very writer's Magazine or hand. Book carries 4 vaniety of definitions, at the beginner May be confused and at a loss to decide just what Constitutes a Story, simple and adequate definition seems to be that a Story is 9 signifiCant emotional experience sincerely and simply told. This defj The first task, then, js to Tecognize such | It may be in one's own life, or in that of a friend, or it may never really have happened at all, but be merely 4n emotional] €xperience that could 4ppen, given Certain characters and certain events. Id to writers Who plan to enter the Relief Society dventure and excite. Ment she had never known while Tearing her family, Or—anything at all! 48azine, which jg Our present Consideration, need not € moralistic. YOU CAN WRITE A PRIZE WINNER mother, and by Implication, her family. Only enough characters should be used in a short story to put the Now—how to put the down— ly that the reader through" the story? Cre are two things to watch here: the writer must feel the sto herself. It js absolutely tight that her tears should fall or her chuckles be heard as she writes. That is the most vital. And the second is like unto it—she must make her readers feel the story, too, € simplest Way to achieve this latter aim jis by the use of simple, direct words and Phrases—by the Choice of specific rather than general terms, Describe the characters by point: ing out the special little things that make each one different from the others. The old mother may have faded, pale lips, as soft and dry as thor of the story, Special details should be carried Over into each bit of action, a word 373 Or a phrase making that episode dif. Ferent from any other that ever took place. A device for gaining this definite. Ness is to write the story Possib] character, this episode, vividly and the particular words can be Inserted. EF remains only to write the story, The author has her emotional experience selected; she has her A couple of warnings here: it is dangerous and seldom satisfactory in a story to follow Teal-life episodes and situations, In Teal life there are °O Many intangible and extraneous forces Working upon the character that the reaction can Must act according to the definite traits that have been emphasized, And, as a general rule, the charac- €s to reach the genT 1947 to October, women of the C 948 will urch, supported by the d since the days of Nauvoo, - After the Conclusig » SPecial sheets Will be sent therefo entered and preseryeq in the n of the f | und-raising Petiod in Oc. TE no lists of Names should be sen In 8 brings forth, man & letter from is printed aS a typi nate to this cause, € on the Completion of its quota Ica] €XPression of such aPPreciation - Relief Society General Board alt Lake ity, Utah €ar Sisters. Enclosed IS a d ora to stakes and miss; e ©PPortunity given to do undertaking of which the Sisters Of the 1 which to list the | Alice Clauson; Elva Jacobson Wilma elmina Sel] ts; Margaret Anderson Virginia Austin embers who Participated byt Who are not in picture l Counselor; F, Teedonig Glaze; Orrine Booth- 376 RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE— june STAKES y HICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS S©UTH Ipago Farts (Idaxo) RExzurg STAKE (IDaxo) IDano Fatrs Stax (Ibaxo YADA Stage (Nevap, AND Uran) Say Dizco STAKE ( ALIFORNI4 TAH Stake ( Utan) Wettrs Stake (Urax) EATTLE Sraxp ( Wasucroy) ETON Sraxp (IDaHo axp Wong) Soury Lo CELES Staxp (Carr RANITE Stage (Uray) Juarez Stake (Mexico) Nortx IDano Farts Stake (Ipago Froring Stake (Froripa ) Eancratioy Stax (Uran) Tears View Sraxe (Uraz) MESA Stage (Arizona) Bear Rryrp Staxg (Uran) WARDs AND BRANCHES IN STAKES} WHICH HAVE COMPLETED EIR MEMBERSHp QUOTAS (Since Publication o¢ the list in the Nf, Magazine, and prior to May + 1948 ) Abraham B ch, Deseret College Ward Logan Alamosa Ward Luis Compton Ward, Long Beach Almo Ward River Omish Vy. D, Bens American alls Ward can Falls Corona B ch, San B dino Arbor \y Ple View owley Ward, Big Horm lington W. Los Angeles Crescent } 'ard, Me. Jordan Ashley Ward, U tah Croydon Ward, Morgan Athol Branch, Spokane ummi: Ward, East Mill Cree; Avon Ward. HAytum Deseret Cc ica] Branch, Tooele Axson Ward, Florida ublan Wy. D, Juar Baldwin Park Ward, Pasadena urango Branch, Yo asalt Warg Shelley East ichmond Ward, Berkeley ch, Big Hom Edge Ward, Rillsj Bench Wy d. Bannock Eldredge Ward, Soy Salt Lake €Nicia Warg Berkeley Emmett Second y ard, Wei Berkeley Ward, etkeley Farr W Ward. Far, West Birdseye Branch, Palmyra Fielding Ward, B ver Blackfoot ird Ward Blac Oot Fifth W. D, Temple View Blackfoot F urth Ward Blackfoot Fontana Ward, San Be ino B Ward, San Juan Fourth Ward, Temple View Bluff Branch, San Juan Franklin Ward, F, 7 Bluffdale ard, West Jordan Gaffney ard, South Carolina Boise First Ward. Boise Garden C ty Ward, Bear Lake Boise nd Ward Boise Garfielg Ward, East Rigby Brenty, d, Inglewoog Garland Second w. D, B River Buckeye Branch, Phoenix Geneya Ward, Montpelj Burley Third Way Burley Globe Ward, S¢ Joseph Callao B h, Deser Grace Second Ward Bannock Carey Ward Blaine Grandview Ward, East Mi] Creek Son City Branch Reno Grayson Ward, San Juan Cedar First Ward, Parowan Cunlock Ward, St. George G ud Ward, Parowan Hatch Ward, Idaho Cedar Ourth Ward. Parowan Heber Ward Nowflake Chuichupa Ward, Juarez Heber Third ard. Wasatch ont Warg Berkeley Honeyville Ward, North Box Elder eveland W. Annock Howell Ward River uff Ward it ngton Beach Branch, Long Beach d'Alene Branch, Spokane First Ward, Hyru RELIEF SOCIETy BUILDING NEws Inglewoog Ward, Inglewoog Jacksonville Ward, Florida Jefferson Wa Las Vegas First Ward, Las Vegas mington Ward, Deseret Lethbridge First Way, d Lethbridge Second Ward, Lethbridge onroe ard, South Sevier Oreland ld, Blackfoot Ountaj Tanch, Boise » B m Ogden Seventeenth Ward, Mt. Ogden Ogden Nineteenth Ward, Weber 377 Provo Firs¢ Ward, Proyo Proyo Second Ward, West Utah Redlands W: | 378 RELIEF socyery MA BRANCHES (1 MISSIONS WwW MEMBERsHjp (Since Publication of the list in the ' Ptior to May 7, 1948) Barney ch, Centra] States Mojave Branch, California Belleville B neh, entral States uincy Branch, Outhern States Onaparte Branch, Northern States a Branch ifornia Oone B P Northern States Ri Screst Br. Ch, California aytonville RB » Central States Oseph h, Central States inton anch, Nort em States onoma Branch, Northern California Olumbi3 tanch, Outhern States Springfielg Branch, orthern States €catur Branch, Northern States Wickenburg Branch, California Towa City Branch, Northern States Oungstown Tanch, Northern States Joplin Branch, Central States NOTE; he genera] board regre that © & to space limitations it will not be Possible to accept any Ore pictures for Publicatig NN€ction €port of uildin UNd activities he genera) board ish 'less 4PPTeciation fo the pic tures a] Y teceived ang for the interest Manifested } the sisters In thu keeping a Pictoria] T€cord of their ACtiVities. Pictures which, ate not used in th Magazine Will be eturned that loca] SOcieties can use them t, illustrat their own histories of their Building Fund ac ities, Erratum: In the May 1948 issue of + eM fornia Mission, Was listed 4 agazine, Eureka Branch 5 being in the Californ; Mission, A House By Friday Fay Tarlock 66TT will be up to you to find a house," thy husband called to me from the bathroom of the Hotel Geneve where he was shaving, our first morning in. MexIco. "I won't be back from the stadium before dark any day. And I'm late now." This seemed an exaggeration; the Sun was not yet up. [| yawned and: stretched my travel-weary limbs, "T don't see how I can Possibly find a house," | pillow and teady for a sleep as soon as he left the room. "The only Spanish words I know are buenos and es mucho," "As long as you keep saying the last, we'll get along." He grinned down at me, "Get a newspaper, The Excelsior IS as good as any, and you'll find a list of places for rent on the English Page." He was at the door now. "Call up the hous. Ing agencies, they all speak English, and they might send some one to show you around. And don't forget the Diplomatic Proviso." He shut through all the worries and noises of Mexico. When Danny awakened at nine I got him into his last clean clothes and we went down to the dining room. It Was very pleasant there with the brilliant murals and the sunlight streaming on white table linen and dark-eyed waitresses. As I ate my first slice of Papaya and munched a second pan dulce (sweet roll), the problem of finding a house seemed simple. "Everything is so cheap in Mex. Ico," many people back home had told me. ""Houses and apartments are plentiful there and so Teasonable. Ou can pick one in any neighborhood you want." asn't the American Embassy just around the corner? The obvious thing to do was to go there and get a list of houses. And do it before twelve o'clock because today was Saturday. It was exhilarating walking along Calle Londres, across the deep blue sky, and it was warm enough to throw back my Coat. I looked up at the gray houses, reminiscent of the reign of Maximilian and Carlotta, and at the tree-lined avenue. Just as I had read, it was A' the Embassy there was a charming young woman tushing through her work for a week end at Cuernavaca, Between answering the telephone in two languages and me a list of apartments for rent. Not one to hesitate, I chose the address nearest the Embassy. First we had to cross Avenida Insurgentes, the busiest thoroughfare in Mexico. Tee times we started across and three times we came scurrying back to the sidewalk. The Cars and buses Page 379 380 went by in a never-ending stream, each one driven by a madman, I was certain. The din of the honking made my head whirl. This will never do, I thought. I told myself that for years I had strolled across Market Street in San Francisco every evening at five o'clock. Grabbing my son in my arms, I ran. Taxis swerved by me, a red bus seemed to touch my dress, and a car came to a screeching halt. But we were across. The apartment house was ultra modern. The list said furnished, and my hopes rose. These new apartment houses were furnished with charm and comfort, surpassin those of the States, I had heard. The foyer door was open; I rang every bell in the place, but no one answered. Across the avenue I could see a little soft drink place with a familiar sign. The proprietor was a sandy-haired man who looked like an American. When a lull in the traffic came, I made a second dash across Insurgentes. The proprietor had once been an American, but the patina of Mexico lay upon him now. The apartments, he assured me, were lovely. They had everything that Madam could wish for, and if J cared to sit in his shop he would go across to ask the manager, a dear friend of his, if there was a vacancy. I sat down and ordered lemonades for us, which we slowly sipped until the man returned. He came straight to our table, spreading his hands in a purely Latin gesture. So sorry he was, but the apartments were unfurnished. If I cared to furnish one, I would be charmed with the results. I thanked him and started for the next address, thankful it was on the same side of the street. A servant girl with strong white teeth and long RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 black braids answered my ring. I said buenos dias and was stopped. The girl stood there, smiling and patient. I got out my list, mumbling something about apartmento. Instantly her smile flashed in understanding. "Un momentito," she said, carefully closing the door. But Danny had other ideas. "I'm tired, I want to sit down," said he, squatting squarely in the doorway. The maid was distressed. Doors are not left open in Mexico. I removed my son and waited. "Un momentita,' I repeated, savoring the word. I had another one to add to my vocabulary. The door opened cautiously and a vivacious little Mexican woman smiled up at me. "The apartment, eet was, what you say, for rent. Now eet ees no more." The door shut carefully again. "I don't want apartments, I want a house," my son said. EFORE lunch I inspected two other apartments. One was so big that it was a day's journey from the front door to the kitchen. The price I did not inquire. And the next, in contrast to the shinin cleanliness of the others, looked as if it had not been cleaned since the days of Porfirio Diaz. After luncheon I called an agency. A man with an American voice answered. Yes, he had houses if Madam could afford them. People in the States, he said, had the erroneous idea that living was cheap in Mexico. Instead of a house, I should have an apartment, no? I thanked him and hung up the receiver. J took a little nap and started out again with the Embassy list. A HOUSE BY FRIDAY "Take a libre when you go any place," my husband had told me, "and you must bargain with the driver. 'Try to get him for a peso. Don't offer more than one fifty." I was refreshed, but not enough to give my Spanish vocabulary another 'try. From the address the apartment was only a few blocks away. But after I had walked an hour, I realized that the Mexican numbering system was not the same as that at home. We made frequent stops to sit on the grass. Still my legs were trembling. My number was on the third and top floor of the building. Only a maid was in the apartment; she made no attempt to speak as she led me through the rooms. The furmiture was charming, the beds sagging and hard, and the kitchen was not pleasing. Mexican kitchens, I was learning, were not built for the lady of the house. Out on the street I saw a cruising libre. In a moment of inspiration, helped by my tired legs and my protesting son, I said, "Hotel Geneva, un peso cincuenta centavos." The driver opened the door and we got in. Sunday we would have all day to look for houses. On Sunday my husband bought a paper, pointing out that he had already suggested this procedure. I said nothing. It seemed rather silly to confess that on my first day I hesitated even to buy a paper. "There's no use looking for anything in the Lomas," he said, running down the list, "only rich Americans and_politicos can afford to live there. And San Angel is too far out for my work." He read further. "Here's one on Aguas Calientes, modern with two bedrooms." The price he read was high, but not 381 entirely beyond our means, provided we economized on other things. "That's the same street as the stadium," he went on. "Can't be much of a place." We drove near the vicinity of the stadium and I agreed with him. There was no use going to any house, he said, because Sunday in Mexico was no day for it. I objected, reminding him that in San Francisco it was the big house-hunting day. Well it was different here. We drove towards Chapultepec Castle to watch the Sunday parade. ONDAY morning I called up ~ two agencies, getting almost identical lists from each. Neither offered to show me the places. I delayed going because at noon Mr. Tarlock was coming to take me to one place. We decided nothing must be overlooked and started for Aguas Calientes. In the park around the National Stadium the country men were standing in patient lines, waiting to get inside on their first lap of the journey to the States. Past the stadium the buildings become larger and more ornate. Across Insurgentes was an entirely different section, one with beautiful homes, well-tended sidewalk lawns and gardens. Willow trees lined the street. The number was set above a high glass gate, protected by an iron grill. A white wall, topped with barbed wire, obscured the view of the house. We found the bell, imbedded in the concrete of the wall. After a long wait a neat young servant girl with low coifed hair admitted us. She bowed and with lowered eyes asked us to be seated in the garden. I was delighted. The house was a 382 white stucco with a red-tiled roof and had beautifully leaded windows, shaped in Gothic arches. The garden was lovely with its tiled walks, neat lawns, and roses and carnations, arranged in geometric design. Close to the house were two pomegranate trees in full bloom. On either side of the garden were two tiled seats, above each seat a lovely plaque. There was also a tiled fountain, spouting a tiny spray of water into the brilliant sunshine. I sat down on the bench, my eyes bright. This was my house! The great glass door opened and a young man came out, a University student, I was sure. He had lightbrown hair and blue eyes and no Castilian Don could have been more proud. Although he bowed and said, "Buenos tardes," I felt myself to be an undesirable turista who should never have crossed the Rio Grande. The youth permitted us to enter the house. Once inside, my spirits soared even higher. There were long tiled corridors with high ceilings, bathed in sunlight from the arched windows. In the living room OT sala was the largest fireplace I had ever seen. Indeed la sala was as large as the average American home. Above the fireplace hung a magnificent tapestry woven with golden threads. The walls were a Spanish brown; the high-beamed ceiling was white. Across one end of the room was a Chinese tapestry with white dragons, turquoise trees, and _ floating blossoms, all against -a red_background. The furniture was handcarved mahogany, some of it Spanish and some of it French, and like nothing I had ever seen outside a museum. There were high-backed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 chairs with red leather seats, each with a different coat of arms, and a massive desk. About the room was a profusion of carved tables and oriental vases. A glass door, high as the ceiling, led to the dining room. This had a red-tiled floor and one side was all windows and glass doors, leading into a charming back garden, where stood a single tree, not yet in bloom. The kitchen was newly whitewashed. It boasted a steel sink and cabinet, an electric refrigerator, and a new gas stove. EF. Went back to the living room, my feet light on the polished oak boards. Halfway up the long, tile-decorated stairway was 4 window portraying a mountain village, green in the subdued light. One of the two bedrooms was Madonna blue and rose, with elegant mahogany furnishings. The other bedroom was simpler, in cream and brown coloring. And the bath! Blue tile almost to the ceiling and another leaded window with a design of a blue mermaid with long golden hair, sitting on golden rocks above the splashing sea. There was a closet bigger than a dream, and a clothespress in the smaller room. The windows overlooked an old colonial estate across the street. 'J was beside myself to know if the price mentioned in the paper was right and if we could rent the house. The youth refused any answer. We had permission to telephone his mother, who would be home at two o'clock. At precisely two o'clock I was dialing the Frickson telefono. A pleasant voice answered, "Yes.---> yes sees I can tell you the price, A HOUSE BY FRIDAY ent in the serenity MY husband &4ave me no help in Of the garden Was almost dark mnging th Nversatio for there js itt] twilight on the p] 4tound to Tenting th Place. I kney teau. The Ouse already seemed our that in a m ment we must 80, and Own. Nothing was settled Tipping the A young gir], evidently the youth's arms Of the eather rocke I asked Sister, appear, din the Corway. She in forthright Western if we stood there for a moment, after the Could rent the ouse ights flashed She was no more € Senorg looked ained. "That an five feet tall, as delic tely ma Ido notk t 4S a China figurine a Now, jus Now," she gently nd gracefy] 48a chided me, "Y, Ower, When She intr d ethaps have not Moduced her. Seen many Ouses yet," €n she Self, she aS as gracious and warm smiled, « Must have time to think. As the boy h Cen remote &r Your boy here"'_she Teached out to English? © Aad learned jt lD fie sig him from spilling backwards States, Where she Was born, "Now," from a Carved chair. "there is she said, "t ot often get a Chance much glass | - there are my gar. To speak It, but I reag "ch in Eng ms... Ido not know, [p a day or lish." two you may call me again." With As she Spoke, g Slender woman, exquisite Courtesy she bade us good dressed in black, with a lace Mantillg night, Over her h » Came j the Toom, i N scratch + at number he was beautify) man, white. Off," the €ad of th Ouse said as haired, tight, flashin eyes. We drove back fo the hotel. « h he and th mbined al] the esn't want child there" Stories ang nchantment of Old felt bad] heard so uch €xico stinctiye] TOse to of the greg gleet h expected Danny Plained jp tele; obstacle "There's hothin charming voice, had be the spec © Ould hurt +, lly," [ Protested a" quarters of her h and, built to "He doesn' ™m things and I'd be Ouse hj tapestries This room had 59 Careful," Cen his office No Was a wid OMOIrow get f OW, With pn use for so Many room Ould w, USY and cal] the Sagencies. Get all the; € like to sentie! Huse qe again? "Ir places," wag IS reply, ut Tues 4Y Morning J called an In the evening light the house agency. After checking the cheapes seemed even more "aptivating. Thad Places, | asked that 4PPointments to pull Myself from the spel] and be be Made for th Practica]. Cated again 384 er to take me to the addresses, wait, and return me to the hotel. The first house was on the edge of the Lomas. It had so many unnecessary rooms that my head ached with even the thought of keeping them clean. The furniture was brilliant and elaborate, but none of it comfortable. The beds were hard and the kitchen would require two assistants to the cook. Outside was a long-neglected garden and a dead lawn. The second place was in the Lomas itself. A high hedge surrounded it, a hedge shot through with iron bars and with an iron gate that seemed to touch the sky. After a Jong wait a man servant admitted me. I followed him up a winding path to the house. There was no entrance at all. 'The servant pressed a button. Miraculously the front parted, revealing stairs and a door. Again the door was heavily barred. We waited for it to be opened from the inside. Once inside I tripped and almost fell over a stout iron pipe, a thief trap I was to learn later. The house was empty at nights except for a watchman. HE owner, a smartly dressed woman, and the interpreter, her friend, waited beyond the iron bar. The place was quite new, the rooms large and sunny. There were two bedrooms and a study that could be made into a child's room. The house was amply furnished, but not elegantly, except for the satin wallpaper, an import from France. Instead of a single kitchen, there were two, each with a table in the center, piled high with cooking utensils. Because the owner was leaving for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 South America, the house could be rented immediately if I signed a three-year lease and deposited seven hundred pesos to insure that the wallpaper would not be injured. I swallowed and said that tonight I would bring my husband to sign the lease, provided the Diplomatic Proviso was inserted. There was much excited chattering and | caught the words "Tio Sam." I felt certain from their faces that I would not sign the lease. I was relieved also; the markets were a long way off, which meant my stay in Mexico would be spent riding back and forth on buses. The ladies announced their decision. If Madam could not find a house within a week and this house was still unrented, she could return. In the meantime the Senora's attorney would investigate the Proviso. The next day, Wednesday, I went out to Colonia del Valle, where rents were more suited to government employees. One house was cheap enough, but it was so dark, here in the land of vivid sunshine, that electricity must be burned all day. Another house almost met my desire for a place small enough to be manageable. It was set ina pleasant little garden, protected by a hedge. The owner was a sweet little grayhaired lady who wanted to go to another state to live with her son. Just how I learned this, I could not rightly say, for she spoke no English, but we soon had each other's life history. She was an artist. At least she did her own art work. Each room had been decorated with murals. The artist had gone berserk with purples, (Continued on page 428) The Latter-day Saints in ' San Bernardino Evelyn Wilde Heath Former President, San Bernardino Stake Relief Society to San Bernardino, be sure to stop for awhile. It is called "The Friendly City," and well merits the name. It is cosmopolitan in its activities; its buildings are fine and modern; its streets are wide and straight. It is a beautiful city of about 57,000 population, the county seat of San Bernardino County, "which holds the distinction of being the largest county in the world. 'This city of beauty and unlimited advantages, stands as a monument to the ingenuity of those farseeing men who engineered and planned it; a monument to the stout hearts of that fine group of Latter-day Saints who first settled in its valley. Perhaps San Bernardino, as a city, would never have been a reality, had not ex-soldiers of the Mormon Battalion in California carried back tales of the country they had left, and of its superior advantages. These tales stimulated the desire of the saints in Salt Lake City to go there, and by 1850, many were anxtous-to move toward the Pacific. Because of this, and a need to establish a wagon road to California, and also a place where converts, arriving from various points, might rest and equip themselves for the journey to Utah, consent was given for the move. ~The "Manuscript History" of President Brigham Young states that the original plan for this settlement called for about twenty persons, ise or fortune ever leads you whereas, when they were assembled, the number approached five hundred. Elders Amasa M. Lyman and Charles C. Rich were appointed as leaders. Elder Parley P. Pratt, who was heading a group of missionaries en route to the South Sea Islands, also accompanied the party. From his diary, and the diary of Elder Rich, comes much valuable information regarding the trip. Brother Rich mentions Andrew Lytle as "Captain of hundreds," and David Seely and Joseph Mathews as "Captains of fifties." He refers, also, to Parley Pratt, Captain Jefferson Hunt, Samuel Rolph, and Wellington Seely as "Captains of tens," and to Elder Amasa Lyman as "Captain of two tens." We know, from this, that the movement was well organized. During the early part of the journey the company traveled in two sections. In all, there were 150 wagons, 588 oxen, 336 cows, 21 young stock, 107 horses, 52 mules, and about 437 men, women, and childen. Needless to say, formidable difficulties faced them and, while their approximate route was the old Spanish trail of the thirties and forties, maay were the trials encountered from the heavy desert sands, rocky couatry, steep mountain grades, and attacks by Indians. Stretches of dry desert wastes, with little water or food foi the animals. Were a constant hazard. Page 385 386 dite OG MORMON GRISTMILL The photograph shows the gristmill, as it was remodeled by William A. Conn, after the departure of the Latter-day Saint colonists, Many accounts are told of the treacherous journey of this company, of their faith and their constant appeals to God to strengthen them and their teams, and of their miraculous deliverance from the horrors of the desert. One can, therefore, imagine their great joy, that this trip was made with so little loss and misfortune. At the latter end of the journey, Amasa M. Lyman, Captain Jefferson Hunt, Joseph Mathews, and Charles C. Rich preceded the wagon trains, and on June 9, 1851, reached the sycamore pene near the southern end of Cajox Pass. Captain Seely's fifties reached this point two days later, June 41, 1851. The date on which these weary and footsore Mormon poneers paused on the edge of the San Bernardino Valley, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 is, indeed, a memorable one in valley history. ITHIN a month of their arrival at the sycamore grove, this colony of saints held their first conference. David Seely was elected President of the mission, with Samuel Rolfe and Simeon Andréws as counselors, and Richard R. Hopkins as secretary. From the intimate views of life in San Bernardino as recorded in the minutes of Brother Hopkins, much rich material has been gathered. That the pioneers were welcomed into the valley, first reservedly, then with greater confidence, 'because of their apparent fine qualities, is certain from an account taken from The Los Angeles Star early in July 1851, which reads: We learn that they (the Mormons) are negotiating for the purchase of the Rancho of San Bernardino from the family of Don Antonio Maria Lugo, by whom it jis held. This is the site of the old Mission of San Bernardino. Here probably this interesting people will make their first establishment on the shores of the Pacific. A later and less reserved mention is quoted from the same source: The Mormons are an industrious community, and will develop the resources of this county to an extent that will give it an importance second to no county in the state. After careful consideration, negotiations were concluded for the purchase of the San Bernardino Rancho for the sum of $77,500. One realizes, from this, the vast undertaking and obligation that lay ahead of these settlers. In those days the settleré were vulnerable to vicious attacks by the Indians regardless of the friendly attitude the saints held for them, and THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS IN SAN BERNARDINO it was necessary to build a strong stockade, which was accomplished by the donated work of all the men of the settlement. 'The stockade occupied approximately 700 x 300 feet of space. The walls were of fifteenfoot cottonwood and willow logs, split in half, and set three feet in the ground side by side. Upon this spot, where once stood the stockade, the fine building of the San Bernardino County Court House now stands, while a marker designates the place as "The Mormon Stockade." Crowded into this small space, housewives must have had many nerve-wracking experiences, for the men were away the greater part of the time. They were heroines, indeed. Here they remained, waiting for the surveying and the laying out of the city. As with all Latter-day Saint setilements, the planting of crops was paramount. It is recorded that by December 1851, a field of 1300 acres 387 was selected as a grain field, and a 300-acre field for summer crops. Also a tract for a vineyard was laid out. Early in April, Elders Lyman and Rich planted the center stake for the City of San Bernardino on Tem- - ple Block (now Pioneer Park). This - was located on E Street, between: Fifth and Sixth Streets. Mr. Hess, a_ surveyor, assisted them. When the ave HF streets were laid out, the ones run-, ning east and west were numbered as at present, but those running north and south were given names. The present E Street was Salt Lake Street, and D Street was Utah Street. A canvas pavilion had served as an assembly hall, but in April, a "bowery" was erected. It was an adobe building sixty by thirty feet. Here the conference was held April 6, 1852. This building served for day school for 125 scholars, under the direction of two well-qualified teachers and was also used for Sunday services. Much mention is CITY OF SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA, 1857 The building with the flagstaff is the Latter-day Saint Council House. Bishop William Crosby's hotel and garden are on the right. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE- 1948 RUINS OF THE ADOBE HOME OF AMASA M. LYMAN This home, built in 1854, burned in 1865. The Bowery, or Council House, is in the background. Made of the importance of schooling for the children of the settlement. The first gristmill for the production of flour was located near the intersection of the present Mill and Allen Streets. The mill wheel was to be turned by water diverted from Warm Creek. This work was begun in May 1852. A note dated June 26, 1852, written by Brother Hopkins, is of special interest: Today we have the pleasure of receiving news from our friends in the Valley (Salt Lake).... Near nine months has elapsed without our hearing a word from them. All hands turned out and gave hearty welcome to eight numbers of the Deseret News. HAT the spirit of love and charity existed in this early settlement is very evident by the fact that the first Fourth of July was celebrated, on July 5 (the Fourth being Sunday), by harvesting the grain of EIder Rich, during his absence on a trip to Salt Lake City. Every July Fourth, thereafter, was celebrated in patniotic fashion. That the valley was fertile and crops successful is certain, for it ls recorded, at a "Harvest Feast," held September 4, 1852, such specimens were displayed as a stalk of Indian corn sixteen feet high; four onions weighing nine and one half pounds; a cabbage weighing twenty-four and one half pounds; with melons, squashes, and other vegetables in. Proportion. On November 7, 1852, Colonel Henry Washington, a United States. Deputy surveyor, completed erection of a monument on the top of Mt. San Bernardino. Through it ran the base line from which surveys in the southern part of California were, and still are made. This street is called Base Line today. In the Fall of 1852, Captain Jefferson Hunt was elected to the Legislature of California and in April THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS IN SAN BERNARDINO 1853, he introduced a bill to form San Bernardino County from the eastern portion of Los Angeles County. This bill was passed. The following month, Elders Lyman and Rich and Brother Thorpe began work upon their sawmill on Mill Creek. This met the settlers' needs for several months; then, in order to reach the top of the San Bernardino mountains, where a greater amount of timber could be obtained and where another mill would furnish further lumber, it was necessary to build a road. This enormous task was accomplished by the men of the Latter-day Saints' settlementalone. It is estimated that the project cost about 1000 days of labor. A monument, in honor of the men who built the road, was erected in 1932, at a point where the old road, made by them, crosses the present highway. One wonders at the great accom FIRST STE a aa Sake oye AM MILL IN THE SAN BERNARDINO MOUNTAINS 389 plishments of these early-day settlers, and especially at the building of so many sawmills, which space will not permit to be enumerated, nor credit given to their builders, but for which an engine and boiler were even dismantled from a British vessel, and hauled into San Bernardino. 'This was done by Charles Crismon who is credited with having the first steam sawmill on the mountain top. Brother Crismon was active in many sawmill operations. Equipment for another mill was shipped around the Horn to Wilmington. The equipment for the various mills was evidently freighted to the mountain tops by the use of block and tackle or the snubbing post, and the united strength of many oxen. The Latterday Saint settlers furnished, not only their own people, but Southern California, as well, with flour and lumber from their mills. This mill was built in Huston Flat, about 1853, by Charles Crismon. In 1865, it was moved to Blue Jay camp in Little Bear Valley, then to Pacific Electric camp, and finally to Lake Arrowhead. ' DEDICATION OF PIONEER MONUMENT ON HIGH-GEAR ROAD, 1932 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 This monument, in the San Bernardino Mountains, marks the point where the present highway crosses the old Mormon road, which was built for hauling lumber down from the mountains. ANY new settlers were now arriving in San Bernardino valley from various points and news was becoming more plentiful with their arrival. At about this time, Elder Lyman, Elder Rich, and their company began the erection of a store building. Goods for the store were bought in San Francisco, and shipped by steamer to San Pedro. Ten teams hauled these goods from the steamer to San Bernardino. In September 1853, the survey of the City of San Bernardino and the laying off of the streets was begun. The city was divided into. Blocks with one-acre lots, and it now became possible for families to leave the stockade, and begin to build homes. This was followed by an era of building business blocks and various community structures, as well. In 1853, the saints in the valley also came into personal contact with a national undertaking. This was of great importance, for, under the direction of Jefferson Davis, then Secretary of War, the Federal Government surveyed Cajon Pass with reference to its suitability as a railroad pass. The next year, the City of San Bernardino was incorporated, and on June 5th was held the election for the first city officers, as follows: Mayor, Amasa Lyman; the council, C. C. Rich, G. W. Sirrine, Daniel Starks, William J. Cox, and Q. S. Sparks; marshall, J. D. Holliday; assessor, Theodore Turley; treasurer, J. H. Rollins; attorney, A. A. M. Jackson. Ordinances were adopted to restrict drinking and gambling. In the spring of 1855, freighting to Salt Lake began on a commercial scale. The United States Government had expended $25,000 of the amount needed for improvement of a road between Utah and California. tockade. Note the street marker, With the Court house, and designating it as the "Mormon Stockade." making quite a train, left San Bern. Vember 3q found quite a number atdino for Salt Lake City. Ip this of the Saints leaving San Bernardino train was Joseph H. Ridges, 4 S02 itor Wei It is Easy to imagine the vert from Australia, Who later built heartache and disappointment felt The *©SPOnsibility of the ProperOn February 15, 1858, Brother 'Y, and its remaining indebtedness, Ebenezer Hanks formally deeded to NOW rested on Ebenezer Hanks, [Tp William A. Conn, George [. Tuck. © Tecords of Brother Hopkins 4Per, and Richard G. Allen, the last Pears the following: of the San Bemardinog Rancho— October 30. The mai] from Great Salt about 25,000 acres for the sum of Lake ty arrived at San ardino with 18,000, IS cleared € inthing a od 5a Brig: a ebtedness an left a litt] balance P| S$ oO ou ains in. Tah) is th place for the ial j aptain Jeffers a8, per- 4PS, One of the last to leave the val- 'THIs was about the me when - So end One of the most he co & of Johnston', Ar touching chapters in the history of threatened Cunty of the Ppeotter-day Saint Ploneerin % Note: Th uthor used "Heritage of.. 5 Otee Ca factor which Influenced President the Valley" by George Wr. And Helen p Brigham Young to recall the San Beattie as 4 basis for Much of the Informa- €ts. On No i icle. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1888 "For tHe RicuTs OF THE WoMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" BRIGHAM YOUNG We do not call thee Chieftain, Thy cheek would flush to hear Earth's titles woven with thy name, And whispered in thine ear, As well presume to gild the sun, Or paint earth's brightest flowers; We only call thee Brigham Young, We only call thee ours. —Sarah E. Carmichael EDUCATION IN UTAH: Simultaneously with the constructing of homes, the subduing of lands, began educational work in Utah. It was like all things else a difficult and rather unpleasant undertaking, as there were so few conveniences; but it became the task of a noble and bright young woman—Mary Jane Dilworth, afterward wife of Bishop F. A. Hammond—to collect in her brother-in-law's tent, even before the houses were built, and instruct the children who were playing away the sunny hours in the courtyard of the old fort. This was the first school in Utah, and the first scheal teacher was a woman. As other companies of children arrived in the valleys and the people spread out in other directions, other schools were started and the demand for teachers became greater. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, our editor, pleasingly tells of a little school of 65 kept by herself in 1851-52 in a log building in the upper part of the city; how, without desks, charts, black boards, or scarcely two books of the same kind, she toiled as an instructress—A. W. C. NOTE: The Queen of Sweden has been ordered by her doctors to get up early, make her own bed, take care of her own room, work in the garden, and take long walks. Under this regimen, her health is visibly improving.—Selected. THE ALLOWANCE: We think that husband who has any certainty of income would do well to take into consideration the subject of his wife's wages, and see if he cannot accord to her the spending of one unquestioned dollar, and then make, according to his ability, some fixed allowance of money, be it ever so small, on which the wife can rely, and over which she can be absolute mistress. We can hardly think of a case where it would not work well. Without doubt, any head of a house would find his advantage in this course, in the character it would give his household, in the happy sense of responsibility it would give his wife, and in relief from requests and advice in small things which it would give himself.—Selected. FROM RAMAH, NEW MEXICO: We are having a most lovely spring, after the severest winter ever known in this place since the Saints settled here. Our prospects are bright and everything is promising —Phebe A. McNeil. == AN INVENTION: The Empress Victoria of Germany has turned inventor. From plans drawn by her, a writing desk has been manufactured which enables the Emperor to write whether lying in bed or standing up. It is available in any position, and the mechanism is said to be intricate and remarkably effective —Selected. Page 392 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon N March, Utah music lovers listened to Dorothy Eustis, playing, as concert pianist with the Utah State symphony orchestra, a brilliant and sympathetic rendition of the Grieg concerto. Across America, from Town Hall and Syracuse, New York, to Seattle and California, she has given concerts, playing with Beecham, Iturbi, Kruger, Stokowski, Sevitzky. She is regarded as one of the foremost young pianists in America. She made piano recordings for the moving picture Carnegie Hall. The great-grandparents of Miss Eustis lived in Utah, and Dorothy is married to Phillip Farnsworth Cannon, son of Mr. And Mrs. Espey T. Cannon of Salt Lake City. LYDIA HAMP BAKER (Mrs. Charles Baker), believed to be Utah's second oldest woman, celebrated her 100th birthday in Febtuary. She is a convert to the Church from Northamptonshire, England. MBS GERHARDENA _ ALBRIGTSEN TAYLOR, 08, died March 21. A convert to the Church from Norway, she married John Wade Taylor in 1885 and has since lived in Ogden. She was both teacher and treasurer in the Third Ward Relief Society there. ORA PATE STEWART'S book, God Planted a Tree, is a genealogical picture of the generations of God's covenant children from Adam through the various dispensations. By graphs, intelligent condensation, and piquant comment, the material is made vital, clear, and interesting. HE nationally-known Ziff-Davis Company has announced that any woman in its organization who gives birth to a baby will receive three months' leave of absence with full pay. MMA M. BROADBENT, wife of David A. Broadbent, daughter of Joseph R. Murdock, and mother of fourteen children and grandmother of twenty-six grandchildren, has recently been honored as "Utah State Mother" for 1948. Mrs. Broadbent's Church and civic service has been outstanding and she is known as a charming and gracious homemaker, a devoted friend, and a good Samaritan among her neighbors. T the Girl Scout Convention in Long Beach, California, a Utah woman, Mrs. Alan H. Means, was presented an award of appreciation for services rendered. Now honorary vice-president of the organization, Mrs. Means was national president from 1941 to 1946. N June 18, 1873, Susan B. Anthony was fined because she insisted on voting at an election in Rochester, New York. Page 393 HE relationship between a father and a daughter js particularly Precious. The father gives protection, provides the necessities of life, and above all bestows his priceless companionship, The daughter, as she grows and develops in discern. Ment and appreciation, gives love, admiration, Tespect, and obedience. These emotions and loyalties are bright strands that hold the family close together. Most important in the life of the daughter are the early, vulnerable years, which may not be remembered, but which, nevertheless, shape the pliable contour of all the years to come. The father and daughter began to get acquainted when the father took his baby in his arms and cradled her with tenderness. The attachment grew as they went walking together. She was only as tall as his knees and there was a great distance from there up to the top of the father's head, but his face was kind and she could look up and see how the wind ruffled his hair and she could look down and see the great strides his feet made, and she had to skip fast to keep up with him. How tenderly a father watches and protects his daughter through the years of young womanhood, knowing that in her choice of friends and in her developing attitudes, lie the great determiners of all her future life. Few fathers would ever say, "See that you get a husband as good as your old father Page 394 once established for her. Overlooking faults, always strengthening virtues, the true father stands back of his children in strength and tenderness. He is old and becomes gradually less able to take an active part in life, more and more he appreciates the frequent letter, the cheerful visits, the little remembrances and words of appreciation. Every unselfish, hard-working father is a great man—and he should be made to feel that his accomplishments have been far above the power of his children to measure, I would keep forever in my heart the picture of my father standing in the doorway of our adobe ranch house, which he had built with his own hands, looking out over the golden acres of wheat that rippled up to the cedared hills. I would Temember his words, as he pointed to the harvest, "There is your college education." And then the grip of his hand as he said, "It will be lonely without you." But the love of a father endures forever—a_treasuie never dulled by time or distance. — V. P. C. VOL. 35 JUNE 1948 Annual Family Life Institute at Brigham Young University, June 20-25, © purpose of the lecture mily relations.. A ADDITION TO MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1947 "[#20ucH an oversight the Ivins Ward, Wells Stake, was omitted from the Honor subscription list of 99, making a Percentage of 8>. Ee ADVENTURING " Bertha A. Kleinman est of all romance home land! I covet the gold in the Crystal fane hat dazzles across the town, And find it all in my window pane As the golden sun goes down! Avaunt then to adventurin n miraged sea and shore, here is no zest SO keen a thing As the romance at my door! Page 395 Roll published in the May agazine. This ward had a membership of 15, and a L. V. MeNeely THE WASATCH RANGE EAST OF SALT LAKE CITY LET THE HEART SOAR C. Cameron Johns Let the heart soar higher than these hills, Beyond the barriers of space and time, To where bright panoramas lie Untenanted—realms of the sublime. For we have need of vistas such as these Illimitable plains; we need to see The meagerness of transitory days Against the vastness of eternity. DEFINITION John M. Freckleton But yet, Prayer, more than words, Combines the humble attitude With inarticulate beseeching. As if The troubled spirit-child, With hungry, searching arms, Unto his Father-God were reaching. Page 396 Far. Country Gladys I. Hamilton HE conductor touched Ann T Medford's trim-suited shoulder and Murmured, "We're coming into Rockwood how, Miss, Our station," "Thank you," Ann said Pleasantly, but her hands WETE so clammy cold For the hundredth time since leaving Ohio, and her home, Ann wondered if Jim would like her. And, Ann was stil] quite good. AD she saw him! Jim would be waiting on the platJim, his y gone away shortly afterward, So the Immediate question of their letters Was, could they still fan the flame of that old love into the had b "T know my mind," Jim had wiitten, " little Ann, for if you follow your heart you will be coming to a far country," Page 397 398 HE train screeched to a stop and the ding-dong of the engine's bell sent shivery reverberations through Ann's breast. 'The porter, with her suit cases, was beckoning toward the door so that she had no time to scan the platform. She bit her underlip. What if she couldn't stand Jim? What if he wore untidy clothes, and.... And had acquired bad habits! Well, she thought, a person can always be honest and say she has made a mistake. But Jim wasn't there! 'The depot's weathered, splintery old platform was the most deserted, desolate spot she had ever set foot on in all her life! The conductor must have noted her look of horror, for he said calmly, "We'll be here ten minutes, Miss." Had she really, deep in her heart, expected Jim to meet her? No. For the first time, she was inclined to agree with her mother's judgment of his character. Ann tried to cover her disappointment and surprise from the gaze of the other passengers by walking briskly to the far end of the platform and looking off into the desert. The odor of sagebrush was pleasantly strong. It was the first time she had ever smelled it, but she knew instinctively what it was, and she liked it! But her inner being felt hollow with terror. Had Jim at the very last moment decided that he couldn't face her? She knew that the habits of middle age were hard to fling aside. Perhaps he had suddenly realized the contentment of bachelorhood's unfettered days! "This is western scenery, Ann," she told herself. "Enjoy it!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 The sun was shining with a dazzling brilliance on the shimmering prairies stretching for endless miles on either side of the bleak little station. She thought that she had never seen such cloud-dotted blue, blue sky. Miles to the north, purple mountains broke the line of the horizon. Jim once said that he lived north of the railroad. A man was hurrying up the track from the big, red water tank, and Ann held her breath. Could that be Jim? But no, this man was small and his hair, under his cap, was snowy white. "Mornin', Ma'am! Can I he'p ya?" he asked pleasantly. "I—I was to meet a Mr. James Wallace. But he isn't here. Did— is there a message?" "No, Ma'am, I ain't seen Jim fer..." He scratched his tumpled locks in thought. "Why, I ain't seen Jim fer two weeks come Monday. He come down to get some freight. Kinda fancy stuff, too, 'pears to me!" he added with a wink. The engine's bell began to clang and great puffs of black smoke darkened the sky. Ann thanked the old man and, with a stiff little smile frozen on her lips, climbed aboard the train and returned to her seat, while the porter brought back her bags. She tried to lose herself in the thythm of the clicking wheels as the train gathered momentum. Perhaps it was better this way. The years might have done queer things to that lovable boy she had known and adored. It was quite possible that she could hate him as a man! What to do now? Go on forever in the Hallerton Library? She even chuckled at the mental picture of FAR COUNTRY herself handing out weighty tomes to the literati of Hallerton, dressed in those new western togs folded so neatly in her suitcase, depleting her clothes' budget for a year! The train made another ten-minute stop at Cottonwood, but Ann did not raise the curtain, caring not at all that this was a sizable town of the real West, another part of her dream. Right now she had no taste for a country that could make a man so changeable that he did not know his own mind for more than four days at a time! For Jim's last letter had been ecstatic with anticipation. The vast prairies could be cruel, too, she supposed. The train gathered more miles under itself, nosing out toward the Coast. Ann supposed that something would help her decide what to do in due time. New friends, new hobbies, anything to keep from _remembering. The porter roused her, "You Miss Medford?" "Why... Yes, Iam." Ann straightened with surprise and thought that something dreadful must have happened to her brother and his family back home—her only relatives. HE porter handed her, not a telegram, but a folded piece of paper. "A gentleman asked me to hand this to you, Miss." Jim's writing! All the color drained from Ann's face, and for a moment she could not force herself to read his words for fear of what they might say. Probably the very thing she had 399 reasoned out for herself. He had changed his mind! The porter stood patiently in the aisle, as if waiting for a tip, or an answer, or both. Ann read quickly: Dearest Ann: Heaven doesn't come to me easily, it seems. I was hurt this morning by a horse, not badly, but enough so that my partner had to rush me to Cottonwood where the doctor fixed me up before train time. 'Telegraphed and learned that you were aboard. I'm bedded down in a compartment. Guess you'll have to come all the way, sweetheart. Love, Jim. Ann's big moment was still before her! She trembled and a crimson spot burned in each cheek. Her heart was pounding like a tom-tom as she followed the porter's broad back. At length he paused, then motioned her inside. "Ann! Oh, little Ann! I knew you'd look just like this." Jim's pleasant voice came vibrant and tender from the white pillows. And there was Jim. Her old lovable Jim! A trifle heavier, perhaps. More masculine. She noted that the years had painted his crisp black hair slightly gray at the temples, too; but he seemed the same grand person her daydreams had pictured him. "Oh, Jim," Ann whispered as she dropped down beside him. "I... I don't know what to say! The past..., Our.... Our future.... Where shall we begin?" Jim's eyes quitked up in their wellremembered old twinkle as he drawled: "Well, we might start with a kiss...." and he drew her into his arms. Remember Pomanders? Elizabeth Williamson AKING pomanders isn't a M new idea; in fact it is a very old one. Grandmother made them, true, but centuries before her time they were in use. The superstitious peoples of the middle ages wore them on chains around their necks. Instead of the pomander we know, these ancient pomanders were small metal containers beautifully designed. They were worn to ward off the plague and to protect the wearer from contagious diseases. Frequently they contained a tiny book of prayers or spells. Occasionally they held herbs and spices as a scent, that were believed to serve as a disinfectant. By the time the pomander had reached our grandmothers it had changed considerably. The only feature that it had retained was that of furnishing fragrance. Fruit took the place of metal. Its purpose was no longer connected with superstitious belief. Now it served to scent the linens and keep the closets and boxes perfumed. Pomanders are easily made: take an apple (some people prefer oranges or lemons) and cover it with whole cloves pushed in to the head, and sprinkle with cinnamon. Let the pomander dry until the juices evaporate and the fragrance of the spices is absorbed by the fruit. Wrap in cellophane, tie with a pretty ribbon, and you have a lovely and unusual gift. WAYSIDE ROSE Anna Prince Redd White rose, I cup you in my hand And marvel that you grew Here in the desert, to expand Into a chalice for the dew. Page 400 Let's Have Cake Ethel C. Smith Member, Relief Society General Board OW that we are back once N more on free and easy terms with our sugar bins, it should not be difficult to answer the challenging query, "What's for dessert?" made by the small fry in our families as they gather around the dinner table, their expectant eyes shining from freshly scrubbed faces. If it's to be cake, they will all be delighted, as cake, in its varied forms and flavors, is a favorite of young and old alike. It is also a favorite with the cook because it is so versatile, standing alone on its own merits, Or mixing companionably with fruit, ice cream, and various sauces; and it is the perfect accompaniment to punch or a glass of milk. It can be served as a dinner or luncheon dessert, is an old standby as a party refreshment, and behaves well when sent along to school in the lunch box. There is an art to turning out a perfect: cake, in which many cooks take the same pride and delight that an artist takes in blending colors and capturing a picture on canvas. Cakes may vary in shape—they may be round, oblong, square, or of some more elaborate form—but a perfect cake is always attractive in appearance and of uniform thickness. The crust is delicate brown, thin, tender, and slightly crisp, with no cracks. Perfect cake is light, tender, and moist. It has an even, fine-grained texture and a delicate flavor. Most experienced cooks prepare some favorite dishes by taste or instinct, using the "pinch of this and dash of that" method with excellent results. In the matter of cake making, however, there are a few basic tules which must be followed if the desired results are to be forthcoming. There is, no doubt, merit in the new so-called "mix-easy" method of cake making being suggested by some manufacturers of cake flour, especially where the saving of time is of great importance. Recipes and directions are furnished by the manufacturers in their packages of flour, should you care to try them. However, the real thrill of making a cake comes from beating, blending, and mixing the different ingredients a step at a time, and from the perfect product which will reward the cook who gives the ingredients individual attention and introduces them to each other with due. Consideration. A culinary triumph is assured the cook who will use a tested recipe and will be guided by the following basic rules: Use Good Ingredients © Only ingredients that are strictly fresh and of good quality should be used if you wish to make a fine cake. The shortening must be of the best quality. There is nothing equal to butter for putting real flavor in a cake, but because of the high cost of butter today, it is sometimes necessary to substitute other shortenings when the recipe calls for butter. The following are equivalent to one-half cup butter: Page 401 402 " cup oleomargarine 7 tablespoons vegetable shortening 6% tablespoons lard 1% cups thick cream RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE— june 194g to settle down and become hea Use cither the beating oy folding Motion for mixing. Wh the flour is added. In butter cakes the Sugar and shortening should be } blended into q light, fluffy, smooth the eggs or egg which j § with dry in. Gtedients, A 800d plan to follow Is to add a thitd of the flour and half of the milk at a time, alternate. Ly. As these ingredients are added, the mixing speed should be Teduced. At the same time, dawdling is not LET'S HAVE CAKE with a spatula or rubber scraper. If egg whites are to be added separately from the yolks, they should be stiffly beaten and folded in after the dry ingredients and liquid have been mixed. Nuts and fruits, if called for, come last and should be folded in, after being lightly dredged with flour. The dredging helps them to stick to the dough in the proper places instead of huddling together at the bottom of the pan. UST as soon as the cake is mixed and poured into the pans it should be whisked into the oven without delay. 'The light, fluffy mixture which will be the result of your efforts thus far will assume a sad, depressed attitude if kept waiting for the comforting warmth of the oven. If the baking pans haven't been prepared beforehand, or the oven hasn't reached the desired heat, or if you stop to answer the telephone, your cake will get even with you for your neglect by being heavy and sad. Pans in which butter cakes are to be baked should be well greased and lightly floured; but pans for butterless cakes, such as sponge or angel food, should never be greased. Cake pans should be filled twothirds full and set in, or near, the center of the oven so the cake will bake evenly.. Baking This is a very important step in cake making. Many fine batters have been ruined in the baking. The oven temperature and time required for baking depend upon the size and kind of cake. For successful baking results the ovep temperature must be uniform, not constantly rising 403 and falling. Most cakes should be baked at a temperature of 350 to 375 degrees. A slightly increased temperature should be used at higher altitudes. There are several ways to tell when a cake is done, and it is well to use some of these tests even though the cake has been baked the specified length of time. First, the cake should have finished rising and should have a delicate brown crust; second, the cake should have ceased the "singing" sound; third, the cake should have shrunk slightly from the sides of the pan; fourth, the surface of the cake, when pressed lightly with the finger, should spring back and leave no imprint if it is done; fifth, a wire cake tester or a toothpick inserted in the center of the cake should come out clean and dry if the cake is done. After baking, butter cakes should be inverted on a cake rack and allowed to stand for about five minutes before the pan is removed. It may be advisable to run a spatula or a knife around the outside of the cake to loosen it from the pan before inverting. Sponge and angel food cakes should not be loosened from the pan while warm, as this will cause them to shrink. They should be inverted and allowed to hang in the pan for one hour, or until cold. High Altitude Baking At high altitude there should be a slight reduction of the baking powder and sugar given in cake recipes and the liquid may need to be increased a little. The baking temperature should be a little higher. This chart for higher altitudes has been found satisfactory: —JUNE 948 3900 to 4000 ft. 4000 to S500 ft Over 5500 ft. Reduce baking Powder by % % % €duce Sugar by No Change % cu 1/3 cu aking temperature © change 375° 375° Up to 3°00 feet no adjustments necessary, RECIPES CHOCOLATE FUDGE CAKE thicken d; then r move and cool A Cup milk Cream crite "2 cup butte (or P& amount of pr "rred shortenin ) 1/4 cups Sugar Add and Sn3 well-beaten €ggs 1 teaspoon vanilla Sift and Se 2 cups flour Resift oe 1. Teaspoon Cream of tartar 7 teaspoon Soda 4 teaspoon salt Add dry ingredients alternately With % cup Sweet milk Mix wel] after each addition Add Cooled chocolate Mixture, and mix Wel] If desired, — SS 72 cup Chopped y, nuts, lightly dredged With floyr Our into ty, Well g sed, lightly floured lay Pans, and bake for 30 Minutes gt 350°, or one large Pan and bake mutes, FUDGE FROSTING Constantly, until Creamy and Slight} small piec hg a BY 3 CUp milk Add tet ceseeecnenes 2 CUPS sugar * _ tablespoons light com syru ash of salt T until sugar js dissolved and mixture boils. © tinue cook Ng, without Stirring, until of righ Consistency to Spread. BURNT SUGAR CAKE Put into Skillet or Pan over med; m heat and 5 ir until it melts and throws an Intense ¢ ee~ 74 cup Sugar €Move from fire and ie 1 cup hot Water Allow to Stand unti] Sugar dissolves Remove from fj ee egetitee T€ and coo]. Ma (or Preper ferred shortening). CA Cups Sugar Kes; CUP syrup. Amount of Pre. Cook together Over low Stirring constantly, until Creamy and slight] Cook together Over low heat, Stirring until a smal} 48 Very little co king is Tequired ) 1 tablespoon f butter. 143 squares UNSWeetened Chocolate, cut in Small pieces 14 squares UNSWeetened chocolate, Cut in Cunt of mixtur forms a Very soft ball in old water (watch Carefully "Move from fire and pour into 4 bowl to Cool. Ad et stand unti lukewarm. Add, teaspoon vanilla and beat ' Resift twice with -LET'S HAVE CAKE Add and beat well Sift and measure --.---------eerecreeee ee Resift twice. With ceacensecsnnanaqnanesnon ene mer eT TT Mix together and add alternately with dry ingredients.--.---------rrrrr™ Fold in If desired, add ~ well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs teaspoons vanilla 214 cups flour 214 teaspoons baking powder \4 teaspoon salt 1 cup water Y% cup burnt sugar syrup stiffly-beaten whites of 2 eggs 4 cup chopped nuts, lightly dredged with flour Pour into two well-greased, lightly-floured layer pans and bake for 30 minutes at 350°, or one large cake pan an d bake for 45 minutes. BURNT SUGAR FROSTING Mix together ten minutes, solved and beat thoroughly for or until sugar is disCook without stirring until a small amount of mixture cold water. Cool and add 1 teaspoon of the. Right consistency to spread. 2 cups sugar 34 cup light cream oF top milk 4 cup burnt sugar syrup dash of salt forms a very soft ball in vanilla. Beat until smooth and creamy and PRUNE CAKE cee caccnscccceceonenecore sense mmee meee rere Cream together Add and beat Wel] _a-n-c-ce-cececesesesesceceeseeteeet Sift amd measure...-----------scereee ee Mix together and add alternately with "dry ingredients...-----------rerrerreren™ Add inutes, Bake in layers at 35 cake is good frosted wi sugar icing made with orange juice, NEVER FAIL Beat together until light and fluffy (about 15 minutes if beating by hand) ° o° for 30 m grated Sift and measure - Resift three times with Add alternately with Fold in Y4, cup butter (or proper amount of ferred shortening) cup sugar prewell-beaten eggs cups flour teaspoons baking powder 14 teaspoon salt teaspoon cinnamon teaspoon ground cloves %% cup prune juice Y% cup milk cup stewed prunes, pitted and cut into small pieces, into which has been mixed 1 teaspoon soda 1 or in one large cake pan for 45 minutes. This th white mountain or seven-minute icing, OT with a powder orange rind, and butter. SPONGE CAKE yolks of 4 eggs cup sugar cup prepared cake flour teaspoon baking powder pinch of salt cup orange juice or lemon juice stiffly-beaten whites of 4 eggs teaspoon vanilla their cheeks and puncture your cake with holes, Bake at 325° for 3° to 4o minutes, ote: While this IS not a true Sponge cake because it Telies on the baking Powder for Part of the leavening, it is an excellent mock Sponge cake and has a finer texture than Many SPOnge cakes calling foy More eggs, his cake ig 800d frosted With a Powdered Sugar icing, or Served with any number of fruit or cream sauces. It fairly loves &etting together With the Proper amounts of sliced bananas and whipped Cream under the title "Banana Cream Cake." And here's another AVorite yar; On, if you are a reckless mo d can laugh at the Present hig}, Split j % making two ayers. Make filling as fol] Mix. Sel ae Juice of 3 lemons 114 cups Sugar % pound butter eggs And one cringed hopelessly, bowed to doom; ut one had a heart that Was brave and Bay, How did | know?_why, this was the sign: The house that held Courage and laughter still, d and ¢ in and short and rather stubborn, But king and true—ang Tam &lay and old. COSt. Of eggs bake the ke in g Square pan. £1 cool, remove from the Pan and » OF they tend to lose ave long Preserved the fruits co Or and turn own They should Of summer for Winter appetites, be Picked; their Plime and Pressed Y should not then the fingers of ™mediately. For this TPose have the garden lover reserve the blos at hand gq number of ojg books and Soms of the Season f, beauty-hun a few heavy rocks to use as Weights eyes, since, as the po Housman ne book ill press Severa] flowers ye. Tole at things; ] | dage, "As the Of care Preparation twig is bent.» and the wh le fami] ca "+ for, as you place the flowers between the leaves of the * book, so you will fing them Shaped T seen q Pressed-flower h m Trange the. 1 still, have OU petals In the most &tacefy] Way, with ever made one? Not on Yate these 5 Out an inch or MOre margin at the Pictures delightfy] Varia to hang top and bottom of the page. Then "PON your own Walls, but they make "Ose the book and compress for a charming gifts moment ore placing the next €n the fa ily become InterOwer, €n the book js filled ested, they will, volun ly, turn colWeight it with a rock Or other books €ctors and by "8 home from neighand 4 Tock t them stand undis OTs, relatiy, » and f, nds Speci turbed until dry Period of two MENS not foy YOur own garden Weeks or mor, *Petimentation Il soon Prove Smal] Tock-garden Plants, blue Ww. Flowers old th form and Cronica, white tock-garden Spirea Color best + Tough th Process of and Many others are dainty when Pressing, p t press them in abunPressed. Iniature Toses and buds "nCe, since the Steater the Vatity ¢ Usters of Gj bing Tosebuds, the of flowers, € more PPortunities pink ones, ©specially, are exquisite. They afford for the ma Ing Of satis. Columbine, >: Colors, Valeriana, smal] zInNias, and e Ng Of pressed flower pic all daisies Te 800d materia] Pansies, tures has ext 'V€ Possibilities the Careful] Pressed, are by; ht and art as wel] a6? Tine: or €rcial_ colorg. L. Sweet Peas, ©specially white field. Wever, here o EW sugOnes, are translucent and ethereg] Sestions a Sven for those Wishing to try ha t @ Picture, are Particularly dePage 407 408 lightful to work with, either in flowerets, or using the whole stock, because of their lovely shades of blue. Yellow, pink, and blue hold color well. Some reds and orchids tend to darken slightly. As beginners, try pressing types of flowers which are not too heavy, such as large roses, nor too fragile, such as nasturtiums. B* the end of your pressing season, you should have gathered, in your spare moments, a few interesting picture frames from dime stores or used-furniture marts. For the beginner, not wishing to make his own frames and not quite ready to attempt large, elaborate pictures, small, quaint, decorative frames are most suitable. A distinctive and inexpensive one is of dark mahogany, about an inch wide, with gilt beading at the inner edge. Other supplies needed are a few g x 12-inch sheets of good drawing paper to use as backgrounds for your flower compositions. When you ate ready for the framing, have this equipment at your elbow: a pair of pliers, a supply of small pictureframing nails, a spool of thread and, if desired, a few hand-tied bows of pastel colored velvet baby ribbon to place near the stem ends. When flowers and materials are ready, and you havea long, free, sunny day, prepare yourself for an uninterrupted period of delightful concentration. You will find that the children can, with your help, work out some attractive pictures of their own. Prepare frames by drawing out the nails with pliers from the backs of the pictures. Remove the glass and lay it aside until needed, DisRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 card the picture of the movie celebrity and keep the cardboard backing. Cut the drawing paper to fit the cardboard and on this drawing paper, fitted over the cardboard, build your picture. Distributé your beauty crop of pressed flowers carefully over a white sheet on a large table where light is favorable and abundant. Spread the flowers in one layer so that you can see them all at a glance, for you will need to try out many combinations before finding the arrangement that is most pleasing. You will learn to keep each picture in one mood, that is, to select flowers agreeable in size, form and color, upon a harmonizing background. Do not use flowers too sparingly; have a substantial mass of color and pattern on your paper. For example, try a group of tiny pink rosebuds and blue delphinium flowerets on a background of white sweet peas and white rook garden spirea with fine blue Veronica at the edges. Build this on a white background, with a perky blue bow laid lightly near the stem ends, if desired. Pansies of varied purples and golds are effective ona pale green or pale orchid background. When you have worked out a pleasing picture, place the glass carefully over it, pressing firmly on the glass with the right hand to hold the flowers in place. With the left hand, gently push the entire picture to the edge of the table so that the glass protrudes about two inches beyond the table edge. Then place the left hand under the protruding edge of the picture and, still pressing the top of the glass with the right hand, turn the entire picture upside down on the table. Nowy, pressing the spool against the head of the nail. ere es = Page 409 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Place in th frame, Close €nough to hung in Pairs the glass to hold the flowers in POSiare maho any, the backs of the f, Tames against dust wh S ich, Otherwise sift through to V mahagony furniture b 7 ey will add a t »>Might me t Soil the Pictur THE GRADUATE NURSE Olive C. Wehr € Not in 1 angel come to force each ai] firmly back Into its tion. Use additional] Nails if neces "ary. Glue bro 4 protection These little decorative Placed ab Paper over the 1 Questing Lights Belle Watson Anderson Cuarrep 3 Synopsis: Andrew Rumgay leaves his the Prairies, fish In the Streams, and agaret Puryis Hugh and Kathleen are Married on board the ship, and tender th 00ds com "ay te horses, an Oxen for ¢ trek ad camped the night before. Ey the o men would 8° to work 4d come f, New York City on or the farmers, The omen would Or the use of Migrants on their Andrew Came in ¢ dinner, « I, ong journey to the Salt La € Valother aC, we'll be P and leay. E Ing for work at daylight in € mo The men of the Woods €ncamping. The farmers have even asked ment were up at daylight, There ys Over to breakfast." Was work to be done, "Jt Was get- "But not too early in the mom. Ting late jp the year, almost too late Ing, Sonny, we're having those begin g journey toa Mountainoys Prairie Chickens for Supper tomorrow Country far away—there Was no time night and the fish for breakfast the to lose, next Morning," The Camp life wag different from "What Ptairie chickens? What the limited ACtiVities of the ship and fish?" askeq Andrey, "What is gotrain, and + € emigrants Were very ing on around here? Thought | Vegetables and frujt from the farmbyt It isn't Preparing the Meals, ers' &ardens, wilg berries lowing on Hugh js Out getting the Chickens. 412 Father Coleman and Bob are catching the fish." "We hope," Andrew returned wistfully. "Well you just couldn't stay away tomorrow night. 'Tomorrow is Margaret's birthday. She'll be twentytwo years old." "Not so loud, Mother, not so loud, young ladies do not like their ages shouted about. That's why they fix up so much, trying to deceive the lads—why Margaret's only a few months younger than I am." "Yes, and she looks it, too. Margaret is a very pretty lass, and I'm making a grand birthday dinner for her—saleratus biscuits, breasts of the prairie chickens fried to a turn, gravy, and green corn, crab-apple dumplings, boiled. Now, will you be home for dinner?" "Just try and keep me away. How did you catch on to the way of cooking these American dishes? It is plain to see what women talk about when they are alone." OB and Brother Coleman came in with a long string of fish. Also, they had picked a beautiful bouquet of flowers, wild sweet williams, prairie lilies, and windflowers. "See what I mean, Andrew? These are for the party," said Mother Mac. Margaret came over early the next morning to help Mother with the work. "Happy birthday, my dear, and many happy returns of the day." Mother put her arms around the young lady and gave her a good hug and a squeeze for good measure. "Thanks, dear Mother Mac, you have a heart big enough for the whole world." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 "Well, it will be a queer world, Margaret darling, when a mother stops loving her own children. I hope that will never happen to me." "It's a wonderful thing someone can love me," Margaret answered. Mother stopped her work. "Now look here, dearie, you're not building up a lot of heartaches for yourself, are you, now? You know Andrew likes all the girls in the company, Scotch girls, and all the others, but he's in love with Jane, you know that. He'll always be true. V her, so if IT were you I'd forget all about him. There are so many young men in the company, Brother Nelson, Brother Walker, and oh, so many others." "So many others, and yet when I marry it's going to be to a Scotchman, who will look just like Andrew Rumgay." "Oh, it's so foolish, Margaret, so very foolish." "So foolish, when I love the very ground he walks on? I didn't know there were men like him in the world. All the men I knew were those who worked in the factory, common, rough, uncouth men, whose ideas of women were the world's concepts. Then I meet a man who puts women on a pedestal, something to be cherished, cared for, loved—I may be foolish, but I will love him till I die." Bob and Brother Coleman had brought in a stack of logs for a bonfire. After supper the women washed the dishes, sang songs, played games, and then decided to go to bed. Mother Mac would be up early to fry the fish for the boys before they went to work. Some of the men had raised the question about going on to the Val- QUESTING LIGHTS ley this Summer. If the fal] was about as usual everything would be all right; they would have pleaty of time to make jt into the Salt Lake Andrew Came out of the Woods tent into the night's fairy. Firelight, A cautiful night, beautiful gir € walked over to the Ire.. "Where are the others, Margaret? Am I s0 Wiyalatee Did we spoil "P €arly to fry Was tired, and I am too excited to sleep. I have just now finished my you and that giant conductor, almost having a fight." "That was s0 aret. You never make a wrong tight by adding argaret, stil] Rumgay, that first, last, and all the time, you are a Scotchman. And those Oh!" "That's one Teason the crew were sO mean al] along the way; the - Scotch Pay for their tempers." "Well, can work tomorrow, and you'll need to take it easy the first fey days, Andrew, till you get a little used to the work. Good night." Andrew sat and gazed about him till the fire Went out. Night in America—no sound but the bab. Bling of the water, and the Tustling of corn in the distance, Margaret stayed with Mother While the men were away. Kathleen had Brother Coleman to cook for. Stream. They washed for days and | White clothes on What is more downright satisfying than a Pretty, white wash flying in the breeze?" Mother stood and looked at the clothes. "You ken, 414 washing. The American women's clothes aren't a bit whiter than ours." HAT evening they sat around the campfire in deep conversation. Kathleen joined them after supper, and sat down very close to Mother, snuggled up under her arm. "I'm going to tell you the sweetest story a woman ever told." Kathleen pulled Mother's arm around her for protection, for support. "We're going to have a baby." Margaret got up and moved to the other side of Kathleen, so they would not need to talk in whispers. This was something special, something sacred. "Are you a tiny bit scared, Kathleen, because we are on the plains?" "No, not one bit, Margaret. Other women are having their children, why shouldn't I have mine? Nearly every week a baby is bom. Why should I be frightened? Nothing ever happens by chance. God will take care of me and the baby. I wonder if it will be a boy or a girl. If it's a boy we'll call him Andrew, because Hugh and Andrew are such good friends. It it's a girl I'd like to call her after both of you, but how can 1?" "We'd better choose a name your daughter would approve of, Kathleen," Margaret suggested. "Think how wonderful to have a daughter like you, Margaret! I would like her to be just like you!" "That's the sweetest compliment I was ever paid. Thanks, Kathleen." Hugh and Andrew were anxious to learn everything about building handcarts and repairing wagons, so they left the farm work to the othRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 ers of their ward. It was very hard to get the handcarts ready for the road. 'The wheels were faulty; material in many instances was poor. Finally, after weeks of hard work, most of the handcarts were ready. The day had been spent in packing wagons and handcarts. Tomorrow the mules and ponies would be packed and all would be ready for the trail, but Andrew was still working on his handcart. The wood was so dry and hard that when he thought it was all finished, something else would happen. "Look at it, Andrew," Hugh said, "the worst one in the bunch. Why did you choose that one?" "Well, we couldn't leave it behind. We need handcarts so badly and it may as well be mine. I hope it stays with me to the end of the road." "But you have your doots. So have I," Hugh said as he gave one of the wheels a last hard shake. The next morning Brother Woods pulled out with the first wagon. Brother Nelson led with the handcarts, and Brother Rumgay was the last to leave camp. "The last, the best of all the game," Margaret offered, "but who wants to be the last one?" "Andrew, you're bothered this morning." Mother Mac looked anxiously at him. "Come now, what's on your mind?" Andrew tried to smile and pass it off, but Mother was determined. "Well, we were told to bring only the necessities, but books have been as necessary to me as my food. I can't take them. There isn't room for them. I'll have to leave them in father's kist.". "If we divide them, and each of QUESTING LIGHTS us takes a few, Andrew, then we could take them, couldn't we?" asked Margaret. "No, there just isn't room for them. Hugh and I have tried to figure a way out, but it can't be done. Every tiny space must be used for food. A handcart isn't very large, you know, and if it's too heavy it will be too hard to pull. Lots of other things to worry about, but I've never been without my books." "We all love them, don't we, Hugh?" Kathleen added, in sympathy. "Yes, we recall my sick days aboard the ship, and the help and consolation they brought us," Hugh spoke gratefully. "Well, maybe someone who appreciates books will find them. They may prove to be good missionaries." Margaret was trying to add a note of cheer. "Tll look around and see that everything is taken care of. You folks go on up the line. No need for us all to stay behind," Hugh suggested. ) Bob and Brother Coleman went with Andrew to see that all the fires were out and nothing was left behind. Everything was in order. Now they could. All take to, the road. OK OK HEY spent the first hours getting adjusted to pulling their handcarts. Even in this they found there was a great art. They passed many sloughs and swamps, and had to be very careful to stay on the road. The corn, just coming into tassel, reminded the saints of the quick passing of the summer days. "The fields of growing corn, dependent on the sun and the rain for their growth, suggest to me our de- 415 pendence upon our Heavenly Father," Kathleen said. "Yes,". Margaret replied, "and if God cares for the corn in the field, and provides for its welfare,, how much more can his children trust him for their security, even on a _ Strange road in a strange country." "God is taking care of us, I'm sure,' affirmed Mother Mac. "I have felt his helpful influence many times since leaving home." That night Mother, Margaret, and Kathleen came hobbling into camp. They went over to the creek, removed their shoes and stockings, and soaked their feet in the cool water. "What a relief!" Margaret cried, giving vent to a heavy sigh. Kathleen was worried. ""What on earth will we do, walking every day, and our feet in this condition?" "Nature is a wonderful doctor," Mother assured her.: "In a day or two our feet will be better than ever, strong for the strain and exercise they must take." But the women were late with supper that night and could hardly have managed at all without the help of Brother Coleman. Andrew and Hugh worked on the ' hhandcarts that had broken down during the day. Bob helped with the herding, spreading out the horses and cattle as far as possible, so they would get in enough grazing before dark. The grass was abundant, and the animals tired and hungry after their first day's full haul. X Oe Ke ACH day the emigrants traveled more miles, and their muscles seemed to adjust themselves to the 416 strain and work of the road, for, as Mother Mac said, "Nature is a wonderful friend to take with. You on a journey." Each day they were hungry and ready for their food. 'They constantly breathed the clean, pure air of the prairies and it was not long before even the old men and women could take the day's advance in comfort. They left the cabins and corn and all cultivation behind them. Their way was through miles of prairie, with only nature's primitive gifts of land and sky. Silence lay before them, behind them, and was with them every moment. One day Margaret said, "Even the people have become silent. It seems that there is nothing to be said. Behind us lie our yesterdays marked by a tuft of grass, a tree, or a creek of water. Before us lie our tomorrows, rising each day from the bed the sun has used the night before to sleep in." "Yes, even I have been quiet longer than for anytime in my life," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 Mother responded. "Every mile and every hour are filled with the throbbing rhythm of the land and the ever-changing pictures in the sky. The atmosphere is heavy-laden with beautiful thoughts, but no words." "The birds are satisfied to fly from tree to tree. 'They may sing to their young, but we do not hear them." Kathleen was expressing the longing of her heart. Margaret was thinking that perhaps the silence of the land was the expression of the future. A lovely dream that could have become a reality would always lie dormant and silent because the love she longed for would be claimed by another. She thought of the homes that some day would be built upon these silent acres in response to the plow and the farmer's song, awakening the land and bringing the vibrant voices of happy children to the melody of busy reapers. As they passed silently on towards night, clouds appeared in the west. (To be continued ) SONG FOR A. DAUGHTER Margery S. Stewart | watched you running across the road From school, like a blown leaf or flower, Tree shadows on your face. You paused To shake the lilac, laughing under shower Of cupped rain. How tall you seemed, How frail your fingers and how bright Your hair. Childhood gone, like laughter Lost... Years out of sound and sight. In the sun, holding your face to summer, I watched you turn and bend. You called my name and in your voice I heard The love of friend for friend. FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-T reasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Gladys Rudd EAST MILLCREEK STAKE (SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH), EVERGREEN WARD PRESENTS "A VISIT INTO THE PAST—THE RICHARDS HOME; IN NAUVOO," January 19, 1948 women at the Richards home in Nauvoo, Illinois. Sister Rudd comments: "Note the old checkered tablecloth, the coal oil lamp, the great ornate Bible, the Picture of the Prophet, and the authentic costumes of the sisters. The group found Emma Smith to be greatly worried over the sufferings of her husband, incarcerated in jail, but the other women consoled her. They read letters received from the Prophet. Later, two sisters dropped in on their way from singing practice, They were urged to sing and agreed, providing Sister Kimball would accompany them on the organ. This she did while they sang "Jesus, Lover of my Soul" and the Prophet's beloved hymn "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief." With this music, the Nauvoo sisters again departed into the past. Then the literature class discussed, with deepened appreciation, that great soul, Joseph Smith and his inspiring letters," Annie Perkins is literature class leader in Evergreen Ward and Vessa Marler wrote the dramatization. Sarah E. Bateman is president of East Millcreek Stake Relief Society. Page 417 418 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 EAST PROVO STAKE (UTAH), BONNEVILLE WARD PARTY HELD IN HONOR OF ELDERLY RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS June 1947 Seated, front row, left to right: Emma Church; Nina Oldham; Marie Ferguson. Mary Overlaid, ninety years old, and a member of Relief Society for over seventy years, was not able to be present. Standing at the back, left to right, are the ward officers: Secretary Nethe Jensen; work director Dorothy Nelsen; President Wilma Hawkins; First Counselor Hilda Farr. Amanda Johnston is president of East Provo Stake Relief Society. Be s q, i» ' r ¢. ': meg STHWARD MENELIEF SOCKET © Photograph submitted by Wanda Lee RIGBY STAKE (IDAHO), RIGBY FOURTH WARD BAZAAR, December 3, 1947 Left to right: work directors Mary Bailey and Wanda Bates; Secretary-Treasurer Stella Livingston; Second Counselor LeNelda Wnght; President Anna L, Brady; First Counselor Louie Hebdon. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 419 The photograph shows only one of the many booths prepared for this bazaar. Other booths were: homemade candies and other delicacies; novelty surprise package booth; potted plants booth; popcorn and ice cream booth. The evening's entertainment netted the ward Relief Society over $300, which will be used for equipping the Relief Society room in the new chapel. Ann W. Nielsen is president of Rigby Stake Relief Society Photograph submitted by Lavon Billings CALIFORNIA MISSION, AJO BRANCH (ARIZONA), RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR November 14, 1947 Front row, seated, left to right: Ruth Weems; Thelma Allen; Martha Fleming; Secretary Lavon Billings; President Leora Jay; Second Counselor Velda McBride; First Counselor Myreel Lewis. Back row, standing, left to right: Nell Guinn; Maggie Guinn; Fern Whipple; Viola Johnson; Evelyn Smith; Tessie Harpool; Edith Martin; Theo Boddy; Norene Dickey; Alice Dorsey; Vivian Lunt. The articles for this bazaar were very carefully made, many of them ornamented with handwork, consisting of applique, embroidery, and crocheting. The aprons were particularly attractive, being made of colorful materials and trimmed with braid, applique, and binding tape. This small branch is very enthusiastic over the work of Relief Society and they attend their meetings regularly and take part in all the activities of the Society. Vivian R. McConkie is president of the California Mission Relief Society. JUAB STAKE (UTAH), NEPHI FIRST WARD SERVES PUBLIC DINNER The banquet consisted of a turkey dinner with all the trimmings. It was prepared in the ward house kitchen and transported to the new rubber plant by truck and was served to the plant officials and many city and county officials, as well as out of town guests. President David O. McKay was an honored guest. This ward also conducted a very successful bazaar and sold hundreds of articles, including several beautifully made quilts and some delicious homemade candy. During one month this organization cleared on these two activities $403.28. Ward Relief Society officers are: Mrs. Marvin Anderson, president; Mrs. Heber Jenkins and Mrs. Angus Haynes, counselors. Lua L. Stephenson is president of Juab Stake Relief Society. 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 'Photograph submitted by Beth C. Dixon NEBO STAKE (UTAH), PAYSON SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR December 4, 1947 Left to right: Secretary Margaret Snelson; First Counselor Birdetta Allan; President Lella Parker; Second Counselor Myrtle Tanner. Many well-made articles, including aprons, dresses, children's clothing, fancy work, hand embroidery, and household linens were sold at this bazaar and the proceeds were used to apply on the ward quota for the new Relief Society Building. Nadine Brown is president of Nebo Stake Relief Society. OQUIRRH STAKE (UTAH), GARFIELD WARD CHRISTMAS PARTY AND BAZAAR, 1947 This photograph shows only part of the many useful and beautifully made articles displayed at this bazaar. Some of the novelty aprons and two handmade rugs may be seen, as well as the tables spread with cake, candies, salads, and other delicacies. President Laura M. Wilkin, Oquirrh Stake Relief Society, stands at the center back, and left to right, the officers of the Garfield Ward: Second Counselor Bessie Rasmussen; First Counselor Elva Thomas; President Louie Ridd. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Upper Photograph, food booth, left to night: Florence Vigus; Iris Taylor; Doreen Wilson; Thomas Wilson; Edith Wiid; Ida Sharp, President South African Mission Sister Sharp Teports this unusually interesting bazaar: "We had a lagre number of _ Very beautify] articles to sel] at the bazaar. Many articles were hand-embroidered, We ad two dozen Pairs of knit Woolen men's socks. Our Sweets stall had Covered wagons full of candy. We had 4 goodly number of cakes, although flour Was restricted, and 422 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 Photograph submitted by LaVon H. Jones WEST UTAH STAKE (PROVO, UTAH) ELEVENTH WARD PAGEANT "BUILDERS FOR ETERNITY" March 7, 1948 This pageant was delightful and most impressive. A large painting of the proposed new Relief Society building was used as background and special lighting effects and appropriate music added to the spirit of the occasion. Characters represented were: the Spirit of Relief Society, Eliza R. Snow, Emmeline B. Wells, a nurse, Welfare, Education, a mother and children, Sister Torres (a young lady from Guatemala), and President Florence Graehl of the Eleventh Ward, who presented the plan for the completion of the fund-raising project for the new building. Lavon H. Jones and Eliza West are Sister Graehl's counselors. At the extreme left, first row, standing, is Sister Achsa Paxman of the Relief Society general board. Rose Goates is president of West Utah Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Alice DeMordaunt BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO), FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT BAZAAR, November 1947 Left to right: First Counselor Bertha G. Rose; President Luella V. Herbst; Second Counselor Theo C. Larsen; Secretary Cecile H. Pandleburg. Work leaders: Emily A. Butler; Ann F. Jensen; Mattie F. Miles; Christina Jensen. Note the beautiful quilts and exquisite handmade doilies, aprons, and children's clothing. Alice DeMordaunt is president of Blackfoot Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 423 Photograph submitted by Orena E. Hoover UTAH STAKE, PROVO FOURTH WARD, OLD-FASHIONED DINNER CELEBRATES THE CLOSE OF THE CENTENNIAL YEAR This dinner was given by the new presidency of the ward Relief Society in honor of the retiring officers. Retiring officers are: President Melva Perry; First Counselor Lillie Carson; Second Counselor Grace Judd; Secretary Bertha Memmott. New officers: President Edna Williams; First Counselor Laura Henrie; Second Counselor Betsy Anderson; Secretary Dora Dee Barrett. This ward has maintained 100% visiting teaching for over two years and the members have now completed their quotas for the Relief Society building fund. Josephine S. Bird is president of Utah Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Hattie S. Shurtz ST. JOSEPH STAKE (ARIZONA), RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD AT ANNUAL CONVENTION October 1947 Front row, left to right: Leone O. Jacobs, member Relief Society general board; Grace Cluff, Second Counselor, St. Joseph Stake Relief Society; Laura Fyffe; Rose Weech; Olive Hoopes, First Counselor; Florence G. Smith, member Relief Society general board. Back row, left to right: Hattie Shurtz, President; Ruth Whitmer; Emma McBride; Irene Woods; Velda Hancock, Secretary. 424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 Photograph submitted by Dora Stewart PALMYRA STAKE (UTAH), SPANISH FORK THIRD WARD, DECEMBER WORK MEETING, 1947 Standing at the back, center, President Thelma Christensen. Some of the sisters are completing the Welfare sewing, and others are making articles for the annual bazaar. 'Three quilts are being finished. Sister Christensen's counselors are Elda Harwood and Ellen Miller; the secretary is Eva Coombs. Twila A. Isaac is president of Palmyra Stake Relief Society. Photograpu submitted by Margaret N. Low ALBERTA STAKE (CANADA), 1947 WELFARE ASSIGNMENT Left to right: President Margaret N. Low; First Counselor Nettie Frodsham; Second Counselor Fern Williams. All the wards in this stake filled their quotas 100 per cent. 'I'he quality and workmanship of all articles was unusually good and the women enjoyed the companionship and spiritual uplift of the service rendered. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Photograph submitted by Bessie W. Dayley WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), ROCKLAND WARD PICNIC Front row, left to right: Ralphs; Pearl Robj > Hortense McClean; Lureen Robinson; Second Counselor Mae Nelson; Mary Wood; Gwendolyn Robinso Leona Kelly,; President Naomi Glorifield; These Relief Society sisters traveled forty miles to hol Pocatello, Photograph submitted by Alice BLACKFOOT STAKE ( HAVE ACHIEVED DeMordaunt E WARD VISI 100% VISITING TEACHING R TING TEACHERS WHO ECORD FOR SIx YEARS 8 Secretary Lucille 425 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 y LuSeba Petersen (IDAHO), ARCHER WARD VISITING TE REXBURG STAKE ACHIEVE 100% RECORD During the yeat 1947 and January and February of 19 visits to the 128 homes in the ward. T, are: Second Counselor Archer Ward made 1536 he front row, left to righ First Counselor Trieste Officers of the society seated in t from left; President Opal Clements; Myrtle Kennington, second ft Robinson. LuSeba Petersen js president of Rexburg Photograph submitted b ACHERS 48 the visiting teachers of Stake Relief Society. Submitted by Martha M. Geilmann FLORIDA STAKE, AXSON WARD (GEORGIA), R CONVENTION, January 18, 1948 e Williams; First Counselor ith program, tist assisting W! Hine Jenkins, President, Photograph ELIEF SOCIETY Front row, seated, left to right: Second Counselor Iren Eva Davis; President Cappie Mizell; Marie P. Blacker, at Florida Stake Relief Society; Josep Minnie Dills, First Counsclor, Florida Stake Relief Society. Standing at the back is Elder O. H. Hawkins, stake high councilm the sisters standing are members of the ward Relief Society chorus. An advisor. All of NOTES FROM THE FIELD Photograph submitted by Anna H. Toone MINIDOKA STAKE (IDAHO), RUPERT THIRD WARD VISITI HONORED AT SOCIAL NG TEACHERS Mann; First Counselor Cassie Thom g i Eldridge; Secretary Martha P. Hunsaker, Martha Bassett is su Katherine Barnes js president of Minidoka Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Vera M. Leishman SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON), QUEEN ANNE WARD, UNIVERSITY WARD, AND WEST SEATTLE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS WHO ASSISTED WITH THE RUMMAGE SALE, January 2, 1948 ta Bingham; Second Counselor Margaret Richg Second Counselor Marie Mc-; Dora May Crabtree; First Counselor Elelor Fay Searles, West Seattle Ward; PresUniversity Ward; Wilford Payne; Blanche Payne; Kathryn G Counselor Emily Brain, West Seattle ward. 428 A House By Friday (Continued from page 384) blues, and reds. I gave one look and knew it was not for me. HAT night, more in desperation than in hope, we rode by the Lomas house. It was lighted, and after much bell ringing and waiting, we were admitted. The owner was there, assisted by three maids. Feverishly she told us that an American doctor, with no children, would occupy the house manana en la manana. We went quietly out. It was Thursday morning and I had one place left, an apartment far out. It was occupied by an American lady who was moving soon, the agency said. 'The lady received me; the apartment was all that one could wish, even to the lovely hued Mexican hand-woven rugs and the blonde furniture. 'There was only one drawback: the lady would not vacate until she could find a house for the same price. She had been looking for six months. The end of my list had been reached. 'There were still some apartments in the heart of the town, but we were not going to investigate them, even as a last resort. I made a quick decision. Calling to the driver, I showed him the address on Aguas Calientes. "Si, Senora," he said, wheeling his car about. The Senora was home and she led me into the walled garden. This time I did not allow her to lead the conversation. I sat firmly on the cold tile seat and asked if we could have the house. "Are you certain you wish it?" she asked anxiously. "It is too much for me, too upsetting of the head RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 | you QU service CATALOG ORDER DESK SHOPPING SPECIALIST. To answer questions, take meaiectiiruss help select items, write and mail orders. Phone calls get same service, too. Phone or visit your nearest Sears Store. SEARS AMT MMMM a ut Pf ee, aw 'Cal Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1. Utah A HOUSE BY FRIDAY and heart, too much work for the maids, to have to rent it again soon. You will be satisfied? You will not want everything changed?" "No," I said, so happy I was scarcely breathing. "It is my house. I felt it as soon as I saw it. Each night I have said a little prayer that if it were right for us to have it, you would say yes." Her eyes grew soft. "Each night I, too, have said my little prayer that I would find the right ones to live in my house." Her face brightened. "You may have the house if you wish it." Tomorrow, she said, was short notice, but we could move in. If the maids could not have everything in readiness, we could be patient, no? At night we came to arrange about the lease. It would be ready in a day or two, she told us. She came to a quick understanding with my husband about the Diplomatic Proviso. Then he drew out his checkbook to pay the first month's rent. She waived it aside. Time enough to pay it, she insisted, when we were settled and the lease signed. The moon was shining when we passed through the garden. We stood by the fountain, savoring this moment when we no longer felt like intruders in an alien land. The difficult part of our Mexican move was over. "Yes," Mr. Tarlock said to one of the American men we met as we passed through the lobby with our bags the next day, "we have our house. Got here on Friday night and we're moving in this Friday noon. My wife did it all herself, too. Couldn't speak a word of Spanish, either. Just had to let herself go and she did it." 429 Personal.. We are growing... We are developing... We have kept our stores modern, but we have not forgotten personal old-time courtesy. When we smile we mean it. We are happiest when we can help you in any friendly way. We owe our success to you our customers. Ar SKAGGS Bossessessessecteslestecsscssssesssessssestectsesses The Child's BIBLE Special helps for children and young folks. The ideal Bible for gifts and awards. No. 123. Flexible, overlapping covers of genuine QUALITY = leather, round corners, amMADE ber under e: gold edges, Bs headbands KING JAMES 2. $4.00 VERSION it fg a BIBLES AT YOUR BOOKSTORE National SINCE F843 430 You Can Write a Prize Winner (Continued from page 373) children; an individual should struggle for survival. Abnormal reactions require such insight and sympathy and skill in portrayal that the novice butchers them and makes them ugly or ridiculous or unconvincing. Just one more word—as to length. Use just enough words to tell the story. Start at the initial situation, tight spang-bang in the thing that sets the story going. If it is necessary to tell what happened before this, give it in short "flash-backs" sandwiched in between bits of forward moving action. And stop when the emotional experience has been realized by the characters. Never go on to tell how it affected the next generation or the cousins in Duluth or Timbuctu. And there it is—for what it is worth—and may some of those exciting and illuminating stories be written now. The following references provide valuable information and suggestions for story writers: The Writer's Handbook, published annually by The Writer, Inc., Boston, Mass. (Some chapters of each issue are devoted to the short story.) Mary Roberts Rhinehart, Writing Is Work, The Writer, Inc. Walter S. Campbell, Writing Magazine Fiction, The Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati, Ohio ($2.50) Ann Hamilton, How to Revise Your Own Stories, The Writer's Digest ($1.50) Elliott Blackiston, How to Write Short Stories, The Writer's Digest ($2.50) Mildred I. Reid and Delmar E. Bordeaux, Writers: Try Short Stories, Bellevue Books, 313 Trust Building, Rockford, Illinois ($3.00) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948 =e —-= == Nusested N elections ot MUSIC FOR Ninginé Mothers TWO PART CHORUSES—S. A. 2119 Beside Still Waters _.... 15c 1449 Bless This House...... 15¢ 1938 Children's Friend __...... 15¢ 5972 Come, We That Love The Lord 10c 1875 Father, In Thy Mysterious Presence Kneeling ___... 12¢ 1762 Father, We Thank Thee _ 15c 5062 The Good Shepherd ____ 12c 10-W1718 Grateful, O Lord Am I _. 15c 7852 Lift Up Your Heads... 12c 668 O Praise The Lord _._.. 15c 7947 Sing, O Heavens.__..... 12c Orders filled same day received. All postage prepaid. Music sent on approval. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stocks for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester Pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY vau Wan Z. MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH === = eo —= Stamped quilt tops, floral designs. 7.98 and 8.98 Baby Quilts, 3.98 Stamped pillow case tubing. Cutwork and easy embroidery. 2.69 American Lady tufted rugs. Stamped rug, 4.50, $6, $10 Yarn, ready cut. § 25¢ package Skein, 35c EDLEPOINT Large chairs - - 6.98 to 8.98 Footstools for covering 6.50 to 15.98 NEEDLEPOINT YARN Large skein, 65¢ — Small skein, 29c ART-NEEDLEWORK — FOURTH FLOOR Dining room chair 1.98 to 5.98 Fay Tarlock, author of "A House by Aliow me to send Steetings from the Friday," has pccutly returned to the pages heart of Europe, So many things have of The Reliet Society Magazine. Her story happened in this small country within the ' in March 1948, past fey months, May I Say that the Maga. ' fj and " Kidnaping," in Oc ber 1 7. Zine brings ME a great €al o JOY at this Under her Maiden name Fay OQ] 'tton, she time, Since it keeps us UP to date on Relief Wrote stor; and articles fo agazine oclety affairs at h azine is 8taduate of tigh ung University and its uplifting ang e cational Contents holds a master's degree in English from — artha §. Cronto, President olumbia Universit. M arlock the Z¢choslovakia Mission Relief Society Mother of young Son, lives in Orinda Tague Near Berkeley California. OCiety of Colorado, Writers who help make UP the Magazine. May | puPliment you on the beautiment which the editors; ful Doetty the Magazine contains, It jg —Norma Wrathall, Grantsville, Utah us the SNOW-capped mountains, and the beautiful new, white [aluminum] TOOf of the e&, —Helen Hall Mc uarrie, Salt Lake City, Utah We do 4Ppreciate the Inspiration that the genera] board Bives to us various alone js tth the 1.50 €ar's sub Scripti Every Person I have talked with SINCE it ¢q I have €nCouraged to read it from Cover to cover. H in designing to make, 5° quilt —Jennie Butler, Secretary tops of Outstanding beau and workman. Snowflake Stake Relief ship. Sister Whitlock Is Seventy-seven Ociet (Arizona) years old. Page 432 Make Lessons From JESUS THE CHRIST Vivid. With Pictures. GROUP 1 GROUP 2 se + Feeding 5,000 eis Healing Lepers Wise Men Man at Pool A Jaizus' Daughter Jesus in Temple 3 Flight to Egypt Parable of Sower Among Doctors hd Leaven Temptations " Wheat and Tare: Heals Woman. Talents Walking on Water " Ten Virgins Healing Dumb Man _ Prodigal Son Good Samaritan Healing Deaf Man 9 A. Widow's Mite Healing Blind Man 7 Pharisees Draught of Fishes i Calms the Sea In Grain Field GROUP 3 GROUP 4 — Chooses Disciples, Jesus Enters Jerusalem Cleansing Temple Last Supper With Children Gethsemane "Consider the Lilies" In Gethsemane Mary and Martha Arrest of Jesus Preaching from Boat Jesus and Peter Woman at Well Jesus and Pilate Strangers Pilate Washes Hands Nikederue Before Caiaphas Peter's Confession His Robe He Is Risen Peace to This House To Emmaus Rich Young Ruler At Emmaus Come Unto Me Jesus Appears to Apostles Twelve Sent Forth Great Commission Transfiguration Ascension 2.00 52.00 Large, poster size—19 x 23", Four colors. DESERET BOOK COMPANY "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 1. Utah Please send large, four-color pictures of Life of Christ as checked below: Name...... Oe ceveeeeeeeeeeeee.. Address... Www Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers for which find $............... Herewith. Group 1... 20... On. Ae ee wa VOL. 35 NO.7 Previews arid Lessons for October THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - -.. - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Priscilla L. Evans Evon W. Peterson Lillie C. Adams Mary G. Judd Florence J. Madsen Leone O. Jacobs Ethel C. Smith Anna B. Hart Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Louise W. Madsen Edith S. Elliott Blanche B. Stoddard Florence G. Smith Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - = - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 35 JULY, 1948 No. 7 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Women of the Mormon Battalion President Amy Brown Lyman 436 Relief Society Building News.... 44) Here Comes the Parade Grace A. Woodbury 445 The Seventh Handcart Company Anna S. D. Johnson 449 Principles and Laws Governing Good Singing Florence J. Madsen 470 FICTION Questing Lights—Chapter 4 Belle Watson Anderson 460 Nature's Tonic Alice Whitson Norton 466 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 452 Wornan's Sphere........-cec-coscoceceeseseqeesesessenesenessnseseseereneneesoatersenenneaeesenenensenameestannansenseasessRamona W. Cannon 453 Editorial: Thrift as a Way of Life. Vesta P. Crawford 454 Birthday Greetings to Sister Augusta Winters Grant - 455 Three-part Story to Begin in August $ 455 From Near and Far.............- FEATURES FOR THE HOME Flower Arrangements for Summer Days Vesta P. Crawford 456 Soups—Foreign and Domestic..........-: ccsscccssreccnsseoneressnnesronsssennseecnmancommnecnnnseccnnescomasecomasscesmeseesasscssss2Sara Mills 468 LESSONS AND PREVIEWS Notes on the Authors of the Lessons 47) Theology: The Life and Ministry of the Savior, Preview 472 _ "The Sermon on the Mount'' vee 73 Visiting Teachers' Messages: Our Savior Speaks, Preview.............-Se. =.. 478 ' Ye Shall Do the Work Which Ye See Me Do"'..............- iElder H. Wayne Driggs 478 Literature: Literature of the Latter-day Saints, Preview........--.--.------y-----5 aa 479 Literature of the Beginnings....-.---c-sccccsseseeraee Work Meeting—Sewing: Value of Acquiring Make-over Skills; Make-over Possibilites, Preview 486: Suggestions for Changing Skirt Lengths........ Jean Ridges Jennings 487 Social Science: Latter-day Saint Political Thought, Preview........--.---....--.- 488; The Meaning and Importance of Politica Doctrines............ _. Elder G. Homer Durham 490 Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science: The First Presidencies, Preview............:-..:------sssssse.. 493 he Presidency of the Prophet Joseph Smith.......-.-2.--.--sescesetee: Elder T. Edgar Lyon 495 POETRY Hillside Grain Field—Frontispiece Eva Willes Wangsgaard 435 Summer Moon. = _ Elaine Swain MMenHON een a. SS ee Clarence Edwin Flynn 448 This Journey May Appear''..... —: Alta L. Leafty 465 Peacemakers..... In I nr 'C. Cameron Johns 477 Marathon of Souls -n-scc-cccccsssseccsssseseeeee a Ruth Harwood 501 [SSW creer, = ws aa, a, Caroline Eyring Miner 502 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subseription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 11038, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MOTHERS! Now ZCMI's Story Princess will plan your children's very own parties. AND SERVICE IS WITHOUT COST with purchase of party materials at ZCMI The Story Princess Will: @ Print and send out your invitations. ® Select all favors and decorations. @® Plan your party menu. @ Arrange games and other entertainment. @ Order and decorate the cake. @ Arrange delivery of all food and favors. Just call 3-1575, Ext. 206, and ask for the Story Princess. Here's all you need to tell her: ® How much you wish to spend. ® The number of children to be invited. ® The age of the child whose party is to be planned. LOM T. J. Howells, M. D. UTAH GRAIN FIELD THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 35, NO. 7 JULY 1948 HILLSIDE GRAIN FIELD Eva Willes Wangsgaard I know departed pioneers have found Their just reward for victory and defeat, But wish they all might hear the happy sound That summer whispers running through the wheat. My grandfather would love to walk these hills, Remembering them as rugged sage terrain Where now a kinder desert sunlight spills Over the rippling crests of mellowed grain. For he was one who loved the feel of soil Pressed in his palm, sifting through finger vents. These amber acres justify his toil, His war with crickets, drought, the elements. He would rejoice to see the victory won And conquered hills wheat Jaden in the sun. The Cover: The Mormon Battalion Monument, Utah State Capitol Grounds, Salt Lake City. Photograph by Grace T. Kirton. The Women of the Mormon Battalion President Amy Brown Lyman HE Mormon Battalion was composed of five companies of one hundred men each, all volunteers for their country's service. They were recruited in and about Council Bluffs, and on July 20, 1846, they took up their line of march to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, headquarters for the army of the West, two hundred miles from Council Bluffs. The order from the Government had stated that each company would be allowed four women as laundresses, who would travel with the company receiving rations and other allowances given to laundresses of the regular army. 'These five companies were therefore entitled to twenty laundresses, and since this provision offered an opportunity for some of the enlisted men to take their wives, the quota was readily raised. With the consent of Captain James Allen, who was in command of the Battalion, a dozen other women were allowed to go. Some of the officers and men who had small families, and who were considered well enough equipped, were permitted to take their families along, and a few took advantage of this opportunity. Then there was a group of seven boys who volunteered to go as servants to some of the officers. Too young to go as soldiers, but brave and patriotic lads, they were willing to go in this capacity. Page 436 When the roster was finally completed, it contained, in addition to the five hundred enlisted men, thirty-two women, thirty-one children, some of whom were halfgrown, and the seven boy servants, making a total of 570 in all, who set out on this perilous expedition, for perilous it proved to be. At Fort Leavenworth the Battalion was fully organized and armed. Here it received its equipment, camp accouterments, arms, and provisions, and on August 12, there began the matchless march of two thousand miles from Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, via Santa Fe, New Mexico, to San Diego, California. For men and women alike, the departure of the Battalion was a most trying, yes, tragic experience. Mothers grieved over the taking away of their young sons; and wives and husbands were in the deepest distress at the prospect of that long separation and the uncertainties of the final outcome. An indication of the feelings of many of the men who left their families behind is given by Sergeant William Hyde, who wrote in his journal: The thoughts of leaving my family at this critical time are indescribable. They were far from the land of their nativity, situated upon a lonely prairie with no dwelling but a wagon, the scorching sun beating upon them, with the prospect of the cold winds of December finding them in the same bleak and dreary place. THE WOMEN OF THE MORMON BATTALION It would be difficult to decide which had to endure the greater distress, the wives and mothers, who with their children, were left behind to face that hard and dreadful year when there was so much sickness, poor food, and scarcities of clothing, or those who had dared to brave the terrors of travel in those early days. Of those who remained behind, some were cared for by the Church, some by relatives, while others struggled along making their own way. They were all called upon to endure many trials and hardships during that long and lonely year, but they were brave and courageous, and through their faith, they met them heroically. 'The husbands sent letters home and also allowances from their army pay whenever there was opportunity to do so, which was not often. Of the rest of their pay, they saved all that they were able, to bring back with them. While a few of these families came on to the Valley and were here reunited with their husbands and fathers, most of them remained in and about Council Bluffs, where their reunion took place. "THE women who accompanied the Battalion, in addition to doing the laundry work, made themselves useful in many other ways. They sewed, mended, darned, and helped with the meals. They comforted those who were discouraged and homesick, and helped to nurse the sick. As time went on there was so much sickness and so many accidents, that nursing for these women really assumed great and important proportions. Due to poor food, scarcity of water, and impure and stagnant water, many became 437 ill with stomach and bowel trouble, while others became afflicted with chills and fever (malaria). 'The chief treatment of the company doctor was the giving of large doses of calome] and arsenic, and as a resuilt, many became badly salivated. Among other discouraging features of the journey were heavy rain, thunder, and wind storms. At one point there was a terrible hurricane, accompanied by rain, which blew down all but five or six of the one hundred tents, upset a number of wagons, and drenched all their belongings. Alternating with these storms were terrible heat waves, when the temperature would often go up to 101° in the shade and 135° in the sun. The uncharted route of travel was rough and uncertain. It led over rough trails, roads, and embankments, through hot, deep beds of sand, and miry clay. The crossing of creeks and larger streams was most difficult. In some instances the wagons had to be let down the steep banks on one side of a stream with ropes, and pulled out by men and horses on the other. After five weeks of slow and interrupted travel with all its handicaps, it was deemed advisable on September 16, 1846, to detach a number of the families and send them up the Arkansas River to Fort Pueblo for the winter under a guard of ten men, with Captain Higgins in charge. This done, the main body of the command continued on to the Southwest. One month later, in October, they reached Santa Fe, the Government fort located halfway between Fort Leavenworth and San Diego. It was now found that a large number of men were too ill to continue the march. Lieutenant 438 Colonel Cook, the commanding officer at this time, therefore decided to send back to Pueblo for the win. Ter these sick men, eighty-six in number, together with all the laundresses and the remaining wives and children of members of the Battalion, except the wives of five officers who were to be personally responsible for them. He was now convinced that the sick men and the women and children would not be able to endure the exposure and fatigue of the rest of the western journey over the mountains. Captain James Brown was placed in charge of the contingent, and one month later they arrived at their destination and established themselves near the camp of Captain Higgins. They were to build themselves cabins and the Government was to supply their food. A month later fifty-five more men were invalided and sent to join them, making a total of 141 sick soldiers. 'THE care of the sick was the chief occupation of the women of Pueblo that winter, for in addition to the invalided soldiers, five babies were born in the little colony, and all alike were tenderly cared for. These women proved to be angels of mercy to all who needed their help, and the men who were ill ever after remembered with gratitude and affection the attention, help, and sympathy given them. One of the heroines of the Battalion expedition was Mary Black Brown, wife of Captain James Brown, who later became one of the leading pioneer women of Utah. Captain Brown, who was the founder of Ogden, was greatly aided in the development of that community RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 by his thrifty and resourceful wife. Mary was a Southern girl, born and reared in luxury on a great plantation in the South, where all the labor was performed by the family's slaves. After her martnage, she, with her husband, George Black, joined the Church much against the wishes of her parents, and after a few years, she gave up family, friends, and landed property, and with her husband, joined the saints at Nauvoo. Left a young widow in Nauvoo, she moved with the saints to Council Bluffs where, on July 16, 1846, she married Captain Brown, and four days later, with her new husband and young son, David Black, she left with the Mormon Battalion as one of the laundresses of her husband's company. Mrs. Hattie Jenson, granddaughter of Mrs. Brown, in writing of her grandmother's experiences, says: Grandmother endured all the hardships incident to that long march and washed for sixteen men and did many other hard tasks she had never done before. She suffered with the heat and thirst, was on soldiers' rations, and became footsore and weary. And at Pueblo where the invalided men were sent under the command of her husband, Captain Brown, she was a ministering angel to them. In the spring, the soldiers, with the company of MisSissippi saints, took up their line of march to Utah, arriving in the Valley on July 29, 1847, five days after Brigham Young and the pioneers arrived, They lived in the fort which was soon constructed, where Pioneer Park now is, and here, three months after their artival in Salt Lake, Mary gave birth to a daughter. This was the third white child born in Utah, and the first white child to live in what is now Ogden City, where the family moved in February 1848, ARAH Brown Lowry, of another Brown family, in her thirteenth year traveled with the Mormon Bat- 439 > James PB 3) 4 800d place to camp. Sarah Was Jomed the army at Cuncil Bluff. Sitting by her Mother gt the mo and after Teaching Fo t Leavenworth ment and 4 the chief Passed h nd findin that he Could take his 1€ mvited he > IN sign language to amily with im, sent for his wig "de with him on horse, The heir daughter, and ty DS, to fol INVitation Was, of o Se, Prom tly Ow him at Once, whic} they were but Kindly Tefused Euard was Most happy to do, S fami] set out for that night and Sarah said Was well] quipped with WO good she Was sure there as more Prayin Wagons, two YOKe of y UNE Oxen than sleeping done durin the night Or each Wagon, three Cows, and a At this Place, a mos stressing tent. The boy drove the teams accident occyrr, d. One of the men and Sarah drove the cows, walking Orman all the yw y. When 'th TP, was accidentally shot with his own un while drawin the Battalion left For} It out of avenworth, t I n t Brother Sharp remai 'Y Tear so that with the > aS he was Sure they Sarah coy be near the amily, for Could cure hj - He coulg then go she stil] Walked and drove the COWS, on later Caring tha some harm Which finally became a Monotonoys Would come to this handful of peotask. Ip later Yeats, she often ple if he Tefused, Brother Sharp remarked that the Battalio followed umself decided to remain, So, With the 48 and she followed the dust us wife and h T sister and One of his Brow amily was among the men, he went back to the vil the first 9 tingent detached from age. N ny days elapsed before © amy on the tkansas River ang ster Sharp and her two Companions sent to Pueblo T the winter. How Teturned © Company with the Onely fo Sarah was the Prospect of d news that Brothe Sharp had IS new ssignment| There j, died and as buried by th | €en the of Many voices the tramp O, A few Months later, Sister Sharp nY feet, the Morning &ave birth to a baby gj Sound of fife n calling al] girl, ber, fte When the stars SARAH Brown Teports that When Were stil] shining d there Was a they teached Pueblo the comOng drive to the next Water. And Pany was greatly Surprised, but much here had he sens of securit Overjoyed to Ind wintering there, 7 numbers, 'To all of th he ros hat bra Pany of Mississip i Cheeked > Matured be Ond her Saints, who Were on their Way to the years, had come i¢Customed, and Mountains he Says these Saint. 70w all would be dif erent, ad built Jo Uses In a row fairly On Way ey €ncountered a close tog ter, and with heir con large Ara ho In lan Village ang Sent, the Battalion men Dstructed naturally were very much Concerned theirs jp the spaces between, Which and even frightened Towever, Tequired th building of only two When the lage was Teached, the Sides and a TOOf to eae With the chief treated them kindly ang made Ompletion 6 these shelters, the nown that he Would show them men left thei families and, follow #40 ing a mountain trail, proceeded on to report at Santa Fe. The next time Sarah saw her father was in late November, when he was brought back to them ill from Santa Fe, with the detachment of invalided soldiers and the remaining families and laundresses under command of Captain James Brown. All this winter, she relates, there was much to do in the camp nursing the sick and discouraged men, who were disappointed at not being able to continue on to their proposed journey's end at San Diego. In May 1847, Sarah reports they were all overjoyed when Captain Brown and his aides who had journeyed to Santa Fe to collect the soldiers' pay, returned with the money and with orders that they were all to march under his leadership to California, by way of Fort Laramie, Wyoming, where the men would be mustered out of service. Their journey began. There was one day's delay, however, for the Browns when Sarah's mother gave birth to a son on the way. The contingent reached Fort Laramie safely and then came on to Salt Lake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 Valley, arriving on July 29, and here they were permitted to be mustered out of service, as their year of enlistment had already expired. The parents of Sarah Brown Lowry were called to Sanpete in 1849, and experienced the terrible incidents connected with the Indian wars in that valley. They settled in Manti, and here at the age of seventeen, Sarah was married to John Lowry, and became the mother of nine noble sons and daughters, among them Mrs. Samuel H. Allen, to whom we are indebted for the privilege of reading her mother's life story. Always a devoted Church worker, Sister Lowry finally became one of the prominent pioneer temple workers of the Church, serving for many years in a supervisory capacity in the Manti Temple. Much has been said and written of the heroic march and the deeds of the men of the Mormon Battalion, and it is a source of pleasure and pride for the writer to record these words concerning the patience, forbearance, and the heroic deeds of the women of the Battalion. SUMMER MOON Elaine Swain Tumultuous sounds of summer morning cease: A single thread of smoke Curls slowly toward immobile clouds As shadows of the early sun decrease; Rust-colored cattle browse Among chartreuse and emerald hills. These—and a boy, brook-bound—speak of peace. S the time of the conclusion of the Relief Society Building fund-raising campaign of one year draws to a close, more and more the mem bers of Relief Society are viewing this great undertaking as @ blessing and an opportunity. Different stake and ward officers testify of the love and unity which have resulted among, the sisters through working together The following excerpts from @ letter from Sister Brinton, President of the Maricopa Stake Relief Society, gives expression 0 the wonderful accomplishments of the sisters of the Papage Ward in co-operation with other | want to write to you about our Papago Ward. | think there are few stakes in the Church that have an Indian ward and a Spanish ward. 'These were the ones J worried about with out building fund - -- - I talked to President Wright and asked him to g° with me to the Papago Ward. We poth spoke and explained the program and he sug: gested a panquet.--- Then Lorenzo Wright was released and his son Harold made out stake president. -. - We called a meeting of our Relief Society sisters, theit pishop, President Wright, Ex-President Wright and the stake board. When they found we were 6° ing ahead with this they all helped in every way possible. The bishop gave twentyevery week. The rest of the poard have elped often. The sisters made many beautiful articles to be sold: fout quilts appliqued, one pieced, paby quilts, aprons, dresses, dish towels, hot pad holders and many other useful things. They have really worked. Twenty seven are enrolled and twenty-two were there most every week. Some of them walk three miles to their meetings. Two sisters Who are old and nearly blind have made pot holders on a frame and have enjoyed doing it so very much. Our sisters helped plan the dinner, helped with the cooking and serving. We took charge of it. The M. 1. A. I i nder, who is a senior in high school, took charge of the decorations. He had three men help him and they did a fine job of it. The flower at 442 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 rangement was very fine. 'The women made green crepe paper flounces on pint bottles for vases. It was interesting to watch them and see the art with which they work. I have never seen them so interested in anything before. Claudina, their Y. W. M. I. A. President, planned the program. It was all Indian and very fine. The program lasted about an hour. It was well worth the money without the dinner—violin solos, duets, quartets, stories, and Indian dances. _ We planned on serving two hundred and served more than three hundred. We had to send out and get cake and ice cream to give the ones that helped. It was a real thrill to me and they are so happy and so proud that they could do it. The money is such a small part of the good that has been done. Thanks for the opportunity to help these people. Martina Schurtz, our Papago president, lives in Mesa and works at a cleaners. She misses work every Monday and goes to her meetings. That means eight dollars a week or thirty-two dollars a month to attend Relief Society. That is a lot for anyone to give but for an Indian woman who works for a living, I feel she is making more of a sacrifice than anyone else I know. After sending the $135 to you they will have over $200 left to get something for their association. We are anxious for them to get a good electric machine, an iron, and cabinets to keep their things in. Our Spanish ward had a banquet or Spanish dinner to raise their fund. Some gave the five dollars but so many could not. They all helped with it and it was very fine. Josephine Mortensen is a very splendid person and a real leader. They were the first ward to go over the top and of course were very proud of it. Mable King, our music leader, helped with their program and it was very good. At our Papago dinner President Lorenzo Wright paid honor to Josephine our Spanish president as we did not have a chance at their program. They work so hard and have many difficulties to overcome that we do not have in our other wards. This makes us appreciate the advantages we have. PAPAGO WARD, MARICOPA STAKE, COMPLETES ITS BUILDING QUOTA April 19, 1948 This photograph was taken the night of the banquet and bazaar so interestingly described by Stake Relief Society President Vida D. Brinton in her letter which is printed herewith. RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 443 RICHMOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, WASHINGTON STAKE, PRESENTS BUILDING QUOTA TO STAKE PRESIDENT April 30, 1948 Left to right: Secretary-Treasurer, Eleanor P. Gill, Florence Buster; President Gertrude M. Smoot; Second Counselor Lucille Blackman; Gwendolyn T. Gwynn, President, Washington Stake Relief Society. Sister Marian V. Elman comments on the very fine accomplishment of the sisters of this ward: "We feel that special recognition should be given these dear sisters who, in only two and a half months, raised their Relief Society building fund quota, being the first society in their stake to make this accomplishment.... The members of this society do not possess a great deal of worldly goods... But they consist mostly of sincere and humble converts to the gospel, who, with humility and prayers in their hearts, set out to do a job which was assigned them to do.... They have also a small dependent Relief Society at Bumpass, Virginia... Which raised $35 and a dependent Sunday School in Howertons, Virginia, which donated $10 toward the quota." MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS NorTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION EASTERN STATES MIssION SAMOAN MiIssION New ZEALAND Mission STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS Soutn Ipano Fatts (IpaHo) Soutn Los ANGELES STAKE (CALIF.) Ipano Fats StaKeE (IDAHO) Juarez Stake (Mexico) San Dieco Stake (CALIFORNIA) FLorwa STAKE (FLORIDA) WELLs Stake (Urtan) TEMPLE View STAKE (Uran) Teton STAKE (IDAHO AND WYOMING) Bear River Stake (Ura) GranITE STAKE (Uran) Parowan SrakE (UraH) Nort Ipano Fats Stake (IDAHO) Liperty STAKE (UTAH) EMIGRATION STAKE (UTAH) SMITHFIELD STAKE (Uta) Mesa STAKE (ARIZONA) Sucar House Stake (Uran) RexBurG STAKE (IDAHO) Satt Lake Stake (Urau) Uvapa Stake (Nevapa anp UTAH) San Luis STAKE (COLORADO) Utan Stake (Utan) Onemna STAKE (IDAHO) SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON ) Toorte Stake (UrTAn) San Juan Sraxe (Urn) 444 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 WARDS AND BRANCHES (IN STAKES) WHICH HAVE CAMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the June Magazine, and prior to June 10, 1948) Amalga Ward, Smithfield Beaver East Ward, Beaver Beaver West Ward, Beaver Bryan Ward, Sugar House Burbank Ward, San Fernando Capitol Hill Ward, Salt Lake Cardston First Ward, Alberta Claresholm Ward, Lethbridge Clarkston Ward, Smithfield Clawson Ward, Emery College Ward, Parowan Dayton Ward, Oneida El] Monte Ward, Pasadena El Sereno Ward, Pasadena Emerson Ward, Sugar House Enoch Ward, Parowan First Ward, Park Fourteenth Ward, Salt Lake Garden Creek Ward, Portneuf Garvanza Ward, San Fernando Harvard Ward, Liberty Hawthorne Ward, Sugar House Hill Spring Ward, Alberta Holbrook Ward, Snowflake Jordan Park Ward, Pioneer Lake View Ward, Tooele Lehi Ward, Maricopa Liberty Ward, Liberty Logan Eighth Ward, Mt. Logan Logan Third Ward, Cache Manassa Ward, San Luis Marlborough Ward, Sugar House Marsh Center Branch, Portneuf Marysvale Ward, South Sevier Montebello Ward, Pasadena Monticello Ward, San Juan Morgan Branch, San Luis Moulton Ward, Raft River New Castle Ward, Parowan Ninth Ward, Liberty Ogden Twenty-third Ward, Mt. Ogden Orangeville Ward, Emery Orchard Ward, South Davis Owyhee Ward, Weiser Paragonah Ward, Parowan Pendleton Ward, Union Preston Seventh Ward, Oneida Princeton Ward, Park Ramah Ward, St. John Richards Ward, Sugar House Romeo Ward, San Luis Sanford Ward, San Luis Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake Showlow Ward, Snowflake Smithfield Third Ward, Smithfield South Eighteenth Ward, Ensign South Second Ward, Liberty Springville Fourth Ward, Kolob Stavely Ward, Lethbridge Sugar House Ward, Sugar House Summit Ward, Parowan Sunset Ward, San Fernando Tenth Ward, Park Third Ward, Liberty Tooele First Ward, Tooele Tooele Second Ward, Tooele Tooele Third Ward, Tooele Tooele Fourth Ward, Tooele Tooele Fifth Ward, Tooele Treasureton Ward, Oneida Twenty-second Ward, Salt Lake Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Twenty-fourth Ward, Salt Lake BRANCHES (IN MISSIONS) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP BUILDING QUOTAS Bishop Branch, California Bowling Green, East Central States Burns Branch, Northwestern States Charleston Branch, East Central States Chino Valley Branch, California Crossville Branch, East Central States Delano Branch, California Franklin Branch, East Central States Golden Ridge Branch, Northwestem States Great Falls Branch, Northwestern States Harrisburg Branch, Eastern States Helena Branch, Northwestern States Indio Branch, California Leadville Branch, Western States Lima Branch, Northwestern States Martin Branch, East Central States Pontiac Branch, Northern States Rolla Branch, Central States Sante Fe Branch, Western States Scott City Branch, Central States Scottsbluff Branch, Western States Sedalia Branch, Central States Simms Branch, Northwestern States Thermopolis Branch, Western States Wasco Branch, California Here Comes the Parade Grace A. Woodbury LWAYS on the Fourth or Twenty-fourth of July just as the sun came up over the low volcanic ridge east of our town, the cannon on Red Hill boomed, practically shaking the townfolk out of bed. 'Then the band began to play, "The Star Spangled Banner'; the flag was run up on the liberty pole; the cannon boomed again; small boys began to shout, and the nerve-racking pop of firecrackers began. The glorious day of celebration, with its noise, its crowds, sports, program, and parade was ushered in with the enthusiasm found only in small towns. But it was the parade that highlighted the day for us youngsters. Of course the program, held in the stake tabernacle, was all right for the grown folks, but to us, it seemed long and dry. Only the lemonade that was passed around to the thirsty audience in new tin cups seemed worthwhile to us. Of course, running races in the afternoon under the trees on the Square was fun for awhile, with candy and prizes for all the children, but unbelievable as it seemed, you could get full of candy, and carrying what you couldn't eat around in your warm damp hands was a sticky business when the temperature reached a hundred and eight in the shade! But the parade! That was something to behold. We could not wait for it to reach us, so we all raced up the street to meet it. Such a grand sight—flags, bands, floats, and leading it all was the Marshall of the Day riding on his fine horse. All the rest of the year he was called "Bishop," but on the holiday he was addressed as "Captain." When I asked my mother the reason, she said that he used to be a famous Indian fighter. That information changed him, as far as I was concerned, into a heroic figure, mounted on a noble, high-stepping steed, going forth into battle. Following him came the martial band, riding in a double-bed wagon, draped with red, white, and blue bunting, and drawn by horses with little flags stuck in their bridles. It seemed to me that they stepped in time to the music of the fife and drums. Then came several more men on horses. "Who are they?" I asked my mother. "The dignitaries," she answered. Of course I then asked, "What are dignitaries?" "Oh, the mayor, the sheriff, the city and county commissioners." "What do they do?" I persisted. "They govern the town, point with pride, and view with alarm," she answered, "but you had better stop asking questions, look what is coming!" Everyone gasped with admiration as the beautiful float bearing the Goddess of Liberty and her attendants moved slowly down the street. To me those lovely girls in their long, white, star-trimmed robes and tinsel crowns were something out of this world. The next float also brought ahs Page 445 commerce 46 and ohs from the crowd, for Miss Utah, surrounded by girls representing all of the states of the Union, was worthy of the admiration and applause she received. I was so happy to see my pretty Sunday School teacher on the float, dressed in white and wearing a sash tied diagonally across her breast on which was printed in gold letters Idaho. I wondered if when I grew up I would be chosen to represent a state; and a few years later I was, but the letters that my mother carefully stitched on my sash spelled Vermont, and I was vaguely disappointed, for I had always imagined myself as representing Idaho. The most acclaimed float of them all was a hayrack covered with hay, flags, and dozens of small children who sang, "Zion is Growing." The hayrack swayed and bumped down WAeAO (6 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 the unpaved, dusty street. Rippling along each side was a banner made of unbleached muslin ("factory" to us), proclaiming that these children were "Utah's Best Crop." Once my youngest sister was chosen to be one of the sprouts, shall we say, that made up the "Crop," and my pride in her was so great that I scarcely noticed the other children on the float. The horses drawing the next entry, a covered wagon, kept snatching wisps of hay from the "Best Crop" float, which made the children squeal in delighted fright; but the man who drove the team represented a pioneer crossing the plains, and he kept trying to hold his horses back so that they couldn't reach the hay, but his wife and children, also dressed as pioneers, enjoyed the situation, and one of the | ' oo eS Courtesy Kate C. Snow _— i ape. Wees Se HERE COMES THE PARADE! HERE COMES THE PARADE ) some of the pioneers of 1847, Wearing their very best clothes a § today? The blaring of the b Tass band brought my wandering thoughts nd the large Sold back to the parade. They were Pins that had been given to them at playing "Hail Columbia, Happ the grand celebration in Salt Lake Land" with such enth USiasm as to Talse the dust, anyway there Was lots Cart, drawn y 8-sufferin Or dust. And nght behing the band onkey, that brought € rear of came te-topped, ]j ht wagon in the Parade © driver was dressed Which the SUIViving Cmbers of jn 4 loud plaid Suit much too large th oOrmon attalion were Tidin or hi Wore derby hat that t took a Jot lMagination to VISUsat on hj Ts, €n he wasn't alze these haired, stoopedProdding the donke keep him shouldered old men a5 strong, firm. Moving, he Played "y Good Coted yo § soldiers who could Old Summer Time," « Wo Little March half AY @ctoss a con nent Girls in Blue," ang "Yankee Dood Yet, for a moment that — oe harmonica. Banner a snappy key suddenly Stopped in his tracks a ks will fly from their firm j a ff It tyone but the driver Ans, kindly og ji € patriarch knew what Should 5 One. Sudf th Shivits tribe), Ol now, and den Y, before had € to cq Yel Owjacke "Ir squaws, and out any of th Iculous Suggestions | h Tealj e mok any of th Ownspeople Parade was going on without him € way, and Moved denly that his here are YOu going?" ut the In. Driver almost lost his derby, 'ans didn't re Pond by so Much as e *€D also noticed that the } We could see it all Y attention Was last of all over again when; came out on the Old tw: T That should enrich my purse, With faded 8ear for clocks and watches To put them in Teverse The Seventh Handcart Company Anna S. D. Johnson S I looked upon the monuA ment recently erected on Temple Square, Salt Lake City, honoring the ten handcart companies, I was deeply moved, for it symbolized faith and hope and brought to memory the privation and suffering of the Seventh Handcart Company in which many stalwart and faithful people came to Salt Lake Valley. In the summer of 1850, Apostle Erastus Snow, with three other missionaries, went to Europe to open the Scandinavian mission. Five young men, three born in Copenhagen and two nearby, all between the ages of eighteen and twentytwo, became very much interested in this new and different religion called Mormonism. They attended the first meeting with renewed spirit, and then, after about three months, three of these young men were convetted and baptized. Before another year passed the other two boys also joined the Church. Being of strong character, they were anxious to do whatever was asked of them. President Snow set them apart as: local missionaries to travel without purse or scrip to preach the gospel in Denmark and Norway. During the five to seven years they spent as missionaries, they were mobbed, thrown into prison, and went through much persecution. But, despite these hardships, they converted many. The greatest joy of their lives was realized when they were released to come to Zion, bringing with them their fiancees and families whom they had converted. These young men planned to be married upon reaching the Great Salt Lake Valley, but when they arrived in Liverpool, they discovered that Elder John Kay was returning to Zion on the same boat, The Westmoreland, with them, and it was unanimously decided that he should marty the young couples before setting sail. What a thrilling romance to be married in such a manner! Mr. Deacon, captain of The Westmoreland, did his share in making a pleasant reception on the ship. About soo saints and emigrants were aboard. Most of the passengers were friends and converts, happy with the thought of coming to Zion, and all joined in a joyous outburst of song and hurrahs in congratulation to these five young couples. The crossing took thirty-six days. The emigrants landed up the river near the Philadelphia shore. What happiness they expressed as_ they touched their feet on American soil! A diary of 1857 states: They then traveled until they came to a place below Iowa City which was green and lovely, with a spring nearby. Here they were met by President John Taylor, who gave them instructions on how to prepare for the trek across the plains. How little they knew what lay before them! All was joyous and, after three weeks' preparation, they were hurPage 449 450 Torleif Knaphus HANDCART MONUMENT, TEMPLE SQUARE, SALT LAKE CITY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 Nor gold nor glory their exalted quest Who won for East the wide unconquered West They toiled o'er frozen crest, o'er parching plain, Eternal wealth in higher worlds to gain. Forever in remembrance let them be, 'Who gave their all for truth and liberty. Tying on their way, knowing the fate of the Fifth and Sixth Handcart Companies of the previous year which were not well prepared, and started out too late in the season and were caught in the winter blasts on the plains, many of whom had perished before help came. The Seventh Company, consisting of 334 persons, left Iowa on July 3, 1857. These young couples were light-hearted and gay, singing around the campfires, dancing, holding meetings, and praying together mornings and evenings. However, the trip was arduous and soon food had to be rationed and often they had to go more than a day without —Orson F. Whitney water. Then came great thunderstorms. They still trudged on. Such privation and physical endurance was unknown to them. They climbed up and down heavy sand hills and tried to follow the covered wagon trails. Then, besides these troubles, there were the ditches, streams, and creeks which must be waded. The most dangerous place was at Loup Fork where the stream was a mile wide. Here the children were placed in the handcarts but the water came up in the carts and frightened the children. Two ox teams carried the old and sick. The women clung together and got across as best they THE SEVENTH HANDCART COMPANY could. The Indians came to their assistance, but yet it took two days to cross the stream. After crossing Loup Fork, the walking was hard and many times one or more would have to drop at the wayside because they were too weak to go on. The trials seemed almost beyond human endurance, but the saints had spirit and courage, and they traveled on to reach their goal. At Wood River, one of the mothers left camp and, with the help of devoted friends, gave birth to a baby girl and returned to camp the following morning, carrying the child in her apron, and continued on the trek. Indeed it was a strenuous journey, as one-tenth of the company died. Yet the only time my mother mentioned the hardships was when her shoes wore out and she used burlap around her swollen, 451 bleeding feet to protect them from the thin ice that had formed on the streams. Many had tom, bare feet when they arrived. For three weeks they were without meat, and not one of them dared kill a buffalo for fear of a stampede. This was understandable, for none of the company was much used to firearms. As they were traveling, many unusual things occurred. Of much interest was the Johnston Amny of 1857, traveling on the other side of the Platte River with their bountiful supply of everything. What they thought of this poor handcart company will never be known, but one day one of the army officers approached the handcart camp and said very kindly that one of their oxen had had its foot crushed and if they cared for the (Continued on page 501) From a painting by C. C. A. Christensen HANDCART COMPANY, 1857 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1888 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF Att NatTIONS" THE NECESSITY OF PRAYER: I fully realize that the unexpected duties the young daughters of Zion are frequently called upon to perform, remind us that we should always be prepared, and without we live prayerful lives we cannot do right. We are different to the world; they have no revelation to guide them which we claim to have, and if we write or say anything that is not according to truth and righteousness, those who are over us (being placed there by the Lord) can soon detect an error, and so can those in the Church who may read and learn what we say, for those who do mght all see eye to eye. Let us pray for our brethren and sisters who are over us in the Lord, who are ever on the watchtower, for we are told to do so, and it is a pleasant duty for us, so let us be friends to each other, trying to overcome everything wrong, that we may be as the wise virgins, having oil in our lamps, not copying after the world—Mary A. Freeze FROM OGDEN: On Thursday, July 19th, there will be an Anniversary Meeting in Ogden, at the Tabernacle, to commemorate the last visit of Prest. Brigham Young to that city, and also to celebrate the first appointment of a President to preside over the sisters' organizations in a Stake capacity. Prest. Young, at the meeting in the Ogden Tabernacle, July 19, 1877, appointed Mrs. Jane S. Richards President over the Relief Society and Young Ladies' Associations in all Weber Stake, and said quarterly reports were to be given of the condition of each Society, and gave much valuable instruction at that time. Prest. Young in his remarks said, concerning the mothers: "Mothers are the moving instruments in the hands of Providence to guide the destinies of nations," and he exhorted mothers to teach their children not to make war, but to teach them peace. He asked the question, "Who gives the key to the nations of the earth? It is the mothers!" His instructions were most fatherly, and it seemed as though every one present felt the influence thereof. It was the last time he spoke to the Relief Society and Retrenchment Associations, and it seems most proper to commemorate the event. ARISE! SHINE! FOR THY LIGHT IS COME! Arise! Arise! Thy light is come! O, Zion, rise and shine! Put all thy beauteous garments on, Uplift those eyes of thine, For glory all unspeakable Is risen over thee; Thy Lord, the incomparable, Thy light and joy will be. —Lu Dalton. WHAT CONSTITUTES A TRUE WOMAN: True womanhood defined, imvlies—virtue and purity, love and friendship, truth and sympathy, grace and refinement, modesty and intelligence. Though her sphere may seem humble, yet she can make it noble and queenly. She must live for those around her, and not for self alone. It is hers to rear the souls of men, to form the characters of future generations. It is a duty that each woman owes to her family and to society—to be cheerful and pleasant, courteous and friendly, neat and cleanly in her personal habits. I would say to the daughters of Zion, be humble and prayerful in order to retain the Holy Spirit to direct our minds, our words, our deeds, that we may be worthy the name of true, noble, women—daughters of God.—Truth Page 452 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon (CHOSEN from among all the state "Mothers of 1948" and a few extras, Mrs. Helen Gartside Hines of Springfield, Illinois, was selected United States "Mother of 1948." Sixty years old, she has ten children, nine of whom served in the armed forces during the war. She has the largest family listed in Who's Who in America. She has served on the Springfield school board and is the author of articles on family life. FRIEDA MILLER, director of the United States Women's Bureau, believes that any woman, who will fit herself for a post, can have a career after she is forty. She must, however, be flexible and able to adjust. AN interesting recent convert to the Church is Agnes Dalziel Hitchings, noted portrait artist, who has studied with some of the world's best teachers in Paris. A native of Scotland, she has painted in the African deserts and in tropical isles. RISIE JENSEN (Mrs. Philip Brach), regional director of the American Association for the United Nations, with offices in Los Angeles, has been a teacher among the California Indians, and was a member of the United Nations Delegation to the UNESCO Conference at Mexico City. An ardent worker for international peace, she addressed the Soroptimist convention in Salt Lake City. Soroptimist clubs in Denmark, China, and England are exchanging knowledge of their respective countries. RS. AMY MELLOR HOWE, ninety-four, an active genealogical worker in the Church, died in March in Salt Lake City. ORTLAND, Oregon, has elected its first woman mayor, Dorothy McCullough Lee. Mrs. Lee unseated Mayor R. E. Riley, winning more votes than he and five other male candidates combined. Mayorelect Lee will introduce the city manager type of government and will take official charge of the police department. A promise vigorously to combat vice was a major plank in her platform. F Stone and Star, a recently published anthology, contains poems by the Utah Sonneteers: Alice Mortey Bailey, Claire Stewart Boyer, Leila Grace Bassford, Maude Blixt, Christie Lund Coles, Berta Huish Christensen, Vesta Pierce Crawford, Beatrice K. Ekman, Anna Prince Redd, and Dorothy J. Roberts. The poems cover a wide range of subject material and reveal much variety in creative technique. Most of the authors are well-known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. Eight of the women represented have been successful contestants over a period of years in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Page 453 @Q— > EDITORIAL —~O VOL. 35 JULY 1948 Shrift asa Way of Life LATTER DAY Saint women have been given the priceless heritage of thrift. From frugal New England housewives, from industtious European homemakers, from wise pioneer women who _ loved their homes and considered work a privilege, has come this tradition of thrift. It is a most wholesome and valuable combination of industry and economy, and may be explained as the unusual ability to do without —to make things do or to make them over—to create something from nothing, as the saying goes. The heritage of thrift, which was a necessity for survival in pioneer days, is still of great worth and is the mark of a good housekeeper even in our mechanized civilization. The criterion so well defined in Proverbs (31:10-31) is still applicable to all women, even to those who live in cities, for thrift is, as explained in scripture, a virtue of many phases, embodying particularly the wise selection and securing of life's necessities and a careful use of everything:.. A virtuous woman seeketh wool and flax, a worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household.... She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard.... She is not afraid of the snow... For all her household are clothed with scarlet. Page 454 Examples of pioneer thnft, many of which apply equally well to the troubled days in which we live, are numerous. 'Take, for instance, the father's outworn suit or the mother's unfashionable coat. What happened to them? 'They were made into trousers and a jacket for the young son or into a skirt and coat for a growing girl. Then, again, the same material was used for a still smaller child. Eventually the original article of clothing found its way into a quilt, a rug, or into the covering (or stuffing) for a chair. Even the final scraps of a ragged rug became part of a mattress or a cushion. At times, even thread was saved and no buttons or fasteners were discarded. The long series of articles made from one piece of material were neither ugly nor cheap looking, but were made lovingly, with much attention to fine detail. And the bread which the industrious homemaker prepared for her family—what was the process there? Whole-wheat flour (often ground at home) was used, and when the brown loaves had been slowly baked they were (and still may be) a great delicacy. Dry bread was never wasted. If not used with milk or in soup, it was ground and kept handy for toppings on baked dishes, for making dressing, or for use in puddings. Soap making was another pioneer art which is still useful. There are very few homemakers who do not wide and wonderful world, filled throw away enough fats and grease with infinite possibilities. To provide at least part of the neces To paraphrase Proverbs, if you sary laundry soap And soapmakwould find a happy woman, look fot ing is not a difficult process, and itis one who is busy in the ways of fun to do. Thrift, who considers homemaking The creative and constructive 4" opportunity for the development abilities of women find satisfying of many skills, "who maketh herself expression in securing, preserving, coverings of tapestry..-- She lookand using the necessities of life—in eth well to the ways of her housemaking an art of homework. The hold, and eateth not the bread of home and its surroundings ate 4 idleness." V. Birthday Greetings to Sister Augusta (Winters Grant Age Tlinety-two Church and honored as a leader among het people, Sister Grant has lived a full, rich life and has contributed liberally of her means, her gifts, and her talents to increase the happiness of others. All of the great blessings which may come to a woman have been most pountifully bestowed upon Sister Grant and she has regarded each blessing as an opportunity for growth and development and the enrichment of her acious personality. Daughter, wife, mother, grandmother, ereat-grandmother—these words which represent the important phases of life for a woman—all apply to Sister Grant. And more have been added—teacher, friend, companion—an ideal Latter-day Saint woman who well deserves that treasured title. On this anniversary, Relief Society women everywhere, and many other well-wishers and friends, extend to Sister Grant heartfelt greetings for this her natal day and for all the days to come. Three-Part Story to (Begin in August GTPHE Russells Did Not Go to Church," 4 three-part story by Edith Russell, will begin sn the August issue of the Magazine. A vital and thought-provoking narrative of the spiritual aspirations of a young girl and her search for religious truth, this contribution to Latter-day Saint literature will constitute the first appearance in our Magazine of a young English author of great promise who is now making her home in Utah. EDITORIAL 455 Flower Arrangements for - Summer Days Vesta P, Crawford For a regal design of dignified formality, use gladioli, being most careful to cut the stems in various lengths so that the topmost buds will be graduated Points of interest for summer flowers. "ALLDOUBLE" PETUNIAS These intricately ruffled petunias are the first truly "alldouble" type created in America. This arrangement is composed of various blendings of Pale pink to dark rose color Page 456 W. Atlee Burpee Grace Tk Kirton Note the figurine at the graceful lines night. MN & W. Atlee Burpee Grace T. Kirton RUBY LARKSPUR MOTTLED SEGO LILIES The rich dark-colored blossoms are patFragile blossoms in a tall crystal vase. Terned in a triangular-shaped bouquet in a' The larger, fully opened flowers are placed cream-white, flat bowl: at the base of the design. W. Atlee Burpee W. Atlee Burpee ELEANOR PETUNIAS CHRYSANTHEMUM-FLOWERED NIA Pale-colored petals marked with dark tiie red throats make a striking design in this The dark, gold-colored flowers appear rustic wood bowl. At the base of this floral design, with the pale-colored blossoms at the top. REGAL GLADIoz, lying' on the table AINA PLAIN VASE at the night adds Stace to the simple lines Questing Lights Belle Watson Anderson CHAPTER 4 Synopsis: Andrew Rumgay leaves his mother and his fiancee Jane Allison in Scotland and joins his friend Hugh Shand to emigrate to America. They meet Mother MacKinlay and her son Bob, whom they had known while doing missionary work, and become acquainted with Kathleen Coleman and her friend Margaret Purvis. Hugh and Kathleen are married on board the ship. While in Iowa preparing for the handcart journey across the plains, Margaret tells Mother Mac that she is in love with Andrew, and Kathleen informs them that she is expecting a baby. Mtoningly' looking ques-_ tioningly at the sky, reechoed some ship lore: "Red skies at night, the sailor's delight Red skies in the morning, a sailor's warning." Mother Mac tried to appear unaffected by such dark forebodings. "I'm not so sure that those heavy clouds are not the emigrants' warning. Oh, well, there must always be some change in the weather," she added. It rained all night, and was still raining the next morning. As always, the handcarts and wagons needed repairs. 'The company decided to wait a few hours and let the animals graze further away from camp as grass had been scarce for several days. The women caught up with their mending. Mother Mac, with Margaret's help, cooked a boiled dinner. How much it was appreciated was expressed in the amount they did not leave on their plates. "My only wish," Hugh spoke very gratefully, "is that every family goPage 460 ing across the plains could have a Mother Mac to help them out." "If they haven't, we'll loan them Margaret." Andrew smiled a most tormenting smile at the lady in question. "We neither borrow nor lend," Mother Mac spoke up quickly, "and if Margaret were loaned, not one of you should eat a bite until she was returned." "Then we'll keep Margaret," Andrew laughed. "How very much a man loves his stomach," Margaret rejoined as she began gathering up the dishes. "Oh, we'll keep Margaret, all right," Mother returned with finality, "and now, Bob, get some dry wood so we can heat some water for the dishes." "One more wagon, two more cart wheels, and we'll be on our way. Better hurry those dishes if you're going with us." Andrew patted Mother's shoulder tenderly, but sometimes he loved to tease. "We'll be ready. You never wait for the Mac women." "And no other women either," Hugh added. "If the men were only on the job, as much as the women are, things would move along all right." After helping with the dishes, Margaret stood in the tent door, viewing the landscape. She felt closer to nature after a storm. Everything was nearly dry, although it was still very muddy. Near their Was shaking Its bra S tears, « ow s children, ho aloud as sh are Nature 'THE compa €er to hur. Tang of ay. NY was eg tumn was dvanced and Were more Wagons. In or upply could be Carts, the heay- 461 Ons. Several Morte days Were. Lost and the autumn winds Swept the gold lockets ging fragile 41S around er necks lose to Cir hearts, an ave all their Valu able treasure balance the ex. Day "had been dark and dreary, Through Mists and Purple haze the Mountains Stood as 4 challenge, AnTew and Hugh E4Zed across the "T've never Seen anything yet that [ | a lot o PerseverJust as bright as 1€ will ever need t Kathleen dried her teats. Mar &aret began Making up the beds and O Although there was a g00d fal] of SNOW in the Morning, the Company 462 When the weather was fair and warm they went ahead rapidly; when it was stormy and cold they did not make much progress. * Then came another very cold day. The snow, which began falling in the forenoon, kept up until nearly dark. The winds blew the loose snow into the trail, and walking was almost impossible. The people were nearly exhausted when they got to camp. The animals were corralled early, supper was cooked, and everyone went to bed as soon as the work was done. Andrew took the first part of the night for herding. He came in about midnight, threw some logs on the fire, and sat down to wait for Hugh to come on shift. They had to stand guard constantly over the cattle so that the Indians could not steal them. Mother could not sleep. She arose and made a cup of ginger tea for Andrew. The clouds had cleared away, and one by one the stars began appearing in the sky. "Mother, I wish you would stay in your bed. You'll catch cold on a night like this. You're something special—take care of yourself." "T will, son, but the moon and stars are so beautiful tonight after our hard day." "What about the snow on the earth beneath the stars? I declare I can't raise my eyes above these drifts." "There's another emigration company above us. They remind me of our camp in Iowa, a large tent and all the smaller tents. Their lights are bright. The sisters must clean the chimneys, and fill their lamps with coal oil every day." Andrew looked up. "Yes, I see RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 what you mean. I wish our lights were as bright tonight." "They are. No storm can dim our lights. 'The candles of the wise virgins shine brightest in the dark." x Ke Ke x NEXT day the sun was shining "and it was warm in the fore. Noon. In the afternoon clouds began to gather and the wind howled along the pass. In the evening the wind switched to the north and snow began to fall. The temperature dropped. A blizzard whirled over the camp and the people were hardly able to move. It grew colder every minute. The well helped the sick; the strong helped the weak. Many handcarts were left frozen in the trail. Toward midnight relief came. The winds died down and the people pitched their tents and built their fires. Many graves were left on the hillside. But if their needs were great, their blessings were also great. The Lord waited in that valley with the emigrants by night, and many times they felt that the veil between them and their Heavenly Father was very thin. His peace and comfort testored them, and led them back into the road to Zion. The days grew shorter as they approached the mountains. One cold day, as it began to grow dark, they made camp. Bob and Brother Coleman set up tents and made beds so that the women could get some rest. Margaret urged Mother and Kathleen to lie down while she started supper. She was busy preparing the meal when it occurred to her that she had not seen Andrew come in. There was a rule that each person should report just as soon as camp QUESTING LIGHTS was made. Margaret set the food to one side and went in search of Andrew. She made the rounds, and came back to the tents. Mother and Kathleen were asleep. Bob and Brother Coleman were herding the cattle and Hugh was helping with a wagon that had broken down. Margaret waited. Surely Andrew would come soon. But he did not come. 'Time was precious; the trail would be filled up with snow. Her duty suddenly was clear to her. Andrew was out on the trail. When it grew cold the heavy snow would be hard to get through. She must get him and bring him in. She found her woolen hood, bound her feet and legs in burlap over her overshoes and leggings, put on her heavy coat, took Mother's knitted shawl and threw around her shoulders. She knelt by Mother's bed and prayed for confidence and courage. Out into the night, out into the trail, she went alone and unafraid. The wind was blowing, but it was behind her. It helped her break the trail. Quietly, peacefully, the time went by, and quietly, peacefully her courage kept her moving forward. She did not know how long—she did not know how far, but of one thing she was certain—Andrew was out there in the snow, and she would never stop until she found him. Finally she saw what she was looking for, a big object in the snow, the handcart. "Andrew! Andrew!" She almost ran to him. She brushed the snow from the handcart, got his blankets and stretched them out on the cart, then she raised him up, brushed the snow from him, and pulled him onto the blankets. 463 She had Andrew now. No power on earth could stop her. She would take him into camp. It was strange, but the wind that helped her break the trail, had changed, and was now at her back, pushing her back to camp. On and on she went. It was not all her own strength that was turning the wheels through the heavy snow. Finally, she saw horses and riders in the distance. She heard voices. President Wood and Hugh were coming to meet her. Soon they would both be safe. "Margaret, don't ever do such a thing again!" But Margaret did not answer. Andrew was safe, and that was all that mattered. Ee Ke HE company crossed the river and kept pushing forward, but the snow was deep. The rations grew less and less, until they did not have strength enough to shovel through the drifts. Several days they tried to go on, but it was useless. They made camp in a canyon with protection from the storms, and waited for help from Zion. Margaret spent her time nursing the sick—so many in their own ward needed help and encouragement. One night she came to Mother, overtired after a very hard day. Mother had some hot soup waiting for her. Hugh had killed a doe and he divided it with the aged, and with mothers of small children. Margaret sat down and tried to eat, but the thought of her friends made it impossible. She laid her spoon down by her dish and sat thinking, then burst into tears. "TI canna eat—I canna eat, Mother. My throat fills up and I canna swallow." She laid her head in her arms and began to sob. 464 Andrew jumped to Margaret's side and called to Mother Mac. Mother took the weeping girl in her arms. The Macs had tried to be cheerful all of the day, but they were weary. Mother's usual smile was gone. She was worried; the last food was in the pot. Andrew looked about at the serious faces, so unlike the Macs. "What's the matter with the lights?" he asked. Mother looked up without answering. Kathleen and Margaret were sitting on Mother's bed. "No coal oil,' Margaret replied. Andrew asked them to kneel and repeat the Lord's prayer with him. "Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed by thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread...." "Whoa — whoa — Anybody at home?" A shout in the distance heralding, at last, the hoped-for help from the saints in Zion, was heard. They continued and finished the prayer. Tears were rolling down their faces, tears of gratefulness. "Thank you, God," Andrew murmured. Margaret and Andrew rushed to the wagons. The men had removed the wagon tops, so they could get at the food. In their work they knocked off a box of soda crackers. The box broke into pieces when it hit the ground. Margaret stooped down and began to fill her apron with the crackers. "Wait a minute, Miss. Things must be divided." Andrew's face went white. "You had your breakfast and your dinner. These RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 You'll get your supper," he said shortly. "Remember, Andrew, the Scotch pay for their tempers," Margaret whispered. The driver stood up and looked around. "Not this time he won't. A million apologies, my brother, take the crackers, all of them, and everything else you can reach. They are all yours—all yours." Margaret filled her apron and went running to Mother and Kathleen. Andrew followed. He was weak and trembling. Kok K * ONE forenoon Margaret searched out Mother Mac in the Shand tent. "Mother, try to understand what I am going to tell you, and if you can, see it my way. I'm leaving in the morning with Brother Brown from Tooele. He is taking a number of sick people into Salt Lake City and I'm going along to take care of them." "You made up your mind in a hurty, didn't you, Margaret?" "Well, Brother Brown was in Great Salt Lake to conference, and when they asked for volunteers to bring provisions out to us, he volunteered. One good turn deserves another. I would like to go." "T've always had a mind, Margaret, that you would be with me when my baby came," Kathleen voiced her keen disappointment. "So I would if I could, Kathleen, but you will have Hugh and Mother. My prayers will be with you every day." "Well, Margaret, if that's the way you want it, I think it's all right. We will miss you, and be sure to take cate of yourself in the snow." QUESTING LIGHTS But Andrew was not willing to forced himself to call to see Margaret go. "Now you are "Thanks for saving my life." "Qh, that," she nonch done pretty well to fered, "it was such a little thing, "Well, we'v keep her sponded. "All good things must come to an end sooner OF later." Next morning the wagons were that?" He ready to take off. Margaret was the last one to be stood nearby with very serious faces. Andrew was drinking water from a express his appreciation to Margaret UP Ove" the front, spoke to his team, on the last part long," Mother trethink nothing of it." tin cup at her. First into the wagon Se "THIS JOURNEY MAY APPEAR" Alta L. Leafty I No room? But oh, there must bel I cannot leave these precious things behind For lustful hands to seize and gloat upon, I could not bear it! Let me see— Beneath this spinning wheel—could not we find A little space? You're sure? Oh, John, Please hold me while I look a last farewell Upon this home we built and loved so well. Il This cannot be the one place Above all others God has chosen for his saints! For this—we left our lands and homes behind, _ And braved the grasping desert waste? For this—we hushed the sorrowed mother's plaints Lest stalking death creep unawares, and find The rest of us? O God—pray help me see The blossom that this hiding place shall bel Il This is the place, my son-— The ensign your great-grandpa helped to build So long ago; you don't remember him— Or me—but brave men like him fought, and won The desert over to their way of living; tilled The stubborn soil, and blessed it. Years may dim Our struggle, but none better knows The tears that fed this blossoming desert rose. The wheel. Alantly of Andrew gasped, "My life a little thing, hey? Well, how do threw the water in th among boxes, bedding, and sick saints. Loaning Margaret," he reminded the helped into the wagon. The Macs tin cup. He had never been able to for bringing him in from the trail. 'As she climbed up the wheel with Brother Brown assisting her, Andrew She turned on top of Margaret dodged, and fell head: Brother Brown pulled the canvas and Margaret started of her journey to Zion. (To be continued ) Nature's 'Tonic Alice Whitson N orton 669M worn out before the day | has really started," Mrs. Walton complained to her neighbor, Mrs. Barnett, when they met at the fence dividing their back yards, for the purpose of spreading their freshly washed dish cloths in the sun for drying. As usual they paused for a moment of idle chatter. "You do look a little pale," Mrs. Barnett answered. "Maybe you need a tonic." "TI do need a tonic," Mrs. Walton agreed, "but what sort of tonic to try next is the question. You see," she went on, "I've just about tried them all—vitamins included, and look at me." Mrs. Barnett, complying with the request, smiled faintly. "Now you're laughing at me," scoffed the neighbor, "and me in need of medicine." "Not at you, Mrs. Walton," returned Mrs. Barnett. "I was only remembering that I, too, once depended on patent medicines to keep me physically fit—but now—" "T know," broke in the woman despondently, "now that you're well and running around to this, that, and the other, you've lost sight of your past ailments." "Maybe so," laughed Mrs. Barnett, "for running here, there, and everywhere is just a part of the day's work for me now. But there was a time when I got out of bed each morning, wondering how I could get through the day ahead. But, finally, a good friend pointed out the Page 466 wonders of nature's tonic to me, and I've been enjoying my existence on this earth ever since." "Nature's tonic!" exclaimed Mrs. Walton. "I dare say I've used a thousand bottles of those pills but they never helped me a bit." "Ym not talking about bottled tonics," Mrs. Barnett chuckled, "but unbottled and free for the ask- >? Ing. RS. Walton moved a bit closer to her neighbor. "Just what are you talking about, Mrs. Barnett?" she asked solemnly. "Nobody could look at you and suspect you ever felt bad in your entire life." "You should have seen me before I began taking nature's tonic," returned the cheery creature, "mouth down at the corners, drab-colored dresses, mopping, dusting, cooking the day through and making = body miserable about me.' "But the tonic that wrought the change," interrupted Mrs. Walton, "tell me about that. Where did you buy it?" "You don't buy it," laughed Mrs. Barnett. "You earn it, but once you've tasted the benefit you never want to do without it any more." "You said a friend pointed it out to you," murmured Mrs. Walton. "Mind telling me how it happened?" "Sure," replied Mrs. Barnett, "T can tell you how it happened, but it still embarrasses me.' Mis. Walton spread the last NATURE'S TONIC white cloth on the fence and again faced her neighbor. "Strange to say," chuckled Mrs. Barnett, "I was doing the same thing when nature's tonic was pointed out to me, as we are doin now, except with another neighbor in another section of this town. And, like you now, I was at that time complaining of my ailments, when suddenly the sunny creature on the other side of the fence burst out laughing. " "What you need to do,' she said, 'ls to clear your medicine cabinet of every patent medicine bottle it contains; contribute those drab garments you wear to the needy, and start looking for joy and things to laugh over.'" "I hope you slapped her face," Mrs. Walton exclaimed. "The idea of a friend talking like that!" "Well," laughed Mrs, Barnett, "I did at the moment feel like doing that very thing, but my friend vanished so quickly after the outburst I missed the opportunity, and later on I found myself thinking— maybe she was right. All the patent medicine I had taken made no improvement in my feelings. I was a stick-at-home. My clothes were drab, chosen purposely because they didn't show soil as much as light ones. I looked like my clothes. The house, though shining with cleanliness, provided a dull atmosphere for my family. 66 ALL day I thought about the matter and remembered with a sudden shock I was living under a weight of constant 'worry; worry lest some of the children would leave mud tracks on the floor, slam 467 a door, or stage a pillow fight. Wortied lest the rent on the house should not be promptly met; the furniture bills not promptly paid; unexpected company might drop in —Ccrossing bridges and climbing hills I never came to. By late afternoon I was thoroughly 'convinced my neighbor was right. What I needed was laughter and happiness that I had so long denied myself." "So you changed your mode of living?" Mrs. Walton returned with a long glance at her neighbor's bright, flowered dress. "Yes," Mrs. Barnett answered, "I began by clearing the cabinet — of patent medicine bottles, and giving away my drab garments. Then [| looked the house over; removed the chairs from their set Spaces; raised the shades and flooded the place with sunshine and started living by a new pattern. "Whether I felt like singing or not," she continued, "I sang as | cooked breakfast, and when the meal was ready for serving, I insisted the family be at the table to eat, and no disagreeable subjects were allowed for discussion. "At first the members of my family cast surprising glances upon me, but as time passed and my constant grumbling changed into pleasant conversation, I found the older members of my household kissing me goodbye when they left for work, and greeting me with affection when they returned. "T really was so busy and so happy learning to live as God created me to live, I lost sight of my ills, and one day to my intense delight, I discovered I was physically well and had learned to laugh; and life with 468 all its problems was moving on a new scale of happiness for me and mine. "When I grew tired physically," Mrs. Barnett commented, "I dropped whatever I was doing and tumbled down on my very best bed to rest for a full fifteen minutes. At the end of that period I'd figure out short cuts in housework—good, wholesome meals that could be provided with less physical strength than I had heretofore used, and once I got things systematized, I discovered I really had a bit of extra time on my hands, so I began to attend Relief Society and take part in other Church and community activities. "Today I do believe, due to nature's tonic alone, I am the healthiest, happiest person in the whole, wide world. And_ there," she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 laughed as the sound of a telephone bell vibrated through the glorious morning air, "is Mrs. Clarke reminding me to lead the singing this afternoon. Bye-bye." With that she went racing across the yard and vanished through the door of the house that had, under the influence of nature's tonic, become a home. "Well," mused Mrs. Walton, with a sudden straightening of her sagging shoulders, "I'm not sure nature's tonic can do as much for me as it did for her, but it won't do me any harm to try her remedy." And now, may I add, at the end of a twelve months' trial, it's hard to tell which of the two women wears the brightest house dresses, or laughs the heartiest when they meet for a morning chat over the back fence. — Soups—Foreign and Domestic Sara Mills NY woman who has a particle of pride in her cooking should have a specialty which she serves at every opportunity. I once knew a fair, sweet-tempered woman whose specialty was cream puffs with caramel sauce. Her friends, including me, would go many unnecessary miles merely hoping that cream puffs would be waiting. I'm as fond of cream puffs as the next one, but somehow I never make them. I wait until they are given me. Soup, as I may have hinted before, is my specialty. The reason for this I have never probed. The recipes given here I have collected and developed through many years. Onion soup, French of course, heads the list, perhaps because it is the first good soup I ever learned to make. The recipe serves four. FreNcH ONION Soup 1 Ib. Lean beef chopped water to make 1% quarts of stock 4 red onions, sliced 1 tbs. Butter 2 slices toast, grated Parmesan cheese or Swiss cheese to cover toast salt and pepper SOUPS—FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC Or one half hour, Combine the meats, add salt and Pepper, and simmer for about Y men and Special occasion. Another Palate-tickling onion Soup is Made from ¢ icken stock. Onions (one to a Pétson), as in the preFor a thick Slices of toasted French bread. Lenrn, Soup This is another importation, hearty and vitamin-filled, that can be used aS a one. Ish luncheon or dinner, an after-the-game e dish S€rves ten, 1 Ib. Lentils, Soaked in water overnight 1 large onion 2 Carrots, diced 2 Outer stalks of celery, diced 2 tbs. Butter 4 Slices bacon, diced 2 tbs. Flour 4 cans consomme 2 quarts water 1 ham bone 2-3 medium-sized Potatoes 10 boiled, sliced frankfurters a few drops Worcestershire Sauce salt and Pepper lemon slices for Serving chopped Parsley 469 acon. Do this in a large Soup kettle. Next add the lentils and the 2 tablespoons flour, Stir Well, and add th and ham one. Cover an Cook slow] for an hour, Next, add the diced POtatoes and cook for One half hour, _ Remove the necessary salt and Pepper, Creay OF Spinacy Soup salt and Pepper " tsp. Mace 1 Cup whipped cream handful of Spinach heart leaves ten to fiftee whipped cream. Garnish the Servings with the spinach heart ] Six to eight Persons, One last your leftovers, leftover bones — Ou pay €m—leftoyer vegetables, left. €ans, Catrots, celery, Patsley, gTeen Squash, ete., with a few herbs. Principles and Laws Governing Good Singing Florence ]. Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board How wonderful is the human voice! It is indeed the organ of the soul. The intellect of man sits enthroned, visibly, on his forehead and in his eye, and the heart of man is written on his countenance, but the soul reveals itself in the voice only—Longfellow HIS is but one of the many recorded statements that have been made by poets, philosophers, and musicians during past centuries on the wonders of the human voice. This high estimate of the voice is just as much a reality today as it was then. This is a golden age of musical possibilities. Most schools and churches regard vocal study and performance as indispensable to the perpetuation and advancement of educational ideals and moral growth. Our Church has always encouraged and stressed the development of musical talents. Courses have been adopted, singing groups have been organized, and teachers and leaders have been appointed to advance musical culture commensurate with Church ideals and interests. This has lead to specialized activity in the art of singing. Vocal art includes several very important factors which, in turn, are made up of many fundamental details. In order to effect further advancement in our singing organizations it becomes necessary to study and emphasize these. Since tone quality is the basic element of beautiful singing, this detail should be given first consideration. The vowel is the source of tone. If it is perfect the tone will be likewise. 'This fact makes it fundamentally necessary to study the vowel, how to speak and sing it properly. Vowels must be sung without restraint or interference of any kind. To do this the following rules should be observed while singing: a. Open the mouth almost to a yawn position. B. Originate all vowels in the same place, the back of the mouth — the pharynx. C. Sustain all vowels from beginning to end with the same volume unless otherwise indicated. D. Sing the vowels in the easy range of the voice with "M7" as the prefix and sustain each one eight counts, four gradually louder (crescendo); four gradually softer (decrescendo or diminuendo). Sing in slow tempo. Then increase to sixteen counts and divide in the same proportion. Avoid all throat restriction and tension of tongue and jaw in all singing. E. To sing properly the chest and nbs must be kept high and expanded, while the abdominal muscles are lifted and contracted. This type of breathing should be practiced until it becomes a_ habit. This is also essential to good speaking. [Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussion in the choristers' and organists' department at union meeting. } Page 470 Or new to Married Relief Societ mem to Eudora Widtsoe, "daughter of Elder John A. Widtsoe Pears as a writer of One of the and Leah Dun or Idisoe, Elder lesson Series, Ry] me: Erie, utham jg the father f a son utham, author of the Social science George and two aughters Carolyn €ssons, "Tat er-day Saint Politica] and Dorale ought," Director of € Inst; Jean Rig €s Jennings, author of ute of Goy, niment and head of the € sewin €ssons, "Va € of Ac partment of Politica] Science at quiting M. Ver Skills. Make-over e niversity of Uta son of Ossibilities " Iso Prepared the sew corge Henry Durham and Ma INE Course Outlines for last year Ellen Marsden Durham, he was born 1€ was born in Logan, Utah, the In Parowan and educateg In the daughter of Dr. Alfreg J. And Edna Schools of h, receiving his B. A. Hyde Ridges. Her m ternal great Cgree from ¢ Niversity of Utah. Standfather was President John Tay. © Teceived his PAD. In Political Jo, a Science af Nd her Paterna] e University Of Cali. Fornia, Los A leat-grand. Father was the Well-known and gifted €tved as a Pioneer, Joseph H, Ridges, builder member of the faculties at California, Of the Original Tabernacle Organ warthmore, Pennsylvania, and Utah er mate State Agricultura) College, € has Written m Tal &'andmothery Was An me Taylor yde, first Counselor to any Publications athshebg Smith in the genera] dealing with Politics "ang gOvern Presidency g Relief Society € Was Ment, € is auth of Joseph Teared and educated jn Salt Lake Smith: Prophet-States » and the ity and js gia editor: Jennings Wife of Brenton Nd Discoy S¢s of President W. Jenni 8 Is the mothe of a son der J. Gra; The Gospel King. And a daughter. She ¢ bines two dom (Selections from the Writings interesting careers, omemaking lSCOurses of John Tay Or); and and teaching at the NIVETsity of The lSCOurses of Wilford 0od- #1 In the home €conomics departruff, ment. Her hobbies are Sewing and Elder Dutha has long seryeq gardenin the Church San outst nding teach. Er and executive ffic various or biographical Sketches of the authors < c Of the oth €ssons, se Oanizations, Particularly IN scoutElder Do Colton: Relies Seti Ing, MI Sunda hoo] and agazine, P. 483, July I. Priesthoog ACtivities. Mber Elder ne Ohiggs: Relief Society of Niversit Ward, Salt Lake City, a8azine, page 469, J ny 1946, he Was appointec to membership 2 — Howard 'R' "Bs: a Society the Emigration Stake High Council Eldan SP i at ie iN 1946, Page 47] Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Elder Don B. Colton Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 HIS preview of the second year's course in the series entitled "The Life and Ministry of the Savior" introduces the eight lessons for 1948- 49. The textbook to be followed again this year is Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage. Each of the first eight lessons of the series for 1947-48 covered two chapters of the text. This year only one chapter of the text will be treated in each lesson, as it is felt that each chapter provides sufficient material to occupy the full theology class period. Material for lesson enrichment will be found in the references at the end of each chapter. Class leaders are advised to guide the discussion in the theology classes so that extraneous or controversial subjects do not enter into it, and only outlined subject matter is considerd. The main objective of the course is to give the women of the Church opportunity to study and discuss events in the life of the Savior and his teachings, thereby strengthening their faith and increasing their testimonies. For more than nineteen centuries righteous people have found consolation and hope in such study, and it is hoped that each course in this series will bring increased joy and understanding to Relief Society members. Page 472 The titles of the eight lessons for this year's course are the names of chapters 17 to 24, inclusive, of the textbook Jesus the Christ. The titles and objectives of the lessons follow: Lesson 9. "The Sermon on the Mount" Objective: To create a deep appreciation of the Savior and his gospel by a study of the masterful "Sermon on the Mount." Lesson 10. "As One Having Authority" Objective: To offer proof that Jesus the Lord possessed the fulness of divine power and authority. Lesson 11. "He Spake Many Things Unto Them in Parables" Objective: To create a desire to study and understand the gospel of the kingdom. Lesson 12. "Peace, Be Still' Objective: To strengthen faith in the Lord Jesus Christ through the recognition of his power over the forces of nature, men, and even demons. Lesson 13. "The Apostolic Mission, and Events Related Thereto" Objective: To show how those who put their trust in the Lord gain spiritual power and knowledge. Lesson 14. "A Period of Darkening Opposition" Objective: To acquaint class members with the events of the Savior's life dur- LESSON DEPARTMENT tl T€SPonsibilities Lesson ye « e Transtiguration" Objective come Cquainted with One of ¢ tstanding vents of the aViOr's earth Y Minist Objective: To the Masterfy] "Sermon on the © sermon has Constj tution of Ch Contain Many of the fun amenta] | t is a mas €rpiece of T. Ictures are les: "2A city that is set On an hill Cannot be hid (Matt. 5:14),. 1 gather Stapes of thorns, o7 tt. 7:16). T what man is there of you, whom if Or bread, will he give him a t. 7:9), Ound great Onsolation in What has Come ft nown the "Beatitudes," Teward Or that Conditions better, has 5 tained and comforted the less fortunate In Nation Textbooks N€cessary to the "peace Which Passeth al] understanding » It shoulg always be noted that the tion to 4PProach his Nearly as Possible and tion, enjoy hi TRC SNE "a os ital THE SERMON ON THE MOUNT A Perry Picture From a painting by Hofmann LESSON DEPARTMENT An interesting discussion of the difference between pleasure and hapPiness is found on page 247 of the text, Jesus the Christ. The Law Superseded by the Gospel - He had come, not to destroy the law, but to fulfill it and to establish that which the Prophets had foretold would come. The explanation of this as de livered to the Nephites is: And it came to Pass that when Jesus had said these words he perceived that there I say unto you that the law is fy). Filled that' was given unto Moses. Behold, I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for do not destroy the prophets, for as many as have not been fulfilled in me, verily J The gospel did not destroy the Osaic law; it supplanted that law by a higher and more perfect one. The law provided 4 specific penalty for an evil deed while the gospel for- 475 so often father to the act, Is pronouncement against divoIce was very strong. It May be well for class leaders to read at this Point Matthew 19:4-9. God's law contemplates that man and wife shall not be divorced. That was the law in the beginning, although divorce has been permitted, or, as the Savior said, "suffered," at times for Particular reasons. Retaliation had been permitted under the Moasic law. "Thus an eye was demanded for the loss of an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a life for a life." It was the law in those days that if a Roman demanded that a Jew go with him a mile to carry a urden or for other Purposes the Jew must 80. Jesus urged that one should go the second mile. He Probably did not mean that the apostles should be abjectly subservient work in the ministry more efficient. Ly. Let th be enhanced. It was an entirely new doctrine the Lord taught: -. - Love your enemies, bless them that Curse you, do good to them that hate you, 476 and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you (Matt. 5:44). This would train them to be longsuffering and tolerant as our Father in heaven. He causes the rain to fall and the sun to shine on the just and the unjust. Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect (Matt. 5:48). Sincerity of Purpose The Master enjoined upon his followers sincerity and denounced hypocrisy. He was emphatic as regards the giving of alms so that it might be seen of men. The saying of prayers to be heard of men was also severely condemned. Then followed the giving of a model prayer. The Lord's Prayer, as it is called, is so all inclusive and yet so easily understood and soul-inspiring that it should be memorized. (See Matthew 6:9-13.) For the first time permission was given to address Elohim as "Our Father." The common brotherhood of man and our relationship to Christ, our Elder Brother, are clearly declared. One stands in wonder and awe at the nearness to the infinite Deity. We get a glimpse of the reason for God's great love. Our Father! What meaningful words! Read, or sing, that marvelous hymn, "O My Father." (Read Jesus the Christ, pages 238-242.) Another new doctrine: For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you: But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses (Matt. 6:14-15). Treasures of Earth and of Heaven It is comforting to many to read the Lord's estimate of true wealth. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 He especially contrasts enduring riches of eternity with the passing wealth of this world. A life well spent in doing good deeds is far more desirable than one spent in amassing and hoarding gold or silver. How oft we hear his statement, "For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also" (Matt. Gx2a)). When he turned to a discussion of the inner self, the Master showed his keen discernment of the forces of life. "The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light" (Matt. 6:22). Of course, he was speaking of the natural or mortal eye. It receives the light of the sun and gives light unto the body. Likewise, if the spiritual eye is undimmed by sin, one can see the pathway to God. Job said, "For thou hast said, My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in thine eyes" (Job 11:4). It is clear that if we are to know God we must serve him and keep his commandments. Especially with the apostles there was to be no middle pathway. Truly Jesus was the Master Teacher. How well he led his listenets from the known to the unknown! He talked of how well the Father cares even for the fowls of the air, that faith might be increased in the hearts of those who heard him. If God fed the birds, and arrayed the lilies of the field better even than Solomon was arrayed, how much more would he watch over those whom he had called to be messengers of life and salvation. Hypocrisy Further Condemned The followers of Jesus are admonished not to judge others. "It is high LESSON DEPARTMENT ter to leave Judgment with the Lord. The world, our life eternal with God. Ise Contained jn Matthew h is in heaven will enter into the kingdom of heaven, Hearing and Doing Jesus knew that some who listened to him deliver his great address him and forget it all Oo the Mount humbl without feeling that no On earth ever taught us as did Jesus, Questions and Suggestions for iSCussion 1. Read the Beatitudes, in them, 2. State some of the instructions which €SuS gave to his chosen Twelve, 3- What ences between Eospel of Christ? 4. Repeat the golden rule. Show how faith and love are necessary to live It, PEACEMAKERS the days of the Savior. Key to It is far bet. Appiness by Securing peace of mind 478 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 Ussiting Seachers' IT lessages—Our Savior Speaks Elder H. Wayne Driggs Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 HE Visiting Teachers' Messages for 1948-49 will tie in with our theology lessons: "The Life and Ministry of the Savior." The messages will be admonitions and other significant statements of Christ which are timely today. As far as possible, the messages will be suited to the particular month in which they are to be presented. The main title of the series will be: "Our Savior Speaks." The subtitles for the various months will be as follows: Lesson 1. "Ye shall do the works which ye see me do." Objective: To present these words in the homes visited as "'the grand key words of the Society" and to point out that the objective of Relief Society has never changed. Lesson 2. "Where are the nine?" (Luke 17:17) Objective: To warn against the sin of ingratitude. Lesson 3. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matt. 25:40). Objective: To reaffirm what constitutes the true spirit of giving. Lesson 4. "In the world ye shall have tribulation but be of good cheer" (John 16:33). Objective: To give encouragement to face the coming year courageously. Lesson 5. "Judge not that ye be not judged" (Matt. 7:1).. Objective: To point out that it is not our place to pass judgment on another. Lesson 6. "Ye cannot serve God and Mammon" (Matt. 6:24). Objective: To emphasize that the allurements of the world do not provide lasting happiness. Lesson 7. "I will not leave you comfortless" (John 14:18). Objective: To point out that we are not left comfortless because of our sure knowledge, through Christ's teachings and the Holy Ghost, of the resurrection. Lesson 8. "Ye are the light of the world" (Matt. 5:14). Objective: To emphasize that where much is given much is expected. Lesson 1—"Ye Shall Do the Work Which Ye See Me Do" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, October 5, 1948 Objective: To present these words in the homes visited as the "grand key words" of Relief Society and to point out that the objective has never changed. HE Savior in his earthly ministry ever strove to link the spiritual with the temporal. He taught that life on earth had its counterpart in heaven, that, in fact, a "heaven on earth" was the nearest example we LESSON DEPARTMENT could have of the joys in the perfect life beyond. It was through this teaching that he impressed his followers with the need of belief on him and the works that he did. At the ninth meeting of Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.' These are the grand key words for the Society to act upon." From that day, in 1842, to the present time, those grand key words have served to guide the society along its path and motivate Relief Society members to perform the work done by the Master. When we think of the work done by the Savior, we are apt to remember his miracles, but it is significant that our works need not of necessity be these epic-making events. The blind need not be restored to sight, the deaf to hear, nor even the 479 dead to walk again. How then may we do the works which he did? The answer is to be found in reading, and making our own, a very few words about Jesus which nevertheless speak volumes: "who went about doing good" (Acts 10:38). By the exercise of great faith, as Relief Society members, and more particularly as visiting teachers, we can actually aid the blind to see; we also can open the eyes of those who are spiritually dim-sighted; we can by faith still an actual tempest, and we also can calm the tempest in some troubled soul. One is no greater miracle than the other. The acts of Jesus were acts of understanding and love. These we can perform. These are as much needed today as they ever were. We can "go about doing good." "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do." << of sterature—Literature of the Latter-day Saints Literature of the Gospel Restoration Elder Howard R. Driggs Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 ITERATURE in its' broadest sense applies to all that is written. Thus we may speak of the literature of mathematics, of science, of philosophy, of commerce, of advertising, or of any other field of study or activity. In a more restrictive sense, however, the term literature means that body of writings characterized by artistry of expression, of creative skill in portraying life, impressing truth, as in poetry, drama, fiction, oratory, essays, or sermons. A synonymous term suggestive of this product of literary art is belle-lettres. This course on "Literature of the Latter-day Saints" —a pioneering venture—obviously cannot be spread over the whole field; nor can it be held within the narrow one. What is planned is a series of studies that will deal with such literature of varied types as portrays truthfully the h year, Pits, help in Clarifying € gospel as taught an lived by tter-day aints, Third, new Joy in discovery and enrichment from the best of our literature. To meet this Ing will Ideals, achievemen ts, With appreciation. € radiant inf] hink here of the scrip 00ks" not served? How. Much likewise would be nown of our avior had not Matthew, Mark, Ly €, and John writ ten the precious 80spels? Or what Would be known of the rise of the who carried forward the divine work written their John not bequeathed "The Revelation"? Truly our indebtedness to these holy These yo] umes, togethible, make the basic, LESSON DEPARTMENT panding as the great work progresses. Significant incidents from this developing epic, events of dramatic cast and revealing import, truthfully, inspiringly written, help bring out the inner meaning of the gospel in action. Stories of the men and women who have lived it help to humanize the messages of the Savior as applied to today.' Words of truth and light from leaders and others who feel and know the gospel, help to interpret and impress it. Out of all this wealth of materials, too, may come songs and lyrics that live—stories and drama of stirring true-to-life cast, orations and sermons that impress truth. Our part is to discover these gems of expression, these life-giving thoughts, these dramatic events, and to appreciate them. To that end this series of what we hope may be practical and inspirational lessons is planned. For the first year the work will be on what may be called "Literature of the Gospel Restoration." A brief outline suggestive of the studycenters of this part of the course follows: 1. Literature of the Beginnings Background study of family and boyhood of Joseph Smith in source writings—and study from literary viewpoint of Joseph's own story of the restoration. 2. Highlights of the Book of Mormon Epic Study of some of the dramatic events portrayed in this new "Book of Books" —this from the standpoint of effective story-telling. 3. Gospel Messages from the Book of Mormon Study of distinctive contributions of religious import and of literary ceaatey in the Book of Mormon. 481 4. Words of Light and Truth From the Prophet Study of choice selections from the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 5. Earlier Evangelistic Literature Study of selected excerpts from diaries, autobiographies, and other writings by loyal ones who helped in establishing the Church through testing years. 6. Lyric Expression of the Restoration Study of gospel songs and other poetic expression vibrant with the message of the new dispensation. 7. Literary Sidelights of the Founding Years Study of selections from this expository literature written to clarify and impress basic principles of the restored gospel in action. 8. Literature of the Prophet's Closing Years Study of distinctive and dependable literature portraying soul-testing, dramatic incidents that mark the rise of the Church under the inspired leadership of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This spread of inviting work, may we again impress, represents a pioneering venture into a rich realm. It is entered into humbly with one thought, that of doing good. Our hope is not to cover the wide field with adequacy; rather do we trust that it may be opened alluringly, that new interest will be wakened, enjoyment and enrichment come to those who pioneer with us. Further, this first year's work on "Literature of the Gospel Restoration" should lay a good foundation for the second year's course which is to be centered round the general theme, "Literature of the Expanding Pioneer Period." 482 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 Lesson 1—Literature of the Beginnings Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, October 19, 1948 OP letters often give living glimpses of the past. Thoughts, feelings, home news, comments on passing events, informally written to friends and loved ones, are revealing of the character of the writer as well as of the days in which he or she lived. Sometimes such letters, in parts, rise to literary excellence; always they are source material of more or less help to historians and authors. Fortunately for our present purpose, two such old letters have been preserved since the days when Washington was President of our Country. They both were written by a stalwart American, Asael Smith, paternal grandfather of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and great-great-grandfather of George Albert Smith, now President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This grandsire, born in 1744, twelve years after the "Father of our Country" came into the world, had lived through the stirring years of the French and Indian War, the Revolutionary War, in which he took part as a soldier of the American army, and on through the founding of our Nation to the year 1830, when our Church was organized. The first of these letters, written to a friend, Jacob Town, reveals Asael Smith as one of the solid New England type, God-fearing, patriotic, of loyal friendship, with independent spirit, and a sense of humor. After acknowledging with appreciation a letter from his friend, telling with gratitude of the well-being of his family, and giving word of the building of a new home, Asael writes of a "noisy" political party just defeated in its hopes to seize power. Then he comments: For my part, I am so willing to trust the government of the world in the hands of the Supreme Ruler of Universal Nature, that I do not, at present, wish to try to wrest it out of His hands.... He has conducted us through a glorious Revolution and has brought us into the promised land of peace and liberty; and I believe that He is about to bring all the world in the same beatitude in His own time and way. Then comes this touch of pleasantry: Give my best regards to your parents and tell them I have taken up with the eleventh commandment, that the negro taught to the minister, which was thus— The minister asked the negro how many commandments there were and his answer was "'eleven, sir." "Aye," replied the other. "What is the eleventh? That is one I have never heard of." "The eleventh commandment, sir, is mind your own business." So I choose to do. Write to me as often and as large as you can and oblige your friend and wellwisher. (signed) Asael Smith The second letter, written for his family, and to be read after his death, contains such gems of religious thought as the following: The soul is immortal; you have to deal with an infinite Majesty. Do all to God in a serious manner; when you think of Him, speak of Him, pray of Him, or in any way make your ad- LESSON DEPARTMENT dresses to His great Majesty, be in good carest. Trifle not with His name nor with His attributes, nor call Him to witness to any thing but is absolute truth, If you find that you stand in need of a Savior, Christ saith: "Look unto me and Other gems of practical wisdom are in these lines from the letter: Above everything avoid a melancholy disposition, that is a humor that admits of any temptation and is capable of any impression and distemper. -Any honest calling will honor you, if you honor that. Persevere in the way of well-doing and you may hope for success, The letter closes with this paragraph: and all, and myself... And wish to leave to you everything I have in this world but oblivion; but leaving my virtues, if ever | ad any, to revive and live in you (Rob- - H., Comprehensive History of the Church, I, PP. 7, 8, 9, 10, 12). Surely the virtues of this grandsire have lived on in his Posterity and have been amplified for the everlasting good of mankind. Another type of literature, Tepresented by the History of Joseph Smith, by His Mother, Lucy Mack Smith, brings us close to the Prophet's boyhood, and gives the story of his visions and soul-testing struggles through the earlier years of the restoration. All this is portrayed in its relation to loyal family life which characterized the Smith home. It is a story out of a loving, heroic mother heart. In straightforward narrative, with 483 richness of incidents such as women more than men treasure, the life of her son Joseph is portrayed. Naturally the background of ancestry, of the struggles to make a livelihood in what was frontier Vermont and tugged western New York are given attention. One feels, too, the devout faith in God from the first through the Pages of the little volume. At times, too, the narration attains qualities of story-telling art. In chapter fifteen, for illustration, where heroic efforts are made with mother love and faith to save her son Joseph from a dangerous infection, the little drama js stirringly told. Doctors had decided the boy's leg must be amputated, but the mother insisted that one more trial be made to save it. This is the mother's story: The principal Surgeon.... Ordered cords to be brought to bind Joseph fast to a bedstead; but to this Joseph objected. The doctor, however, insisted that he must be confined, upon which Joseph said very decidedly, "No, doctor, I will not be bound, for I can bear the operation much better if I have my liberty!" "Then," said Dr. Stone, "will you drink some brandy?" "No," said Joseph, "not one drop!" "Will you take some wine?" rejoined the doctor. "You must take something, ation to which you must be subjected." " exclaimed Joseph, "I will not touch one particle of liquor, neither will I be tied down; but I will tell you what I will do—I will have my father sit on the bed and hold me in his arms, and then I will do whatever is necessary in order to have the bone taken out." Looking at me, he said, "Mother, I want you to leave the room, for I know you cannot bear to see me suffer so; father can stand it, but you have carried me so much, and watched Over me so long, you are almost worn out." 484 Then looking up into my face, his eyes swimming in tears, he continued, "Now Mother, promise me that you will not stay, will you! The Lord will help me, and I shall get through with it." Another home drama of hearttouching quality is portrayed with like skill in chapter nineteen. Here the death of Alvin Smith, eldest brother of Joseph, is related. Again the tender mother love, the loyalty of the family, more closely drawn together through the persecutions heaped on them for the sake of devotion to the truth, are revealed. This faithful brother's counsel to all of them, and especially to his brother Joseph, is most impressive: "I am now going to die, the distress which I suffer, and the feelings that I have tell me my time is very short. I want you to be a good boy, and do everything that lies in your power to obtain the Record. Be faithful in receiving instruction, and in keeping every commandment that is given you. Your brother Alvin must leave you; but remember the example which he has set for you; and set the same example for the children that are younger than yourself, and always be kind to father and mother." How faithfully this beloved brother's counsel was followed is impressively revealed in the life story of the Prophet Joseph. Happily we have that story in his own straightforward words. With distinctive clarity of style and convincing detail—for all whose hearts and minds are open to accept spintual truth—the autobiographical sketch is written. Yet, whether accepted or not accepted, it has the qualities of a classic—it will be read and re-read down the ages. What gives to this life-story such classic qualities? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 Its central message that God lives. This the boy expressed with simple, trenchant words: I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two Personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me.... I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision; and who am I that I can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation.: Here is a courageous statement that will ever stand high in religious literature of the world. It is a buming testimony of truth out of the soul of a youth who had been given a divine work to do. With his characteristic straightforward style, Joseph Smith relates the rest of the story of the gospel restoration as he lived it. It is a simple, direct, natural unfolding of a stirring sequence of events. From a literary viewpoint, like other ef fective narration, it moves forward with clarity of sentences, and orderly paragraphs. Such writings may be compared to a chain made up of "story links." Observe, for illustration, this construction of "Joseph Smith's Own Story." After a brief paragraph on his birth in old Vermont, and of the new home in western New York, this chain of events is given: Religious Conflict; A Boy's Problem; Biblical Wisdom; First Prayer; Divine Answer; Derision and Ostracism; Heroic Testimony of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Truth; Lonely, Wayward Years; "An Angel from on High"; A Precious Record Revealed; Further Test and Training; Treasures Delivered; Struggles Against Evil-minded Men; Record with God's Help Translated; Publishing of Sacred Scripture; Organization of Church. Apart from the divine import of this stirring epic which has taken its everlasting place in religious literature, there are basic characteristics that give it classic quality. First, it rings of sincerity; second, it has clarity and the charm of simple directness; third, it is portrayed with details that add vividness and—for those of open, spiritual mind and heart—truth. Great literature is lived before it is written. 'This means that what it portrays must be intrinsically a throbbing part of the author who brings it forth. Certainly Joseph Smith lived in reality the story of the gospel restoration. He lived the inner spirit and divine meaning of the Book of Mormon, and other great literature which, under inspiration of God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, he gave to the hungering world. Ours is a precious privilege to come, through these books and the other literature bequeathed to us by this Prophet of these latter days, into close and uplifting relationship with his inspired and continuing life. Studies and Activities Note: This lesson on Literature of the Beginnings—it should be kept clearly in mind by teachers and class members—is not to be made merely a study of history, though historical matters naturally will 485 play a part in the study. The central purpose of the lesson and of all the other lessons of the course will be best served by giving major attention to the literary aspect of what is studied. First, in dealing with old letters—it may be well to have the second letter of Asael Smith read for the helpful messages it carries—and a brief discussion of what wellwritten letters may mean in the preserving of the past—and in their help for histon ans and writers of literature. Second, it will be well also to have some member of the class read aloud the story told in chapter fifteen (History of Joseph Smith By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith), of the Saving of the Boy Joseph—as an example of story-telling art. What qualities make it an effective story? Third, it is urged that the missionary pamphlet, Joseph Smith Tells His Own Story, be obtained by the teacher and the members of the class, so far as this is practicable. With it in hand, the study of the story, not alone for the message it contains—but also—and with emphasis—for appreciation of its literary qualities, can be more interestingly made. Fourth, teachers and class members naturally will be impelled to search out other ° firsthand literature which helps bring out vividly the days of the beginning when Joseph Smith as a youth received his divine message from the Father and the Son— and the visitations of the Angel Moroni. Whatever is appropriate to help enrich and vitalize this study should of course be contributed—but with this caution: Do not permit the lesson to go too far afield. Keep it true to its central purpose—make it a study of literature that truly portrays the story, the ideals, the fundamental principles of the gospel. References Documentary History of the Church, Vol. 1. Roberts, B. H., A Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 1. History of Joseph Smith By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith, Edited by Preston Nibley, 1945, Stevens and Wallis, Inc. Joseph Smith Tells His Own Story— A Missionary Pamphlet. Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith: 2. 486 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 Work Tleeting—Sewing Value of Acquiring Make-over Skills; Make-over Possibilities (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Jean Ridges Jennings Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 AKING over old and outmoded clothing into new and useful articles is a stimulating and challenging experience. For women in families with a limited income this ability to make full use of every piece of clothing can be as helpful to the family budget as actually earning extra money. As a general rule an article of clothing is not made over into something else until it is no longer useful in its original form. One must learn to decide whether or not the article is more valuable as it is or as it may be converted. Make-overs cover an almost unlimited field, but in most cases their use is employed when a garment is to be worn by another person. This is not always the case, however, since one can re-use her own clothes by ingenious planning. A coat may be made over into a suit, dress, skirt, or even a different style of coat for a woman. It may also be made over into any of these same items for a young gitl or a child. In the latter case one must be careful that the fabric and color are suited to the individual for whom the garment is being made. In order to provide an opportunity for the sisters of the wards to view the year's accomplishments in the sewing program, no lesson is provided for the month of May. Space does not permit a listing of all the make-over possibilities for a family, but the ensuing lessons will include more details for their use in home sewing. The titles of the lessons for 1948- 49 are as follows: Lesson 1. Suggestions on Changing Skirt Lengths Lesson 2. Remodeling Dresses An afternoon dress can be made over into a more up-to-date style for a new garment. Skirts and blouses can also frequently be fashioned from dresses that can no longer serve as they are. Lesson 3. Making Women's Wear from Men's Wear A man's suit, coat, or raincoat can be made over into garments for a woman or for one of the children if the color and material are suitable. Lesson 4. Salvage from Shirts Men's shirts can be made over into boys' shirts; into girls' blouses; into aprons and children's play clothes; or even into women's blouses. Here again one must be careful to be sure that colors and fabric designs are appropriate to the wearer. Lesson 5. Outmoded Formals Old formals may be re-used for negligees, underwear, blouses, or afternoon dresses, depending on the type of fabtic in the original garment. They can even be used for clever touches in making bedroom furnishings. LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 6. Blouses and Slips Slips, negligees, and nightgowns may be pressed into service for making blouses, vestees, underclothing, or a variety of dainty articles for wee tots. House dresses, if not too badly worn or faded, can be used for aprons or children's play clothes. 487 Lesson 7. Using Your Odds and Ends Old shower curtains can be used for dish covers for the ice box, mixing bowl covers, small rain capes, or cases for linens to keep out dust and moths when storing them. Lesson 1—Suggestions on Changing Skirt Lengths Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, October 12, 1948 ALMOsT every woman or child ~* sooner or later comes up against the problem of altering or lengthening skirts. At the present time when styles are undergoing a radical change and skirts are all longer than a year or two ago, most of us are faced with the necessity of finding ways to extend our skirts. Not many women can afford to discard clothes just because they are not in the height of fashion. But much can be done to modernize clothes and give them the so-called "new look." There are many ways to make your skirts longer. Of first importance, though, is to choose the most suitable way for your particular need. Your plaid wool sports skirt would look foolish with an eyelet pantie ruffle added to its tailored lines. Or if you are as wide now as you care to be, you certainly won't set a series of contrasting bands in your skirt. So choose your lengthening strategy with care for both fabric and figure. For a teen-ager who would wear her school skirt a few more months if it were a little longer, try crocheting a wool band at the bottom. If the skirt is cotton, spun rayon Or linen, the band should be done in the mercerized crochet cotton. When you add length to a dress in crochet, you should add a touch of the same trimming around the neck or sleeves. In this way the crocheting will seem to be a planned decoration for the outfit, not merely a makeshift. When crocheting or knitting is used as a strip it must always be pressed or blocked into shape to give it a finished look. There are skirts for which an eyelet embroidered ruffle is a perfect and eye-catching finish, particularly full "dirndles," or full gored types. This year when petticoats are so right, you will find this method of lengthening lifts last year's skirt to the height of this year's style. The ruffle can either be on a petticoat or attached to the skirt itself. 'Tack the eyelet ruffle to the skirt by hand. A folded bias band of plaid taffeta would be a perfect lengthener for a plain dark crepe dress. Unify the costume by carrying the same trimming as bands for the neck and sleeves. Another trick is a series of bands inserted in a skirt. Two or three bands may be used. Bands of graduated widths are more interesting than bands of the same width. If your dress is short in the waist, you can insert a new waistband of a 488 contrasting material. A dress which has a peplum can be lengthened by inserting a piece of material under the peplum where the piecing will not show. A skirt which has a hem can be faced. This is the simplest of all ways to add length. If the skirt has already been faced, you can still make the skirt longer by adding a band of self matched, or contrasting material to the underside of the facing. When finished, it makes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 the original hemline appear to be a wide tuck taken just above the hemline for decoration. The band should be doubled or faced and can be stitched to the facing of the original hem. Do not stitch the band to the skirt itself. No matter what material or method you choose for lengthening your clothes, be certain to select a material and a style of trimming suitable to the outfit. ——— Swoual Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Elder G. Homer Durham Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 HROUGHOUT the world a struggle is taking place for men's minds, to influence their political beliefs as a stepping stone to new and uncharted forms of government. Questions of political theory are the questions of the hour. "'Latter-day Saint Political Thought" has therefore been selected as social science lesson material for the next two years. Seven lessons during 1948- 49 will be devoted to certain main currents. The second year will offer a detailed analysis of the Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General (Doctrine and Covenants, section 134), its application, and general world significance, The objective of these lessons is to acquaint and familiarize the women of the Church with some fundamental issues of modern political thought, and to examine pertinent answers thereto as found in the literature and doctrines of the restoration; and thus aid them in teaching their children the meaning and value of free agency and liberty. Men everywhere search for adequate answers to these questions. Currently, Communism threatens to engulf Christian civilization. What contribution does Latter-day Saint thought make to modern man's search for sound political theory? In this quest, class leaders and members will have occasion and stimulus to re-examine modern scripture as well as the relevant material in the entire stream of literature of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 'In addition to the standard works, the following useful references are suggested: SmiTH, JosePpH FieLpinc: The Progress of Man, Deseret Book Co., 1936, an entire book dedicated to the interpretation of political history in the light of gospel principles. It is one of the few systematic treatises of this type found in our literature. WivTsoE, Joun A: Man and the Dragon, Bookcraft, 1945, especially part 1, is another recent work dealing with war, peace, social and economic issues. Complete chapters of basic source ma- % LESSON DEPARTMENT terial will also be found (usually in a chapter entitled "Political Government' or similar name) in each of the following: Discourses of Brigham Young (Selected and arranged by John A. Widtsoe), Deseret Book Company. The Gospel Kingdom (Selections from the Writings and Discourses of President John Taylor, compiled by G. Homer Durham) Bookcraft. The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff (Selected and Arranged by G. Homer Durham), Bookcraft. Gospel Doctrine (Selections from the Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith), Deseret Book Company. Gospel Standards (Selections from the sermons and writings of President Heber J. Grant, compiled by G. Homer Durham). Published by The Improvement Era. The political utterances of Joseph Smith are classified and explained in DurnaM, G. Homer: Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman, Bookcraft, 1944. They are likewise to be found in Smit, Joseru Fievpinc, The Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Deseret News, 1938, with the exception of a few public documents. Teachers will find the current output of Church books, magazines, and conference reports invaluable sources for lesson enrichment. In addition, specific suggestions are carried in each lesson, together with questions for general discussion. If the claim that "the world's problems" can be solved by reference to gospel principles is to be realized, these lessons and materials have deep meaning. In these lessons the term State is commonly used to indicate an independent sovereign state (nation). Note: a lesson is outlined for Tuesday, February 22, 1949 since some Relief Societies hold their meetings on days other than Tuesday. It is suggested that Relief Societies which meet on Tuesday present the February 22 social science lesson on March 22 and the March 22 lesson on the fifth Tuesday, March 29, or combine the 489 February and March social science lessons and present them together on March 22. The titles and objectives of the lessons follow: Lesson 1. The Meaning and Importance of Political Doctrines Objective: To point out the modern tendencies in political thought to ignore spiritual resources and to seek a cure-all through unlimited government. Lesson 2. Some Political Doctrines of the Book of Mormon Objective: To learn, from a study of political doctrines expressed in the Book of Mormon, that a government to be good must be composed of good people. Lesson 3. Political Ideas Advocated by the Prophet Joseph Smith Objective: To better appreciate the political doctrines advanced by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Lesson 4. "The Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General" Objective: To study section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants as the belief of Latter-day Saints in regard to earthly governments and laws in general. Lesson 5. Main Currents in Latterday Saint Political Thought as Revealed in Discourse and Literature Objective: To appreciate the contributions to political thought voiced by some of the early Church leaders. Lesson 6. Contemporary Domestic Problems Objective: To recognize the limitations of the State in its ability to solve problems. Lesson 7. International Strife and the Quest for Peace Objective: To appreciate the part some Latter-day Saints have taken in recent political activities and the obligation resting on Latter-day Saints to teach their children the doctrines of free agency and liberty in harmony with Latter-day Saint knowledge. 490 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 Lesson 1-The Meaning and Importance of Political Doctrines Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, October 26, 1948 EVAN JENSEN THE watchword of traffic safety is courtesy." This slogan appeared at the crossing of a busy intersection recently. The thought behind it appears trite at first. On closer examination we see the modem social problem in a nutshell. Man's material development has outrun his spiritual. Take the example of traffic, which kills and maims someone every minute. How do we try to solve this problem? Largely by car-inspections, superdivided highways, and other materialistic means. This is why the sign, "The watchword of traffic safety is courtesy," caught my eye. We must mobilize our spiritual resources! Which would you rather face, headon, in oncoming traffic, a driver in a jolopy, with courtesy extending from him to you; or, a discourteous, ribald person in a thirty-ton truckObjective: To point out the moder tendencies in political thought to ignore spiritual resources and to seek a cure-all through unl imited government. And-trailer engineering marvel? Or vice-versa? If safety and courtesy are desired on the highway, what about courtesy in the use of battleships and bombs? Predominance of the Material Over the Spiritual Just as the modem approach to most problems emphasizes materiality over the spiritual resources of man, so does the modern State and its government exemplify a similar triumph. In case of conflict between two nations the questions usually asked are (1) What are their resources, especially, coal, iron, and petroleum? (2) What is their industrial production and capacity? (3) What is their population and birthrate? Resort is then made to force. The spiritual qualities of the two peoples concerned, their capacity at tolerance, forbearance, and compromise are rarely considered or utilized. Rather they are exploited, devilishly, in support of the material factors in the contest. Mankind's spiritual and material needs cannot be separated. But the emphasis given these aspects of human living should definitely subordinate the material to spiritual ends by spiritually motivated means, and not in reverse order. LESSON DEPARTMENT Increase in Material F unctions of Government Today the matenial functions of modern government outstrip all others. En have come on the State for salvation," bread, other possible absorbed, by the State. At is the nature of the State? Hat are its limitations? And controlled? Is is the age of Politics Problems, Latter-day *The inner executive committee Or controlling body of the Russian Communist Party, and 'the bureau of foreign Com. Munist Plopaganda, 491 jects will form the basis for this year's course of study, Contributions of the Past tom the G be Controlled for man's benefit. The Onstitution of the Uni Is perhaps before, normally, he Can act. Then the courts may review any executive Procedure thereunder. Expounded first by these genera] ideas are the foundaf constitution-making 492 —by the people. Thus, twin ideas, limited government and government by consent of the governed, became the modern inheritance. Both are expressed in the Constitution of the United States. The Crisis in Recent Political Thought As inventions have multiplied, men, particularly since about 1870, have turned to the State to regulate, control, and now—plan the results accruing from the concentration of population in big cities and other revolutionary changes. Using the doctrine of "government by consent," the people have gained control of their governments. Then they have asked (spurred on, many times, by scheming men) their governments to do this, then that, then the other thing, until the National Government of the United States alone has been looked to, not only by most Americans, but by peoples in Europe and Asia, as the means of solving all problems. So, State functions have increased enormously, not to mention the influence of socialistic doctrines. What has happened to "limited government'? It appears to have become instead, by means of man's resorting to the State, a doctrine of unlimited or total government! Can we have unlimited government and preserve the human tights, so precious to the advocates down the centuries, of limited government? Human experience teaches us differently. This is the crisis of modern political thought. The Need for Nurturing Spiritual Attitudes Within this crisis congregate the problems of modern society, because our many social institutions have beRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 come so enmeshed in the machinery of the State that any break-up of government threatens to dissolve society. To alleviate this situation there is powerful need for spiritual attitudes: courtesy, kindliness, forbearance, tolerance, mutual understanding, faith in God and in. Each other. Such social institutions as the family, business corporations, labor unions, professional societies, farm bureaus, trade associations have—in the spirit of the times— come to rely more and more on government to settle and support their affairs. Juvenile delinquency, adult delinquency, divorce, broken homes, industrial strife—all too often we seek remedies through passing laws, setting up agencies and bureaus, when what is also needed is a nurturing of man's fundamental religious nature. Divorce involves two holy beings, a man and a woman. The juvenile delinquent, the striking miner, the recalcitrant employer, all are children of God, with deep wellsprings of spiritual power. What is being done to keep this power alive and functioning? If the forces of materialism through the unlimited State come to dominate our lives completely, what forces can then be free to operate in the effort to fulfill the great spiritual needs of men? The State may try, often in a totalitarian way, as in Hitler's Germany. But man is of such diverse outlook that spiritual freedom is perhaps his most precious freedom. So again, here is the crisis of modern politics and of modern thought. What paths lead from this dilemma? This is the approach we seek. Questions for Discussion 1. What is meant by "limited government"? LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. Does the doctrine of "limited government" imply that there are limits on "freedom" as well as on government? For example: Can society tolerate absolute freedom? Can a person, OF group, do anything he pleases or must persons and groups accept certain responsibilities? 3. A main problem of government is to maintain the balance between freedom and authority. What are some of the limitations on personal freedom that might be considered desirable? 493 4. What are some possible limitations on personal freedom that might be considered undesirable? 5. What important human problems can you think of that governments must, of necessity and with satisfaction, solve? 6. Can you think of some human problems that cannot effectively be solved by governmental action? 7. How does governmental action differ from other forms of organized human activity? Does it differ in any respect? Why or why not? Optional Lessons in ieu of Socul Science—The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) Tue Preswency A Unir—Tue Turee ARE ONE Elder T. Edgar Lyon Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 OUR course of lessons for this and the ensuing year is to be devoted to a study of the First Presidencies that have guided the destiny, under the hand of God, of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. These men were strong men, men of faith, men possessed of leadership ability and determined that God's work should be foremost in their lives. Two or three of the early leaders were not strong enough to withstand the persecutions they were called to endure, nor were they unselfish enough to lose all for the gospel, and they became critical of the Prophet, estranged from the saints and lost their influence with the people. They were replaced in their positions of authority by stronger and more faithful men. But while they remained true, they were instruments in the hand of the Lord in furthering his work. One of the unique features of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is its plan of lay-leadership. Just as in the days of the Apostolic Church its leaders were drawn from men who made their livelihood from the various occupations of the day. Some continued to pursue their vocations along with their Church work until the end of their mortal administrations. It was to be a Church of its people —in which the members could be mutually helpful in working out their salvation. The Lord's Church, however, demands centralized guidance and a regulation of the Priesthood authority, divinely restored to the earth, otherwise the very power of its democracy and lay-leadership would lead to schisms that would destroy it. So the Lord established by revelation presiding quorums through which is given divine guidance for the Church in all its activities both spiritual and temporal. Foremost among these presiding 494 RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE jut y 1948 quorums is thay Of the First Presjtions to the Church, Jt is hoped that dency of the Church, The President these lessons Can point out some of this qorum is defineg in the Doc. The vital things the buted to | tch siding High Pitest oye, the High A study of the contributions that Priesthood of the Church" 107: T. Ay 1829) tha hey should } teaching and *'S Opportunities more called 1*Spectively the Wst and sec than we co ly tis not the ond elders of urch (D, intention i S€ articles +, Ive 1, 40-41 he Phet Joseph complet biographical Sketch of Was President of the hurch from the life Person studieg held in Missouri, he was acknowledged The lessons as outlined for the President of the High Priesthood of the first Y€ar are as follows: Ch ' Sometime in March, 1832, Frederick a Lesson 1. The Presidency of the Williams Was designated by Tevelation Prophet Joseph Smith >? 1833, when a Ouncil of the First Tophet Joseph muth ( Concluded ) residen i Organized, Sidn igdon an Frederick G Williams bein "sson 3. The residency of Brig. Set apart as Joseph's Counselors, [¢ will thus am Young € seen that j s three years from Lesson 4. The Presidency of Brig. Highest Council was fully developed and ham Young (Concluded ) completed ( Wiorsor, Joun A, Priesthood; ] and Church Government, PP. 258.2 59). Lesson 5. The Presidency of John Presidency yey the High Priest. Hood of the Church an a ' Jenson, Andrew, L. D. S. Biographica} Encyclopedia, 4 Vols, Nibley, Preston, The Presidents of the known for their Individual ContribyChurch. LESSON DEPARTMENT Roberts, B. H., A Comprehensive History of the Church, 6 vols. Smith, Joseph Fielding, Essentials in Church History. 495 Improvement Era. Consult Master Index by name of person. Various published biographies of the individual characters. Lesson -1—Presidency of the Prophet Joseph Smith Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, October 26, 1948 President Joseph Smith JOSEPH SMITH WHEN Joseph Smith was born at Sharon, Vermont, on December 23, 1805, a life had commenced that was ultimately to influence the course of millions of lives in all portions of the world. The family came from New England stock who had emigrated to America from England in 1638. Joseph Smith's parents were devout believers in the Savior and his atoning work as related in the New Testament. When, in the spring of 1820, an attempt was made by the three popular churches of the American frontier—the Methodist, Presbyterian, and Baptist faiths—to get the setters in the vicinity where the Smiths resided interested in joining one of their churches, Joseph's mind was, as he expressed it, "called up to serious reflection and great uneasiness." The zealous proponents of organized religion were insisting that religious truths could be gained from three sources: first, from the Bible; second, from the writing of the early Christian fathers and church councils; and third, by human reasoning, based on the Bible and a study of historic Christianity. Joseph Smith was not a trained religious scholar, nor was he acquainted with the history, documents, and traditions of the Christian world, hence these channels were not open to him. His approach to the problem of finding religious truth was characterized by a child-like faith. Just as great pioneers in science and education have cast traditional beliefs and practices aside and undertaken experimental research to discover truth, he subjected his religious perplexity to objective experimentation. He resorted to the method of God's anointed leaders in the early days of the Christian Church, namely, prayet and guidance through revelation. In his own words: In the midst of this war of words and tumult of opinions, I often said to myself: What is to be done? Who of all these parties are right; or, are they all wrong together? If any one of them be nght, which is it, and how shall I know it? While I was laboring under the extreme difficulties caused by the contests of these parties of religionists, I was one day reading the Epistle of James, first 496 chapter and fifth verse, which reads: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. Never did any passage of scripture come with more power to the heart of man than this did at this time to mine. It seemed to enter with great force into every feeling of my heart. I reflected on it again and again, knowing that if any person needed wisdom from God, I did; for how to act I did not know, and unless I could get more wisdom than I then had, I would never know; for the teachers of religion of the different sects understood the same passages of scripture so differently as to destroy all confidence in settling the question by an appeal to the Bible. At length I came to the conclusion that I must either remain in darkness and confusion, or else I must do as James directs, that is, ask of God. I at length came to the determination to ''ask of God," concluding that if he gave wisdom to them that lacked wisdom, and would give liberally, and not upbraid, I might venture (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2: 10-13). Unlike other religious founders, Joseph Smith was not a member of an already existing sect that he sought to reform. Neither did he lead a group of followers out of a church to form the nucleus of an apostate faction. Nor did he deliberately start out to found a new church, with preconceived notions about its theological teachings. He was commissioned, by the Father to bring to an apostate world the gospel of Jesus Christ, through the restoration of the Church of Jesus Christ in its original form. As mentioned in the Preview, the Lord decreed that his kingdom on earth should be directed by a First Presidency. During the fourteen years that he presided over the Church, Joseph Smith had the assistance of counselors, four men at different times, serving in this caRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 pacity. With them he directed the various activities of the Church and its members. One of the tasks that occupied part of the time of the First Presidency was the regulation of the temporal affairs of the Church and the welfare of those who embraced its teachings. In the financial difficulties and in the persecutions in Ohio, Jackson, Clay, and Caldwell counties in Missouri and Nauvoo, the First Presidency assisted Church members and sacrificed and suffered with them. Another duty that rested upon the First Presidency was that of directing the missionary activities of the Church. They directed the establishment and operation of the School of the Prophets, which was designed primarily to better equip missionaries and Church leaders for their responsibilities. During the administration of Joseph Smith, missionary work was commenced in the eastern, southern, New England, and mid-western states of the Union; in Canada, Great Britain, and in some of the islands of the Pacific; and Palestine was dedicated for the gathering of the Jews and the ultimate opening of that land to the missionary work of the restored gospel. In one great work, however, Joseph Smith stood quite apart from his counselors. It was imperative that further revelations be received if the gospel in its fullness as restored to earth should be understood. Joseph Smith, as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator met this need as an instrument in the hands of God and throughout his life continued to build up the body of theological principles through the revelations he LESSON DEPARTMENT received. 'These he interpreted in terms of daily religious living. It is due to his efforts in this respect that the gospel came to be a way of living, rather than a way of believing only. In addition to the restoration and the interpretation of the true purposes and meanings of the first principles and ordinances of the gospel, Joseph Smith gave to the world the true form, power, organization, and purpose of the Church as an instrument in the hands of God to accomplish his purposes on earth. He revealed the great doctrine of salvation for the dead, without which the benefits of the atonement of Christ become limited to those who were members of his Church on earth and are not available to those who die without a knowledge of Christ and his gospel. The keys of the priesthood were again restored to earth. The eternity of the marTiage covenant, and the concept of eternal progression were glorious truths received as a heritage from the revelations to the first President of the Church. In spite of the high position and the keys he held and the great devotion of his numerous followers, Joseph Smith remained essentially a common man among common men. In 1844, Josiah Quincy described him in Nauvoo as one dressed in the "costume of a journeyman carpenter," but added: A fine-looking man, is what the passet-by would instinctively have murmured upon meeting the remarkable individual who had fashioned the mold which was to shape the feelings of so many thousands of his fellow mortals. But Smith was more than this, and one could not resist the impression that capacity and resource were natural to his stalwart person. 497 Comparing Joseph Smith to another interesting acquaintance, Mr. Quincy continues: Of all men I have met these two seemed best endowed with that kingly faculty which directs, as by intrinsic right, the feeble or confused souls who are looking for guidance... Both were of commanding appearance, men whom it seemed natural to obey (Josian Quincy, Figures of The Past, pp. 321, 233). HYRUM SMITH Hyrum Smith No great man stands alone in his triumphs, and Joseph Smith had stalwart assistants upon whom he leaned for encouragement and support, and to whom he delegated part of the responsibility of the management of the growing Church. The one closest to him in this work was his brother Hyrum, who was his second counselor from November 7, 1837 until January 19, 1841, when he was sustained as Patriarch to the Church. The literature of the world records some stories of great love that has existed between men. The Greeks had their account of Damon and Pythias; the Hebrews, the touching friendship of David 498 and Jonathan; but in the love of Joseph and Hyrum for each other we have a love of brothers that stands out as a classic account of a love that was stronger than the fear of death. Joseph paid him this tribute: I could pray in my heart that all my brethren were like unto my beloved brother Hyrum, who possesses the mildness of a lamb, and the integrity of Job, and in short, the meekness and humility of Christ and I love him with that love that is stronger than death, for I never had occasion to rebuke him, nor he me. Hyrum Smith was born February 9, 1800, at Tunbridge, Vermont, being nearly six years older than the Prophet. He was of a religious temperament, and although he had not affiliated himself with any church until he was twenty years of age, he had been reared with the New England religious concepts so that when the religious revival was instituted at Palmyra, New York, in the spring of 1820, he, his mother, a sister and a brother joined the Presbyterian faith. This was in reality a return to the traditional family religion in New England. However, when his younger brother Joseph reported his vision, Hyrum became his staunch supporter and all through the trying times never varied from his loyal devotion to his brother. There is a powerful evidence of the sincerity of Joseph Smith in this fact that he could convince his own brother and others in the family of the reality of his revelations. Hyrum was baptized in Seneca Lake in June 1829, and became a persistent advocate of the new religious principles. He it was who first met Parley P. Pratt and converted him to the restored gospel. A study of Church history reveals many other converts whose first acquaintance RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 with the latter-day work came through a contact with Hyrum. Hyrum was one of the eight witnesses to the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon. Parley P. Pratt tells how much his first conversation with Hyrum influenced him. He wrote: He also unfolded to me the particulars of the discovery of the Book; its translation; the rise of the Church of Latterday Saints, and the commission of his brother Joseph, and others, by revelation and the ministering of angels, by which the apostleship and authority had been again restored to the earth. After duly weighing the whole matter in my mind I saw Clearly that these things were true; and that myself and the whole world were without baptism, and without the ministry and ordinances of God; and that the whole world had been in this condition since the days that inspiration and revelation had ceased—in short, that this was a new dispensation or commission, in fulfilment of prophecy, and for the restoration of Israel, and to prepare the way before the second coming of the Lord (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, p. 39). When the Prophet and_ others were arrested at Far West, Missouri, late in October 1838, and incarcerated during the winter of 1838-39 in Liberty and other Missouri jails, Hyrum was one of those apprehended. Although he had many opportunities to escape, he refused to desert his brother Joseph. When Joseph Smith went to Carthage late in June 1844, to answer to charges growing out of the destruction of the Nauvoo Expositor, Hyrum insisted on going with him. He remained with his beloved brother by his own choice. Hyrum was killed shortly before the Prophet. The epitaph, "In life they were not divided, and in death they were not separated!" (D. & C. 135:3) isa fitting tribute to Hyrum as well as Our Reputation Each and every O. P. Skaggs System Store stands squarely on its reputation of fair and honest dealing. Our customers are our friends. Any profit we hope to make must be honestly earned through rendering you efficient service at a fair charge. We can hope to merit your friendship and patronage on no other basis. Try an O. P. S. Store the next time you go shopping. O. P. SKAGGS - Officient Service elem 'System STORES RONIE JOHNSON For 58 YEARS.. This means hundreds of our markers— larger Headstones—and Monuments— are memorials in City Cemetery—Mt. Olivet and the other ones. THE FINEST OF GRANITES BEAUTIFULLY DESIGNED SALT LAKE MUNUMENT CUMPANY Same Location Since 1890 186 N Street—Opposite Main Entrance City Cemetery Phone 4-4025 Salt Lake City SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. It's Just a Step TO A FRIENDLY Sears Store ».. The big, chock-full-of-value store that's so easy to reach. With plenty of FREE PARKING space, and no downtown traffic to dodge. You'll find Sears dollar-saving bargains just a few minutes from your own front oor. Main or State at 8th South Dial 5-6651 Park Free Professional a raat Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 499 500 Joseph. After the martyrdom, the Times and Seasons printed an editorial in which this was said of Hyrum: He lived so far beyond the ordinary walk of man, that even the tongue of the vilest slanderer could not touch his reputation. He lived godly and he died godly. His greatest contribution to the Church is found in his stalwart support of his Prophet-brother. With him he was so closely identified that it is almost impossible to discover wherein one acted apart from the other. In the midst of the Prophet's many trials and disappointments, often being deceived by those whom he trusted, God had given him one who stood firmly by him and from whom he gained strength. At the time of Hyrum Smith's death, his son Joseph Fielding, born to his wife, Mary Fielding, was five years old. Joseph Fielding Smith later became the sixth president of the Church, presiding with great dignity and honor over the Church for which his father gave his life. Topics for Study and Discussion 1. What characteristics of the boy, Joseph, particularly fitted him for the work he was to be called to do? What incidents in his later life exemplify the same characteristics? 2. Read section 11 of the Doctrine and Covenants. What influence did this revelation have upon Hyrum Smith? Relate incidents in his life which show this influence. 3. In what ways did Hyrum support and strengthen his brother, the Prophet? Give examples. 4. Read verses 91-96, section 124, Doctrice and Covenants. What is meant by the words in verse gl—"by blessing and also by right"? Smiru, Josern Freipine, Life of Joseph F. Smith, pp. 38-128. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 ITS THRIETY ELECTRIC COOKING... SAVES in many ways in more than 50,000 homes in the territory we serve. UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Se Te TTT > TTT BALANCED EDUCATION Combining Character Development with Technical Training IS AVAILABLE AT BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY You will find what you need among the offerings of more than 50 departments in the colleges of Applied Science, Arts and Sciences, Commerce, Education, Fine Arts, or in the Graduate School. Registration for the Autumn Quarter begins September 27. Freshman Orientation and Personnel Tests will be given September 24 and 25. Write for your copy of the 1948-49 Catalog to BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH NST eT TTT > TET THE SEVENTH HANDCART COMPANY The Seventh Handcart Company (Continued from Page 451) ox, they could have it. This seemed a miracle to these hungry people. Ey used the meat sparingly and it lasted several weeks. With supplies low, and flour almost gone, they approached the Great Salt Lake alley. The Johnston Army was held by the Federal Government at Fort Bridger during the winter of 1857, and it did not come towards Salt Lake until the spring of 1858, when it marched below town and traveled to Cedar Valley. Three of the young men of the Seventh Handcart ompany were called to stand guard in Echo Canyon. When the handCart Company was less than 100 miles from Salt Lake City, teams came to meet the people, bringing food and supplies, and cake and fruit for the sick and feeble. The courage and faith of these young people who walked all the Way to the mountains and arrived in Salt Lake City, September 13, 1857, can never be excelled, » MARATHON OF SOULS Ruth Harwood Well may we speak of mankind as a race. And now, as in the ancient classic days, Not he who runs the swiftest wins the race; Nor he who first may reach the goal, But one who comes with torch still burning, Keep thy light forever flaming, oh, my soul! 501 WOES NES Sis iiiaéie8/ Utah's Pioneer Mortuary Three consecutive generqtions have devoted their lives to the funera] Service standards of this community. The fourth generation is now being trained to Carry on the family tradition, JOSEPH E, TAYLOR JOSEPH WM. TAYLOR Eldest son of Joseph E. Taylor, started his career with his father MARGARET TAYLOR BECK Daughter of JOSEPH WM. TAYLOR Is now successfully Carrying on,. Assisted by h JOSEPH WM. TAYLOR MEMORIAL MORTUARY 125 No. Main Phone 3-7624 Salt Lake City, Utah AP EEN GN OK Ce Cah QQ Class Leaders... Here Are Your REFERENCE BOOKS for your 1948-49 Socal Scence Lessons 1] MAN AND THE DRAGON...$2.00 [| DISCOURSES OF WILFORD Dr. John A. Widtsoe WOODRUFF $2.50 [1] JOSEPH SMITH: PROPHETDr. G. Homer Durham STATESMAN a $2.25 [] GOSPEL STANDARDS. $2.25 Dr. G. Homer Durham Heber J. Grant [1] GOSPEL KINGDOM._._......$2.25 [] GOSPEL DOCTRINE..............$2.50 Dr. G. Homer Durham Joseph F. Smith [] TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH.|............0...00......$2.50 Joseph Fielding Smith BOOKCRAFT 1186 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah When ordering, add 2% Sales Tax in Utah Write for listing of books BEAUTY Caroline Eyring Miner Illusive as a columbine with wings, Half bird, half flower, in and out of sight, Fluttering green iridescent wings, as bright As air bejeweled with rain, now beauty weaves A mystic spell about me, for there clings To her the wild sweet longings from a night That I have lately known, the wondrous sight Of apple blossoms cradled in green leaves Freeing themselves and drifting like perfume, Pink purling, fragile, real as earth to me. So long as I can see the world abloom, See spring's fantastic flowered canopy, I shall know beauty that my heart will hold Against the winter when I shall be old. THAT'S WHAT YOU GET IN Ys PAINT - among them you can find any color you want to match any color in draperies, wallpaper—anything. BENNETT'S 65 West First South and Bennett's branches and dealers in Utah and Idaho Qdeal fucl for ® HOUSE HEATING ®@ WATER HEATING ® COOKING @®@ REFRIGERATION MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Serving 26 Utah and Wyoming Communities LESTER _ BETSY ROSS SPINET a beautiful piano with a magnificent tone Look the entire field over and you'll find that dollar for dollar this is the best piano value in the land. RINE - ONE geckly (ouce EASY BUDGET TERMS AVAILABLE Please forward complete information about Lester Betsy Ross Spinets. Address (A ¢ 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET Wtude SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Page 503 D FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY RELIEF STANDING IN FR PIONEER GRA I enjoyed the blossoms frontispiece JOY eve SOCIETy WORKERS Oquirth Stake and Amelig MT, (Gael. TY issue of the Maga. Zine. The material in th esting the more I did Tead, though jt Was Nearly twelve 0'clock—dinner time—] Subscribers _: - + God has Created men that they May help and love each Other—ney. &t quarrel, | - just that jis Missing jin » FIVE GENERATIONS Seated, Hulda A, Batty of Pima, Ajj. ZO Couldn't stop Teading, My 800dness, BASIC BOOKS For YOUR L. D. S. LIBRARY THE HOLY BIBLE __.............51.75 and up BOOK OF MORMON, DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, AND PEARL OF GREAT PRICE. TRIPLE COMBINATION, leather, gilt _.....02...00000222002220-...$7.90 COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH—6 vol. _.............$29.00 JOSEPH SMITH, AN AMERICAN PROPHET _ ooo... Eo-2-- nee neeeene-3.00 PRESIDENTS OF THE CHURCH ____ $3.00 DESERET BOOK COMPANY "Education lives as long as you read good books."' Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City 10, Utah - we DEC: - AWA Sots ye kh whe we - A Beneficial Life Insurance Policy is your Declaration of Financial Independence for you and your family. BENEFICIAL CFE | INSURANCE CO. =f Home Office Beneficial Life Building Salt Lake City 1, Utah George Albert Smith, President ¥ THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Aleine M. Young Mary G. Judd Leone G. Layton Florence G. Smith Josie B. Bay Anna B. Hart Blanche B. Stoddard Lillie C. Adars Alia J. Vance. Edith S. Elliott Evon W. Peterson Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Priscilla L. Evans Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: Editor - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 35 = _ AUGUST, 1948 No. 8 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Planning to Provide a Year's Supply............----Elder Mark B. Garff and Gertrude R. Garff 507 Four New Members Appointed to Relic! Society General Board: Josie Barnson Bay 2.0.2.2... Ceeccseccececec cece eeeeeceeeceeeceneeeeneeseceneseneeecereesessuensneeseeeensesEvelyn Wilde Heath 513 Alta Jensen Vance oniieiccceccccccececececcecceceeceeeeeveeseeeeeee ences seneeseueeeseeeneecaeeneeeeenesMadeleine P. Stevens 514 Christine Hinckley Robinson 22.0.0020..20.2200000- cece seceeeeceeeeeee ene Rae B. Barker 515 Alberta Huish Christensen..... Vesta P. Crawford 516 Relief Society Building News 22............-.20ccc.: ccceececcececceceesecsneneceeeeseeeeeseeeneees 918 Storing Food in a Basement 200-200-020 _. Velma N. Simonsen 527 Storing Food in a Two-room Apartment........... Esther Clark Naylor 529 The Art of Beautiful Tone Quality in Singing.222222.. EeeeeeeFlorence Jepperson Madsen 552 The Clock Without Hands..0000. 0... LouweeJennie Scovil Dusenberry 574 FICTION The Russells Did Not Go to Church—Chapter 1. N Edith Russell 523 Questing Lights—Chapter 5 Belie Watson Anderson 536 Aunt Millenium's 200.0000 _. Deone R. Sutherland 540 Sixty Years Ago on... Cece cee ce ce eceeee eee 530 Woman's Sphere oon... Ec cece cee ec cece ec eeeeenee en eveneeeeceneneee Ramona W. Cannon 53] Editorial: ''A Friend Loveth at All Times'' Marianne C. Sharp 532 Notes to the Field: Annual Stake Conventions Set.............. Dee Annual Relief Society General Conference 533 Notes From the Field: -..0.0.000 0General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 546 From Near and Far oo... 576 FEATURE FOR THE HOME Heat Waves and Salad Days Elizabeth Williamson 534 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: 'As One Having Authority" Elder Don B. Colton 553 Visiting Teachers' Messages: ''Where Are the Nine?' oo... Elder H. Wayne Driggs 558 Work Meeting—Sewing: Remodeling Dresses Jean Ridges Jennings 559 Literature: Highlights of the Book of Mormon Epic..0....000000.-ccecceeeeesElder Howard R. Driggs 560 Social Science: Some Political Doctrines of the Book of Mormon.... Elder G. Homer Durham 565 Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science: The Pagan of the ieee Joseph Smith (Continued) eee cee ececeeeceseeeeeceseeseseseeeeeeee Elder T. Edgar Lyon 568 Summer Day—Frontispiece oo... CceecccccescecesscssnecenscecenecesesecceceresceeeescenaanensesBeatrice pees Ekman 505 The Fiddlers. Ee af dna S. Dustin 512 Petition -........0...... _.: eos J. Miles 517 Mirror... We a.. Caroline Eyring Miner 528 Summer Shines With Silken Showers eeHelen Martin Horne 575 Bishop Hyde o..... Ccccececccccceeee een Michael Burson 575 Cinderellas...._Katie Harris Lewis 575 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 38-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Essentials o. Oo. Ccc cece cc cccesesesscscesvenseseveveesseesesvevevevsvecesaneveeecnessaeaceeeee... Alice Whitson Norton 527 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SUMMER DAY Beatrice Knowlton Ekman The summer day is languorous with heat, And through my window near the gable eaves There floats a fragrant incense, nectar-sweet, From honeysuckle bloom and brier leaves. The turquoise sky is mirrored in the pool And down the path beneath the elm-tree shade, The overhanging boughs make dim and cool The earth, where changing shadow prints are laid. The bees are noisy in the linden tree, A sparrow stalks a robin on the grass. This peaceful quiet sets my spirit free And I could wish the day might never pass. The Cover: The Idaho Falls Temple, photograph by L. W. Bacon. VOL. 35, NO. 8 AUGUST 1948 WILD HOLLYHOCKS.... '| = a Grace T. Kirton Planning to Provide a HE ultimate temporal success and security of the members of the Church will be determined by the diligence of the people to make themselves selfSustaining in all respects. We must understand that we are not only to sustain ourselves, but also to build up the Church financially in order that the Church as an organization may help those members who have met with misfortune and find it impossible to help themselves, Everyone is a potential recipient of help within the Welfare Plan of the Church. No one—with few exceptions—can justify himself in ex. Pecting the Church to take care of his need continually. The Welfare Plan was given to rehabilitate and €ncourage members, to bring them back to a point of self-sufficiency, The plan is not a dole. It is not'a Process of continually contributing to the individual, who can (when Properly directed) be self-sustaining. Every man longs for security, no matter how humble his circumstances may be; but there is no justification in expecting the Church to give us such secunty if we will not labor with our own hands nor use OUI OWn minds. The Church cannot support all of its people; nor can jt insure temporal security to all its members. It can, by our assistance and contributions, insure help to the widow, the fatherless, the handicapped, and those who may temporarily find themselves in financial difficulty, ere is much I can do to help myself so that I need not become a burden to the Church—provided | have the desire to do so. If the desire does not exist, the Outcome will] only be negative. The desire must be stron cnough that the individual will be willing to labor with his own hands, to recognize that work is honorable, that his hands will be stayed from laying hold upon another man's goods. There is a magic of power in the strength of one's own desires! We must live according to our income; our Power to save must be greater than our desire to spend. We must live upon less than we cam and seek advice from those who are competent, through their experience and calling, to give ad- [This and the other two articles on storage, pages 527 and 529, are published with the hope that they may assist Latter-day Saint families to store commodities as urged for many years by Church leaders,—F, 4 508 vice and counsel as to how to make our savings work for us. Wealth and security seem to grow wherever men exert energy in the right direction. THERE cannot be security without labor; there cannot be progress without experience; and we cannot prosper without adhering to the counsel of our prophets. It seems that if we want to be self-sustaining, we must first look to ourselves as the geniuses to provide such a future. Our first obligation is to provide for our own. How this can be accomplished has been considered. The First Presidency has urged you and me, as individuals, to prepare ourselves and our families so that we have a year's supply of food, clothing, and bedding on hand at all times, so that in case of any emergency we will be prepared to assume our own responsibility—and not expect the Church to make this provision for us. Our supply at the Bishop's storehouse would last only a few days if everyone. In the Church made demands at once. In fact, under those conditions, the supplies in all the storehouses would be gone in a matter of days. Thus the only way we could meet an emergency, if one should arise that is widespread, would be for every man to have sufficient on hand to take care of his own. This task can be accomplished only by careful preparation. The preparation need not be elaborate, but must be a continual process with watchful planning. Opportunity is a haughty goddess who wastes no time with those who are unprepared. Depressions show RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 no mercy on empty storehouses and empty stomachs. The planning for this preparedness can be most interesting—and stimulating to one's thinking—as well as to give one an opportunity to work with his own hands. Let us first consider food: if one would have a year's supply on hand, there must be storage space somewhere within the confines of the home. (Some complain that they have no room for such storage, but there is always a way to accomplish such storage if the desire to do so is strong enough.) Let it be re membered that we are not hoarding, so that we will not become overbalanced in our efforts. We are providing only staple commodities for our own families. In my own family we have made the experiment, and it has proved very satisfactory in our Own instance. It could be helpful to anyone living in the Intermountain area under similar conditions. It was decided that our storehouse should be as close to our kitchen as possible. An outside cellar was not what we wanted, as we live in Salt Lake City. There was only one place close to the kitchen, and that was somewhere in the house. "THE most logical place seemed to be the coolest place, so we selected the northeast corner of our basement. In trying to estimate our needs and at the same time cut our storage space to a minimum, we decided on a room 5 feet by 19 feet. In this space we had to make provision for storing potatoes, carrots, apples, cabbage, beets, citrus fruits, and others. Accordingly, we built one bin 13 feet long by 2% 509 PLANNING TO PROVIDE A YEAR'S SUPPLY "TARAS TT A aaa cll A feet wide by 3% feet high, and diMh vided it into five compartments. The bin was removed so as to let the moisture work from underneath 8 ie! Nothing could touch the earth, and a. Through and later be removed from a a the bin to become empty and then clean it from the top. The movement of air from underneath the bin seemed to be advantageous, as the top of each bin is covered with a hinged lid to keep out any light. We believe that potatoes and other root vegetables keep. Better away from light. We arranged one of the five bins (or compartments) just large enough to take one case of oranges and one case of grapefruit stored side by side, and found that they kept very well up to thirty or forty days.: The bin for carrots and red beets had a solid wood bottom so as to hold sand, but was removable when the bin was empty. We packed our = carrots and beets in sand and found that they kept well until late spring. You can accomplish the same result with these vegetables by packing them in sand in large cans, provided: the room 'is dark and cool. The bins need not be made of ensive lumber. Scrap lumber can be used. (See plan.) Our next problem was storage of flour, sugar, syrup, honey, macaroni, GooDsS —|9-o CITRUS FRUITS |e BOTTLED VEGETABLES CARROTS TURNIPS - BEETS VIEW CABBAGE - CORN s APPLE PEARS 8. PLAN FRUITS POTATOES PRESERVES im aN FLOUR AND SUGA Ri! STACKED ALTERNATELY ' it Li AND POTATOES CANNED VENT ry t l 1 i] 1 4 oe, ce. 7 ej,! UH oli ry 1 ° % Oo anc —_—, e. E o. E ° e A. "4: ag 9 4 es ee wo etc. We constructed a hanging shelf above our bins high enough for 510 i: any cn aa tis oe z 7 aw RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 (See plan.) The largest compartment was for potatoes. The concrete floor under the bin; and a wood floor was installed made of slats about six inches. Above the dirt level. In this way dirt from the vegetables could fall underneath, instead of waiting for PLANNING TO PROVIDE A YEAR'S SUPPLY the hinged lids to clear underneath when opened. 'This was constructed by hanging brackets from the ceiling joists. The shelf was 1% feet wide by 13 feet long, hanging about 2 feet down from the ceiling. This provided storage for a year's supply of flour, sugar, and the other items, which can be stored in sacks or cans. (See plan.) Next was the storing of bottled fruit. We constructed fruit shelves directly across from our storage bins. We built 5 shelves out of 1" by 12" boards spaced one foot above each other, leaving room on the top shelf to store wheat in cans of about a bushel each. These shelves were in two sections of about 5-foot lengths, with space between the sections of about 3 feet for large cans to be stacked on top of each other. These contained nearly 2 bushels of wheat each. We also stacked wheat in 2- bushel cans at the very end of the walkway. The shelves themselves contained about 400 quarts of fruit. (See plan.) EXT to consider was canned goods. We had used 13 of the 19 feet of our storage room, and we had to have 3 feet of wall space fora door. We had the door swing out so as not to use up any of the inside room. Then we made more shelves in an "L" shape on the end and the side opposite the doorway. (See plan.) We made the two lower shelves on one side of the "L," 1% feet wide and 2 feet high, thus giving us space to store cans of 1 and 2-bushel size or packaged goods, such as soap and cleansers. In the large cans we stored rice, dried beans, powdered sugar, vinegar in bottles, dried corn, prunes in 511 packages, and many other items. The hand soap and packaged soap had no taste effect on any of the food items stored in cans. We then had 4 upper shelves of that side and all the shelves of the other side of the "L" left for canned goods. Here we stored canned com, beans, beets, peas, spaghetti, soup of all kinds, ketchup, tomatoes, shrimps, pickles, sardines, salmon, meat, squash, olive oil, spices, and so on.. We found—to our surprise—that we could store a great amount of food. Yes, more than we anticipated—even more space than we had money to buy food for. We supplemented this supply with a small garden in our back yard, about 16 by 80 feet, which each year gives us ample vegetables for our summer use and enough carrots, onions, etc., to augment our winter storage. A summer garden is a big asset to help supply your winter needs, particularly so because the vegetables can be stored when new and fresh and in the best of condition. No family with ordinary means can fill such a storeroom in one year. It is a process of several years of saving and planning, and the hard part is not the building of the storage room itself, but the continual process of keeping your stock moving, and always replacing new stock for that which you have used. If you determine always to put into your storage room more than you take out over a year's time, it will only be a matter of a few years until you have accomplished your purpose. However, you must be like the storekeeper who always keeps 512 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 an inventory of his stock, and never lima beans and canned red beets. Jets his shelves become empty. Bottled fruit has kept reasonably This is not the full answer to well for three years. Keep your bot every problem of storage, but it will tled fruit off the concrete; store it meet your needs. If you have room, on wood shelves. Syrup may not I would suggest that your storage keep three years, properly cured space be 5% or 6 feet wide instead honey has kept five years. Of 5 feet, thus giving you @ little We have carried on OUT expetimore room to walk around and disment for six years, and we ate very tribute your supplies. Satisfied with the results. At least It is also to be remembered that our own problem for storing food ou need an ait intake at one end has been solved. Of your room, about 12 by12inches, —_ Just what the future holds is a with an adjustable damper built in' big question, but no matter what to this opening so that yoo can con" may come we feel sure that we are trol the amount of outside alt combetter prepared to meet the future ing in during the winter. No exhaust than we were in 1930—when we all js necessary. The vent is left only suffered financial losses that were part way open in the winter, as some hard to endure. Fresh air must come into the room. If you can line your room with %- Ld cre ae leony 2 aa inch celotex OF other insulating mapate One aginst ne i. Sa d. If every family has a year's terial, it will help you to regulate fees the temperature. Supply of food, clothing, bedding, etc., on hand, let come what may— OUR experience has taught us for Zion will be fortified. But Zion that all the above mentioned ©" only be strong if her people are commodities can be stored in one strong. Every member who fails ln room. Dry wheat stored in small his own assignment weakens the po tin containers (not over two bushsition of the Church. Let us loo els) has kept for five years without forward with the determination to turning at any time. Rice and beans assist the Church, that lf may help are in good condition after five those who have met with misforyears. Hand soap is in excellent tune. Years. Sugar may harden somewhat, be justified before the brethren and put is still good after three years. The Lord—by accepting of their Canned goods have kept for three counsel, which will better out years, with the exception of baby temporal and our spiritual condition. THE FIDDLERS Edna S. Dustin When you hear a cricket starting to tune His old bass fiddle, listen, and soon Others will join and start fiddling high C— If you wait, you will hear a great symphony. Four New Members Appointed to the Relief Society General Board Josie Barnson Bay Evelyn Wilde Heath Former President, San Bernardino Stake Relief Society EWS of the appointment on May 26, 1948, of Josie Barn-. Son Bay to the general board of Relief Society will be happily received by her numerous devoted friends. Words seem so inadequate to express her worth—one thinks of the joyous glory of spring, with its sunshine, its warmth, its blossoms— lovely blossoms that bring forth precious fruits. Jo, as we affectionately call her, is like that—joyous, enthusiastic, progressive, with an infectious smile, and a heart that holds much warmth, friendliness, humility, and understanding. Like the blossoms, she is not only lovely and charming, but she, too, brings forth precious fruits of wisdom, edifying all who associate with her. Her great knowledge and _testimony of the gospel are results of capable and untiring service in the Church. One of her finest qualities is her sincere love for people, which brings her that great power to organize, to gain co-operation, unity, and, consequently, unmeasured success, Josie was born in Junction, Utah, the daughter of John and Hannah Barnson, both staunch Latter-day Saints. Her first responsible positions in Church work were: Primary JOSIE BARNSON BAY president, then Y. W. M. I. A. President, both of Junction Ward. After her marriage to Ira M. Bay, who is most loyal and helpful and a sincere Church worker, they served as missionaries in the California Mission. Her first experience in Relief Society work was at that time as a counselor. Since that introduction, she has served Relief Society in the following positions: president of Junction Ward; first president of Boulder City Ward; president of San Bernardino Ward; stake secrePage 513 Serving in the ission, This appointment ward served 9, 1942, until her apRelief Society stake NEW BOARD MEMBERS president of Big Cottonwood Stake, March 18, 1945. She was married to Kimball Vance in the Salt Lake Temple, January 17, 1928, after which they spent some time in Chicago, returning in 1931 to organize the Vance Electric Company. In 1939, Brother Vance left on a two-year mission to Canada and during his absence the responsibility of business and family fell to Sister Vance. 515 She was very successful in both these undertakings. She is the mother of two fine sons, Roland and Byron, and a very gracious daughter, Loretta. Sister Vance has remarkable organizational ability, wisdom, caution, and a deep feeling of compassion and tolerance. In her humility and steadfastness, hers will be a service Of love and joy in connection with her general board work. Christine Hinckley Robinson Rae B. Barker Former Member, Relief Society General Board REPAREDNESS invites opportunity and responsibility. This is evidenced in the appointment of Christine Hinckley Robinson to membership on the general board of Relief Society, May 26, 1948. A daughter of Bryant S. Hinckley and Christine Johnson, she responded to the refining influence of the gospel as her parents and grandparents lived it in strength and beauty. When a baby, Christine's mother died. With the close companionship of her sister Carol, she matured in an atmosphere of love and artistry in the home of her maternal grandparents, Brother and Sister Niels Johnson of Provo, Utah. The Provo schools, and eventually the Brigham Young University, launched her on an extensive scholastic program which was continued in New York after her marriage to O. Preston Robinson. It was at the B. Y. U. That the two met. Since then they have achieved success and wide recognition together—she 'es CHRISTINE HINCKLEY ROBINSON in interior decorating, he in marketing. Sister Robinson was an instructor in the Foster School of Fine Arts in New York City. Together, they wrote the textbook Successful Retail Salesmanship. Teamwork stands out as one of their mogt enviable accomplishlife. She Inspires faith because She ments, each complimenting and relies On faith. She builds Strength magnifying the other. Such "OoPpem: ip Others because sh tion wil] be a rea] asset in Chris. CONVictions. Tine's ney, Relief Society assignThe Vitality of her testimony of ment, the Eospel was Tecently demonHer Church ACtiVities have con. Strated in 4 Practica] Way. She and sistently Patalleled her Vvanied Civic, her family, after living "fo, Nearly academic, ang "Teative work. With twenty years in New York, Chose to Xperience jn all th Church auxleaye bright fields of SUCCEss to iliaries, the €mphasis hag been in Make their home in Utah with the Relief Society, For fifteen Years body of the Church. She seryeq Successfully ag Ward class Asa mem er of the genera] board, leader, Counselor, and in the PYesiSister Robinson will be a POwer for for individuality in the midst of Relief Society work love for, and "ir mother's artistic €XPression in 2 sympathetic understanding of ome and garden People, with an ardent desire Ndow th deep Pititual jp elp. Art tic €mperament sight and keen Creative Intellect, Sis. Clear in her thinking, ™-hearted ter Robinson veloped increas. And generoys he makes friends ing Capacity fo; leadershj he and Promotes ey, TY Cause in which Senuinely love People and loves © engages Alberta Huish Christensen, N June 2, 1948, a gifted and In English literature at Brigham woman, Alberta Young Univers; ty, where She was an uish Christensen, "S6™aphono; student, ative in dramatics, Pointed g member of the genera] and editor of the literary Magazine. Ard of Relicg Socie €T service in urch Organiza Mey 86 gle in known to her tions began wij unday Schoo} ends, was bor Ptnglake teachin has Continued throy h Utah, g daughter of Jam William nearly all th auxiliaries, Includ uish ary Elizabeth Fill ing ©x€cutive p Sttions in ward and more, O O younger mem Stake Relief Societie She Was, al bers of a large and ented fami] 9, @ Counselor i New York Stake Se was educat d in the Schools of I, ak Issiontah an Teceived h - B. Degree ary. Since coming to Salt Lake NEW BOARD MEMBERS City, Berta has ably served as a member of Emigration Stake Relief Society board and has contributed greatly to the many outstanding activities which this stake has so successfully carried out. Actively interested in genealogical research, Berta has completed many records for her family. She has exceptional organizing ability which enables her to use her time and energy to best advantage with grace and dignity. Blessed with many artistic gifts, Berta has been an award winner in several Eliza R. Snow poem contests and has contributed frontispiece poems of exceptional quality to the Magazine. Her literary compositions have appeared in many other publications, and musical arrangements have been made for a number of her poems. She is wellknown as a reader of poetry, and her. Painting, in several mediums, is of exceptional originality and reveals exquisite technique. "Multiple-gifted" applies to Berta, for she has additional talents in the domestic and fine arts. Berta's husband, Dr. Carl J. Christensen, a former bishop of Queen's Ward, New York, and a member of the stake presidency there, is now Dean of the School of Mines and Mineral Industries at the University of Utah. The Christensens have four children: a mar- 517 ALBERTA HUISH CHRISTENSEN tied daughter, Mary Ellen Snow; Berta Mae, a student at Brigham Young University; and two young sons, Carl H. And James H. The appointment of Berta to the general board will give the women of the Church an opportunity to enjoy the leadership of a competent and lovely woman who has demonstrated her ability to place first things first. Her three-fold objective for a well-integrated life is expressed through her devotion to the practical phases of the home, self-expression through the creative arts, and spiritual enrichment through Church activity. >_< PETITION Eunice J. Miles Help us, Lord, to love and pray Planning for the common good, Gaining courage to create Lasting bonds of sisterhood. Reliof Society Building News RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING FUND REACHES 76% OF QUOTA The shaded part of the thermometer on the corner of this drawing of the Proposed new building represents 76% of the total fund which had been received in the general offices on June 23, 1948,: the Relief Society in Nauvoo, Every daughter and daughter-in-law in some families is making an individual Memorial Gift to her mother so that each one's name appears with that of the mother. Wherever the gifts are made, both the name of the donor and the name of the one being memorialized will be placed in the cornerstone. According to the present plan, a great book will be made containing the names of all who contribute - to the Relief Society building, to be preserved in a special case in the building which will stand as a lasting tribute to the faithfulness of Relief Society members today. MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS HawatlAn Mission STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS Soutn Ipano Fairs Stake (Ipano) IpAHo Fats Staxe (IDAHO) San Drieco Stake (CALIFORNIA) WELLS Stake (Utan) Teton STAKE (IDAHO AND WyoMING) GRANITE STAKE (UTAH) Nort Ipano Farts Stake (IDAHO) EMIGRATION STAKE (UtTaH) Mesa STAKE (ARIZONA) Rexsurc STAKE (IDAHO) Uvapa Staxe (NEvapA AND UTaAn) Utan Staxe (Utan) SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON) SoutH Los ANGELES STAKE (CALIF.) Juarez StTaKE (Mexico) FLoripA STAKE (F Lorna) TEMPLE View Stake (UraH) BEAR RIverR STAKE (UtTaH) ParowaNn STAKE (Utan) Liperty STAKE (UraH) SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH) Sucar House Stake (Urtan) Satt Laxe STaKe (UTAH) San Luis Stake (Cororapo) Oneina Stake (IpaHo) TOOELE STAKE (UTAH) San Juan Stake (Uran) SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) Grant STAKE (Uran) East Provo Stake (Urtax) AMERICAN Fairs Stake (IDAHO) Oguirru STAKE (UTAH) East Ricsy Sraxe (IpAHo) SAN BERNARDINO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) BRANCHES (IN MISSIONS) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the July Magazine, and prior to July 8, 1948.) Akron Branch, Northern States Ames Branch, Northern States Ashland Branch, East Central States Barntford Branch, Canadian Barstow Branch, California Battle Creek Branch, Northern States Bayou La Croix Branch, Southern States Beaumont Branch, California Blythe Branch, California Cambridge City Branch, Norther States Canon City Branch, Western States Carlsbad Branch, California Center Point Branch, Northern States Cherry Grove Branch, Western Canadian Cleburne Branch, Texas-Louisiana Columbus Branch, Northern States Columbus Branch, Northern States (These are two branches by the same name) / Craig Branch, Western States Corpus Christi Branch, TexasLouisiana Dallas Branch, Texas-Louisiana Des Moines Branch, Northern States Duluth Branch, North Central States Elsinore Branch, California Enoch Branch, Texas-Louisiana 'Evansville Branch, Northern States Farmer City Branch, Northern States Fort Lupton Branch, Western States Fort William Branch, North Central States Fort Worth Branch, Texas-Louisiana Fremont Branch, Western States Gallup Branch, Western States Gilmer Branch, 'Texas-Louisiana Glasgow Branch, North Central States Glenwood Springs Branch, Western States RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS NorTHERN CALIFORNIA MIssION EASTERN STATES Mission 519 SAMOAN MissIon New ZEALAND MIssION Gonzales B anch, Texas Louisiana Omaha B nch, Western States Tand Fork Branch North Centra] tlando anch Southern States urdue Tanch, Northern States Greeley Branch, Wester States Pride Branch, Texas-Louisiana Jefferson City Branch, Central States Quincy Branch, Northern States ilgore Branch, Texas-Louisian, Rochester Branch, North Centra] 4guna Beach Branch, C, ifornia tates ancaster Branch, California Saginaw Branch, Northern States ansing Branch, orthern States San Antonio Branch, Texas-Louisiana €wiston Branch, North Centra] States Santa Paula-Fillmore Branch, California Lincoln Branch, Western States Sarasota Brane » Southern States Ogan Branc » East Centra] States avannah Bra h, Southern States Oulsville B Nch, East Centra] States €boygan Branch, Northern tes adison Bra ch, No thern States Sheridan h, Weste States ankato Branch, North Centra] States Silver Park Branch, Western Canadian ation Bran h, Northern States 10ux Fa] sB anch, No th Centra] €dicine Hat Tanch, Western States anadian South Beng Branch, Northern States eeker Br, stern States South In anapolis Branch, orthern InNeapoli Branch, North Centra] States - Trona Branch California T. I Tthern Stat, is er Nancie Bunch, Cate § — Tyler Branch, Texas-Louisiana ewport N, anch, Central entura Branch California tlantic §}. Aco Bran h, Texas Ouisiang North Indianapolis Branch, Northern Williston Branch, North Central States tates Ichitg Falls 'Branch, Texas-Louisiang (Since Publication Of the list in the July Magazine, and prior to July 8, 1948) Aberdeen Ward, American Falls Centinely Ward, Inglewoog Aetna Ward, Alberta Centra] Ward, §: Joseph Alhambra Ward, Pasadena Centra] Ward, South Sevier ugusta Branch, South Caroling Centra] Park Ward, South Salt Lake alboa Ward, San Francisco Centerville First Ward, Davis Ballard Ward, Roosevelt Charleston Ward, Wasatch altimore » Washington Ico » G idley ay Ridge Bran h, New York Ircleyj]] » Garfield e€nson td, East Cache Cody Branch, Big Hom Olse Thi d, Boise Cokeville ard, Montpelier Bountify] First Ward, South Davis Colonia] Heights Ward, Portland Ountify] Second Ward, South Davis Colonia] Hills Ward, Hillside Ountify] Fourth Ward, South Davis Colton Ward, San Bernardino Onneville Ward, East Provo Columbia Ward, South Caroling onneville Park Ward, Ben Lomond Coutts Branch, Taylor Brigham City First Ward, South Box Dishman Ward, Spokane Elder Dragerton Branch, Carbon Tooklyn ard, New York ast Midvale inst W d, East Jordan unkeryj]] W: d, Moapa ast Midvale Second ard, East Jordan urley First ard, Burley astmont ard, Pasad urley Fourth rd, Burley en d, Oseph urlinga e d, Palo Alto Ely ard, €vada > Ve > T UY Hansen, President, Smithfielg Second Ward; Anne M. Farr President, Smithfielg Stake Relief Society, € ward Presidents are seen Teceiving their building fund Certificates. This event Was part of 4 € closing day Social, June 1, 1948, and for the Occasion g beautify] and 4ppropriate Poem, written by Sister Elizabeth i Astle, was Tead, WARDS AND BRANCHES (1 STAKES) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERsiy{p QUOTAS Evergreen Ward, East Mill Creek Koosharem Ward, Sevier airview Ward, Franklin Lake Point Ward, Grantsville Ort Hall Bra h, Ocatello Laurelere t-Beac, ard, Hillside ort T s, St Joseph Lehi Second Ward, L i ullerton d, Long Beach Lehj Third w » Lehi arfield Ww. Do uirrh Ogan Seventh > Mount Logan artison By. H, Nevada °gan Square » Chicago eorgetown rd, Montpelier Otraine td, Grant €nwood d, Sevier una Ward, St. Johns Teenbelt Bran: Washington agna Ward, Oquirrh Teen River Wa d, Lyman agtath First Ward, Taylor Greenville Ward, South Caroling Magrath Second Ward, Taylor Harrisville Ward, Farr West Malad Second Ward, Malad aven Ward, South Salt Lake Manila Ward, Timpanogos eber Fourth ard, Wasatch enan ard, Rig y €nderson d, Moapa cCal] Branch, Weiser ighland » Mount Ogden eridian d, Boise uliard F Woodruf¢ €sa First wy.; Maricopa 0od Riy Td, Portland €sa Fourth ard, Marico a untsyil] North Weber €sa Sixth d, aricopa ameston td, Shel] €sa Eighth » Maricopa ensen Ward, intah Midvale First > East Jordan aysville Firgp Ward, Davis idway First w. D, Wasatch e Oponce rd, Idaho Milford ard, Bea 522 Milwaukee South Branch, Chicago Milwaukee Ward, Chicago Modesto Ward, Sacramento Montpelier Third Ward, Montpelier Monroe South Ward, South Sevier Morgan Ward, Morgan Moscow Ward, Spokane Mound Fort Ward, Farr West Mound Valley Ward, Bannock Mt. Olympus Ward, Big Cottonwood Mt. Pleasant South Ward, North Sanpete Mt. Trumbull Ward, St. George Murtaugh Ward, Twin Falls Naglee Park Branch, Palo Alto Nampa First Ward, Nampa Nampa Second Ward, Nampa Naples Ward, Uintah Newdale Ward, North Rexburg Nibley Ward, Hyrum North Logan, East Cache North Shore Ward, Chicago Nounan Ward, Montpelier Oakland Ward, Oakland Ogden Fourth Ward, North Weber Ogden Sixth Ward, North Weber Ogden Eighteenth Ward, South Ogden Ogden Twenty-fourth Ward, Mount Ogden Ogden Twenty-seventh Ward, South Ogden Ogden Thirty-second Ward, Weber Otto Branch, Big Hom Overton Ward, Moapa Ovid Ward, Bear Lake Palmyra Ward, Palmyra Panguitch South Ward, Panguitch Paradise Ward, Hyrum Park City First Ward, South Summit Parley's Ward, Highland Peterson Ward, Morgan Price Second Ward, North Carbon Price Third Ward, Carbon Pocatello Second Ward, Pocatello Pocatello Seventh Ward, Pocatello Pocatello Twelfth Ward, Pocatello Pomona Ward, San Bernardino Provo Seventh Ward, Provo Provo Eighth Ward, East Provo Provo Ninth Ward, East Provo Provo Tenth Ward, Provo RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 Provo Eleventh Ward, West Utah Provo Twelfth Ward, East Provo Racine Branch, Chicago Raymond Second Ward, Taylor Redondo Ward, Inglewood Reseda Ward, San Fernando Richmond Ward, Washington Rigby First Ward, Rigby Rigby Third Ward, East Rigby Rigby Fourth Ward, Rigby Riverside Ward, Riverside Riverton Second Ward, West Jordan Riverview Ward, Pioneer ry Rockland Ward, American Falls Roosevelt Ward, Roosevelt Roosevelt Second Ward, Roosevelt Rosecrest Ward, East Mill Creek Roslyn Heights Ward, Highland Rupert First Ward, Minidoka St. George Fourth Ward, St. George Sandy Second Ward, Mount Jordan San Fernando Ward, San Fernando San Francisco Ward, San Francisco San Leandro Ward, Oakland Santa Monica Ward, Inglewood Shelley Third Ward, Shelley Society Hill Branch, South Carolina Spanish Fork First Ward, Palmyra Spencer Ward, Oquirrh Spokane Central Ward, Spokane Springfield Ward, American Falls Springview Ward, Grant Sunset Ward, San Francisco Superior Ward, Lyman Timpanogos Ward, Sharon Thatcher Ward, Bannock Thirty-first Ward, Park Thirty-third Ward, Bonneville Twin Groves Ward, Yellowstone Twin Falls Second Ward, Twin Falls Tyrells Lake Branch, Taylor Venice Ward, Sevier Vernal Second Ward, Uintah Victorville Branch, San Bernardino Wallace Branch, Spokane Wandamere Ward, Grant. Whittier Ward, Pasadena Wellsville First Ward, Hyrum Woodland Branch, Sacramento Woodville Ward, Shelley Wymount Branch, East Provo The Russells Did Not Go to Church A Turee-Part Story. CHAPTER 1 Edith Russell Y elder brother, Michael, M we reading, which means that for purposes of ordinary communication, he was quite dead. He was not merely engrossed, he was oblivious. My mother, having passed him four times on her way to and from the kitchen, and having accommodatingly climbed over his protruding legs four times in so doing, endeavored to call to his attention the great desirability of his retiring to his room, there to continue his perusal of great literature with less inconvenience to the family at large. Michael gave no indication of having heard. My mother continued her trips to the kitchen. She returned carrying a large bowl of hot water. She said no more, but a moment later Michael drew in his legs with a voice of protest. "Really, Mother! Can't a fellow...? I was reading about those chaps called Mormons," he expostulated, as though that should explain his intense preoccupation. "Michael!" My mother was hortified. "Those dreadful people! Why, I remember when I was a girl, they visited even the best parts of town, trying to induce nice girls to leave their homes and go with them to Salt Lake City." Michael grinned. "Oh, Mother, come now!" he protested, gently disbelieving. "It's true. I never saw one myself, but at the time it was on everybody's lips." Michael was turning the pages of the book, looking for some passage. "Zane Grey," he said, "thinks they are a decent people." My mother spread her feathers and exuded indignation. "Michael, I shall appreciate it if you will not indulge in such literature in the future. I do not like it!' The little woman resumed her interrupted perambulations to and from the kitchen with renewed vigor, her face a mask of disapproval. Michael looked at me, then at the book now lying in the chair. Then he shrugged and went out. Ee * * IX years later the second world war was moving a bloody finger across the map of Europe. Michael was in the East; his place at home was taken by my younger brother, Antony. We led quiet, uneventful lives in the small, sturdy cottage situated on the fringe of the lonely Haworth moors. The peaceful monotony of our existence might be attributed to the fact that although we lived at least on the outskirts of the village, we Page 523 524 were not accepted as villagers. My mother was a "city woman." We children had been born in the city, and after fifteen years of living in the village, we were still regarded with curiosity and the sort of aloof respect accorded to strangers. Furthermore, at no time in our lives had we made any attempt to enter that little circle of social life and common purpose, represented by the church. The Russells did not go to church. 'They never had, unless impelled there by new life or its surcease, or the occasional determination of a Russell bride to have the church solemnize her matrimonial contract. We did not go to church as we did not get drunk. The family, in either case, simply would not have condoned it. Ours was a happy family life, undeviating, unimaginative, smooth. We enjoyed solidarity as a family, but it was the nature of each of us to like to be alone. Antony rode a great deal, as a friendly farmer was not averse to letting him exercise his horses. He was sixteen and blond, with all the energy of a colt. He would be gone all day, then come home at nightfall to eat an enormous supper in the kitchen. My mother worried about him—if he was warm enough, if he was safe. But he was like thin whipcord. He hated any kind of fuss, and was as sensitive as a girl. Michael sweated with the Royal Air Force in Cairo. For my part I had my room and the lanes and fens surrounding the moors. I read a great deal, alone in my room. My small chamber was recognized as sacred, and no one, not even my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 mother, trespassed there. Michael had painted the walls when it was first given to me, and once when I was sick, he had come in to visit me. Antony was oddly shy of it, though it was not a very feminine room. It was my sanctuary. I intimately lived there. Walked a great deal and usually alone. About a mile from the house was the patish church of St. Matthews and unfailingly in my walks, I went past the old place, a trifle curious as to what went on behind the stout Gothic walls. I was sometimes tempted to go in. On Tuesday evening the villagers would be at choir practice and the sound of their strong, country voices would float out into the mellow dusk. I used to think, vaguely, of our family conception of church people— narrow, vindictive—transcendently uncharitable. Ostensibly, they were the reason we did not go to church. We had heard that the vicar himself was an irascible gentleman, a Welshman, much given to fire and brimstone, and to denouncing the villagers who did not attend Holy Communion as devils incarnate. The much maligned villagers had stoned him once, and the big, helmeted police force had broken up the crowd. "Religion? Bah!' was the unvoiced opinion of our house. What did religion engender but strife and bad feeling? What emotions did it inspire other than hatred and malice and resentment? Honor thy father as well as thy mother, the commandments said. But my father had not inspired honor in his children. He had slipped out of our lives before even our memories could claim him. Re- Sttange fas. Me. Walk; ACTOss th € fields from €wenden, | Would mount the hil] © second Ww. A. Ttwas evi the war, J Stopped at; Gate Of the ¢ €Te was a Maxim in the fami] about 5 Ourtesy—_"Co,, Y to Myself, | nothing." Urch. This Is St thew. I 1 One sho Ourte- > 4Nd to see to be God.: ' Sic, Pethaps us to one's host, €ven if he ha 526 awe. I put my hands together and closed my eyes—tightly. "Dear God," I said, "forgive me for disturbing you..." Nothing else. Nothing else would come. I rose and hurried down the aisle, pushing open the great door beneath the west tower. A few seconds more and I was in the mild stillness of the churchyard again. The church was behind me, massive, silent—empty, yet breathing! Michael would laugh when they wrote to tell him I had gone to church. They would all think it so funny. Perhaps it was. Perhaps | should laugh, too. I rallied all my sense of humor, but fully marshalled, it brought no laughter to my lips. A sense of sadRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 ness oppressed me and an unaccustomed sensation of unrest. The feeling remained with me that God was waiting, waiting. And his patience was infinite. I hurried my footsteps up the hill toward home. The cottage stood on the crest, solid, old as the church, a haven of comfort. My mother sat before the fire, knitting—a gray thing for Antony. She looked up as I went in. "Mother," I said, and my voice was that of the penitent before his confessor. '"Mother—I have been to church!" My mother put down her knitting. (To be continued ) —-< ESSENTIALS Alice Whitson Norton I love the things with which I've lived Throughout my entire life, Like grandma's quaint old soup tureen, And granddad's carving knife; My father's pewter shaving mug— An old four-poster bed, A comfort made from scraps of silk, And brier-stitched in red; Odd pieces of old silverware, And bits of dainty lace; The old clock on the mantelpiece With bruises on its face; My mother's armless rocking chair, Her little darning gourd; A candelabrum made of brass— A rusty bladed sword. So long these things I love have been A vital part of me, Without them I am like a ship Lost on a windswept sea - Storing Food in a Basement Velma N. Simonsen Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society ATTER-day Saints believe that God is as much concerned with the affairs of men today as he was in the days of ancient Israel. And as Joseph was instructed to prepare his people for a day of need, the word of the Lord, coming through his prophets to us today, is to have on hand at least one year's supply of food. Does this sound like a Herculean task? Do you feel that it is impossible for city folk, living in small houses on limited budgets, to obey this counsel? We have found that it can be done and it is lots of fun. We first made a list of the foods and the amounts we would need for our family for the year. We included in our storage, paper napkins, waxed paper, soap, and other household necessities. We made our purchases according to our list. Of course, few families can afford to go out and at one time buy a year's supply of food and supplies and store them, but by wise budgeting we can buy a case of food at a time or a sack of flour one week and a quantity of sugar another week. Some families make a practice of buying two of everything they need, one for immediate use and one for storing. In any event, as you use from your storage supply be sure to replace it so that you may maintain your one year's supply constantly. My husband and I were both reared in families where it was expedient and natural to store a year's supply of food. Therefore the word "hoarding" has little meaning for us. We try to keep at least a year's supply of provisions on hand at all times, because we were trained in our youth to do so, and because it is the counsel given us of the Lord through his prophets. We are a family of six and all the storage space we have is a basement closet and a small fruit room. On shelves, in the closet, we store staples that do not need to be kept too cool, and which keep indefinitely, such as dried beans, split peas, macaroni products, spices, rice, flavoring, soaps, and such. We find the tin cannister sets that can be bought very cheaply in the dime stores or gallon ice-cream cartons or any cans with tight lids are splendid to store these foods in. In the fruit room, in order to assure good circulation of air, we cut a hole about 9" x 12" in the wall near the floor; over this we put an open grill. We ran a 12" x 12" pipe from the ceiling of the fruit room between the joists to the outside and put an open grill and screen over both ends of this pipe to keep out bugs and mice. On the fruitroom shelves we keep our homebottled fruits and vegetables, jams, and jellies. Under the shelves we store the case-lot purchases of canned meat, fish, milk, vegetables, fruit, shortening, flour, cereals, and sugar. We usually keep five or six sacks of flour on hand at all times and have done so for the past fifteen years and have not had one sack inPage 527 528 fected with weevil. The "trick" is to make sure one sack of flour does not touch another sack of flour. To avoid this, when stacking, we put a sack of flour then a sack of sugar then a sack of flour and so on, or we lay some of the flour on top of a case of vegetables. We always put slats of wood between the cement and the articles stored, as the cement has a tendency to "sweat," and the wood keeps the moisture from the stored food. N the fall of the year we buy three sacks of potatoes, a sack of small size onions for cooking whole (try creaming them with peas or string beans, they are delicious!); a sack of large size onions for slicing, a bushel of carrots, a half-bushel of parsnips, and several bushels of apples. The potatoes we stand on slats of wood on the fruit room floor. For us, these keep firm and fresh from October until May when the new potatoes come on the market. The onions we store in the mesh bags in which they are purchased. We make sure the onions are thoroughly dry before storing by leaving them in the garage until there is danger of them freezing, then we hang them from a nail on the wall in the fruit room so they may get better circulation, or just stand the sacks on slats of wood on the fruit room floor. We check the onions occasionally and discard any that seem to be going soft or RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 spoiling. In this way the onions keep firm and fresh until May. Storing carrots is a simple process. We wash them, cut off the tops, put them in a creamery can, place the lid on the can loosely, and stand the can on the fruit room floor. The can works on the same principle as the hydrator in an ice box, keeping the carrots moist and crisp until spring, and very handy to get at. We are always careful that the lid is replaced loosely. The patsnips are stored the same as the carrots only in a smaller container. The apples we store in the garage. We put the box of apples inside a larger box with crumpled newspaper between the two boxes and on top; over it all, we fold an old blanket. This is enough insulation to keep the apples from freezing and the low temperatures keep them firm. In this land of plenty, some may question the necessity of storing food, but no one has ever lost by obeying the counsel of the Lord's anointed—and the added convenience and the feeling of security that one obtains from obeying this counsel are well worth the try. This method of storing food has worked well for us. You may have a better way, but in any event keep at least one year's supply ahead. By so doing you can save money and keep prepared for the unknown future. It can be done and it's lots of fun. + MIRROR Caroline Eyring Miner You are my mirror, Daughter of mine; Make my reflection With kindliness shine. My small, heated have been Tather SuCCessfu]. To iP the Matter of hen in the 5 should be MOved to CP" closet, tye Coolest p Toom, In this Way I have been able to keep the food unti] It w, ty summer. € canned foods Stored Of strin toes (if T do not home can the tomatoes), tomato soup, vegetable Soup, Stapefruit, Canned milk honey, with some Canned meat and YIam now using beans and rice that were Purchased 4 ago, ¢ taken that NO curd €T€ is no yw, In this method, as the curd or whey can be used in Cookie Making, very long period SulTounding €ach sack with Town paper, It pt for over a Tt five Meals; g large can of toma. 0¢s will provide 4 Serving for each of five mea] Page 529 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1888 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NaTIONs" THE TWENTY-FOURTH: The commemoration of the anniversary of the entrance of the Pioneers into this valley was celebrated last month with appropriate services in the large Tabernacle, an immense concourse of people being in attendance. It was forty-one years since the company of Pioneers arrived where Salt Lake City now stands. The grand organ was handsomely draped with the stars and stripes, and a steel engraving of President Brigham Young hung in the centre among the national colors. Underneath it a banner bore the one word "Unity." The three stands were draped with national flags, and the platform in front of the stands, used on such occasions, was tastefully omamented with flowers and plants in bloom, On one side was the head and horns of a buffalo, with its long, shaggy hair, and on the other the very old flag of stars and stripes, that was flung out to the mountain breeze from Ensign Peak on their first visit to the mountains, two days after their arrival —Wilford Woodruff APPRECIATION: I have been very much gratified with the literary attainments and pleasant tone of the editorials in your paper. I have certainly a very different idea of the trials and struggles of the Mormon Pioneers, from what I had before. I wanted to know the standing of the women rights' advocates, among your people, and I have been gratified indeed —Mrs. A. Clark, Nantucket, R. I. Fair are the flowers and the children, but their subtle suggestion is fairer; Rare is the rose burst of dawn, but the secret that clasps it is rarer. Sweet the exultance of song, but the strain that precedes it is sweeter, And never was the poem yet writ, but the meaning out-mastered the metre. —Richard Realf NOTES AND NEWS: The announcement that Louisa M. Alcott's home at Concord, Mass., is to be sold, leads to the suggestion that it be bought by subscription and converted into a home for poor children, as a memorial to the author so well beloved by young readers. MARICOPA STAKE: Minutes of the Relief Society Conference of Maricopa Stake, held at the Bowery, Mesa City June 21st, 1888, Elizabeth G. McDonald presiding. The different branches of the Society were well represented; there were a number of the brethren also present. Coun. Morris said, "Let us go to the Lord for strength to carry us through our trials. Felt to respond cheerfully to every call made upon her. Prest. Charles I. Robson felt the importance of the times we are living in; thought the day was near at hand when the reign of righteousness would commerce upon the earth. Prest. E. McDonald felt that we had truly had a feast. Gave counsel to the sisters to have a care in their remarks before their children. "Be careful how you speak of your neighbors before them." Asked the Lord's blessings upon us, that we might increase in good works.—Sarah M. Pomeroy, Secretary EDITORIAL NOTES: The Deseret University, with its facilities for education, its modern improvements, the delightful grounds, and the suitable situation, enclosed, as it is, and shaded on all sides, is, indeed, a desirable locality for such an institution. It has the advantage, also, of an able Faculty, and ought to rank high as a seat of learning. Page 530 JENSIN = eva a. / ee Ry E Sy o> ) 7: OMEN are trying to correct some important misfortunes among the nations of the world. They became increasingly cognizant of these ills at the last meeting of the International Council of Wonen in Philadelphia, toward the end of last year. They learned that some countries have very unsanitary milk—and some countries have no milk. In at least fifteen nations women are not yet allowed to vote. In Poland live 600,000 orphan children born out of wedlock during the war. The women are working to carry out a three-year program dealing with peace, health, relief, and education. [R4 JARRELL, only woman school superintendent in a United States city of more than 200,000 population, occupies that position in Atlanta, Georgia. When she began teaching, she asked to work with the underprivileged children. She has introduced many reforms into the conservative Atlanta schools, among them the startling innovation of coeducation. RANCES CLEVELAND, as the bride of Grover Cleveland, was the youngest First Lady in the United States. Since her recent death at 88, only five former Presidents' wives still live. Se #9 Woman's Sphere Ramona W, Cannon HE National Spinsters Association of Great Britain, led by Florence White, fifty-five, grocer and founder of the Organization, is striving to win government pensions for spinsters when they reach the age of fifty-five, HEN Hope Reeder was born in Corinne, Utah, she had, instead of ten fingers, only one small index finger (on her right hand) and two thumbs. Yet, with magnificent effort and courage, she has forged ahead with a library career. After having received many national honors in her field, she was recently appointed to join the library staff of the United Nations in Geneva. She takes an active part in the work of the Latter-day Saint Church in the French mission. Former Utah girl, Miss Charlotte Knight, daughter of Mrs. Ray Knight of Canada, has estab. Lished a Far Eastern office for the New York magazine Air Force in faraway Tokyo, Japan. During the _ war, Miss Knight was the only woman correspondent for that journal. She was also the only woman writer present at the atomic bomb tests in Bikini. She is a member of the Overseas Press Club of America. Page 53] A Sriond Loves, at All Simes" (Proverbs 17:7) ed and toys and clothing strewn re) » She Whispered, « One gives the more with the baby crying so much in the nj Comight. Pye stay while Way it is and ut on your Coat and 80," she COaxed, times," and will be dearly: appreciated forever. —M. C. §,. ni € after the Visiting stake Relief Society President, Stake ang Class leaders are to attend the 1 ceting, and Priesthood TEPTesentatives and Visiting teachers are INvited, € Ch | Ta morning officers meeting in the 'Sembly Hall for ke board m bers on W, dternoon, A Teception Which Stake Card members and mission Relief Society Presidents wi)j be inviteg Will be held in the evening at the Hotel. Utah,. Worm by the Officia] "Pl€sentatives, lettereq With the name of the Stake oy Mission, will soon be sent to the Stake nesday, with departm meetings to be held simy] 'neously in the af. ing completed their quotas. The conference will be a time of rejoicing to the sisters everywhere. The afternoon session in the Tabernacle will be addressed by members of the general authorities, and Relief Society general board members. This conference will be remembered as one of the most memorable occasions in the history of Relief Society, and it is the earnest hope of the general board that great numbers of Relief Society members from faraway as well as nearby may be in attendance. Stake presidents are requested to have their ward presidents announce the conference at the Relief Society summer meetings. Heat Waves and Salad Days Elizabeth Williamson URING the hot summer do eat outdoors if you possibly can. To entertain your friends, but don't let the weather get you down. With a little psychology and hardly any exertion you can serve a delicious luncheon and make your guests forget the hot weather. And as red and yellow give one a sense of warmth in winter, green and white give one a feeling of coolness in summer. Try to plan your menu and table decorations with cool colors in mind. MENU CHILLED SOUP This can be consomme, served with a slice of lemon, or perhaps a cold pea soup served with a sprinkling of parsley. LARGE FRUIT SALAD Serve in individual wooden bowls or large, deep dishes. On a bed of chilled crisp lettuce, heap: chilled white grapes, chunks of pineapple, green melon balls, pieces of grapefruit, and avocado if you choose (it is a fruit and goes equally well with fruits or vegetables). Crisp and cold. Remember that to have a successful salad, the greens must always be DRESSING FOR THE SALAD Use mayonnaise to which has been added whipped cream, or mayonnaise thinned with a small amount of fruit juices. BREAD Serve hot rolls or tiny baking powder biscuits which can be prepared ready for baking earlier (in the cool of the morning). Or you may buy a prepared mixture for making delightful little buttermilk biscuits that pop out of the container into the oven. If it seems too much of a task to make hot bread, you can serve small water-cress 534 days it often seems an effort RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 Color plays a leading role. Just HEAT WAVES AND SALAD DAYS 535 sandwiches. Add a small amount of mayonnaise to the chopped water cress. Be sure to cut off the crusts of the bread. These little sandwiches are especially refreshing and are wonderful for an afternoon refreshment as well as a luncheon. DESSERT Prepare a frosty sherbet, either lemon or orange. Use the fresh fruit juices and the grated rind. Just add two cups of milk and a cup of granulated sugar or a cup of Karo syrup. Place in your refrigerator trays until it is solid, then remove and stir until very smooth. Return the sherbet to the refrigerator, and this time do not let it freeze, but keep it rather at a mushy but firm consistency. A REFRESHING DRINK Serve a frosty, tall drink and add a piece of mint for garnish. TABLE DECORATIONS Use the flowers in season, or branches of green leaves are effective. A centerpiece of bright yellow lemons with green leaves is unusual and striking. Place this centerpiece directly on the table and not in a container. It will be cool-looking and practical. And last, but certainly not least, as a charming hostess, remember you, too, must appear fresh and cool-looking. Your guests will relax and you will have a wonderful time. Synopsis: Andrew Mother and his fiancee Jane Allison jin en Scotland and joins his friend ugh Shand €migrate to Ameri hey meet Moth er MacKinlay and her sop Bob, whom they had known While doing Missionary Work, and become acquainted with Kath. Leen Coleman and her friend r argaret Jeayes the Macs tO go with Brother B Tooele, Utah, 66 SN'T it Wonderful, Andrew? If my h in | for Sure, this js the Most beautify] The ry ged Mountains, towering majestically to the Clear blue SKICS, were beautiful in every tint n coloring he spring, Sunshine glisten On stately trees, and danced With TY shrub and Ower in the Soft-bed nooks and Blades of the sidehil] Mothe turned to the west and looked fo long time at the shim. Gleamin alters of the ] S 0 t of harmon with the b uty of the Valley was the Ort, "Tp ch a pity that en have to build Places of Safety foy €mselves d families," Mother be very glad to accept ndrew was becoming acquainted with both the ©PPortunities QUESTING LIGHTS thize with his poor mother and relations." "We had to be constantly on the alert, or they would have taken others."" Andrew remembered his own fears on that memorable night when he was lost in the blizzard. "Well, my son, we have been greatly blessed of the Lord, since coming to Utah. You have a good job with the Hunters; Hugh and Kathleen and Father Coleman have rented a place for the time being, and I'm waiting for my money to come from Scotland, to finish paying for my home." "We're lucky, indeed," very thoughtfully returned the young man. UGH and Kathleen came to see the new home. They were interested in every feature which Mother was constantly adding. They went into the living room. It had been a long time since they had all been together. Mother wanted them to stay for dinner, so Bob went for Brother Coleman. "What have you been hearing from Jane, Andrew?" Kathleen asked as she began preparing the vegetables. "Does your mail come through any better?" "T haven't heard for sometime, but she doesn't hear from me, either. These twenty-five-cent pieces in American silver are very hard for me to find. I write every time I get one, but sometimes there is a long wait between letters. I have explained everything to Jane, and I'm sure she understands. I'll be very happy when the little lady arrives in Utah. I get so lonesome that even Resplendence, this valley of sun- 537 -shine and enchantment, gets very dark and dreary at times. "T remember Jane!' Bob volunteered. "I saw her at conference in Cowdenbeath. Remember?" Andrew smiled assent. "She was just about the prettiest girl at church," Bob continued. "She had long, golden curls and sparkling blue eyes. She wasn't quite as tall as you are, but one thing I definitely remember, Jane was always smiling. Life must have been very good to that little bonnie lass." "IT hope she still has her curls, and smiles,' Andrew remarked, with a faraway look in his eyes. OTHER came out from the kitchen. "The problems of the plains are still with us. What shall we do for chairs? Oh, Bob! The boxes in the woodhouse! I bought them for kindling this morning. Now they will make diningroom chairs, for a time." Mother smiled. She bustled around, completing the last-minute details. "Dinner is served, my children. It is like old times, isn't it? We must do this often. My latchstrings are always out." "Well, in some ways, it is like old times," Andrew offered. "I always miss Margaret at these gatherings. Does she write often? What is she doing?" "No, not very often. She's too busy," Mother answered, with a questioning glance at Andrew. "Wasn't it strange for Margaret to leave us so suddenly, and go to the Stuarts in Tooele?" Father Coleman asked. "No, not when you know the whole story," Mother explained. "Margaret was as close to Grandpa 538 and Grandma Stuart, as if she had been their own child. She was their daughter Betsey's best friend. They — worked together at the flax mills in Arbroath. Grandpa Stuart taught Margaret the gospel, and baptized her. When her own people learned that Margaret was a Mormon they were very unhappy about it. She stayed with the Stuarts until they emigrated to Utah. A short time after they left, Margaret's mother died. She worked and paid all the funeral expenses because her brothers were married and had large families. Then she worked for her fare to Zion. I'm grateful she came in our company, even if we did have such a hard time of it. We are honored that she thought enough of us to become a Mac." "What is she doing now?" Andrew asked. "['m just as sure she is being loved and cared for as if I had her in my own home. She is old enough to make her own decisions and we must abide by them. I had a letter sometime ago, Grandpa Stuart's son is manager of the co-op out there, and Margaret is working in the store. A very good saleslady she is making, I am sure." "There are a lot of good people in Utah, judging by those I am meeting every day in Resplendence." Hugh spoke very earnestly. "Look what happened the day we got in from the plains. In one hour about five hundred people were taken into Salt Lake City homes and made comfortable. 'That was wonderful! Sure, Margaret is all right." "If you want an example of one of the best men in the valley, take my boss," Andrew began. "He told me that when I get tired, he wants RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 me to rest till I get my weight and strength back. Sister Hunter cooks the meals that are good for us, and that isn't all, Brother Hunter has learned about Jane." The Macs got a good laugh from this one. "We thought maybe he would," Kathleen ventured. "Forgive me, Andrew." "Oh! That's all right, Kathleen. He didn't hear it from me," Andrew remarked with a smile. "No, he keeps all of his thoughts of Jane locked up in his own kind heart," Mother proffered. "Well, I may have told him, at that," chuckled Andrew, "but, getting back, Brother Hunter thinks working for wages is too slow. He wants me to raise wheat. I can't homestead until I'm a citizen, but he hasa plan. I would like to homestead down on the river bottoms some day. They get the water out on the land so easy over there." Hugh voiced his hopes that some day he could raise fruit on the bench. "The soil is a large part sand, ideal for raising fruit." "That's life!" Brother Coleman allowed. "Andrew, with hay and grain on the bottoms; Hugh, with his peach and apple orchards on the bench." "Well, we can dream, can't we, Father?" "Yes, my son, we build our lives on dreams. Stop dreaming, and we stop growing." "Utah's a land of dreams." Andrew was unusually thoughtful today. "But the best dream of all is still in Scotland, waiting for the boat," Bob suggested. "Which brings us right back to QUESTING LIGHTS the Mac question number one," Hugh reckoned. "How to get the young lady across the water?" OK K BVERY hour Mother could spare from her work she spent with Kathleen. So much time had passed by when Kathleen couldn't work because of the coming of her baby that she was very busy now. Hugh and Father Coleman had built the furniture. The rugs, curtains, and bedding Kathleen made herself. Now the little clothes were all about finished. One night in the spring Hugh came for Mother. As morning softly descended upon the peaceful village of Resplendence, Kathleen presented her husband with a beautiful baby boy. It was decided to name him Mac Coleman Shand. "That should make him very happy all the days of his life, for to me the name is very sacred," Kathleen explained. "It's what the name stands for that appeals to me—love, service, and understanding that came after days of traveling and suffering together on the plains." The fulfillment of dreams calls for work, hard work. Andrew was strong again. He accepted no more leniency on his job. Brother Hunter and the young man spent several days on the river bottoms looking for land where Andrew could raise wheat, and where, later, he could homestead. They found land as level as a barn floor, with hardly a rock on an acre, and with a thriving crop of good sagebrush. Brother Hunter furnished the team, equipment, and seed grain for planting. When Andrew spoke of paying him in the fall, Brother Hunter said, "My pay will come when I see your 539 homestead covered with growing crops, with a home, and a wife to take care of you." The spring work was completed, the seeds were in their soft cradles. The rains were falling to start the miracle of germination and growth. The people in the valley turned their cattle out to feed in the bottoms and on the foothills. Andrew would have to stay with the grain night and day. There were no fences. One morning, after a rainstorm, the whole field seemed suddenly to turn green. Wonders upon wonders, the crop was up! Andrew wanted to tush over to the Macs and_ the Hunters to tell them the great news, but he could not leave the wheat. Instead, he wrote a letter to Jane. Jane Darling, The crop is up! Oh, how I wish you were here to see it. The whole field is green. I am sure every seed has sprouted, which means that in the fall I can sell the grain, and send the money for you to come to Resplendence. 'That is, and here's the rub, if I can get any money. There just isn't any in these western regions, but we will hope, Jane. The rain is falling, making this the most beautiful valley in the whole world. I have decided to build our home on the millrace, a canal that has been cut through from the canyon to furnish power for a flour mill and a factory which the people are going to build. ' I remember the singing streams in Scotland, and the paths we used to climb up the hillside towards the pits, also a very charming young lady with a heart of gold. I met her at school. I couldn't go very long, but long enough to find you, my darling. Oh! Oh! The strays are coming. I will have to get on my black pony, Gypsy, and drive them away. More tonight. I love you, Jane. Andrew (To be continued) Aunt Millenium's Deone'R. Sutherland 6 6 HE proposition is at any ate an interesting one," said Papa, crossing his legs so that one thin knee jutted up balancing a green, leather-covered book and an open letter above that. "Well," said Mama, "a great-aunt is a great-aunt." This remark my younger brother Toby and I considered at length. Papa is usually a school teacher and is a man who has read a great many books, but who has spent very little time at the farm of his Aunt Millenium. Our great-aunt has the distinction of having Millenium for a first name. "I'm sure it will be very simple for all of us to become acclimated to a farm, at least for a summer," said Papa. "Aunt Millenium most certainly cannot stay on_ there alone." "Most certainly not," said Mama, who is always saying she agrees with Papa about everything except those things which are practical. If she at this time thought our stay on a farm and our turning farmers out of the realm of the practical, she was undoubtedly right. "And then Lavinia Elizabeth can live with us there and continue working on her—uh—whatever it is," said my mother, talking about my older sister. "The Bifurcated Existence of the Elizabethans," supplied Toby, who is very precocious for his age. "Yes," said Mama, nodding, "she can finish it on the farm." I chewed on my hair. It was supposed to be cut wind-blown, but it Page 540 was cut so infrequently that often the front locks, when I leaned forward, could be stretched to my mouth. Papa said it would all lead to nearsightedness in the end. RK * & BOCSVILLE, where Great-Aunt Millenium lives, gets very muddy in the spring. Papa stopped our gray Ford at the Bogsville Combination Depot and Feed Store and stepped out of the car into the mud. "Oh my," said Papa, and we all looked away as we heard the suction noise of Papa pulling out his feet. "Quite a bit of mud this time of year," called Papa to a man leaning in the doorway of the depot. "Some," said the man. "We're wondering if we can get through to—it's the—place—Aunt -... Papa's voice faded away in the distance. "The man does not seem very friendly," I observed to Mama, as Papa made inquiries. "It would be nicer if there were more trees,"' said Lavinia Elizabeth, leaning toward the Sunny car window and squinting through her glasses while holding her place in her book with one hand. "Well, of course," said Toby, "the deciduous trees have not fully leafed as yet." "No, they haven't, have they, as yet?" agreed Mama brightly. We could tell she was trying to keep up Our spirits. Mama can be very couTageous. Lavinia Elizabeth looked at Toby, and then she picked up her book AUNT MILLENIUM's again. Just th 541 €n Papa came slush- "You'll have to learn to be neat,' ing back to the car, said Mama to me "Did you get muddy?" asked I did not 'ay anything, Lavinia js Toby. Mama frowned at Tob very smart, and | am very shy and "Oh, it was nothing, teally." Pana UNCourageous around ye smart tried furtively to scrape his Shoes on People—especially MY sister who js © Tunning-board. € pretended collaborating on a book with two not to notice. Papa looked ye men, a graduate Student like herapologetic, He was being ye self, and a College teacher, apologetic and humble because h "How old are you?" said Great was feeling guilty, Toby and | unt Millenium to Lavinia Eliza new. He had, at the last minute be taken out 9° of his white shirts 'Tm only twen "five," said my and replaced them with 4 volume of sister, Fry, €storation Plays vinia Elizabeth to ¢ and to have done SO much, cver really got angty about Papa' "Twenty-five and nothing but 4 Peculiar way of Packing was the time book to your credit! What's he like 4pa substituted three volumes of the one who's a taduate student lctorian poet for Mama's two Lavinia Elizabeth?" asked Great nghtgowns and best blue serge. Unt Millenium, 'So this is Bogsville," sa d Mama. € is brilliant," answered mm avinia Elizabeth looked up from sister, "an he thinks | have a good her book "At any Tate," she said, mind." avinig looked down at "Tl be quite isolated enough to her feet, Her glasses slid forward finish my part of the book, PI] be on her Nose. 7. Able to Concentrate," _Y Word * ek xy (GREATAunt Mj Out on her back Notice what's Oardwalk, 1 that kind of magazines?" © got out of he car one started "T never ead that kind of litera carrying in on, things to Aunt Mil. Ture,' Teplied Lavinia Elizabeth enium' aes ee ee - Papa left his shoes by the SCraper Papa on zh ol oF Io a and walked around in his Stockin © ask about 'ftom la Elizabeth and | Map, and J Stared at Great-Aunt Wenium. Were to share 4 Toom. "You can 80 fishing here, if you; This will be tather INcOnvengo after your Own worms," Greatlent," said Lavinia Elizabeth. Unt Millenium said to Toby. "You'll have to be ve uiet in "Oh," said Toby, "] don't think ly q vy. Order not to disturb your sister," [q Care for worms " said Papa, 542 had the opportunity to do," said Papa. "My word!" Millenium. Said Great-Aunt HE next morning we got up very early. All of us except Lavinia Elizabeth were to help on the farm, and even she was to help when we needed her. Great-Aunt Millenium had a hired hand for whom, later in the summer, she said she was extremely grateful. Papa had ordered winter wheat for Great-Aunt Millenium before we came, and then he and Mama had picked up one or two other things from which they expected to make a lot of money. All in all, it was to be a very growing summer. Great-Aunt Millenium's _ hired hand waited in the kitchen for Papa. "This is Jake," said GreatAunt Millenium to Papa. Jake grunted slightly.. "How do you do," said Papa. Toby and I looked at each other. Papa did not look very much like a farmer. Jake did not seem to be too impressed, either. They were going to do something to fence posts, Jake said. Papa followed Jake. We hoped it wouldn't take Papa too long to get acclimated. Toby and I went outside. We stopped by some bright yellow crocuses. 'They bloomed down at the end of the yard. Beyond them a clay wash stretched downhill, yellow and muddy. We looked at the crocuses. Great-Aunt Millenium stood behind us. She smiled and Toby let her put her hand on his head. The sun was bright. It was a good summer, we decided. Mama said she would help also. She would help with the farming. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 "The farm animals?" asked GreatAunt Millenium. "Well, perhaps not the big farm animals," said Mama hesitantly. "The chickens," decided Aunt Millenium. Toby and I were to feed them and Mama was to collect the eggs. Mama was very enthusiastic. After we fed them that afternoon, Mama went in with her basket. In a little while we heard Mama say, "Shoo," very fiercely and then again, "Shoo." Then the door. Opened and Mama came out of the hen coop. She went down to the shed where Jake kept the tools for the farm. In a moment she came out with the bee veiling and long leather gloves that Jake used when disturbing the bees. "The chickens refuse to get off the nests," she said to Lavinia Elizabeth and me. She adjusted the long, four-sided veiling and pulled down the veils. When Papa saw Mama in her egggathering costume, he stopped and opened his mouth and then closed it "IT am having a little trouble getting acclimated to the chickens," said Mama in a slightly defensive, but slightly bitter tone. She set down the evening bucket of eggs and peered through the thick veiling at Papa. "It's the chickens— they—cluck at me...." Papa said he thought her new green hat with the net and spangles would be as effective in the long run, but Mama continued using the bee veiling and leather gloves. Papa's books came, but Papa had very little time to look at them. He brought down a bookcase from the attic and put it up, filled with his books, in Great-Aunt Millenium's AUNT MILLENIUM'S parlor. He would run his hands along the backs of the books and then go to sleep. "It is amazing how much sleep I wish I had more of," said Papa. Papa's seeds and other orders came. He had a surprise for GreatAunt Millenium. "It's peanuts," said Papa. "We'll plow up that empty pasture and plant peanuts." Papa's aunt stared at him. 'Then she said, "Well, Henry, I doubt if this is exactly the climate for peanuts." "It'll be all right if we have a late fall," said Papa. He was very eager. Great-Aunt Millenium didn't say very much after that, but Jake would not co-operate. "I don't want to have nothin' to do with it," said Jake. So Papa spent a great deal of time planting his peanuts all by himself. Toby and I would go out and watch him sometimes. This work made him even more tired, he said. Mama said, "Well, you can always plant another pasture." Jake would only look very glum. He looked very glum most of the summer. "Ym worried about Lavinia Elizabeth," said Great-Aunt Millenium. "She don't get out enough." HEN the first crop of hay came on, we all went out on the wagons. "But I don't have anything to wear," said Lavinia Elizabeth, "'besides—" "You're way ahead of schedule," said Mama. "Besides Aunt Millenium thinks you're too pale." She wore Jake's overalls with a belt around the middle "'to hold her in 'em," as Great-Aunt Millenium 543 said. Toby drove the wagon, and Lavinia Elizabeth and I tramped and settled the hay. "Stack it!" Jake would yell, and Lavinia and I would run about on top the hay. "T'm never sure exactly just what we're supposed to be doing," Lavina confided to me. I felt very close and friendly toward her. We both worked very hard, but not as hard as Papa, who had a difficult time landing the piles of hay on the wagon. Toby got along fine with the horses after he gave up saying "halt" to them and consented to yell "whoa!" Then one hot afternoon we came riding into the yard on the top of a load of hay and noticed a strange car in the backyard. Great-Aunt MilJenium and Mama were in the backyard talking to a man. "It's Andrew Nichols," said Lavina Elizabeth, and she lay flat on the hay. "Cover me up," she said. It was a collaborator on her book, the younger one. I had seen him at home once or twice. "Where's Lavinia Elizabeth?" yelled Great-Aunt Millenium. Jake stopped the team. "Here!" Lavinia Elizabeth stood up in the hay. She picked at the hay leaves in her hair. "How do you do again," called Andrew from down below. He looked very surprised. "Can I help you get down?" Lavinia Elizabeth lay on her back on the hay and Papa and I held her arms as she slid. Andrew caught her. "Thank you, Andrew," said Lavinia Elizabeth with great dignity. She shook out her hair. She looked very small in Jake's big overalls with 544 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGusy 1948 the belt around the middle. She did turned very brown jn the sun also. Not look the Way she usually seemed "Tt beats me," he said. To look—not at all, "Say," said Papa to Aunt Mil. "I came back about the book—] lenium, "jg Jake always this taciwanted to go over Some things...» turn?" Andrew looked a little vague. "Well, he don't talk more than " € came to see you," Aunt ™MOst of the People here." Millenium spoke heartily, "You know," said Andrew, "the Andrew said, "Yes," then he Said first Sunday WE went to Church af. "yes" again in a different Way, and ter [ artived, the bishop said this looked very pleased. Town was more like New England "Oh!" said Lavinia Elizabeth ang than any Place in the West. The she put on her glasses and stared at People are lovable only after you hi Im, know them," Jake starteg the horses, and we "T believe it," said Papa, "at any vent to the barn to unload. Tate, the part about New Ngland." ndrew shared Toby's room, He He yawned, "If I'm p t hungry, P'm and Lavinia Elizabeth worked very sleepy. Th y'll never know me this ard on the book. Fall back at school," "About the Chaos of the Coperni- "Well, none Of us are very pale Can age |." ©gan Lavinia Eliza. Any more," said Mama, through her beth. Mask of cold cream which She "You look very different with + seemed to wear a Sreat deal of the sun-tan," interrupted An Tew. Time, "[' Wear this in the P ey had put a table on the back but the effect might be fata] " h Porch and were Working there said she said to Lavinia. Lavinia Eliza- "We've cen Out for Some fresh beth looked very young in her nightair, Elizabeth and I," said Andrew, 50WN, sitting on 'her bare feet, cte ls Certainly a Jot Of fresh air "How is your book Progressing?" Outside, ihe added heartily, "Well," said Layinig Elizabeth, the book | >. Well, the book Is ficult to make Conversation with us," Temarked Py a. JoBtessing," she said and her cheeks cat with her foot, "It'll be different Ted. After he asks you for her," said "WELL," Said Papa, "there "Oh," | said looking up, "is it should be More progress than the grand Passion?" J had been this with those Peanuts." He had reading ag Steat many of Great-Aunt AUNT MILLENIUM'S Millenium's hidden novels. "Oh," I repeated. "Oh!" said Papa. Mama smiled at Aunt Millenium through her cold cream. 'Toby yawned. The summer was nearly over, and we all decided the peanut crop was a failure, even though Papa had had a triumphant afternoon when the plants had really sprouted. The only trouble was the peanuts at the other end had failed to materialize as they did in the picture. "Not enough time, I guess," said Papa moodily. He had had to take a great many comments from the townspeople who frequently stopped to inspect his peanut crop. The book was finished, yet Andrew kept hanging around. "He's getting up the courage," said Great-Aunt Millenium. "Well, I wish he'd hurry," said Papa, "the whole thing makes me very nervous." Lavinia Elizabeth would sit before our mirror after we were supposed to be in bed. She would take off her glasses and Jean forward, and then she would smile at herself. It was late August when Andrew and Papa went walking up to see the failed peanut crop. When they came back, we knew it was over, and Great-Aunt Millenium cooked a big special dinner in honor of Andrew and Lavinia Elizabeth. It was all very romantic. I did not even mind the chance drops of water slipping down my face from my curls, I was so interested in watching them. Lavinia Elizabeth smiled at Andrew and he smiled at her. I felt a lump in my throat when Lavinia Elizabeth would be so lovely just with smiling at Andrew. Papa smiled at Mama and Great- 545 Aunt Millenium. "Well, we made a mistake or two—" "Never mind," said Mama. Papa leaned back in his chair. "But nothing that can't be repaired by a good extra hired man next summer," "Well, we'll certainly plow up the peanuts you planted half the country with," said Aunt Millenium drily, "and those sweet peas Maude filled my vegetable garden with." "Oh my," said Mama, laughing. "I did make a mistake there, but they were so pretty...." "Yes," said Aunt Millenium, "but as pretty as sweet peas are, I'm afraid the peas you can eat and put in cans are more sensible." Andrew laughed, but he was not looking at us. He looked only at Lavinia Elizabeth. Toby and I went outside after Great-Aunt Mi£llenium's supper. Toby went to the garage and came out with a bucket and a flashlight. "What are you doing?" I asked him. I felt bad about the summer being nearly over. Two more days.... "Tm thinking about going fishing tomorrow. I'm thinking about trapping some night-crawlers." "Oh," I said. I watched him from the porch. In a few minutes Lavinia Elizabeth and Andrew crossed the lawn and leaned on -the gate opening into the orchard. Andrew held her hand. "Look!" I whispered to Toby. "Abominably biological," he said, squinting with his nose very close to the ground. "Grand passion," I breathed fervently; then sadly I felt for one of my longer, slipping curls with my tongue. Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material for these pages should be submitted through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. HANDICRAFT, SOCIALS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Margaret Peterson NORWEGIAN MISSION, QUILT MADE BY RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS Shown displaying the beautiful quilt, are: President Benny Hagan; First Counselor Inga Hansen; Second Counselor Ida M. Swensen; Secretary Gudran Auna; Betzy Holgerson; Agnes Floisand. The quilt was made under the direction of Sister Swensen, a missionary from Idaho. Since this first quilt was completed many others have been made. The sisters of this mission also purchased over a hundred six-pound packages of food which they sent to the saints in Germany and Belgium. Margaret Peterson is president of the Norwegian Mission Relief Society. Page 546 NOTES FROM THE FIELD — 547 SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH), NINETEENTH WARD, SEVEN RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Left to right: Agnes G. Branch (age 88) 1915-1925; Maude F. Hanks, 1930-1936, now stake president; Hattie P. Cooper, 1936-1939; Lulu Bringhurst, 1939-1942; Laura P. Fifield, 1942-1946; Otelia B. Hale, 1945-1946; Cordelia S. Taylor, 1946-. It is ninety-one years since this society was organized, with Drucilla Hendricks appointed president in 1857. Photograph submitted by Amy C. Funk LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), BEVERLY HILLS WARD OFFICERS AND TEACHERS ASSEMBLED AT ANNIVERSARY DINNER, March 18, 1948 Standing, left to right: Nell Frame; Lilly Rohlfing; Ruth Johnson; Nell Walt; Frances Saunders; Jeanne Hunter; Amy Funk; Kathleen Jones; Avon Smart; Mabel Parry. Seated: President Louise Luke. Approximately 100 women attended this delightful party at the home of Sister Hunter. Floral arrangements, the birthday cake, and other refreshments carried out the birthday motif and the blue and gold colors of Relief Society. Dorothy H. Koer is president of Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. 548 OND STAKE MERy" MUSICAL SELECTIONS Ix LOGAN TEM Officers, Seated in the sec organist Amel, D Ww: President Ma avis, third from left retary Lucetty Tho ly Shumway, Second fro > Choristey Vida Mann; MPson, S€cond fro his gToup wa m the left; anning, fourth from left; seo. ™ right, S Organized in 1933 and Continued for fourteen Years with the same Officers, During this time they Sang at the Garland Ward Relief Society Meetings twice hey have sung a number of times in the Logan Temple. Iver Stake Relief Society, MOTHERS CONCERT atch 14, 1948 This Concert was Presented fo, the Relief Socie members and their husbands of 9°0 people attended,: IS Seated at Tight, Erma Anderson Gordon, Violinist; Nathe] Bowers, Soloist; Lane Pe elma Miller is preside companist; Vilate - ttumpeter, LaPree] Huber, Teader, nt of Mesa Stake Relief Society, cach month and sang 9 aude O, Mesa and Maricopa Stakes he accompanist. Special Ccasions and at more than forty funerals. Also Ook Is president of Bear PProximate] ©Y, assistant ac N, OAHU DISTRICT (HAWaAm) RELIEF NIVERSARY PAGEANT, March; 1948 © Pageant was Written Y Katherine Takeuch; and under he direct ith th n l trayed: the t ch Relief Socie lef Society Presidents are: Mj Tow; Okuma Ab f Itsuko Kaneshige (Lanakilj fe) ahiawa) Seventh from the left hi), fifth from the ] Tow, ); extreme left, » S€cond TOW; Grace S. Okieft, third Ow n the island of Oahy R ry B, Greene. Anita B, kimoto, Is; Dorothy W; Georgia Weenig is presi atanabe: Bessie dent of t » has submitteg aN account S the zeal of Relief Socie for a regu 550 At the back, standing: Lena Hansen; Ann Swenson; Margaret Mumford; Nell Phil. Lips; Vivian Carlson; Effie Alvord; Fern Clark; Margie Staples; G °8etson; Cora Miller, ow, Seated, left to right: Mary Jensen, 57 years of membership; Agnes Pace, 45 years; Martha Rudy, 71 years; Eleanor Bishop, 45 years; Polly Harris, 42 years; Emily Ashton, 47 Years, Back row, standing, left to tight: Leng Gammon, 5° years of membership; Suzie Madsen, 47 years; Stake Secretary Ora J. Heal; Second Counselor Zenda W. Rowley; President Winnie T. Graff, First Counselor Agnes Bellows; May Adams, 52 years of membership; Emily w. Biggs, 54 years, € President Winnie T Graff reports that these Sisters were honored at the Founders Day anniversary celebration. The five wards of Orem Stake Participated in Presenting a lovely Program. Each of the elderly women shown in the Photograph Was t Presented with he book A Centenary of Relief Society, 4 very fine poem for the oc. Casion was Composed by Ruth Lewis Peterson, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 551 OAKLAND STAKE (CALIFORNIA) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION February 27, 1948 Hilda E. Perkins, President, Oakland Stake Relief Society, reports a most interesting and inspiring visiting teachers convention: "A warm welcome and greeting was afforded the faithful sisters and a tribute of love paid to each, about one hundred being present. Each president of the seven wards in Oakland Stake, as her name was called, arose and stood while she reported the number of families in her ward, number of districts, number of visiting teachers enrolled and number present, the percentage of visits made in January. Several presidents reported 100% on visits made and others were close to this mark. A most entertaining program was given, with each ward participating. A question box, pertaining to the duties of the visiting teacher, was conducted by Sister Ruth Hilton and a trio was rendered by the young mothers of Oakland Ward. Mary Stewart and Inez McFarland presented a demonstration of visiting teaching, with families from Hayward, Elmhurst, and San Leandro Wards assisting. Fern Everett of Maxwell Park Ward and Lou Seiver of Alameda Ward gave talks on the preparation and responsibilities of visiting teachers. A social and refreshments followed the convention." Photograph submitted by Rhea M. Carrick PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA), MONROVIA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS ASSEMBLED IN FRONT OF THE NEW CHAPEL WHICH THEY HELPED FINANCE AND DECORATE Front row, seated, left to right: Lorna Laine; Velva Demorest; Margaret Gallagher; Secretary Ruth McDonald; Olive Boyer; Magazine representative Martha Hanks; First Counselor Letitia Meyers; Blanche Whitlock. Back row, standing, left to right: Edna Russell; Second Counselor Alice Young; Vera Worrell; Wilmuth Simmons; Ethel Coleman; Maryanne Russell; President Rhea Carrick. These sisters reported the erection of a beautiful new chapel by members of the Monrovia Ward with which the Relief Society assisted. During February and March (1948) these sisters spent 340 hours hand sewing every yard of carpet being used in the chapel, in addition to decorating their own Relief Society room. Madge P. Fowler is president of Pasadena Stake Relief Society. ember, Relief Society Genera] Board Sing 4g4In, with your dear voice Tevealing tone Of some World f4 om here music and Moonlight and feeling are One, ( Shelley) A tone is a given, fixed so d of Proving Since not ] of us are Certain, definite Pitch. Jt Is reespecially endowed tonal unde fined soy d and js composed of a standing, ang since b ful tone /ndamental tone and its overtop, quality jg Idispensab} Proper t is the heart of all music. If tones singing, and since MOst of ys love aré complete InN eye TEsPect the to sing as wel] 48 We can, it is Teason MUSIC Will be 1 1¢8pondingly 800d. Able to conclude € should €rtain ¢ "acteristic ele ents are strive acquire uch under Present in g beautify] tone. Of these standing of beautify] tone quality as Tichness jg One of the MOst basic Possible, and _appealin - To pr duce this; quality then a be efinite, Persistent Study N, "cessary clear-cut, fun amenta] tone, Above What is the end of study? Let me know? His there Must als be a ertain hy, a to know, Which else We should number of Partials ( Overtones ) €venThings hid oY barr'd, you Mean, from Y distribute. It is the Tesence of rommon sense? "S€ Overtones in their Proper inAy, thar 'S study's god-like recompense €rency and Proportion that finally. (Shakespeare clermines the tone quali (timStudy tone quality from, every Te or timber), S quality de. Possible angle and authoritative notes gq Particular cha Cteristic type point. LS includes: (a) Conso. Of tone such SOnorous Tich, Nance, agreeable in Sound, not ScatCautify]. Tered, < throaty," neven tone, but, € ability to think, Produce, ang Concentrated, Unrestricted Tesofully 4PPreciate beautify] tone qualnant. (b) Pit > @ Certain umber ity is 3 gift—an Inherited Capacity, of vibrations €T second, uNWaverthe ability to Perceive and conceive Ng, sustained, Is ig accomplished vibratory mpleteness, Perfection Y singing Ion tones on different Cauty, | fact, a Person who jg a pitches, with Proper and Sustained tonal artist elongs t, the rank of breath SUPPort, as explained jn les- 4 genius €vertheless, mua Gf ia. One. Practice With houghts his gift be acquired through feelings, an emotions directed to. Diligent Study, ]j ening, imitating, wards the beautiful life and na T€asoning, "ar-training, 4SsOciation, ure, his Conduces tg Tichness Comparing, Producing, Correcting, and beauty of tone quality, [Note: he short articles on Music which 4Ppear in the Magazine May form the basis for the ISCussi in the Choristers' nd Organists' department at union meeting, Hf DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 10—"As One Having Authority" Elder Don B. Colton Note: All quotations which are not followed by teferences are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. Pesus laid no claim to human esteemed Servant who was ill "and authorization. Whether in priready to die." The centurion had vate or public utterance he made no great faith in Christ and earnestly effort to establish any call from entreated the Jewish elders to imearthly powers or governments. He plore the Lord to save the sick serywas to do his Father's work and so_ ant, asserted from the beginning. He The centurion did not ask for a exercised power over the forces of Personal visit but only that the Say. Nature, men, demons, and even over ior -would speak the effective word. Life and death. He affirmed that The Lord did that and the servant, Power had been given him "over all though not Present, was healed. Flesh" (John 17:2). "For it pleased Jesus remarked afterward: "| Say the Father that ip him [Christ] unto you, I have not found SO great should all fulness dwell" (Col. 1:19). Faith, no, notin Israel" (Matt 8:10). How wisely and beneficially he. This was said of a Gentile and was used that power will be Pointed out 4 Surprise to the Jews, It was plainly in this lesson. "For he taught them meant to convey the truth that Genas one having authority, and not as tiles would be Preferred in the kingthe scribes" (Matt. 7:29). Dom of God if they were more worthy, The Centurion's Servant Healed At the time Jesus delivered the A Young Man of Nain Sermon on the Mount, Capernaum, Raised from the Dead where he spent much time, was govFollowing the miracle just deerned by the Romans. Attached to scribed, Jesus went to the small the household of 4 centurion, or town of Nain. As he approached Roman captain, was a highly the town, he and his followers met Page 553 From a Painting by Hofmann MARY ANOINTING THE FEET OF JESUS A Perry Picture LESSON DEPARTMENT a funeral cortege of a widow's only son. The sorrow of the bereft and Ionely mother touched the Savior and he bade her in gentle tones, "Weep not." Then, speaking to the corpse, he said, "Young man, I say unto thee, Arise." 'The Lord of all, both the living and the dead, had spoken. The young man arose, restored to life, and was graciously given back to his mother. The people who saw, "... Glorified God, saying, That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited his people" (Luke 7:1-16). Parenthetically, it may be of interest to know that Luke was a physician. All of the miracles relating to healing described in the New Testament are described by Luke. Each of the other three writers tells of some of these miracles but Luke writes of them all. Human problems appealed to him; and he gives a very good account of the parable of the Good Samaritan. John the Baptist About the time Jesus commenced his active ministry, John the Baptist had been imprisoned by order of Herod Antipas, tetrarch of Galilee and Perea. A feeling of sympathy for John naturally comes to us. He had been so fearless and effective as the forerunner of the Messiah. The 'Baptist had rebuked Herod the tetrarch for living with Herodias, the undivorced wife of the tetrarch's brother, even though they had gone through an illegal marriage ceremony. The wicked woman had a "quarrel against him," [John] and had succeeded in having him imprisoned. After many months of imprisonment, John, who had heard so much 555 of the Savior's word, sent two messengers to him inquiring, "Art thou he that should come? Or look we for another?" After healing many people of their infirmities and of evil spirits and restoring sight to the blind, Jesus said to these messengers:... Go your way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached. And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me (Luke 7:22-23). John, no doubt, was familiar with the prophecies of Isaiah concerning the works the Messiah would do and was comforted with the report of the messengers. (Read Isaiah 35: -6.) 4 There are good grounds for believing that John's purpose in sending the disciples to make the inquiry was largely designed to confirm in those disciples an abiding faith in the Christ. He himself had been given a testimony at the time of the Savior's baptism. The Savior commented further regarding John and his great work, after the messengers had gone back. He wanted the people to appreciate the Baptist and called their attention to his one-time popularity. It was not the Master's plan to build himself up by discrediting others. John had been fearless and forceful in proclaiming the nearness of the establishment of the kingdom of God and the coming of the Redeemer: The Lord stated: For I say unto you, Among those that are born of women there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist: but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he (Luke 7:28). 4S given rise to much 'SCussion death I th chapter of Mark nd com Th t com Only the dre dful Ory is told aCCepted €xplanation; hat John ave Y 4 glorious 4d not learned full Ulpose and testimon John lives again, a Meaning of th MISSION; that he had Tesurrected He is &t€at in the seen the wit f the oly Ghost, kingdom heave ay 1829, "Probably hag NOt received th he laid hj ands upon the heads of full light of « kestimony as to who Joseph Smith Iver Cowde sus Was, an d been unable to and Ordained them the Priesf. Comprehend the truth "ceming hood of Aaron ( » SEC. 13) he deat d resurrec 10n of the ord hat in fulness, In the House of Simon the Pharise and a] WwW ather, js € Lord y d Si On, a Pha ec, eternal lif (Read John 17:3-) Tobe to teach one his great lessons "*, J€sus in no w Would remain less than the least in' the gteet distinguished Suests with a ingdo €aven € Mcreased in ISS of OMe, to see at water NOWledge of the vital + ths of the kin was Provided for washin e feet om, a dere, bedience thereto, he 1 f: he h Ould surely ag ance and become Sreat in aNd oil for anoin the hair © kingd f n S great of hese Courtesies Te omitted b among th Prophets of earth (Jesus the lmon an © Teception seems to hrist, have been a Cool one, The guests undoubtedly Téclined on Couches oy Jesus fully "PPteciated John the divans, a, was the custom in those Baptist and Compared their lives days, with their feet Outward from, The wickeg Jews had; Jected the table € meal was in atter part] beca Was ve Progress a humble, Penitent wo an strict' ct as any Nazarite." who had be 7 UnNVirtuous, entered © refused ¢ Oin Makers o, the ho n 4PProached Jesus a indulge in any of the Common pleas. Flom the back. She had no doubt UTes Of the day. But When the Sayheard hig &Tclous words and want. 10r came Without austerity, eating eq forgiveness She bathed the feet and drinking "8 @ Normal, Tighteous of Jesus with her tears and wiped his man would do, they complained. Feet with her hair, -» Behold a gluttonoys man, and Simon Watched her and said to a Winebibber, 4 friend of Publicans himself. This man, if he were a. LESSON DEPARTMENT ell me therefore, which of him most?" The answer from Simon could' not anoint: but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment, Jesus turneg to the woman and said, "| Y sins are forgiven,.. Thy faith hath Christ's Authority Ascribed to Beelzebyh the power of Satan. This Tidiculous Suggestion was Seekers Atter Signs otwithstanding €en done in their all that had midst, 8iven to it, but the sign of the ProphS Jonas [Jonah] was the_fish Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. From What source did Jesus derive his authority? 2. Relate the circumstances of the rais. Show he was 4 great man, 4. Describe the events which took place did the Savior say, "Thy faith hath saveq thee; go in Peace"'? In the house of Simon the Pharisee, ly 558 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 Visiting Seachers' Nlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 2—"Where Are the Nine?" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, November 2, 1948 Objective: To warn against the sin of ingratitude. And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off: And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God, And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that retumed to give glory to God, save this stranger (Luke 17:11-18). "And he was a Samaritan." It is significant in the parable quoted that the one leper to return and glorify God was "a stranger," one who knew not the "law" as Israel. We may be led to believe that the other nine belonged to the faith, a fact whichin itself may or may not add to the lesson. It does remain that the majority of those healed forgot all sense of gratitude in the personal joy of their deliverance. What is it that the Lord would require of them who would show gratitude to him? First and foremost he has said to exhibit love— love which above all is unselfish and remembers blessings bestowed. In a world today which places such emphasis on material values, we are apt to take for granted many blessings which money cannot buy. How can we in the Church be not like the "nine" in the things: the Lord would have us remember? Perhaps we can best show our appreciation by recognizing often the less obvious daily blessings the Church affords. Let us think—a deacon knocks at the door to ask for fast offerings, a chorister stimulates to loftier thoughts during song practice, a teacher invites active thinking of gospel truths, an elder comes to lay hands on a dear one who suffers pain, and two Relief Society visiting teachers call at a home in a spirit of love. For these and many other sweet services the Lord would have us grateful, for they come as do all his gifts without money and without price. Mothers in the home have a great responsibility to teach their children to express gratitude: first, through prayer to the Lord and thanks for all they have; then, gratitude to parents, brothers, sisters, relatives and associates for their unselfish acts of love and service. Any child who, from youth, is thus taught, will not be found among the nine. "Where are the nine?" (Luke 17: uy). LESSON DEPARTMENT 559 Work Meeting—Sewi ng (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2—Remodeling Dresses Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, November g, 1948 wat are we going to do with the old dresses that are either out of style or worn out in some places so that they can no longer be used as they are, but are too good to throw away? In this lesson we want to consider the possibilities for remodeling them so they can be worn by the original wearer. Often it is quite easy to get more wear out of an old garment by buying some new material and combining it with the old and getting a very satisfactory result. However, in too many cases the new material has a tendency to increase the shabbiness of the old by contrast and the extra cost involved is not warranted. The obvious conclusion is that it would be much better to choose the fabric from another outmoded garment rather than add new to the old. In this way we have one new dress for two old ones. There are various possible combinations in this method of fashioning a new dress. One could combine a print with a plain material that either blended or contrasted satisfactorily with it. Or a silk dress might be used with one of wool that was harmonious. Still another possibility is that of combining fabrics of the same color but contrasting texture such as satin and crepe; faille and light weight wool; or velveteen with wool. The style chosen to make over the garments would naturally have to depend on the lines in the original garment. One would need to choose a pattern that could be adapted to the lines of the old dresses. Here are some possible suggestions: In case the old dress is no longer usable because the sleeves have pulled out at the seams, or worn out under the arms or at the elbows, try making new sleeves with a large deep armhole out of the other old dress. Have them shaped in such a way that they can be set back as far or as low as necessary to eliminate the worn places. A contrasting yoke can be set in the waist of an old dress to perk it up. Or an entire new front can be made for the blouse part of the dress. And to carry the contrasting color elsewhere, the skirt could be lengthened with bands of the same material as the blouse front or yoke. One could have the entire skirt of one material and the blouse entirely of another with the exception of a collar, tie or some other trimming to carry the skirt color up and thus unify the costume. At the present time in many cases good dresses will be out of active service because they are too short. To bring them back to high style one might add a contrasting peplum 560 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 under which the skirt could be treatment is particularly attractive dropped by adding a yoke and thus in the case of material of the same give it the requited length. The color but contrasting texture. Material from which the peplum is Often by hunting in pattern made could be used for collar and books for styles that show contrastcuffs, or neck bow, or buttons, thus ing materials some very helpful ideas carrying it into the blouse. This can be found. —_—_———— ero Literature—Uterature of the Latter-day Saints Literature of the Gospel Restoration Lesson 2-Highlights of the Book of Mormon Epic Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, November 16, 1948 THE following excerpt from the the fulness of the gospel of a crucified and: risen Redeemer — that Book which reor utobiograp hy of Parley P. Veals a lost remnant of Joseph, and which Pratt offers an excellent literary 12° — was the principal means, lm the hands of troduction to our lesson. Parley, on a God, of directing the entire course of my mission for the "Campbellites," had future life. Neared Palmyra and made arrange 1 opened it with eagerness, and read its ments to hold a meeting. He writes: title page. I then read the testimony of several witnesses in relation to the manner isi d Baptist deacon b 7; Penile Gaal ait — af this I commenced its contents by course. Our appointment for evening, he began to | read all day; catine was a burden, 1 had tell of a book, A STRANGE BOOK, a no desire for food; sleep was 4 burden ERY STRANGE BOOK! In BN por when the night came, for I pre session, which had just been published. Ing to sleep = This book, he said, purported to have been 'As I read, the spirit of the Lord was originally written on plates either of gold upon me, and I knew and comprehended or brass, by a branch of the tribes of Israel! That the book was true, as plainly and to have been discovered and translatmanifestly as a man comprehends and ed by a young man near Palmyra, in the knows that he exists, My joy Was. Now State of New York, by the aid of visions, full, as it were, and I rejoiced sufficiently or the ministering of angels. I inquired to more than pay me for all the sorrows, of him how or where the book was to be _ sacrifices and toils of my life. I soon deobtained. He promised me the perusal termined to see the young man who hai of it, at his house the next day, if I would been the instrument to its discovery and call. I felt a strange interest in the book translation (Autobiography of Parley P. "_,. Next morming I called at his house, Pratt, chapter V)- where, for the first time, my eyes beheld;;; the BOOK OF MORMON, —that book of What is there ln this "book of books—that record which reveals the anbooks" so to intrigue a man of such tiquities of the New World back to the outstanding intelligence as we know remotest ages, and which unfolds the des-: tiny of its people and the world for all Parley P. Pratt possessed? What ls time to come—that Book which contains in this scripture that charms and LESSON DEPARTMENT holds readers of open mind and heart whatever their station in life? First of all, it would seem to be the epic story of the Book of Mormon itself. An epic, we should explain, is a composite story—a series of stories, if you will, that portrays a people. And such indeed is the epic of the Book of Mormon. Secondly, the simple yet profound portrayal of the gospel. Stories woven into the Book of Mormon epic are of distinctive quality. Like those in the Old and New Testament they have not only intriguing interest, but inner meaning—deep spiritual import. They live and last in the souls of those who appreciate them. Let us consider here a few of these stories, from a literary viewpoint, as well as from the messages of truth they vitalize. A first of these, which challenged the writer's intense interest even in boyhood, is one which might be entitled: ""A Heroic Youth Serves His: People." ' This story, which is told in full, I Nephi, chapters 3 and 4, has all the qualities of a classic. It presents a vital problem—the procuring of a sacred, saving record. It portrays a clash of negative and positive spirits, represented in the brothers Laman and Nephi. It moves with precision and rising interest. Difficulties and danger enhance the drama. Crises are met with heroism, and _ success achieved. The plates of brass, containing scripture beyond price for the adventures in a new world, are delivered to the prophet-leader, Lehi. Within this dramatic story there is also something deeper than a mere tale for entertainment. First of all, 561 it impresses unforgettably the vital, saving value of the written word of God for any people. Secondly, it lifts into the clear, precious truths. Two of these stand out:... The Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them (I Nephi 3:7). It is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief (1 Nephi 4:13). Through other stirring narrative, given as the epic naturally develops, the meaningful events are portrayed. With the sacred record on the brass plates, which contained much of what we know as the Old Testament, including the vital prophecies of Isaiah, to guide and inspire them, the band under their living prophet Lehi fared forth into the unknown. It was a new journey into the wilderness and across the wide waters to a new "Land of Promise." Note the beauty of Lehi's counsel to his sons, Laman and Lemuel: And when my father saw that the waters of the river emptied into the fountain of the Red Sea, he spake unto Laman, saying: O that thou mightest be like unto this river, continually running into the fountain of all righteousness! And he also spake unto Lemuel: O that thou mightest be like unto this valley, firm and steadfast, and immovable in keeping the commandments of the Lord! (I Nephi 2:9-10). ~ And the great adventure was filled, as was that of the other children of Israel, with drama. Misgivings and even conflict within the families add to natural difficulties (I Nephi, chaps. 2-7). At times the Lord must use reproof and sharp correction to keep rebellious spirits such as Laman and Lemuel from 562 thwarting the divine purpose which is being unfolded under the courageous leadership of Lehi and his loyal son Nephi. This is the central purpose of the Book of Mormon epic: to impress the truth that our Savior lives. All its stories, the doctrines they carry— all its quotations from Isaiah, who clearly visioned the Messiah, bear directly or indirectly on this divine message to mankind. To keep this clearly in mind will help those who follow this lesson, and who may continue to study the epic, better to understand the great composite story. Another thing of import; and this is plainly stated by Nephi: Emphasis is laid in this scripture on "the things of God." Says this prophet: Wherefore, the things which are pleasing unto the world I do not write, but the things which are pleasing unto God, and unto those who are not of the world. Wherefore, I shall give commandment unto my seed, that they shall not occupy these plates with things which are not of worth unto the children of men (I Ne phi 6:5-6). Literary "smart" folk have often spoken flippantly about the Book of Mormon as dull reading. Even some of our own people—more now than ever before, accustomed to swiftly moving, sensational fiction and drama—at times confess they find it uninteresting. All of which is to say they are looking for something different from what this scriptural epic contains. Its stories are of a distinctive type. They are laden with truths of priceless value, with discourses on deeply religious themes. In the Old Testament and the New Testament, the prophetic writings and the epistles RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 are, in the main, set apart. In the Book of Mormon such expository writings are woven into the stories that serve to vitalize and impress the teachings. Is this not good psychology? Certainly the Master followed the same plan in making his lessons live. They are inwoven with the incidents and stories which give them not only clarity but concreteness. A rather close parallel in the New Testament to the Book of Mormon epic structure may be found in "The Acts of the Apostles." This likeness is shown, for example, in the story of the prophet Abinadi (See Mosiah chapters 11 to 17 inclusive). Here is a stirring account of a heroic man of God who, like Peter and Paul, carried the word of the Lord to the unbelieving and wicked, even though in the end it meant martyrdom. Abinadi, with the courage of Elijah before King Ahab, beards perverted King Noah and his apostate priests in the throne room of the erring monarch, and delivers his message of truth and light. He finally dies a martyr's death, yet not in vain. Abinadi's testimony goes to the heart and soul of one of the priests, Alma. And this heroic man after the prophet's cruel death, carries on through testing difficulties and dangers the work of God. For the story of Abinadi itself, the class leader might sketch through the chapters named above. In chapter 11 we get the full setting. Chapter 12 carries forward the epic, giving in verses 1 to 8, God's prophetic warning to the evil-doers. Then comes the angry report of the priests to their king—Abinadi's cross-examination before Noah—and _ this LESSON DEPARTMENT prophet's searching questions to the perverted priests. There is a rush to slay the courageous leader but he withstands the onslaught, saying: Touch me not, for God shall smite you if ye lay your hands upon me, for I have not delivered the message which the Lord sent me to deliver; neither have I told you that which ye requested that I should tell; therefore God will not suffer that I shall be destroyed at this time (Mosiah 13:3). Then to the maddened but cowed' listeners he delivers boldly his words from God. The Ten Commandments are reimpressed. The priests and their king are chided for not teaching even these fundamentals. And saying that this is not enough— "salvation doth not come by the law of Moses alone" (Mosiah 13:28), Abinadi portrays the vision of the Messiah to come, recalls the prophecies of Isaiah, and pictures with clarity the fulfillment of those inspired words through the coming of the Son of God—the Savior and Redeemer of the world. To King Noah and his wicked ptiests—all save Alma, such words are just heresy. Abinadi, his courageous message delivered, is seized and imprisoned. Then he is given a chance to save himself by denying his testimony; but he will not. The king, fearful of the words of the prophet, would have released him, but the condemned priests will not have it so. Abinadi is seized, bound to a stake and the fire set. Yet even out of the flames he prophesies: Behold, even as ye have done unto me, so shall it come to pass that thy seed shall cause that many shall suffer even the pains of death by fire; and this because they believe in the salvation of the Lord their God. 563 And it will come to pass that ye shall be afflicted with all manner of diseases because of your iniquities, Yea, and ye shall be smitten on every hand, and shall be driven and scattered to and fro, even as a wild flock is driven by wild and ferocious beasts. And in that day ye shall be hunted, and ye shall be taken by the hand of your enemies, and then ye shall suffer, as I suffer, the pains of death by fire. Thus God executeth vengeance upon those who destroy his people. O God, receive my soul (Mosiah 17:15-19). Here in the story of Abinadi is drama of high quality impressing divine truth. 'The words of this dauntless prophet were fulfilled. And he did not die in vain—for his great work was carried on by another heroic soul whom he inspired. Within the Book of Mormon epic are many like dramatic stories, impressing eternal principles of the gospel. A sequence of such stories is portrayed: the masterful work of Alma the elder in establishing the Church of Christ (Mosiah, chaps. 23, 24, 25); the fate of wicked King Noah (Mosiah, chapter 19); the impressive conversion of Alma's erring son, Alma, and the sons of King Mosiah to the gospel, and their courageous missionary work (Mosiah, 27-29). This second Alma, or Alma the younger, in the book of the same name, carries forward the epic. It is. Replete with stories, with truths of life made plain and concrete, and with stirring drama. Deeply impressive and moving is the part where Alma, Chief Judge and High Priest of his people, counsels his sons, Helaman, Shiblon, and Corianton (Alma, chaps. 36-42). Recounting his own wayward youth, his miraculous conversion 564 and after-zeal to do God's will, this leader gives to each of these sons lessons of deep import suited to their different natures. His father heart goes out particularly to Corianton who has sinned grievously, consorting with the harlot Isabel, and otherwise forgetting his heritage of righteousness. To this erring one the saving truths of the gospel are expounded with searching insight and power. It is a sermon of profound truth not alone for Corianton but for all the world. Such gems of spiritual truth as the following shine through the words of loving-kindness: Ye cannot hide your crimes from God; and except ye repent they will stand as a testimony against you at the last day (Alma 39:8). Seek not after riches nor the vain things of this world; for behold, you cannot carry them with you (Alma 39:14). No unclean thing can inherit the kingdom of God (Mosiah 40:26). Wickedness never was happiness (Alma 41:10). Space permits only a glance at other stirring spiritual dramas in the great book. Pre-eminent among all of them is, of course, that which portrays with simple majesty the coming of Christ to the "other sheep of his fold" (See Third Nephi). Impressive evidence of the holding power of this story was given repeatedly a few years ago with the presentation of the pageant America's Witness for Christ at the Hill Cumorah. On one occasion the writer with fully thirty thousand other folk of many creeds and classes (this an estimate of the state highway patrol) sat spellbound for two hours and. Mote witnessing the unfolding—in carefully selected and arranged scenes and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 lines taken in the main from the Book of Mormon. And, finally, that other stirring last story of the sacred scripture picturing Moroni alone with the countless slain, and the records of gold he is charged to hide from the eyes of his enemies. This that the voice of God might in later years "speak from the dust." And lastly, the promise of this American prophet: And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power ot the Holy Ghost (Moroni 10:4). Studies and Activities Note: For this study a copy of the Book of Mormon is essential. Let each member of the class provide herself with one. 1. Why may the Book of Mormon be called a "Book of Books'? B. What gives central purpose and unity to this "many-in-one volume'? 2. Explain briefly the term epic. B. Why may the word be applied to the storystructure of the Book of Mormon as well as to the Old Testament? 3. Have someone read. Aloud expressively chapters two and three of I Nephi b. Point out the basic qualities that make this an effective story. C. How might it be turned into a stirring little drama? 4. In what fundamental respect are the excellent stories of the Book of Mormon different from the stories commonly presented through fiction, on stages and screen today? Illustrate. 5. What preparedness is necessary to enhance appreciation and bring soul-lifting recreation from the Book of Mormon epic story? 6. Name two or more situations in the Book of Mormon that have stirring LESSON DEPARTMENT drama in them, Read, as time permits, selections Portraying briefly such dra. Matic stories, F, ollowing are a few such scenes as might be given: a. Mosiah 27:8-19; b. Alma 39:1-5; Alma 46: 11-22; Third Nephi 11:1-12, 565 Note: Since time during the lesson will not 1 I Social Sctence—Latter. Day Saint Political Thought Lesson 2—Some Political Doctrines of the Book of Mormon Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, November 23, 1948 Objective: Book of Mormo POLITICAL theory is concerned with the relation of man and the State. To that extent, politica] theory is the "theology" of the State and its politics, just as religion ex. Plains the relation between God and man. Politica] theory arose in the Greek city-states and served about the same Purposes that religious Philosophy serves—explaining, however, state and Political activi and hel It explains or attempts to explain, the phenomena of all life and objects in the universe, Accordingly, modern man can derive much doctrine (or "Political theory") of great import from the great religions, Particularly Mormonism. A sound Political theory must meet the tests of "all truth," including known or future facts. What do the doctrines of the Book of Mormon, for ex. Ample, indicate for political thinking? The Nature of Man The nature of the State, whether it should be total or limited, de- 566 pends largely on the answer to the question, what is a man? If man is mere animal material, the total State is probably as good as any, with power for its own sake as the highest good. On the other hand, if man has more than animal value, the State should recognize such values. The Book of Mormon, like other Christian scripture, teaches that man is valuable because he is the child of God. His destiny is not to be cannon fodder or the grist of concentration camps. Man is holy—any man.» The State may be powerful, but God, too, is powerful. And man as the child of God must be respected by the State, whether in its criminal code, welfare law, selective service administration, or garbage collection. "Men are instructed sufficiently that they know good from evil" (2 Nephi 2:5.) But men, left to themselves and the State, however humane, are insufficient to "save" themselves. "Wherefore, redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah; for he is full of grace and truth." There is "opposition in all things" (verse 11) and men must strive with all means at their disposal to work out the earth problems—including political problems. But these means, while not discounting human brains, skill, and planning, must yet take into account the true nature of man and the existence of God as a factor in the equation. Humane methods may be all right. But if God and the spiritual forces of the universe be discounted or ignored, such ignorance will lead to material error. For there is a God, and he hath created all things, both the heavens and the earth, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 and all things that in them are, both things to act and things to be acted upon (2 Nephi 2:14). And although God permits man to act for himself (verse 16), he can better act in view of the above facts if he wants the optimum result. Such is fundamental to political theory from the standpoint of Mormonism. The Nature of Government The Book of Mormon does not leave things at this point. The book contains a thousand-year profile of the nse, evolution through various forms, and fall of Nephite political institutions. From this experience emerges an interpretation of history more impressive to Latter-day Saints than the dialectical materialism of Karl Marx or the civilization-epoch-cycle theory of Oswald Spengler or A. J. Toynbee. This theory insists on the inclusion of God as a factor in civilization, as well as man, and can be stated as follows: When institutions, societies, or individuals conform to the demands of an expanding, growing concept of God's commands, they are prosperous and happy. When they depart therefrom, disease, decay, war, and destruction follow. Accordingly, King Mosiah - says, (chapter 29, verse 10) "Let us be wise... And do that which will make for the peace of this people." This he interpreted as striving to approximate the government of God— the ultimate standard, "for the judgments of God are always just." Mosiah (29:10-29) makes one of the best arguments for popular government found in scripture. One-man tule would be all right if the man would always be good. But such is LESSON DEPARTMENT not the case. Moreover, if one man holds all power, and he is evil, a most bloody revolution is required to throw the resisting tyrant out. Therefore, choose representative judges, he admonished, and let them follow majority views. But, said he, the people must bear the responsibility, "And if the time comes that the voice of the people doth choose iniquity, then is the time the judgments of God will come upon you!" The Welfare of the State How, then, can government be kept "good," aside from the fact that its construction and operation recognize God's existence and man's sonship? By the people remaining "good" and by their voice demanding the good! But people, by God's act, are free to_do or be good or evil! Goodness cannot be forced! How, then, secure the public welfare? Here the Book of Mormon takes its stand with President George Washington who stated in his Farewell Address that "of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports." Thus, when Nephite society was in a state of breakdown, similar to modem Europe, Alma the Chief Judge (Alma 4) launched no public relief program, "seeing no way that he might reclaim them (his people) save it were in bearing down in pure testimony against them.". And thus in the... Ninth year of the teign of the judges. _ Alma delivered up the judgment-seat to "Nephihah, and confined himself wholly to the high priesthood of the holy order of God, to the testimony of the word, according to the 567 spirit of revelation and prophecy (Alma 4:19-20). The roots of the social and political maladies of mankind are thus to be found in the people's morals. Political remedies, accordingly, the Book of Mormon 'teaches, must get at the roots. 'To merely deal with the effects of problems will only aggravate the fundamental causes. Alma, chapters 45-63, tells another, longer story of the Nephite patriot, Moroni, and "the title of liberty" while IV Nephi depicts the ideal results that can be obtained if men will but pursue truth. Both accounts are worth rereading. Thus the State may not accomplish everything! Indeed, the welfare of the State requires a vigorous, moral people. 'The State, as Hitler's and others', may attempt to administer and enforce State morality; but this, probably, only for the benefit of the holders of power. Free men require freedom for moral standards. Free churches and other associations, then, can best minister to this fundamental human need—in freedom and diversity, separate and apart from the State. Questions for Discussion 1. What are some tests of a sound political theory? 2. What is the Latter-day Saint conception of the origin, nature and destiny of man? 3. If mankind are the children of God, what essential rights should be maintained in organized society? Why? 4. Can a political theory be sound if it ignores the existence of God? Why not? What practical difference does it make? Does the particular concept held concerning God's nature make any difference, or can it be any kind of belief in God? 568 5. According to the Book of Mormon, how can good government be maintained? 6. How can people's morality be maintained at a high standard? 7. How do you view contemporary moral standards? In what respects are they high—low? How can contemporary standards be improved. 8. How do you think Alma, the great Nephite Judge, would handle such problems as the atomic bomb, traffic safety, human misery? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 Suggested References Duruam, G. Homer: Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman, pp. 3-15. Book of Mormon: Mosiah, chapter 29; Alma, chapter 4. III Nephi 6:19 to 7:6. (An excellent example of social breakdown and anarchy.) IV Nephi 1-17. (An inspiring account of what true religion can contribute to the political and social order.) ' Optional Mewar aa alae of Swouck Saiseco— Tie First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) Lesson 2—The Presidency of the Prophet Joseph Smith (continued) Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, November 23, 1948 Tue Presmency A Untr—TuE Turee ARE ONE SIDNEY RIGDON Sidney Rigdon In many of the early revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord declared that a "marvelous work" was about to come forth on the earth and that the "field is white already to harvest." Nowhere is the truth of this figure of speech seen JOSEPH SMITH FREDERICK G. WILLIAMS more clearly than in the preparatory work which the Lord had done in raising up men to assume positions of leadership in his Church. Sidney Rigdon, who served as first counselor to the Prophet Joseph Smith from 1833 to 1844 exemplifies the realization of this promise to a remarkable LESSON DEPARTMENT degree. He was born in Pennsylvania on February 19, 1793. In his twenty-fifth year, he joined the "Regular Baptists" and soon was one of their licensed preachers. In the autumn of 1821, he became the full-time minister of the First Baptist Church in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, and through his eloquent, preaching soon built up a large congregation. But the spirit of the Lord was at work in preparation for the restoration of the gospel and Sidney resigned his pulpit after two years and turned to manual labor, being unable to satisfy his conscience with the doctrines he was preaching. His study of the Bible led him to the conclusion that the true Church of Christ, as he read of it in the New Testament, was not on the earth. About this time, he made the acquaintance of two _ professional teachers who were likewise dissatisfied with the existing forms of Christianity. These men—Alexander Campbell and Walter Scott—in association with Sidney Rigdon, soon commenced preaching the need of the "restoration of all things" of which they read in the Bible, and Sidney moved to Ohio where he became the minister of a large congregation of people who called themselves "Reformed Baptists" and then later "Disciples of Christ," but whom the people generally referred to as "Campbellites" after the dominant leader of the movement. These people preached that the true Christian Church should discard all man-made creeds, baptize by immersion only those who were capable of believing and had repented of their sins, and then held up to them the hope that God would ultimately restore the power by which 569 the Holy Ghost could be conferred. At Mentor, Ohio, Sidney Rigdon was extremely popular and his influence was felt for many miles around, as he circuited about to other preaching stations for more than. Fifty miles from his home station. On one of these preaching missions to the west in the summer of 1829, he converted a young man 'from New York—Parley P. Pratt—who showed such ability as a preacher of the new doctrine that Parley was soon called to become a full-time minister for the "Campbellite" church. While engaged as a "Campbellite" missionary near Palmyra, New York, in August 1830, Parley heard of the Book of Mormon and the restoration of the gospel and soon accepted the truth. After converting some of his own family in New York State, Parley P. Pratt was called on a mission to the Indians. On the way he stopped at Mentor, Ohio, to acquaint his former friend, Sidney Rigdon, with the fact that the very thing they had been hoping would occur, had occurred, and that the true gospel had already been restored. Sidney Rigdon soon accepted the message as the fulfillment of his prayers and most of his large congregation followed him into the waters of baptism and spiritual regeneration, so well had he prepared them for the coming of the latterday work. This was in November 1830, and the following month Sidney Rigdon went to visit the Prophet at Fayette, New York, and was called by revelation to preach the restored gospel (See section 35). From that time until the death of Joseph Smith, the two were closely associated in the leadership of the. Church. 570 On March 18, 1833, Sidney Rigdon was ordained and set apart as first counselor to Joseph Smith in the First Presidency of the Church and declared in a revelation to be accounted "... Equal with thee in holding the keys of this last kingdom" (section go:6). President Rigdon undertook this work with zeal. To follow the inter-workings of these two men - would require a volume. However, the important items of activities can be briefly mentioned. One of the first tasks they did together was in revising by revelation the King James version of the Bible, Joseph doing the revising and Sidney acting as the secretary. 'Together Joseph and Sidney received the great vision found in section 76 of the Doctrine and Covenants. He accompanied the Prophet on various missions into Canada, Michigan, New York, Indiana, Illinois and Washington, D. C., in furtherance of the missionary work or the settlement of the saints' problems. When Joseph was absent from Church headquarters, such as in the summer of 1834 when he journeyed to and from Missouri with Zion's Camp, Sidney Rigdon directed the activities of the Church at Kirtland. President Rigdon was endowed with a gift of great eloquence, occupying the platform or pulpit on many important occasions. He stood firmly by the Prophet during the Missouri difficulties, spending part of the winter of 1838-1839 with Joseph and the other brethren in jail in Missouri, until his health failed and he was released. He did much good in Illinois in helping to gain a friendly welcome for the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 saints who were being exiled from Missouri. There was one element in his character that caused friction between him and the Prophet. He was self-willed and at times challenged the leadership of Joseph and the authority of the "revealed word," attempting to force his opinions upon the Prophet and upon the Church, with the result that the Prophet was forced to rebuke him. At general conference of the Church, held at Nauvoo in October 1843, President Joseph Smith expressed dissatisfaction with him as a counselor and did not desire to retain him. Through the intercession of Hyrum Smith, however, he was retained in his office, but he never again seemed to manifest the spirit of leadership he had formerly possessed. He moved to Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, in the spring of 1844 with the intention of presiding over the branches of the Church in the eastern portion of the United States. The Prophet's martyrdom caused him to hurry back to Nauvoo where he pressed his claim as "guardian" of the Church, but the Quorum of the Twelve was sustained as the presiding authority of the Church and Sidney Rigdon, disappointed and embittered, was later excommunicated. He returned to Pennsylvania and then settled in New York where he organized a church on the pattern of the restored church but it did not succeed. He unwaveringly adhered to his original statement concerning the Book of Mormon, denying any statement imputing the authorship of the work to himself. His death occurred July 14, 1876. He had given much to the Church, but personal pride and love for au- LESSON DEPARTMENT thority overpowered the spirit of God in him, number they » In addition to Sidney Rigdon, was a man of varied abilj- 1 illiams, 571 older than the Prophet. For about four years he labored diligently in | equal h and Sidney Rigae. Holding the keys of this irtland Smith and Sidney signed the interior structure, and then gave liberally of Out a publication house to print its Williams, being financially able, took a leading part in establishing a Printing office at Kirtland, known as "F - G. WiL liams and Company" and continued the publication of the Ch tiddical at Kirtland. Lations that the Prophet had te. Ceived and Prepare them for publication. This resulted in the publication of the first edition of the Doc. Trine and Covenants that was issued from his shop in Kirtland in the late summer of 1835. This was probably his most noteworthy accomplishment. His chief contribution to the 572 Church was his leadership in temporal matters. The Prophet and President Williams commenced to have misunderstandings as he contended that the Prophet was exceeding his authority when he professed to receive revelations dealing with temporal matters. On the 7th of November, 1837, he was dropped as a member of the First Presidency during a conference held at Far West, Missouri, and Hyrum Smith replaced him. The estrangement became greater, and he was finally excommunicated from the Church in March 1839. But at the conference held in Nauvoo in April 1840, he appeared and asked to be re-admitted to the Church. Forgiving Hyrum Smith pled his case for him; he was baptized and died in full fellowship at Quincy, Illinois, on October 10, 1842. His descendants came to Utah and are faithful members of the Church. William Law When Hyrum Smith was called to the office of Patriarch to the Church in 1841, the position of second counselor in the Presidency of the Church was filled by William Law. He was born in Canada in 1809, being four years younger than the Prophet. He was converted primarily by John Taylor and, sometime in 1839, moved to Nauvoo where he soon became one of its leading business men. He was a member of the city council, operated a store and several mills, and was engaged in the real estate business and as a building contractor. As a counselor in the First Presidency, his greatest support to Joseph Smith came from his advice RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 Plan to enroll now for BUSINESS TRAINING Fall term begins Sept. 6, 1948 at L. D. S. Business College The fall term offers many opportunities. New classes in shorthand, accounting, typing, character education, and many others will begin the Tuesday following Labor Day. The records of more than 60 years prove that L. D. S. Business College training pays. Special rates for returned missionaries. Write for free literature. [. D. 8. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah: ee ca _ THAT'S WHAT YOU GET IN Vy PAINT. « « among them you can find any color you want to match any color in draperies, wallpaper—anything. BENNETT''S 65 West First South and Bennett's branches and dealers in Utah and Idaho LESSON DEPARTMENT concerning the temporal affairs of the Church and the management of its business interests. This was a period of great growth in Nauvoo and the Church was fostering many projects for the city's expansion. Toward the end of 1843 he began to show signs of apostacy and associated himself with the enemies of the Prophet and of the saints generally. The result of this was his excommunication from the Church on April 18, 1844. He soon joined forces with other discontented factions and sponsored the publication of the much discussed Nauvoo. Expositor, which contributed so much to the Prophet's assassination. He moved to Wisconsin, where he died on January 19, 1892, still bitter toward his former Prophet and the Latter-day Saints. Topics for Discussion and Study 1. Read the glorious testimony contained in Doctrine and Covenants section 76:19-24. 2. What factors could lead a man who had received such a wonderful manifestation, as the vision of the three degrees of glory (sec. 76) to depart from the Church as Sidney Rigdon did? 3. Read a portion from the Inspired Version of the Bible, as contained in Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1 (Matthew 24) and note the improved quality of Joseph Smith's revision. 4. Read the statement of Sidney Rigdon's son John during his interview with President Snow and other Church leaders in Salt Lake City, Improvement Era 3: 696-698. References Improvement Era, Vol. 3:47, 218, 265, 350, 458, 487, 579, and 696-698. Improvement Era, Vol. 42:736. Improvement Era, Vol 43:206. Jenson, L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia, Vol. 1. 573 SEARS ROEBUCR AND CO The new Sears store is completely air conditioned »». Cool asa canyon breeze Main or State at 8th South Dial 5-6651 Park Free MMs sins sn Professional | nd, a al Stationery @ COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Ue TT eT er > TT 574 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1948 For a Well-balanced Mind— No Substitutes Well-balanced Education Prospective leaders must be trained for success in their occupations and for informed, responsible citizenship. They can obtain at In our years of food distriUtah State Agricultural College a sound, well- < 4 balanced education which will fit them to make bution, we have experienced the highest type of contributions as breadwinners, homemakers, citizens, and leaders. That Nationally-known brands USAC is located in an ideal college town are better because they are LOGAN: the | Temple City of orthern u: ta t igs clog city of fine homes an packed to quality standchurches. The L. S. Institute of Religion provides splendid dings instruction and ards" and not merely to sell Hevelopaiunt. At a price. We have the well- - Sixteen hundred courses are offered in the known brands you want... Sixty departments of the following Schools:. Us " Agriculture el and Technot something "just as good Arts and Sciences ae - » « « and, too, you'll find it Commerce Wildlife ficongenaa costs no more to buy better CD mats ll aaa foods at O. P. S. Food stores. FALL QUARTER Registration—September 23-25 Quarter Ends December 17 WINTER QUARTER Registration—January 3 O. P. SKAGGS bce a _ Officient Service. - For Catalog, address the President FOOD * Sys stem | STORES UTAH STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Logan The Clock Without Hands Jennie Scovil Dusenberry T= other day while walking along the streets of a large city I came across a most extraordinary window display. I will only speak of the thing which stood out more than anything else. It was a clock without hands. I could hear the "'tick-tick-tick" of the clock. The pendulum was moving. The works were in motion. Everything about the clock seemed to be in the best of condition, with one exception. Its face had the numbers of all the hours, but no hands moved upon it. It was doing everything except indicating the time, and that was the one thing for which the clock had been made. I walked on past the window, thinking. I was not thinking of clocks, I was thinking of people, whose lives are full of motion and activity, but the motion never amounts to anything. The activity never works out in definite achievement. They are like clocks without hands. Then I thought of the people who, with all their fully cccupied days and hours, miss the very purpose for which they are in this world. You can hear the "tick-ticktick" of their lives, but you can never tell the time by them. Their lives are as empty of moral and spiritual meaning as the clock without hands. They are wound up; they are running; but they never indicate the time. The people who tick but never keep time are a part of the waste material of the world. SUMMER SHINES WITH SILKEN SHOWERS Helen Martin Horne Summer shines with silk n Peppergrass and fern, Blends odors from the freshening flowers hen evening drops the sun, en showers From pine-ribbed hills and canyon nooks pungent smell she takes To scent the breeze that bends the trees, And sports the mountain lakes, The summer tenders to the fall Her colors brightly blended; But artful fal] re-tints them all en summertime is ended, Cis is only ONE LESTER Belsy Pass Spinet Achievement in Pianobuilding at its very best ++. Result of 58 years of uninterrupted €xperience, CINDERELLAS Katie Harris Lewis A weed in the moonlight Is lovely to See; And the generous moon Lends beauty to me, ee BISHOP HYDE Michael Burson EASY BUDGET TERMS AVAILABLE It was God's will I led you As it is now his will That calls me from his people or greater service stil]. Please forward complete information about Lester Betsy Ross Spinets. I would be with you longer For I have loved you much, I'd till my fields and flowers eneath the sun's Warm touch. Name. Address I would be here to counsel] herever need might be, Yet I am but the servant And God has need of me. FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY aunes MAIN STREET But falter not, my loved ones, Although J cannot stay To, lead as I have led you— o SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH ——— Loses Page 575 45-47 SoutH Another points the Way. 6. Srom Near and Sar Mrs. Nellie A. Harter of the Twenty-third Ward, Salt Lake Stake, has made a remarkable record in securing 112 Relief Society Magazine subscriptions in a_ ward having only thirty-seven members of the Society. Six subscriptions were sold to widowers, eight to non-members of the Church, and many were gifts for Christmas, birthdays, weddings, missionaries, shut-ins, and widows. Mrs. Harter has a sister Regine Nilsen, of Horten, Norway, whom she has never seen, but Mrs. Nilsen is a reader of The Relief Society Magazine. She saw Mrs. Harter's picture with a group of Magazine representatives (April 1947) and was delighted with this pleasant visit through the pages of the Magazine. Mrs. Harter wrote her sister: "This Relief Society Magazine has made it possible for us to join hands across the sea, and even though we have not seen one another in person, we have the same warm, affectionate, sisterly love in our hearts which will bind us together always." Edith Russel, a young English writer, now living in Utah, is the author of "The Russels Did Not Go to Church," a threepart story beginning in this issue. Miss Russell says: "When I was nine years old we moved to a tiny house in the village of Cottingley, close to the fringe of the Haworth moors and a mere five miles from the haunted shell of 'Wuthering Heights' itself. One year after my baptism into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I became a missionary and was honored by a call to become the only woman ever to edit Millennial Star. During these years, my country was at war, and London, our headquarters, proved a noisy,' somewhat dangerous adventure. Then -came an invitation to leave England for the U. S. A. To attend an American university, and I to whom school had always been the privilege of 'the other fellow,' thought I heard the angels sing!" Page 576 Deone R. Sutherland, author of "Aunt Millenium," a daughter of the poet Linnie Fisher Robinson, is one of the most promising of Utah's young literary women. By editorial request Deone writes: "I graduated from the University of Utah in 1945 after having edited the literary Magazine and participating in some drama. I continued teaching in the English department, freshman English, for two years. In the summer of 1947 I attended the University of Iowa and enjoyed the writer's workshop very much, but I returned in the fall to marry Harold Pratt Sutherland in the Salt Lake Temple. We have lived in Beaver for the past eight months and Harold has taught English in the high school. As to the future—well, we're going to Stanford this summer." I wish to thank you for the promptness of the Magazine which reaches me way up here in Sweden. During the two years of my mission I have enjoyed it immensely. The Relief Society of Whittier Ward, Salt Lake City, gave me a two year's subscription as a present when I left. I have translated many features from the Magazine in Swedish and it has helped me in Relief Society work and missionary work in general. It might interest you to know that my husband finds the Magazine just as interesting. Amy Lundevall, Olaigatan, Orebro, Sweden Sister Lillian Nielsen of Three Forks, Montana, has bought material _ and has_ recently | made 64 pieces of clothing for chilyes. Dren between six ' months and four ~ years old. Because she lives on a farm, miles away from a branch of the Church, Sister Nielsen cannot attend meetings, but she can and does follow the work of Relief Society through reading the Magazine. She is the mother of a large family and yet she finds time to sew for others and to contribute many hours of unselfish service. TEACH THE LIFE OF CHRIST WITH PICTURES Four sets, comprising 63 four color 19" x 23" pictures Set One: (15 pictures) Nativity, Shepherds, Wise men, Babe in the Temple, Flight into Egypt, Boy Jesus in the Temple, Among the Doctors, Temptations, Miracles: Healing the Woman, Walks on the Water, Dumb Man Healed, Deaf Man Healed, Blind Man Healed, Draught of Fishes, Calms the Storm. Set Two: (16 pictures) Feeding Five Thousand, Heals the Lepers, Man at the Pool, Jairus' Daughter, Lazarus; Parables: Sower, Leaven, Wheat and Tares, Pounds and Talents, Ten Virgins, Prodigal Son, Good Samaritan, Pharisees, Fishermen, Disciples in Grain Field. Set Three: (16 pictures) Jesus Chooses Disciples, Clears the Temple, Children, (Hoffman), (Plockhorst), Consider the Lilies, Mary and Martha, Speaks from the Boat, Woman at the Well, Other Sheep, Nicodemus, Peter's Confession, Peace Be Unto This House, Rich Young Ruler, Come Unto Me, Twelve Sent Forth, Transfiguration. Set Four: (16 pictures) Entering Jerusalem, Last Supper, Gethsemane, Praying, Arrest of Jesus, Jesus and Peter, Jesus and Pilate, Pilate Washes His Hands, Before Caiaphas, Guards Cast Lots, He Is Risen, On Way to Emmaus, At Emmaus, Appears to Apostles, Great Commission, The Ascension. Each Set $2.00 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send me LIFE OF CHRIST picture sets as follows: At $2.00 each. Oe Address........-2.2...-----eeceeeeeeneee eee Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 oYMBUL UF THRIFT _A MONG priceless heritages left by our pioneer mothers is the custom of providing a bounteous supply of fruits for the long winter months. In this generation, the housewife who stocks her shelves with jars of choice fresh fruits, jams, and jellies, preserved and sweetened with pure, home-produced sugar, has learned well the lesson of prudent care for her family. Perfect for canning, cooking, freezing, or table use. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY P gS | PANULATED / \\ | —_ } MAGA ZAZAIN B ae rrrre - we al i wn Weel nn? é ' V. Weeky > 4° ty Rs } 1 © 4 at Sy. Ad WR NAN yay: ay gt Lessons for Decémbet | SEPTEMBER 194 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford = = Marianne C. Sharp - - - = Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Margaret C. Pickering - - - - Achsa E. Paxman Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Mary G. Judd Leone G. Layton Priscilla L. Evans Leone O. Jacobs RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Lillie C. Adams Ethel C. Smith Editor - c = Associate Editor - - < c a = - General Manager - - - = - - - Florence G. Smith Louise W. Madsen - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alta J. Vance Christine H. Robinson. Alberta H. Christensen Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford No. 9 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Constitution of the United States and Religious Liberty...... -_.. Preston D. Richards 579 382 Relief Society Building News The Family Picture Show Ivie H. Jones 622 Florence J. Madsen 632 The Art of Beautiful Tone Quality in Singing—Part 2.... Rosa Lee Lloyd 586 FICTION Learn of Love Edith Russell 599 The Russells Did Not Go to Church—Part 2 Questing Lights—Chapter 6 Belle Watson Anderson 606 Sudden Storm Carol Read Flake 614 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 592 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 593 Editorial: The Family Hour Marianne C. Sharp 594 All Relief Society Members Invited to Thursday, September 30th Sessions of the From Near and Far Food Preservation Margaret Peffer Makes Stuffed Toys Home, Safe Home Plain and Savory Theology: Visiting Teachers' Messages: ''I Literature: Notes From the Field: Handicraft, Socials, and Other Activities General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering is FEATURES FOR THE HOME Bernice Stookey Linford a Leone O. Jacobs 611 Sara Mills 620 He Spake Many Things Unto Them in Parables''.................. Elder Don B. Colton 633 nasmuch As Ye Have Done It Unto One of These My Work Meetina—Sewing: Making Women's Wear From Men's Wear... Jean Ridges Jennings 638 Gospel Messages From the Book of Mormon................ Elder Howard R. Driggs 640 POETRY Something in Your Word—Frontispiece Autumn Palette.... Dorothy J. Roberts 577 Self Defense Caroline Eyring Miner 585 Anna Prince Redd 597 Antics Mary Pack Triplett 597 Grace Sayre 602 Marijane Morris 602 Olive C. Wehr 605 Payment Merling D. Clyde 609 Risen Flame...... Ruth Harwood 610 September Day Desert Rain Homecoming......... Mnipotence.... Winds of Fear so bvelyn Fjeldsted 613 Eva Willes Wangsgaard 612....... Mabel Jones Gabbott 619 Josephine J. Harvey 619 Jeanette P. Parry 621 aC. Cameron Johns 623 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: scriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Payable in advance. Single copy, 15e. Back numbers can be supplied. Of address at once, giving both old and Entered as second-class matter February es of March 3, 1879. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. New address. 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: SubSubscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change No 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Vol. 35 Annual General Relief Society Conference; Notes to the Field: Payments for Wheat Interest Annual Relief Society General Conference As Brethren, Ye Have Done It Unto Me™ oon section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, au unless return postage is enclosed. 1 Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson SEPTEMBER, 1948 595 Relief Society Congratulates Newly Appointed Y. W. M. I. A. Presidency......0......... 596 598 598 LESSON DEPARTMENT Elder H. Wayne Driggs 637 iz. Fait Sl fee il Manuscripts will not be returned THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 35, NO. 9 SEPTEMBER 1948 SOMETHING IN YOUR WORD Dorothy ]. Roberts Something in your word is summer crying, A linnet in the fading interlude Between the empty nest and fall wind sighing, Remembering the blossom and the brood. Something in your voice is summer calling To wings turned southward from the changing hill; The echoes fade where tarnished gold is falling, And the lagging pulse of summertime grows still. Something in your song is summer singing When fall has stopped the treble of my throat; The cool, gray current from the north is flinging The leagues of earth against your silver note. The Cover: "Autumn in the Fields," photograph by Willard Luce. "LATE BLOSSOMS" We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all cated equal; that th ir Creator with certain t among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. This was g declaration of personal and teligious liberty ang had been Tought about not by urope seeking Personal liberty ang the right to Ip to their own Conscience, _ leven years later, and after blood. Shed: and victory, the. Colonists Met In the Preamble to declared: We, the People of the United States, City Attorney, formerly Assistant Legal Advisor to th of the Uniteq States, and formerly 4 member of the Y. M. M. LA. Ge e Secretary of State neral Board The American Statesmen who gave us our Constitution Ww and of humanity's Struggle for personal and eligious liber Cy gave us a Constitution that Protect the individual against the arbitrary Powers of At the Point of the Sword, in the year 13, 5, the People forced Page 579 580 King John to give them the Magna Charta, the first great charter of personal liberty. By the control of the "purse strings" in the year 1628, the Parliament forced Charles I to sign the Petition of Rights, the second great charter of personal liberty. In 1689, after Parliament had declared the throne vacant and elected William and Mary as rulers, they approved the Bill of Rights, the third great charter of personal liberty. These charters of personal liberty were attained through centuries of bloodshed and human sacrifice, and they formed the solid foundation upon which our Constitution was built by men whose ancestors had fought and bled to win them. After the Constitutional Convention had been in session for four or five weeks without agreeing upon a single sentence or paragraph of the Constitution, Benjamin Franklin arose in the convention on June 28, 1787, and said, in part: In the beginning of the contest with Great Britain, when we were sensible of danger, we had daily prayer in this room for the divine protection. Our prayers, Sir, were heard, and they were graciously answered, All of us who were engaged in the struggle must have observed frequent instances of a superintending Providence in our favor. To that kind Providence we owe this happy opportunity of consulting in peace on the means of establishing our future national felicity, and have we now forgotten that powerful Friend? Or do we imagine that we no longer need his assistance? I have lived, Sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth—that God governs in the affairs of men, and if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid? We have been assured, Sir, in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 sacred writings that, "Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it." I firmly believe this, and I also believe that without his concurring aid we shall succeed in this political building no better than the builders of Babel. Whether the framers knew it or not, the same divine Providence that assisted the colonists in gaining their freedom, also directed the framers in establishing our Constttution. If you believe that the Lord ever has concerned himself with the affairs of men, then it is not difficult to believe that he had a hand in establishing our Government and our Constitution. Save the coming of our Savior and the establishing of his Church, no event that has occurred in the world's history has contributed more to the happiness and well-being of mankind than the establishment of this Government under the Constitution of the United States. 'Therefore, if the Lord concerns himself with big and important things pertaining to the welfare of mankind, and we know he does, the framing of our Constitution was worthy of his attention and direction. The Lord said to Joseph Smith, "I established the Constitution of this land" (D. & C. 101:70). When his people because of their religious belief had been driven from Independence, Missouri, and their homes confiscated and burned, and many of their members murdered. Joseph Smith, the Prophet of modern times, who was then in Kirtland, Ohio, organized a company of strong men to go to the rescue of those who had been so unjustly persecuted, but before applying force he asked guidance of the same Fa- ther of light that Benjamin Franklin had implored in the struggle for liberty. His prayers were similarly answered and the Lord spoke to him in these words: And again I say unto you, those who have been scattered by their enemies, it is my will that they should continue to importune for redress, and redemption, by the hands of those who are placed as rulers and are in authority over you. According to the laws and Constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles.... And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose... (D. & C. 101: 76 f€). President Brigham Young made it plain that this Government, under our Constitution, was established by the Almighty himself, that he might have a nation on this earth guaranteeing sufficient religious liberty to its citizens that he could safely restore his gospel and establish his kingdom without the danger of its being destroyed. On this subject President Young said: The Almighty... Moved upon Columbus to launch forth upon the trackless deep to discover the American Continent; he moved upon the signers of the Declaration of Independence; and he moved upon Washington to fight and conquer, in the same way as he moved upon ancient and modern prophets each being inspired to accomplish the particular work he was called to perform in the times, seasons, and dispensations of the Almighty. God's purpose in raising up these men and inspiring them with daring sufficient to surmount every opposing power, was to prepare the way for the formation of a true republican government. We believe that the Lord has been preparing that when he should bring forth his work, that, when the set time should fully come, there might be a place upon his footstool where sufficient liberty of conscience should exist, that his saints might dwell in peace under the broad panoply of constitutional law and equal rights. In this view we consider that the men in the Revolution were inspired by the Almighty, to throw off the shackles of the mother government, with her established religion. For this cause were Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, Washington, and hosts of others inspired to deeds of resistance to the acts of the King of Great Britain, who might also have been led to those aggressive acts, for ought we know, to bring to pass the purposes of God, in thus establishing a new govern. Ment upon a principle of greater freedom, a basis of self-government allowing the free exercise of religious worship (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 551-552). Speaking of our Constitution and its framers, President Young said: "Although unknown to them, it was dictated by the revelations of Jesus Christ." The governments of Europe are now passing through a despotism which our ancestors passed through seven hundred years ago. Stating it in another way, the countries of Europe, so far as concerns freeing themselves from despotism and establishing personal and religious liberty, are more than seven hundred years behind our Constitution of the United States. There are some even within our own country who are now declaring that age and the years have made our Constitution obsolete. I ask you, are the Ten Commandments of Moses obsolete because they were thundered forth from Sinai 4,000 years ago? Have the years made obsolete the wisdom of Solomon? (Continued on page 631) THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES AND RELIGIOUS LIBERTY 581 THe sisters of the Church have been engaged for this past year in a great undertaking which will stand to their credit forever. The spirit of this call to collect money to erect a Relief Society Building has penetrated to the hearts of the sisterhood throughout the world. Quota payments are being received from faraway missions from which the general board did not expect to get any material help at all due to present economic conditions, although they knew that they would lend their full support otherwise. It is a cause of rejoicing to read the letters which accompany the remittances. Although scarcely a handful of these sisters will, in all probability, ever have the opportunity to enter the portals of the Relief Society Building, they have caught the vision of the undertaking and have iven liberally to this great cause from their very limited means. Sister Piranian, Relief Society president of the Palestine-Synan Mission, writes: It is with great pleasure that I am able to submit to you the donations for the new Relief Society Building from this mission, and to tell you that we have met our quota, i wi 100% --° wish to extend to you the love and friendship of all the sisters here in Lebanon and Syria. Sister Huntsman, Relief Society president of the Tongan Mission, says: In regards to the new Relief Society building I am happy to tell you that the Relief Society sisters of the Tongan Mission are very happy to have the privilege of giving their contribution along with the other Relief Society sisters throughout the Church. - - This I feel is a splendid record when we consider the conditions of the saints here, and the small amount of money they have; but it is proof that the gospel of Jesus Christ when accepted and lived regardless of race OF color brings forth the same fruits of love and service. I appreciate very much having the privilege of working with such fine women as our Tongan women are, and their willingness to do the things I have felt inspired to ask of them. The brethren have been very helpful in assisting the sisters to complete their quotas. The following letter from President Adiel F. Stewart of Page 582 Untirin g and Painstaking labors, in bringi ment, TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, SOCIETy B This unusually beautify] White. Ther 22 € are nam Whose Name e *PPEars on the Nderson, js a fine example of ¢ € Work of hj | T just Want Ou, In your Work and example of cadership fj] Tem S q ©, addresseq to Is Relie 1 note of to ex Tess » In BATON RO quilt is ma e i de in g fan design of blue embroidered on € yellow P ult Contribute to the Relief § his UGE BRA VILDING. FUND QUIL » With his Ple View Relief Society + arts of the f I Ong past due. To you,; iti 8teat aby a ans Ociety Building d genuine © Stake Relieg Ss Nndance lef Society Stak ation th take Tegard to the; of spi nd yellow fans on very woman Fund. 8tatitude for your Ociety assign. Tit and may oO the full, we NCH MAKE RELIEF T P Wnting, our de 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS SoutH Ivano Farts STAKE ( IpaHo) IDAHO Fatis Sraxg (IDAHO ) San Dieco Staxe ( Cattrornia) WELLS Stake (Utan) TETON STAKE (IDAHO AnD Wyominc) GRaniTe Stake (Uran) Norru Ipano Fats Sraxe (IDAHO) Emicration Staxr (Uran) MEsa Stake (AR1zoNna) RExsurc Stake (IpaHo) Uvapa SraKe (NEVADA AND Uran) Utan Staxr (Uran) SEATTLE STake ( Wasuincton) SoutH Los ANGELES STAKE (Caurr.) Juarez STAKE (Mexico) FLorwa Stake (Frorwa) TEMPLE Virw STAKE ( Uran) Bear River Sraxe (Uran) PaRowan Stake (Utan) CEDAR Stake (Uran) Liserty STakr (Utan) SMITHFIELD Stake (Utan) Sucar House STAKE ( Uran) Sat Lake Sraxe (UrTan) San Luts Staxr (Cororano) OneEIA Staxg (IDAHO) TOoELE Stake (Uran) SAN JUAN Sraxr (Uran) SEVIER STAKE (Utan) Grant Stake (Utan) East Provo Sraxe (Uran) AMERICAN Farrs STAKE (IpaHo) Oguirru Sraxr (Uran) East Ricsy Staxr (IpaHo) San BERNARDINO STAKE ( Caxtrornia) Maricopa Stake (Arizona) SAN FRancisco STAKE ( Catirornia ) (WEISER STAKE '(IpaHo) (Oauu Stake (Hawarr) (West PocaTEtto Staxe (IpaHo) MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS NortHern Cauirornia Mission Eastern STATES Mission SAMOAN Mission New ZEALAND Mission Hawatan Mission PALESTINE-SyRIAN Mission TONGAN MIss1on WARDS AND BRANCHES (IN STAKES) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the August Magazine, and Prior to August 6, 1948) Arbon Ward, West Pocatello Cardston F ourth Ward, Alberta Duncan Ward, Mount Graham Emmett First Ward, Weiser Escalante South Ward, Garfield Glendale East Ward, San Fernando Heyburn First Ward, Minidoka Heybum Second Ward, Minidoka Jefferson Ward, Alberta Kahana Branch, Oahu Kaimuki Ward, Oahu Kakaako Ward, Oahu Kalihi Ward, Oahu Kaneohe Branch, Oahu Las Cruces Branch, Mount Graham Laie Ward, Oahu Lanakila Ward, Oahu Lordsburg Ward, Mount Graham Makiki Branch, Oahu ission Ward, San Francisco Nanakuli Branch, Oahu Papakolea Ward, Oahu Pear] City Branch, Oahu Phoenix Second Ward, Phoenix Pine Ward, Maricopa Pocatello First Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Third Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Fifth Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Sixth Ward, Pocatello RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS Pocatello Ninth Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Tenth Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Eleventh Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Thirteenth Ward, Pocatello Rupert Second Ward, Minidoka Twin Falls First Ward, Twin Falls 585, Wahiawa Branch, Oahu Waikiki Ward, Oahu Wales Ward, Moroni Webster Ward, Park West Bountiful Ward, South Davis West Ensign Ward, Ensign Woolford Ward, Alberta BRANCHES (IN MISSIONS) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the August Magazine, and prior to August 6, 1948) Albertson Branch, Central Atlantic States Aldridge Branch, Central Atlantic States Ann Arbor Branch, Northern States Azalea City Branch, Western States Banning Branch, California Bradfordsville Branch, East Central States Calumet Branch, Texas-Louisiana Casper Branch, Western States Colfax Branch, Central Atlantic States Cumberland Branch, East Central States Delta Branch, Western States Detroit Branch, Northern States Dutch Gap Branch, Central Atlantic States East St. Louis Branch, Central States Escondido Branch, California Fallbrook Branch, California Fort Benton Branch, Northwestern States Fort Lauderdale Branch, Southern States Hemet Branch, California High Point Branch, Central Atlantic States Jackson Springs Branch, Central Atlantic States Lexington Branch, East Central States Lompoc Branch, California McMechen Branch, East Central States Miami Branch, Southern States Monte Vista Branch, Western States Nacogdoches Branch, Texas-Louisiana Oildale Branch, California Ojai Branch, California Orange Branch, Texas-Louisiana Oxnard Branch, California Parkersburg Branch, East Central States Pascagoula Branch, Southern States Paso Robles Branch, California Peoria Branch, Northern States Petersburg Branch, Central Atlantic States Port Arthur Branch, Texas-Louisiana Portsmouth Branch, Northem States Roxboro Branch, Central Atlantic States Santa Barbara Branch, California San Dieguito Branch, California San Luis Obispo Branch, California Santa Maria Branch, California Sink Creek Branch, Southern States Taft Branch, California Tulsa Branch, Central States Verde Valley Branch, California West Palm Beach Branch, Southern States Williamson Branch, Texas-Louisiana Winston-Salem Branch, Central Atlantic States Yuma Branch, California AUTUMN PALETTE Caroline Eyring Miner Golden leaf, turquoise sky, Scarlet bonfire blazing high; Purple grape, silver haze, Crimson sunset—autumn days. HEN Hollis heard the front Was a dark flame of a woman, radiat. W door slam she put her head ing loye like a Warm fire, exclaiming down on the breakfast table ag She hugged Hollis: "You're 3 and burst into tears. Bil] had gone SCarecrow—thin 4S a wafer! What's without Kissing her §00dbye—he cating you, baby?" t want to make up afte; their It was €asy to laugh When you thinking What a stubborn mouth Bill eneq to her rich, flowing Voice, Stella had, that €ven his chin Was stubborn, had a straight-forward attitude about 00, whe ailman rought °verything— even, her usband and usin Stella's Mvitation to her her sons Suver wedd anniversa "Ted's Just the sq Id Tasca],"' 7 Dour later, after Packing her € went on " the boys Sultcase, Hollis Wrote a crisp little are away at schoo] Ose kids! Note to Bil ere s0 Stateful for m ut OF course they']] get married some I'm accepting Cousin Stella's Invitation day and forget how Ted and I sacyj.- _ veddin t of hey oat _ ficed for their schooling. But that's Ill let you kn When I find ont She talke n €agerly, and Hollis Ought h Wonderful to look She too the bus to 'MOver, at life the Way Stella did. Able tella, happil Matried to bi Ouse on Circle Street, J} had Ted Mart for twen Ve years! That livedin feeling, she Ought enHollis fej} he hroat ac € when viously; You weren't afraid to cur] and Bil], aTl€d only one eer NG fon the Teplace as € be week, had had a hearth king guar longed there, ang Stella didn't ming Tel—that the timest push ould send the whit hairs he ] t on the €T running h tO mother? Ut It fun ¢ help With dinner. Not a wor out j tella, she Stella ha such lovely mens and was. And it t be, too, that 5€ loved th More with each Pass tella wasn't Matnied to 4 man like 8 year, Bill "We'll use the rose china," she LEARN OF LOVE "Ted loves those dishes—his mother fave them to us—and lowed at her, hungry for something besides spring Salad and Crackers!"' Hollis had cried herself to sleep hy hadn't Bill marned a cook if that meant SO much to him, she had asked herself, des- "Ted's like g ing at Hollis at tender mother-look, "an iTesponsible boy. He likes to play on the way home." "But, it make you furious when he's late like this?" "Furious?" Stella's yes were like "e ark sunshine, Y, No, Hollis, it—you're not human, that's all. Teg could phone you, he could Send a » NO matter what "Listen, pet," Stella's voice flowed on as smoothly as Old 588 fit he gets from forgetting about me for awhile." "I give up," wailed Hollis, tossing her hands up. "If you can tell me you want Ted to forget you, even for one second, then you've stopped loving him. A wife might as well quit as to feel that way!" Stella shook her head, pursing her lips, and her eyes darkened thoughtfully. "That's not true, Hollis. It's because I do love Ted that I feel the way I do about things. You see, honey," she sat on the arm of the chair, twirling her fingers in Hollis's tusty curls, "I used to love myself a lot more than I loved Ted—or even the boys. It was always little me that I was thinking about. Oh, I was a perfect wife, all right," this in answer to Hollis's piercing look. "At least I thought I was. Now I know I was a selfish little cat." "You couldn't be selfish," Hollis defended. "You've always been an angel to Ted—to Bud and Dick, too." Stella laughed, jumping to her feet. "Maybe we better eat. Ted wouldn't want us to wait any longer." Hollis sighed, nibbling her toast. Maybe in twenty-five years she could meet life the way Stella did. Yes, on her silver wedding day maybe she wouldn't be selfish and petty and jealous of little things. But she was afraid to think about it—she was terribly afraid there wouldn't even bea first anniversary for her and Bill. HE next day Hollis met Peg Stewart at Frankens for luncheon. Dear old Peg, blond and dashing, a little plumper since Tom, Jr. Had arrived, but just the same old RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 Peg, envious and gossipy—but lovable, too. "So Stella and Ted have been married twenty-five years," she rattled on. "That is something. Oh— oh, there's Ted now with his office crowd." Hollis followed Peg's eyes, blinked, started from her chair, then sat back staring at Ted Martin seated with a jolly crowd at a table across the room. A smart-looking girl with slick blond hair was telling him something very funny because Ted was laughing. Hollis could feel prickly little darts racing up her spine. "He should've brought Stella," she said in a tight, aching voice. Peg said, one eyebrow a half-inch above the other: "Believe me, Tom and I would have a good tiff if he left me out even if it was the office crowd." Hollis puckered her lovely brows. "How can he treat Stella like this? And the day before their silver anniversary! But then, she doesn't know about it." Peg said: "Look, Holly, I'm going to call her right this minute,..." Hollis bristled. "You can't! You can't hurt Stella like that!" "Oh, can't I? Listen, sugar, someone should have spunk enough to tell Stella she's being neglected!" Peg had already started toward the telephone and Hollis knew she might as well try to stop the thunder. Resentment was a burning ache in her throat as she hurried from the restaurant alone. She was heartsick and tired of trying to understand life and people. It was a man's world—no doubt of that! And Bill and Ted were just alike! LEARN OF LOVE She walked the streets all afternoon, postponing the eventual showdown with Stella. Of course Peg would tell her Hollis had seen Ted, too. She couldn't pretend she didn't know about it. Her heart was falling like a hammer as she opened the door of the Martin's house at five o'clock. She hesitated in the hallway. Stella was probably in her own room crying her heart out. But no, that was the whir of the mixmaster in the kitchen and Stella's tinkling voice singing above it. Hollis was dizzy with relief. Then Peg hadn't called her after all! "Hi," Stella called. "Come on in. I'm making candy for the boys— some for your Bill, too. We don't want him to think we've forgotten him, do we?" OLLIS leaned against the door frame. She couldn't breathe. Bill had forgotten her, of course. He hadn't phoned or written or even thought about her. The stubborn mule! Stella looked at her. "Say, baby, you look all in. Here—sit down— quick!" She pushed a chair under Hollis. "T thought you'd be home earlier," she went on. "Peg said you ran out on her at noon." Slowly Hollis realized what Stella was saying. Peg had called her! Her hand trembled around the glass of water Stella handed to her and then suddenly she burst into tears against Stella's warm breast. Stella held her in a tight little hug, smoothing her hair tenderly. "T hate men!" Hollis sobbed. "They're mean and selfish and just try to hurt us!" 589 "Don't think that way, pet," Stella was saying. "And don't let what Peg said upset you. I know it doesn't look well for Ted to lunch with his office crowd all the time. At first I thought I couldn't stand it—we quarreled about it many times, but every couple does that at some time or other. I learned better after while. I'm sure now that the crowd you saw today can't take Ted away from me. Yes, I know," she held up her hand as Hollis started to speak, "you're going to tell me what fun they were having, how cute the office girl is; but listen, honey, we have to trust a little more and have a little more faith in ourselves. I know Ted loves his home and I know he loves me, so I'm not worrying." "You're not—even human," Hollis interrupted, dabbing her eyes indignantly. "I can't stand Bill to be late or eat out with office crowds— I'm not an angel like you are!" Stella's eyes narrowed, her nostrils quivered, and for one tiny instant fire flickered in her eyes. "I haven't always been an angel," she answered quietly. "It's taken me twenty-five years to learn how—working overtime, including Sundays. Listen, dear, it's like this, love is the secret. If you love a man enough you won't run out on your job and your job is to make a go of it. We can't let these little things get us down—every day demands our very West...." HOLus couldn't listen any longer. She excused herself, explaining she didn't want' dinner because she'd had so much luncheon, and hurried up to her room. Stella's words kept repeating themselves, like 590 the rhythm of her heart—"love is the secret"—'"'these little things." How could she call it a little thing when Ted neglected her like this? If that was the kind of treatment that added up to a silver wedding day then Hollis didn't want one, even if she was so lonely for Bill and sick about everything that she cried herself to sleep. But she hurried down to breakfast the next morning, eager to see if Stella had been putting on an act the night before. She'd be able to tell when she saw her with Ted. They were at the breakfast table, leaning close together reading a letter. Hollis could hear Stella's voice and she felt the rich happiness in it. Ted's arm was around her shoulders and his fingers toyed lovingly with her dark hair as she read aloud in her sweet rushing way:. Now you know how Bud and I feel about you, Mom and Dad,. And your silver wedding day. Proud, that's the word for it, and grateful, too. Both of us know it hasn't been easy for either of you. I can remember times when I wondered how Mom put up with you, Dad, but she always forgave you. And I can also remember a few times when Mom was plenty unreasonable and blew her top over some crazy little thing that shouldn't have mattered at all. But I'm glad she always came back smiling, ready to try again. Yes, we are the luckiest guys in the world to have a couple of parents like you. God bless you both on your wedding day and thanks for being like you are. ' Thanks again for everything." Hollis's breath caught inside of hér and she bit her' trembling lip as she hurried back upstairs. She kept remembering the little shining glints in Stella's eyes. When she came back down an hour later Stella had gone to do some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 last minute shopping and Ted was cutting the lawn. She took some toast and milk and went out to the porch swing; she watched his tall figure bent over a mower, a lock of his dark hair bouncing before his eyes, his face reddened by the sun. "Hello, Holly," he called, dropping the handle and mopping his face. "Tough work for an old man. Whew!" He sat down in the swing beside her. "I want everything slicked up around here for the reception tonight—guess I better trim that hedge, too," he added, squinting at it. "Is today that important to you, Ted?" Hollis asked, a little edge to her voice and her eyes sardonic as she looked at him. "I mean—does a silver wedding day mean as much to you as it does to Stella?" He looked down at her, his heavy brows puckered together. "You're a funny kid," he said, studying her intently. "Of course it means as much to me—maybe more. Here, wait a minute." E dashed in the garage, was gone a minute, then came back grinning like a kid with a big balloon. "Look at this," he beamed, "I've kept it hidden in the garage so Stella wouldn't see it until tonight." Hollis looked a long time at the chest of shining silver and watched Ted as he turned each piece for her inspection. "Sterling!" he said, and the word was music on his lips. "The very best. For Stella." Hollis felt a great hot lump in her throat as he went on talking eagerly. "T've been paying for it a year. It was tough with the boys in school. but I dig extra work and made 4 His rakish gun had Sobered to a little Overtime, Stella has always tender smile and the twinkle in his Wanted a set like this, I've Watched CYes was a Steady glowing light as her looking at advertisements m the he looked at Stella, Hollis Tealized, Magazines, ] can hardly Wait to give with a Catchy little Sob, that Stella it to her—she', fared it a million haq farmed that look and it hadn't times over." been Casy. Dear, Wonderfy] Stella! IS yoic stumbled ang Hollis Hollis Could feel the tears burning Noticed g little Pulse quiver in his hot in her CYes as she turned away Toat, and ran UP to her roo "Tt's beautiful, Ted," she Whisper. Once inside she shut the door a d ed, her rt quiet "She'll "aned back heq ily against It. She Ove it—I'm sur il n she wanted g silver In Y, too, The re Ption 4n informal, I than anyone else jn the World, Nendly affair and Stella was a dream With his sq dy hair an his big, eq y In blue vely, t standin Ted Oulders and that firm, stubborn tore the hite I, her 3 mouth Cen any trick at all to liye twenty. J, 800d in life, has to be €arned and five years With him, the darling! Someday—oh, Maybe sOmeday— Bil] And when Peg came, flamboyant, Would look at her the way Ted had Inquisitive Peg, bristling With cur. Looked at Stella tonight; 'ag though losity to sce how a wife acted on her she meant 'verything that Was true My father-in Ouch! |] Couldn't reaking into 4 Wide 'grin, « ' take it Stella." Wonderful, honey. Wanta tell me Nd Stel]y laughed, too, as if they the secrep?" His Voice was cager— Shared g side-splitting Secret and wistfy] Hollis tching from the dining 'TI tell yo When I get home," room Where she Vas Pouring Punch, she answered, knowing deep in her Noticed that Ted was different than heart that home would always be in he had been at Franken', yesterday, Bill's arms. LEARN OF LOVE 591 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1888 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NATIONS" INCIDENTS OF TRAVEL: In conversation with Prest. M. Isabella Horne, of the Relief Society of this Stake, since her return from abroad, we decided to make a few notes, that we thought would be of interest to our readers. In Mrs. Horne's railway journey from Salt Lake City to New York she met with quite a number of people who were interested in Utah matters, the people, the institutions, etc. Elder R. S. Horne, her son, who accompanied her, also conversed with several learned gentlemen who desired information upon the subject of Mormonism, and who seemed pleased with whatever items were imparted to them. FROM HOME Would that every tired heart now in exile Could be cheered to-day as mine, With a token of love from loved ones, That would give such love divine. But they cannot, so God grant that blossoms Wherever they dwell may bloom, And to comfort, cheer and bless them, Be ladened with "dear home" perfume. —E. T. SALT LAKE STAKE: The Relief Society Conference of this Stake of Zion was held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, on Thursday, September 13th, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. Mrs. S. M. Kimball addressed the meeting. She spoke of her recent visit to San Francisco and other parts of California, and the ideas people outside entertained of our people; described an interesting visit to a celebrated church, and remarked that her visit had enlarged her charity for those who were not of our faith. MISCELLANEOUS The tight coat-sleeve is entirely abandoned in favor of the sleeve of puffs and plaits. A new bangle is made of gold wire in the shape of an arrow which curves around the arm. Outside pockets will be worn with fall gowns. As they are convenient and can be made omamental they will be heartily welcome. Bows of plaited braid appear at the foot of the skirt in all new gowns. They are well received, as they look well and save the dress from wear. Realism permeates all arts—even the milliners. The latest decoration for bonnets is a bunch of red clover blossoms or thistleheads. NOTES AND NEWS: Charles Lamb's grave at Edmonton is sadly neglected. The simple slab of limestone which marks the spot is nearly hidden with weeds and grasses. The world of art owes Princess Torrearsa a great debt for the preservation of the famous collection of Greek vases brought together by the late archaeologist Serradifaleo. Through her efforts the collection has been placed in the museum of Palermo, at Sicily, where it will be doubtless kept for all time. Page 592 Glover, © are og and 91. The S Of her oldest Identica] Wins in U Guarded as y State Secret, "for to their busy UTOwings was tributed the b the Nited tah-reareg Pio aten, Mrs abulous ferti]; "Of Farmington, Utah, etican taken fhe ale still so Onomics Association ' Is Concentrat; Metimes mis. €ach other. Mr Augusta ters Gran Widow of the late N& on 5 Tengthenin 7; rede, I tenet etn ne Ca to eit Americ for youn People 0 Mr Alice Wy; ht Seaman f ° come to atlage with meCedar Mrs M na Fol making skills wel] develope » and B 995 i. I Cather; Miss BLANCHE FERRE, teachAMERICAN Sitls received some for the Nation's he elementary. Cte Were tog Many applicants for gtade teacher, in he radio Program the imited by Set, so two years Wrote letter that e] cted her, Stand ¢ €xpense," -'T said that she came early every morning to help ag. Wenty-six years later, 1854, the first W pupil learn to high School f Tead, and that "5 Was nice to all Amer OF us, not Just a few." Page 593 with ¢ standing CCessary to Create gq home Callister and a fam bp &t at Centra] School, Brigham City, Utah, won the 1,000 prize first Ime j contest of the "OQ Kids." "Fy Ormer pupil, Scott TOver, 8 who aturity and the under. Ot Brow ie Tne teetine atton, Fillmore, = acked three days of bein 98 high Schoo] Instruction for the, In Boston, B ater the School was Closed, * the ayor declaring, "Ni city could Q-> EDITORIAL —~9O SEPTEMBER 1948 VOL. 35 She Family Hour We live for time and for eternity.... This family organization being a unit in the great and perfect organization of God's work, and all destined to continue throughout time and eternity (Gospel Doctrine, page 348). [N order to help cement etermal family ties, a responsibility has been placed by the General Authorities upon every Relief Society mother to the end that she, under the direction of her husband, will see that a Family Hour is regularly observed in her family circle. Last year Relief Society visiting teachers left in every Latter-day Saint home a pamphlet which set forth the putpose and suggestions for holding the Family Hour. Some months have passed since the inauguration of this program and the responsibility that Relief Society members have for the success of the Family Hour is being re-emphasized. Many families have already heeded this cad and are now reaping the blessings to be gained from the holding of the Family Hour in their respective families. However, there are still some families which, for one reason or another, have not yet made the Family Hour an integral part of their family life. It would be an ideal practice for every young couple, very soon after their marriage, to establish their own Family Hour. It would be a time for them to read and study the scriptures together, to discuss family problems as they arise and solve them in harmony with gospel principles. Very valuable lessons Page 594 for marriage could be learned from reading. Instructions on matriage and family life which have been given by Church leaders. Enjoying recreation together should also form a part of their Family Hour, and not be overlooked. As children bless the union of such a couple, a Family Hour would already be well established in their home and the procedure might then be modified to suit the tastes of children of the varying age groups, all to the end that thé family would feel itself a unit and sense its obligation to progress as a unit here and _hereafter. The position of the husband as the head of the family should always be recognized in any such gathering. For a newly married couple or a family in which the children are all small, the problems connected with the establishment of a Family Hour are negligible. The mother of children in the adolescent age group, however, may find some obstacles to overcome since the young people have probably become so accustomed to being left to their own pleasures and desires that they may resent giving up some activity in order to devote the time to be together as a family. Under these circumstances, of course, the mother's first concern THE FAMILY HOUR would be to enlist the support of her husband in establishing a Family Hour. Since the family is always present at dinner time, the dinner hour might be a good time at which to begin a Family Hour. Guessing games which proceed along with the dinner catch the interest of teen-agers. 'To help build family solidarity the father might give a short talk, commending individual members for particular traits and giving encouragement on the means of overcoming faults. The father might also announce the time decided upon for holding the Family Hour thereafter. Following the initial observance, Mother, as the instigator, may prepare special light refreshments and plan activities behind the scenes of as varied a nature as necessary to make the 595 Family Hour a time of pleasurable enjoyment. The children may take turns in planning programs and different-type activities since the more the active interest of each member of the family is aroused, the more successful will be the observances. When one recalls the blessings promised to a family which faithfully holds a Family Hour, every Relief Society mother should tresolve to enlist the support of her husband in instituting such an observance in her own family. Only thus can Relief Society fulfill the call which has been placed upon it by the Church. The regular holding of a Family Hour, moreover, will aid parents in fulfilling the obligation of parenthood which the Lord has placed upon them. M. C. S. All Relief Society Members Ynvited to Thursday September 30th Sessions of the Annual General Reliof Society Conference VERY Relief Society member is invited to attend the two sessions of the annual general Relief Society conference to be held in the Tabernacle on September 30, Thursday morning from 10 to 12 and Thursday afternoon from 2 to 4. The entire proceedings of the morning meeting will be devoted to the recognition of the completion of the Relief Society Building Fund. Each stake and mission achieving 100% of its quota will have an official representative seated in a reserved section wearing a band bearing the name of the respective stake or mission. A special feature will be the rendition by the Singing Mothers of a song written especially for this occasion. The afternoon session will be a time of rejoicing and the voicing of gratitude and thanksgiving for blessings enjoyed by Relief Society members everywhere. President George Albert Smith and President Spafford will speak at the afternoon session. It is the hope of the general board that the Tabernacle will overflow with great numbers of the sisters who have so unselfishly worked to donate to the great Relief Society Building Fund. It will be an epoch-making conference and one which will live long in the annals of Relief Society. and, John Longden Wi > 4 devoted further extend &'aCious inf]y. Ed to Include all SELF DEFENSE Anna Prince Redd I take the highway Or the air t your tunnels ta sheltering hill, Tankest sinner; UNinvited dinner, Ou make your Way © every Picnic daughters The sweet and Noted THE FIELD Payments for Wheat Gnterest mus year, for the first time, checks for wheat interest for all amounts of five cents oF OVET have been sent by the Presiding Bishop's office to 'dents dated Novembet 14 1947, the wheat interest should be placed in the general fund and used as are any other general funds of the society. Both mectings 0" Thursday will convene in the Tabernacle and be The morning session from 1° pal, (O p2nican will feature the conclusion of the Relief Society Building Fund program. It is expected that an official representative of eve stake and mission achieving 100% of more of its Building Fund quota will be present and recognition given them. Of the General Authorities, and Relief Society general poard members. This conference will be remembered as one of the most memorable occasions in the history of Relief Society, and it «; the earnest hope of the Stake presidents are requested to have theit ward presidents announce the conference at the Relief Society summer meetings. Page 598 Synopsis he Russells, who liye festly chilled edge of the Hawort °0rs in England d Not go to church Edith g € farmers took out his Watch—a reat Silver timep; MePiece with, 4 sonorous tick—ang con Psed before: 4 moment later; an icy draught blew Q! Cum in! Afore al] of us disheyele | Y warm, ef. Fusive, almost, and after the Previous leddy fer' ating," briskly a Out the om, ubbing his Ndividuals all Sitting yj in the comfort, remembering eeble glo of an I amp, aj] Manj- €veryone's Name and calling each by it' He Page 599 freeze y' death!" nd, the door f whic She frigid; Tust open to announce: "A young trifle SaW a pr P of Pethaps g dozen t Nilest in th Toom, atTassing, He Walked hands, be atedly Seeing to veryone' 600 was glad I had kept my promise to come. I thanked him for his courtesy. I was waiting to see what in him the villagers had stoned. E opened the meeting with _ prayer. It was a fine, eloquent speech and it made me recollect that the man who offered it was something of a scholar; that he quoted Sassoon frequently from the pulpit and that he was writing an autobiography of the Brontes. I thought he was not unlike the Reverend Patrick Bronte, himself—the same unrelenting eyes and thin mouth. He finished his address to the Almighty with a request that Hannah Shuttleworth of Riddings Farm should be brought, by the whisperings of the Spirit, to realize her unworthiness to belong to St. Matthews since the birth of her illegitimate child, and thus save him, Parson Pratt, the necessity for dismissing her from the congregation. I opened my eyes, prematurely, at this and found that everyone else, with the exception of Parson Pratt, had ceased trying to keep his closed long ago. They were looking at the devout gentleman, still in prayerful communion, with undisguised admiration. The parson's command of words impressed them visibly. The object of our meeting had been the organization of a churchworkers' guild. The church needed workers, and so did Mr. Pratt, but, he had a great respect for organization. There must be a leader and someone who could write letters and make tea. It was gently hinted, too, that there must also be a few members in such an organization who RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 had "long stockings" or a mattress or some other personal hiding place where the rich and eccentric kee their inheritances. 'The whole thing must be efficiently run in the approved manner if it were to be a success. There must, of course, be a unity of feeling and purpose among the members. Everyone must lend his whole heart and soul to this first great project of the guild, which was the cleaning out—a moral purging of St. Matthews. "I'm sure you will all agree with me that it is in the best interests of the church, that such people should be disfellowshipped with all possible speed," he answered referring to the afore-mentioned Hannah. "Why don't yer turn 'er out, Vicar?" a woman's voice demanded. "Why doan't yer insult 'er an' let 'er knaw she's noan wanted?" "I might yet, Mrs. Drake. I might yet," Mr. Pratt said. A cold wind blew from the hall under the door at my feet and outside the great door swung a moment then clanged shut, causing the whole house to shudder. With ridiculous optimism it flashed across my mind that God had come; that' he wouldn't stand for it a moment longer and had come to justify himself. I waited, one minute, two minutes— but nothing happened; nothing except a voice, curiously like my own, voicing an aching, throbbing protest I thought I never could utter. "Mr. Pratt!" He was arrested in his perambulations. He stood looking down upon me, curious. "Mr. Pratt," I plunged, desperately," I don't know anything about Christianity—lots of people don't— THE RUSSELLS DID NOT GO TO CHURCH but, but, supposing some poor unhappy soul were looking for Jesus and had been standing outside this room tonight, listening—to—all this, do you think it would have been any inducement for him to come ine? I knew it was appallingly weak, but I had an aching lump in my breast which pumped determination, a queer feeling of love, and the instinct to fight and give battle into every vein in my body. A dozen pairs of eyes focused themselves upon me. "I fear you have misunderstood me, Miss Russell," he replied, icily. "It is obvious that you are not aware of the character of some of these villagers. Nothing is sacred to them—neither the ornaments of the altar, nor my person. Are you aware that one of them actually stole a candlestick from off the Easter altar?" I felt a fleeting surprise that this man had evidently never appreciated Hugo's Les Miserables. Otherwise he would not have afforded me such an excellent opportunity to quote the classic example of the Bishop and Jean Val Jean. "The Bishop forgave Val Jean; made him a present of the candlesticks which he had stolen—and brought another soul to God. You see," I told the furious vicar, "Val Jean could resist anything—cruelty, injustice, the beastliness of the galleys—anything at all, except love. "The villagers are rough and many of them are ignorant," I said, "but they are not bad. They are like children who do not understand— who need to be shown. You do not love them, Parson Pratt. You have never even tried to understand them. 601 You despise their ignorance, you don't pity it or try to change it. Hannah Shuttleworth is not a wicked woman—she simply doesn't know any better—and doesn't care to know, because the people who have tried to teach her despised her first-—despised her and condemned her. Christ forgave the woman who had sinned, he did not condemn her." I was awfully near to tears and I swallowed desperately and blew my nose. "Miss Russell!" 'The vicar's voice was bland again. "I am afraid you are too sentimental. You make Christianity sound like a_ love story...." "Tt is a love story, Mr. Pratt," I broke in, urgently, "The greatest ever told." HE Reverend Pratt ignored the interruption and surveyed me and the group of startled parishioners with a look depicting an attitude of magnificent fairness. "I can see you mean well," he conceded, generously. "You wish to serve God. But—er, not here. You should give your talents to a city poor law mission. You would, I am sure, be very welcome there." The inference was obvious. A sense of defeat swept over me as I remembered the country folk of the village, their clean, old-fashioned homes, their uncultivated voices, their superstitions. They believed in God, but they didn't understand Sassoon. Looking into the faces of the now silent group, I waited for some feeling of bitterness to well up in my heart. But it didn't come. In- 602 stead, all I was aware of was the unutterable pathos and tragedy of it all. I wondered what the world would be like if all the clever people could just learn to be kind. And it was suddenly borne upon me that God was here, after all. He must have slipped in once when the door clanged. I could not doubt it though I tried. His voice was in my ears; his love was swelling in my heart; the vision of him was in my eyes. "You understand, Miss Russell,'' Mr. Pratt was continuing, "we cannot ask you now to be a member of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 the guild—after tonight. We must have unity of thought—and pur pose." I rose to my feet. A swift new joy surged through me—something exquisite I had not known before. I said: "Of course, I understand...." The great heavy door of the vicarage fell shut behind me as I went out into the night. A sense of peace enveloped me. The wind from the moors had blown the clouds into stormy battlements above me. God was waiting. (To be concluded) WONDERING YEARS Grace Sayre Time rests her hand; I feel the soft caress Of fingers laid upon me, as to bless The moment and the mood, while I may stand With head bowed to the brief touch of time's hand. Time lifts her hand and bids me look around To find myself released, my days unbound; All the dread that swept my wondering years Is left to time's vast urn of unshed tears. BUTTON MAGIC Marijane Morris The buttons that my mother left are mine. They hold enchanted, carefree hours of play. I know the secrets of each brave design— They are my mother's life in resume. These pearls once gleamed upon her wedding dress, She'd say, a smile remaining on her face. These baby buttons speak of blessedness And love that found its home the perfect place. Two from my father's shirt, ungainly pair; This odd one was a hero in my eyes; These wide ones stretched on winter underwear, All played my childish games in some disguise. Swift time can never quite escape from me, Because my mother's buttons hold the key. Food Preservation Bernice Stookey Linford Thou shalt be diligent in preserving what thou hast, that thou mayest be a wise steward; for it is the free gift of the Lord thy God, and thou art his steward (D. & C. 136:27). ANNING is still the most C widely used form of food preservation both in the home kitchen and in commercial factories. Yet each year many persons die from food poisoning as a result of poor canning methods due to carelessness or misunderstanding. Because the American people depend so much on canned products for their daily food, the United States Department of Agriculture has prepared for distribution a great variety of canning and other food preservation bulletins. The utmost care has been taken by specialists in testing and assembling this authentic material. Complete step-by-step directions and illustrations are included, which make canning safe and simple even for the most inexperienced. Single copies of these bulletins are free and may be obtained by contacting county extension agents or by writing the Office of Information, United States Department of Agriculture. Available publications are listed at the end of this article. Your family needs will determine the specific bulletins you send for—all are authentic and practical. Freezer lockers and home freezers are available to many. Frozen foods, if the best quality food is selected and proper methods used, are almost the equal of fresh foods. They may be of even better quality than fresh foods which have been shipped great distances and have become withered by exposure to heat and air. Speed and method of preparation from butchering and garden to quick freeze, quality of product, variety, and stage of maturity are all illustrated and explained in the bulletins on freezing listed, as are proper packaging and temperatures. 'Thawing and cooking methods are also given. Salting and brining of meats and vegetables are very practical in rural areas where there is no electricity. Pork, corned beef, and fish are especially good salted or sugarcured. Dill pickles, spiced cucumbers, sauerkraut, green beans, corn, and various greens keep well and lose very little of their vitamins or mineral content if properly salted. Our friends in Europe and countries where there is little or no refrigeration, where fuel and equipment for canning are scarce and storage space limited, would appreciate bulletins giving methods of drying fruits and salting and drying meats, fish, and vegetables. These preserved products take little space for storage, are high in minerals and vitamins, and add to the year-round calcium supply so necessary to health. G TONE crocks or jars or clean wooden kegs (which do not have wood odor) can be used for salting, and simple equipment is illustrated in the drying bulletins. Surplus eggs, too, should be prePage 603 604 served in water glass. Water glass (or sodium silicate solution) can be purchased in quart or gallon jars at any drug store. Use clean, unwashed fresh eggs. Put €ggs into glass or stone jars or pickle kegs. Prepare the water glass solution as directed on the container. If the natural protective film on eggs is removed by water or sandpaper, the shell becomes porous and the liquid is absorbed through the shell. The water glass solution forms a sealing film on the eggshell. If stored in a cool place, ges will keep for months. Ere is no loss of vitamins or food value. In fact, eggs produced during the season of the year when chickens feed on green étass will contain more vitamins than winter-produced €ggs, unless the hens are fed vitamin fortified feed. One homemaker saved $45 in one season by buying fresh eggs in the spring when they were low in To boil eggs the large end expansion, or when heated, Proper storage of foods is necessary. Canned foods should be stored where it is coo] and dark. Store dried foods in insect-tight, covered, glass, tin, or any moistureProof containers, [f there is any danger of the products being contaminated by insects during drying, they should be heated from twenty to thirty minutes in a slow oven (165° F) before being put in con. Tainers, so that any eggs laid by the insects will be destroyed. Frozen vegetables ate best cooked without thawing, Frozen meats, poultry, and game should be thawed at room temperature in the package RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 as frozen so there will be no exposure to air until unwrapped to cook. Fats, as pork, beef, mutton, and poultry may be tendered at low temperature and poured hot into hot, d then sealed -airtight. Hot fat is of higher temperait. Fat thus Prepared and sealed will stay fresh from five to eight years if kept in a cool, dark place. Light destroys the vitamins in milk; therefore, milk should be kept where it is cool and dark. It should be placed in the refrigerator, cellar, Or cooler as soon as possible after it is milked or delivered. If you have no refrigerator, bottled milk may be kept cool by wrapping it in newspapers wrung out of cold water and then Wrapping a dry Paper for extra insulation around the outside. Lettuce and other fresh _vegetables and fruits wil] keep fresh and crisp for several days by being wrapped first in damp paper, then tightly wrapped with ordinary newsPaper. 'Tomatoes, Squash, cucumbers, and other vine-produced vegetables will keep for weeks late in the fall if packed in dry sand. CABBAGES, harvested in the fall, may be kept fresh until spring by packing them with the heads down in a trench dug in the garden. Pull up the cabbage plants by the Toots and do not trim off the outer leaves of the roots. Dig a trench about eighteen inches deep in the &arden; place the cabbages head "Man js that he might have Own, roots "P; and fill the trench Joy"—working M the sojl, Watchin in with dirt, Tf the cabbage should the Miracle of Jife Spring from plant "€Ze, thaw it in Cold water before eq seeds, anticipating Maturj Cooking, J] Wil taste like New cab. Sathering hating, and toring the bage, Ca bage, Brussels Sprouts, arvest bring Ptide of achievement and other Taw salad &teens furnish CSE activities uld ney life— he Same Protective vitamins as tolife abun ant, with. €alth and Matoes, Oranges, and Slapefruit. Peace to the body, Mind, and soul, Root vegetables, as turnips, CarThe following bulletins May be Tots, Tutabagas beets, Potatoes, etc, obtained om county extension keep for months jn smal] garden agents or by writing to the Office of pits, A pit large €nough to hold In ormation, United States €partthe vegetables may be dug in the ment of éuculture, Washington 8arden, Plag boards or Straw over the top as insulation, then cover th Home Canning of Fruits ang Vege. Top with soil, aviIng a s all Space tables_ars ¢ Or ventilation Coy, Carefy]] Home Canning of Meat—Awry., 10 484IN each time after Pening the bie, ote of Fruits and Vege. Pp 1 to Prevent fre "ng of the 'od Pickle and Relish Recipes_AWwy.1, Maining vegetables, Homemade Jellies, Jams, and Preserves Garden seeds and Practical infor. —EB- 1800, Mation Preservation Would be Preservation of Vegetables by Salting ful f nding also to families 97 mee aE B-193 setul for s mes). Mules Tome Storage ~ of Vegetables and In Europe itted, dried, and salted Nits —FB-1939 vegetables yw, Id insure Y€ar-round Freezing Meat an Poultry Products Tesh food. Dried seeds, beans, for Home Use—A wy.; Peas, and whole stain cereals With mae apa —Shiughtering Cut their life-producing ectms, build tis. Pork an the Fatma —Killing Curing sue, bone, and blood. They supply and Canning PR. 186 € vitamins so NECEssary for the guamb and Mutton on the Farm rp. Stabilj Of the entire Nervous Sys- 1807; em, cet Ould be raiseg In the 109 tite Pork— Country Style—A WI. Home garden gathered, and saved Poultry Cooking PR. G9¢ from year to year for Teplanting eat for Thrifty Meals—_Fp 1908 A MATTER OF VIEWPOINT Olive C. Wehr T sent my Indian friend a dress A gift for S€TVice due, Nd on the Politely wrote, "I hope this dress fits ou." and-wrought And with It ca * hope you fj me 4 t thes FOOD PRESERVATION 605 Questing Lights Belle Watson Anderson CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Andrew Rumgay leaves his mother and his fiancee Jane Allison in Scotland and joins his friend Hugh Shand to emigrate to America. They meet Mother MacKinlay and her son Bob, whom they had known while doing missionary work, and become acquainted with Kathleen Coleman and her fnend Margaret Purvis. Hugh and Kathleen are married on board the ship. While in Iowa preparing for the handcart journey across the plains, Margaret tells Mother Mac she is in love with Andrew, and Kathleen tells the two women she is expecting a baby. While crossing the plains Andrew is lost in a blizzard, but is rescued by Margaret. She later leaves the Mac party and goes to Tooele to live. The Macs get settled in Zion. Kathleen and Hugh have a son and name him Mac Coleman Shand. Andrew begins farming and saving money to bring Jane over from Scotland. HE crop was everything that Andrew had hoped it would be—many bushels of glowing, golden grain. "A wonderful combination," the young man observed, "the rich fertile soil of the bottoms, the gentle rains from heaven, Brother Hunter to plan and to organize, Brother Rumgay to do the work." As Andrew gazed at the wonder of the harvest, he felt the thrill of security pulling and tugging at his heartstrings. In King's Kettle he had led a dayto-day existence, working from sunrise till sunset for an amount that could barely keep body and soul together. The wheat was wealth, great wealth, and although the young man knew that most of it must go for Page 606 Jane's emigration, there would be many more summers and many more harvests. The milling company would buy his crop. They would give coal, flour, equipment, even sheep and cattle in exchange, but they had no money. He sold the grain, and waited to receive his pay in money. Once again Andrew needed work. At this time of the year, the autumn, all of the men in the village were hauling their winter wood from the canyons. Andrew joined them and worked for weeks piling up winter fuel. He became acquainted with the loggers and learned about timbering. When the trees come down in the mountains, homes went up in the valley. Cities were built to the music of the swinging ax. Andrew wanted a home. He could cut down the trees and pay to have them hauled to the sawmill, with the logs and lumber. So he threw his ax over his shoulder, and went into the deep, silent forest to work and to dream of a home for Jane. The high mountains were exciting, inspiring. Each day he worked knee-deep in graceful, ornamental ferns, grasses, and flowers. At night the men gathered around a bonfire to talk and to listen to the music of the guitar and mandolin, singing early American songs. At times there were storms, heavy rains, with flashes of lightning, and the deep roll of thunder through the high mountains. In clear weather QUESTING LIGHTS the stars shone through a roof of glossy leaves. It was autumn. The leaves and cones were falling; soon they would be buried under the snow. Every week end Andrew went into town for provisions, and to attend Church. One Sunday aftemoon he was at Mother's, trying to describe to her the wonderful beauty of the hills. He told her of a very comforting lesson he had learned from the trees. While he worked, and at night in the bight light of the fire as it blazed and crackled in the clearings, he had studied the trees. They all seemed beautiful in their dignity and stateliness, perfect in design and structure. Then one day he had examined the trunk of the tree he was chop ping and found it wasn't perfect at all, but very imperfect, revealing all the history of its life—accidents, storms, insects, and animals, even fire. The limbs and branches proved to be the same, some of them were even badly warped and twisted. He had been amazed—the trees were just as beautiful as before, but this time, with perfections and imperfectons. He had thrown his shoulders back. There was hope for him. He would grow as tall and straight as possible, but now with the thought that the scars of his imperfections would not ruin the design of his Creator. "It is a very comforting thought," Mother agreed. "Andrew, my weaknesses have always worried me; they will continue to worry me. I will try to grow into the pattern God intended, with all my failings and shortcomings. It is the effort we put forth to grow tall and straight. Fully as much as the results we ob- 607 tain that counts. It puts strength into the roots." TIME passed, and with its passing came the reward of hard work and labor. Every spring new acres were broken up and more grai planted. Every autumn Andrew went into the forest to cut down timber. Three years had been a long time to wait for pay day, but the money came through at last, and Andrew sent it on to King's Kettle. While he watched his growing treasure in the valley, the Mac and the Hunter men finished the cabin. It looked like a palace. Log houses wete comfortable, warm in winter and cool in the summer. He would not be able to get windows for awhile, but he had a big fireplace built in the east end, one of his very special dreams. Kathleen and Mother provided new rag carpets for the windows and rugs for the floor. Ev ing would come in time. Andrew Rumgay was a very happy man. One afternoon Hugh went out to the farm to release Andrew for a few hours from his work. It had been a long time since Andrew had been to Resplendence. A letter had been left at Mother MacKinlay's for him and he hurned to town, hoping for word from Jane. The letter was from King's Kettle, but it wasn't from Jane. He discovered it was from the president of the branch. "Surely there is some mistake," Andrew said, holding the letter open in his hand. "How could the president send such a message?" He read it over and over. "It says that Jane Allison was married some 608 months ago, and is living in Dumfermline." Andrew looked blankly at Mother Mac. "How could such a mistake have been made? It can't be true!" "But, my son, if the branch president wrote it, then it must be true." Mether Mac knew it was useless to postpone this inevitable shock. She placed her hand on Andrew's shoulder. Andrew turned pale. He reached for Mother's rocker and sat down. "The president would not hurt you, son. It took Jane Allison to do that, and a fine job she's made of it. She might have been lady enough to have written herself." "No, Mother, no! I can't bear it" Andrew picked up his hat and walked out the back door. MOTHER was stunned for a moment, but decided this was no time to be thinking of herself. Something must be done for Andrew. Mother's husband used to say, "There's nothing for a sore heart like a tasty bite to eat." Andrew's favorite dish was a Scotch boiled fruit pudding. She hadn't much time, but she hurried and got it on to boil. Andrew would also need a chicken dinner to go with the fruit pudding, Mother decided. But she was fond of her pullets. She had said not one of them should see the pot until its days of usefulness were Over. But now, in this emergency, she sent Bob to kill and clean the fattest one in the coop. Then Bob went over on the sidehill and gathered some sage, and a round smooth rock. "What are they for?" Mother RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 asked as her son brought them into the house. "Well, they are what we used on the plains in the snowdrifts. 'This rock is a whopper. I don't know whether Andrew will weather this shock or not. Maybe it's ginger tea he needs. I just don't know what to do for him, but we can heat the rock for keeping Andrew's feet warm tonight." "There were other things we used on the plains, remember, son. A few prayers, and a lot of faith. I don't think we can help Andrew very much, but the Lord can and will. Pethaps you had better go to your bed early, not to sleep, but it will make it easier for Andrew." It was late when Andrew came in. He saw the pudding on the oven door, and smiled. "Now, just a potato, a leg of chicken, and a dish of pudding, son. Anyone could eat that." "You killed a pullet, Mother, after all your warnings to us? Now what will you do for eggs this winter?" "Put cayenne pepper in the feed," she answered. "You are a wise Scotch wife. I hope the pepper works." After supper Andrew went to Bob's room and lay down on his bed. Mother followed to light the lamp. She placed it on the table. The look of trouble on Andrew's face nearly broke her heart. "T thought we were through the drifts. This one seems larger than the others, but it isn't. They all seem big enough until we get through them. Then we know they weren't so bad." Andrew made no answer. "Bob brought in some sage for soaking your feet, and a stone to QUESTING LIGHTS keep them warm. I put it on the stove in the kitchen and I'll make some ginger tea to warm up those cold lumps inside." Still Andrew said nothing. Mother Mac continued, undaunted, "I'm not through yet. I put some coal oil in the lamp and cleaned the chimney. Our lights are as bright as any in the other emigrant companies tonight. Shall we have prayers?" Mother arose, knelt by the bedside and prayed: "Help us through the snow. Our bins are full. We have plenty to eat, and lots of good © wood in the yard to burn." She paused, choked with emotion when she remembered other days. She continued, "But we need your help, tonight, Amen." Tears were running down Andrew's cheeks. "The thaw," Mother exclaimed. "Let the tears come. They will soften those hard lumps inside." NDREW decided to send the money, which he had saved for Jane's passage, to his family in Scotland. His mother did not want to leave the old home until all her children were married and settled down, but Andrew wanted the two youngest children to join him in America. Now he could take care of them, and he longed for someone of his own. Andrew returned to the wheat 609 field. He had to take care of the crop. Work was greater than love. Jane was gone, but how very grateful he was that he still had work to do. Slowly the time passed. 'The grain matured and nipened. He be gan cutting it down with a scythe, slow and tiring work—too slow. There was too much time to think, and to ponder. He worked alone. At this time of the year every man had more work than he could possibly get done. The days shortened. The nights grew longer, and longer, and darker. Threatening clouds appeared in the sky, then cleared away, but the man knew from the tang of frost in the air that winter was on its way. Sharp winds whined through the calm. The river shrank to a quiet trickle through the bottoms. Andrew listened and_ worked, grieved, and yearned for Jane. Sometimes the water composed and purled peaceful and understanding symphonies. It seemed to him that Jane had lived in this valley. At other harvests the golden grain had been the color of Jane's hair, the blue sky had symbolized her eyes, the luster of the sunshine her happy, gleaming smiles. But this was a harvest without a dream, a man without a sweetheart, a home without a wife. The river bottoms were very, very lonely. (To be continued) PAYMENT Merling D. Clyde I like to do kind things for you. My fee is far above The recompense of others. You pay me, dear, in love. And so, for service given, Your warming praises stem; If they bring you happiness I richly share in them, makes attractive Stuffed dolls and toys of m the happy horse, Ruth Harwood All life Should be fluidic, Should freely floy, m Save Only spirit', Page 610 Margaret Peffer, former oO Home, Shs Home Leone O. Jacobs Member, Relief Society General Board HE attitude of complacency with which we think of home is responsible for many of the accidents which occur therein. We think of home as a place to drop all our troubles and worries—the one place where we can completely relax. But often we relax too completely. We must be alert to the hazards in our homes, for they are more common than we realize. We caution our children to be careful when they go out away from the home circle, when they are driving, or taking part in sports, or even in crossing the streets, but we seldom think it necessary to caution them of conditions in the home. Another reason for home accidents is the fact that we are so familiar with conditions in and around our own homes that we don't recognize them as dangers, or if we do, we feel sure we can successfully cope with them. Perhaps our basement stairs have been poorly lighted or without a handrail, for goodness knows how long, but every member of the family is so used to them he is sure he can descend blindfolded. Maybe mother has used a none-toosolid stepladder for hanging curtains and washing woodwork for many years, but no disaster has: ever happened, no one has fallen, so why not go on using it for several years more? Water has been dripping off the eaves onto the front steps and freezing there, for many winters, but no one has slipped or broken a leg, so why get excited about it? Sometimes people feel they just can't afford to have repair work done or new installations made, and _ it seems to be human nature to delay the remedying of faulty conditions until something serious occurs. They continue with slipshod practices until an accident does take place, then bemoan their lack of wisdom after the milk is already spilt. It is always economy to keep the home and its premises in good repair and in a safe condition. There are many little practices which mothers, especially, should impress upon themselves until they are unconsciously aware of them at all times: handles of pans and kettles should always be turned in toward the stove, away from the reach of curious hands. Three-year-old David spent weeks of suffering in a hospital, and his parents spent hundreds of dollars and weeks of excruciating anxiety because David's mother left the handle of the pan in which she was making seven-minute cake icing, projecting over the edge of the stove. Avoid carrying hot liquids. Stair carpets should be inspected often to make sure they are securely fastened. Toys or other articles should not be left on stair steps. (Falls constitute the majority of accidents and fatalities in the home.) Disconnect electrical equrtpment when leaving it. Don't leave small children alone. Don't leave a small child in the bathtub while answering the phone or going on any other errand. It takes only a very short time Page 611 and a very little water for a little one to drown. And no one can predict the length of telephone conversations. 'They may take only a moment, but again they may be ten or thirty minutes in length. Matches and poisons should be kept out of reach of children. Rightly, poisons should be kept under lock and key. In using new electrical, or other equipment, always read and follow instructions carefully. "The right way is always the safe way." HERE are certain fallacies that must be overcome, also, if we are to prevent accidents. The National Safety Council lists them in the following order: 1. The attitude that "It can't happen to me." A terrible accident might happen to you, or you, or you, but it just wouldn't happen to me. What a mistaken ideal! A good slogan is: "Be careful, the life you save may be your own." 2. The attitude that "When my number's up, I'll go." This idea is fatalistic and is a denial of personal responsibility. Surely all the accidents that do happen, don't have to happen! 3. Relying on the law of averages to keep safe. 4. The idea that it is "sissified" to be careful.' Young people, especially, are guilty of this fallacy. 5. The idea that accidents are the price of progress—that they are the price we pay for any advancement of science or. Industry and just one of those things we must accept. But figures prove that industry, through concentrated effort, has eliminated accidents to a surprisingly low figure—far below the number that take place in the homes. 6. The idea that accidents are the price of sin. We often hear people say, "What have I done to deserve this?" While accidents may not be the price of what we term sin, they many times are the price of someone's carelessness or bad practices. It is an individual responsibility to guard not only one's life but the lives of others, as well. Let us rid our minds of false notions and let us not relax beyond the point of safety in our homes. ~~ DESERT RAIN Eva Willes Wangsgaard A day like this engenders gratitude. You hear the rain plink-plank a great guitar; You watch it fall where growing ponds include Each singing drop to make a silver star. This is a day for walking. You can feel The rain's smooth fingers on your hands and face And earth's resilience underneath your heel, Where grasses spilling silver interlace. You swing off down the pathway, and the rain Hangs silver fringes round you everywhere. Each stream-filled gutter is a silver lane As you stride onward breathing silver air, You rise above the city's sordid crowd And pace the silver lining of a cloud. 612 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 Photograph by Glen Perrins MOUNT KIT CARSON, NEAR SPOKANE, WASHINGTON NATIVE BEAR GRASS IN THE FOREGROUND SEPTEMBER DAY Evelyn Fjeldsted Oh, beautiful September day, Thy calm throughout the centuries Comes gently to the heart attuned As quiet hours steal away. Time is painting orchard wealth, Hills are veiled in mystery; Errant winds are whispering— Selecting autumn drapery. Thy peace is sweet, fade not away, Oh, beautiful September day. Page 613 Sudden Storm Carol Read Flake 66 H, what a beautiful mor- () rning—" Janet Harding caroled happily as she ran down the back steps with a pan of scraps for the dog. The world was filled to bursting with the glory of early summer—the iris bowing grace fully along the driveway, the willow tree sweeping the green carpet of lawn. Who could putter around with housework on a day like this? Besides, the flowers at the side of the house needed weeding. Janet's smile broadened at the intermittent clatter of the lawn mower around front. 'That was Benny, just turned six, struggling to show his little sister that he, too, was big enough to mow the lawn. "Oh, what a beautiful da-a-y! Here, Ricky! Here Ricky!" Janet set the pan of scraps On the ground, caught up the trowel that lay in the children's wagon, and rounded the comer of the house. "I have a wonderful fee...." The song froze on her lips. Across the hedge Marj Appleby was hanging a wash, her slight fig: straightened, towel in hand, her eyes met Janet's. But only for an instant. Turning her back, she gave the towel a flip that sounded like a shot out of a gun. Janet's cheeks moment she felt ound. Woodenly past the tangled flowers front of the house. "Mommie! Mommie!" Sharon screamed, dancing excitedly about Page 614 flamed and for a rooted to the she walked to the Benny and the mower. "See what Benny do." "Qh, hush, Sharon. Stop that screeching," Janet answered irritably, sitting down on the warm cement step. "Benny, get away from that machine." The boy's mouth fell open. "But Mom—I'm mowing the lawn. You told Daddy it gotta be mowed." Janet was not listening. With her chin cupped in her hands she gazed absently beyond the children, her brown eyes troubled, her heart a choking weight within her. For over a month she had been unable to see Marj or even think about her without this awful sick feeling. They hadn't spoken to each other in all that time. And once they had been so close, running into each other's homes without knocking, walking to the grocery together, keeping each other's children while one went to town. Oh, it was ridiculous that things had come to this stage. But I apologized, Janet reminded herself for the hundredth time. I fell all over myself trying to make amends. She's the one who refuses to speak. A flock of blackbirds zoomed out of the blue and settled on the hedge for a moment's noisy chatter. Beautiful day! Janet sprang UP and went inside, letting the screen door bang behind her. THE living room was dark to eyes that had been staring into sunShe jerked at down on the light. It was chilly. The drapes and sank SUDDEN STORM davenport in a patch of sunshine. It was right here, she remembered miserably, that she had been comfortably dozing when Marj telephoned. "T've sent Benny home," Marj announced, her voice shrill. "I don't mean to make trouble, Janet, and I hope you won't be mad, but really! He and Martin were playing on the back porch and Benny brought Ricky in. He got to jumping around and knocked over the table where I keep my potted plants—broke them to pieces. My azaleas, that I've just been nursing along." "Oh, Marj," Janet moaned. They had bought their azaleas at the same time. "Marj, I'm just sick. Y'll give you mine. They're not nearly sO...." "Oh, they're just plants, but really." Benny appeared in the kitchen, inching along the sink, his small face twisted with silent weeping. He cast an unhappy glance at his moth- €r and moved out of sight. "Benny will certainly be punished," Janet promised hotly. "T']] be over in a few minutes, Marj." Janet hung up and advanced upon her son. "Ben-ja-min Harding, I could just—I've told you a dozen times to stay out of Appleby's house. And Ricky...." Benny stepped backward. "Mama," he pleaded, "I didn't take Ricky in there. [| didn't. It was Martin whistled him in. He had a ball he was makin' him jump after." His lower lip quivered. Janet _scowled, somewhat mollified. She was visualizing Marj Appleby scolding him, sending him home—"Benny Harding, you take this dog of yours and get home." 615 She spoke more gently. "Tell me what happened." ball around in his hands," "Did Martin's mother ask who let him in?" "No. She just heard the noise, an' came out an'—an'_" "What did she Say?" Benny's face puckered. "She—she said, "Take that dog an' get outa here. I'm gonna call up your Mama nght now!' " "Oh, Benny." The boy sobbed against her, "Ricky broke all her nice plants, darling. You shouldn't have been in there at all, I've told you, Benny." Benny raised his face. "You said not to go in the house, Mama. Is the porch the house, is it, Mom?" Janet stood biting her lip. "I don't know," she answered absently. "I'm going over there now." MA8J had been sweeping up dirt, and greeted Janet with an an. Noyed flourish of her arm. "Tsn't this a fine mess?" Janet bent and began picking up Pieces of pottery. "T''ll replace all these pots," she said quietly, "and any of the plants I can." "Oh, indeed you won't. | have empty pots in the basement and the plants will all grow again. It's just that—oh, they were doing so well." "T know." Janet waited. Then, "Benny said Martin let the dog in." Marj stopped sweeping. "Martin," she called, "did you let that dog in here?" 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMpep 1948 Martin Came to the doorway, be an end of the matter. There's glanced defiantly at the women, He nothing to be so "pset about that | Wwas seven, in his: €F sweepin "Well, it doesn't saiq acidly and flung away from him matter who let him In, he did a fine €n caught her and, laughing Job breaking UP my plants." "Oh, 10w, honey, | know it isn't Janet stared at her. It doesn't mat. Quite that simple, | wasn ter! She wanted to cry, So It didn't tg Minimize your hurt, or Benny's, matter that she had humiliated her But Benny and Martin wil] have is Heat ate! She tured abruptly, "TIl see that you and Marj who Must see what a "nny doesn't come again. He smal] thing it js before it 80s any diso— further, Qo see her tomorrow, "Oh, now, Janet," Marj broke in Everything will be al] right, impatiently, "There's no need for; that. He and Martin play so wel] NEXT moming when Janet ran "He disobeyed me by coming inas It often happened, Was just leayside at all," Janet finished. "He'll Ing to drive her husband to work. Never do jt again." She Closed the § € looked ght at her, Janet was door firmly behind her as she went POsitive about that; but before she out. Could speak, Marj had turned back Tt was Benny who Teported the inquickly to close the door, Any other cident to his father, Janet thought day Janet would have called out a "n unusually harsh on the boy for Cneery good moming, Tegardless, his disobedience. But she was ComBut this Morning, self-consciously, pletely unprepared for his reproof she tefrained, Ajj ay she fretted Marj wanted to get rid of and she ample time to Pick up the Paper and had to send Benny home to do it. Return inside, After that, Janet Our Sympathy was al] with Marj sent Benny for the paper, And that age he did by being in: You've apoloand She hadn't given him a Party gized for that and offered Teparasimply because she hadn't the heart tion, which Was refused. That Should either to Invite or exclude Martin, SUDDEN STORM his favorite playmate. For, of course, the little boys continued playing blissfully together, just as Ben had predicted. Ben! Janet started guiltily. He was due home for lunch this minute, and here she sat. From the kitchen window she watched as he turned in the driveway. Across the lot she saw Marj Appleby backing out of her garage. Of course. This was Friday. Marj always drove out to her mother's on this day. Often Janet and the children rode along. Wouldn't today be perfect for a drive in the country? Well, at least she could take care of those poor flowers. She had neglected them all these weeks because they were on the side of the house next to Appleby's! "Hi, honey," Ben greeted her, coming in with Sharon on his shoulders and Benny clinging leach-like to his leg. He deposited his little daughter in her high chair and beamed proudly at Benny. "Well, Mama, I see you have a gardener to help keep up the place. Did you notice the front lawn?" Janet managed a tight little smile. Keeping up the place was often a touchy subject in the Harding household. "He worked real hard at it," _ Janet conceded. "But, oh, Ben, there's so much to be done here. The hedge needs trimming and my pansies...." She paused, then plunged on impulsively. "Ben, why don't we sell this place—while prices are up? We could get by on a place with half this yard space, get a place closer in—or—farther out...." Her voice trailed off uncertainly as she became aware of Ben's openmouthed expression. "Sell?" he repeated. "Why, Janet, - 617 I thought you considered this place ideal. I know I don't have much time for the yard, but you said yourself we needed plenty of room so we could add to the house as our family increased." Janet bit her lip and bent quickly to tie Sharon's bib. Somehow she did not want to meet Ben's gaze. The children did most of the talking at the table. As Ben finished his dessert he remarked casually, "I saw Marj leaving for her mother's. Doesn't she ask you to go along any more?" Janet gave him a quick glance. "I —have a lot of work to do outside," she evaded. She felt an unaccountable resentment toward her husband. Was he being callous—or caustic? She made no move to walk out to the car with him as she usually did and he did not come around the table to kiss her. At the door he turned. "I can ask Browning and Bates how much this place should bring." 'Then he added pointedly, "You know, you can move away from your neighborhood, but you can't move away from yourself." yar stared after him, feeling her face grow scarlet. She squeezed her eyes tightly over the hot tears and left the table abruptly so the children would not see. Almost mechanically she did the dishes, put Sharon down for her nap and went out to the pansy bed. She found no joy whatever in her work, The bursting enthusiasm of the morning that had thrust all thought of Marj Appleby from her mind had dissolved into a spirit of listless dejection. She felt all bogged down in a situation that would not 618 better itself with the mere passage of time. Rather it had grown worse. She had spoken thoughtlessly at noon, and now Ben was hurt and displeased with her. His words still stung—You can't move away from yourself. Oh Ben, she pleaded in her heart, what am I going to do? She had waited too long to follow his suggestion. After all this time, could she go to the Appleby doot and say, Marj, can't we forget this thing between us, can't we be friends again? No, she could not. The sun disappeared. Janet 'glanced up and was mildly surprised to see that the western sky had grown murky. Rain again. She rose stiffly and went inside. Sharon needed covering. Crossing to her own room, Janet stood contemplating the little half-finished pinafore. She was in no mood for sewing. Restlessly she walked through the rooms. It was growing darker. An elusive brilliance darted in and out of the house. Janet went to the back door and called to Benny, but her voice was lost in the explosion of thunder. She ran down the steps and around the house, her skirt billowing in a sudden gust of wind. Benny was tugging at the lawn mower. "Never mind, Mom," he wowed. "I can get it in the garage." "Well, hurry, dear. It's going to pour in a minute." She turned back. Then she stopped. "Qh!" she gasped, and darted across the lawn and through the opening in the hedge. A splinter of lightning was hurled across the horizon. "The next will bring rain," Janet mumbled into Marj's crisp, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 whipping sheets as her fingers groped for the clothespins. BAck in her own kitchen Janet set about preparing dinner. The children cluttered the floor with their blocks, the eaves of the house dripped monotonously after the downpour. But a song rose to Janet's lips as she contentedly pared potatoes at the sink. She felt refreshed and at peace with herself, a peace she had not known in a long while. For Janet had reached a decision. It was a simple decision, one she had stubbornly rejected all these weeks. It had come to her after she had hurried with the last armful of clothes into Marj's kitchen and piled them with the others on the table. She brought a basket from the porch and pressed into it all the pieces that had tumbled to the floor. The sheets and towels she folded, making a neat stack upon the drainboard. "and as she worked, there in Marj Appleby's kitchen that was almost as familiar to her as her own, Janet experienced again the warmth and intimacy of their long friendship, remembering their little acts of helpfulness for each other, smal] services gladly given. The rain swept in gusts against the windowpanes and Janet glanced out of Marj's window across the way to her own home, the Harding home. In that moment it was almost as if she were Marj Appleby, and Janet knew with startling clarity that Marj was as deeply hurt and wretched over the whole affair as she herself was. It was then Janet had made her decision. She promised herself that the minute Marj returned, the very minute, mind you, she would run out and throw her arms about her SUDDEN STORM and tell her what a stubbom, stupid horrid person she had been. And Ben, dear Ben, she could hardly wait to tell him the same. She had raced home through the rain, her heart singing. Janet stopped humming and leaned far over her sink so she could watch the street, watch for Appleby's car. Why, there it was now, in their driveway. She heard a quick sound on the porch. The kitchen door burst open. Marj Appleby stood there, her eyes brimming. "Janet.... My clothes...." "Marj!" The paring knife dropped to the floor. "Oh, Marj," Janet cried as they rushed into each other's arms. They were both crying and trying to talk at the same time. Fin- 619 ally they had to stop and they stood back, laughing at themselves. Later, as they were chatting beside the hedge, their children and Ricky romped about the lawn. Everything had the green, fragrant freshness that follows a sudden summer rain, and the sun's low rays filled the world with that special mellow glow. Janet heard a car on the gravel and turned eagerly, joyfully. Ben stepped from the car, his face reflecting the sun's golden light as he smiled at the two women across the lawn. "Ben," Janet called happily, waving her arms in a sweeping gesture that took in their house, the yard, the whole world, "Oh, Ben darling, isn't this a beautiful evening!" > BETWEEN FRIENDS Mabel Jones Gabbott Last night we disagreed; And though the cause was slight, I found no peace at all Until we talked it right. Today, the threads that link Our hearts and bind our need Are stronger than before— Because we disagreed. HOMECOMING Josephine J. Harvey He saw all the dear, familiar things That had not changed while he had been away, And deep within his heart he knew How good it was, to be back home to stay. He turned to her who stood beside him, Whose lifted face was waiting for his kiss. Her love—his beacon light—would never dim He thought: God meant heaven to be like this. Plain and Savory NEW RECIPES FOR FAMILIAR FOODS Sara Mills F broiled steak and fried chicken | aren't compatible with your budget, don't get discouraged. There are still good things to be had. Some of the world's best dishes had their origins in the cookery of folk who had to make plain food savory and nourishing. One such dish I herewith christen savory cabbage rolls. Up until now it has graced our table unnamed. It is served on gala occasions when our guests are specially appreciative of good food. Fine fare it is also for the family. If it isn't eaten in one meal, it is even better the second day. Six to eight persons may be served from it. To round out savory cabbage rolls into a complete meal, add only a salad and a dessert. For balanced vitamins and an artistic effect, you may like to serve a yellow vegetable with the meal. Carrots, shredded and baked in a covered dish, are good. Frozen cut corm is another easy and pleasing vegetable to serve. If you have been with me these past months, you know that I favor fruit for dessert. If I serve a fruit dessert, I let the salad be a green, tossed one. But if I serve cake, I make a fruit gelatine salad. Along with some hot dinner rolls or some French _ bread, oven-toasted with garlic butter, a splendid meal awaits. SAVORY CABBAGE ROLLS 1 large head of green cabbage (or two smaller ones) 1 pound ground lean beef, either chuck or round, but Iean Page 620 Y% pound ground lean pork 1 generous teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon or so grated onion 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 clove garlic minced (optional) dash of Tabasco sauce 1 cup uncooked tice, preferably brown salt and pepper to taste pulp from 1-quart can tomatoes juice from 1-quart can tomatoes 1 small can tomato sauce (optional ) a pinch of basil First remove the core from the head of cabbage. Place the cabbage in a covered pan containing a cup of water and let cook until the leaves begin to soften. Then re move the cabbage from the water. Meantime prepare all the other ingredients except the tomato juice and basil by mixing them together in a large bowl. Make sure that you have plenty of salt. Place a spoonful of the mixture in the center of a cabbage leaf and fold envelopewise, securing the leaf with a toothpick. Set the rolls gently in a large, heavy kettle, preferably one with a rack, or in an electric casserole, if you are lucky enough to own one. Pour the tomato juice over the cabbage rolls; add salt and pepper and the pinch of basil; cover and let steam for at least two hours. After the dish has steamed awhile, I like to add the tomato sauce, or a portion of it. The trick in cooking is to simmer the rolls gently and get just the right amount of liquid for serving. If you get too little, the dish is dry, too much, and the quality isn't right. You may, if necessary, add extra juice, a little chili sauce, or even water. Serve this dish in the electric casserole or transfer it to a large, heated platter. Then wait for the reactions. M* second special meat dish is Lamb Stew, spelled with capitals. This is no ordinary lamb stew such as legend connects with boarding houses or hasty cooks. It-is a PLAIN AND SAVORY delectable dish, good enough for any company or Sunday dinner. The cheapest cuts of lamb are used. And you will do well to remember that the origin of this dish is French. LAMB STEW 2 pounds lamb cut in small pieces (neck, shoulder, or breast cuts) 10 or so small white onions or one medium sliced onion 2 tablespoons flour 3 cups meat stock or 3 cups water and 3 bouillon cubes salt and pepper 1 flavor bouquet (1 small bay leaf, 1 sprig thyme, 6 sprigs parsley and 3 sprigs celery leaves, tied with thread) 1 clove. Garlic 1 cup tomato puree 3 carrots, diced % pound cut green beans % pound green peas 2-3 potatoes sliced 1 small can mushrooms (or fresh, if you have them) 1 tbsp. Chopped parsley for serving cheese and parsley dumplings (optional) Sear the lamb pieces, with fat trimmed off, until all sides are browned. Bacon drippings are good for this. Season with salt and pepper and add the onions, peeled, or peeled and sliced, and cook until they are well browned. Drain off all the fat and put the mixture in a stew pot or large 621 earthen casserole. Now sift the two tablespoons of flour over the meat and mix well. Next add gradually the three cups of stock and the cup of tomato puree, the clove of garlic, salt and pepper, and the bouquet, which you have previously tied with a thread. Bring the mixture to a boil, then let it simmer slowly for about an hour. Then add the diced carrots, the potatoes, the string beans, and peas, along with the mushrooms and let simmer until the vegetables are tender. Taste also for seasoning. Remove the bouquet and serve on a heated, deep platter with the parsley dusting the top of the stew. If you like dumplings, drop them onto the stew about twelve minutes before the dish has finished cooking. Add a handful of chopped parsley and 1/3 cup grated cheese to your favorite dumpling recipe. Or you may prefer a shortcut to dumplings. Mine is to mix a half cup of milk with a cup of prepared waffle flour and season with the cheese and parsley. Remember not to remove the lid while the dumplings are steaming. Serve a fruit salad with this Lamb Stew or a dessert of fresh fruit and cheese. You need make no apologies. A hint on baking potatoes: prick them with a fork before you place them in the oven. This allows the steam to escape and leaves the potatoes mealy. Put new potatoes in boiling, salted water. Old potatoes, cooked in their jackets, should be covered with cold, salted water. —~<-— OMNIPOTENCE Jeanette P. Parry I saw the yellow moon above the clouds That climb into the blue of peaceful skies, A silence filled the woods like huddled sheep, Save when the crimson leaves fell down to sleep. There was no afterglow of summer life, Only the flash of a late robin's breast; I saw the grass, frost-browned at winter's will, The rivulets that trickled cold and still. I was not troubled that skies were leaden And leafless aspens graced the frost-touched hills, A Power greater than our own bestows The miracle of crimson woods and snows. and 00d ip €n though | ev YOu. And be Ng you this } Under S€parate cover, We are mailing yoy qui and tintypes, am sure you Would Wonder what on Wnite and explain the Matter in advance, old cause it was Mother's Onginal * SOMetimes jt has been Impossible for all of us at particular day, as We are quite Scattered, but in that event we amily Pictyre Show." Yesterday was Mother', birthday, the first One since she died, and all of together, uite q gtoup, children, Standchildre to get together on d OF us were mn, and erat grandchildren, We met in € old home, and in Spite of the fact that Mother and Daddy Weren'¢ there, W® carried on 4Ccording to the old custom, le the children Played Outside, we stOwnups Our p otographs, exchanged With each ft, and then Saw to it that every Picture wag; ntified by the names on the back in Ink, Can just hear Mother say, "Upon MY word, it makes me sich the way Some folks basket they go," €, for it offered PPortunity for Our their talents in Song, origina] °OMPosition, and verse. And MUD was our "Family Picture Show," We hay toy projector that Mother and D dy it must have been ad bought for US one Christmas, twenty-five Yeats ago. Jy Cost only 'five d. L been Worth Many times that amount to us, | | €s, and even am sure that | Would know you if | € Never actually seen yo ly that we ey d us, Owever, if you already have em, we would be glad to have 'them back Cristina" that I am ally j -_ There js One tin It is Cause you are a Telative ang the od m ney for Pictures ang then never take the time to identify them When the old folks die, the Pictures mean Nothing to the childr 1§ member of Your side of the family, | am Then L THE FAMILY PICTURE SHOW 623 Anna Cristine, but I have always been called just "Ann." Or perhaps I am interested in the picture because there is a bit of mystery connected with it. I have asked Mother about this tintype many times, only to be put off. Once I asked her why she didn't add the maiden name, or married name, that is, if this Cristina was ever married. But Mother merely said, "No, my dear, Cristina signed her own name on the picture and that's enough. I know who she was and you children don't know her anyway." Still not satisfied, I pressed the matter further, only to be told that Cristina died when her first baby was born and the second wife did such a marvelous job of caring for her baby that the family decided not to tell her who her real mother was, "Put the tintype back in the drawer," Mother said, "I will be going to Utah sometime and I will find out if the daughter knows. I have never asked, and no one has ever said." Once Mother did, however, write something on the bottom of the picture, and yesterday we used a magnifying glass and made out the name of Cristina's parents, Maybe you will know where she fits into the family, or perhaps she is just a dear friend of Mother's, Please excuse this lengthy letter, and if you do not know to whom the tintype picture belongs, return it to me, as I would like to keep it. Lots of love to all. Your cousin, Ann ee wR eK My dear Ann: Your letter and the pictures came several days ago, but I have been too excited to wiite. The children and grandchildren are all coming over for my birthday today and we are having our first "F amily Picture Show." Many thanks for the idea. Lots of love, Aunt Martha P. S. Yes, I know who this Cristine is, and the tintype is worth the world to me. She was an orphan girl from Norway. She joined the Church, and the rest of the family disowned her. Later, she came to Utah and married and had one daughter. We have spent a great deal of money trying to discover her parents. I am so glad that your mother wrote on the picture before she died, "Daughter of Tildy and Hans Nielson." Thanks a million Ann, that's my mother, ><> WINDS OF FEAR C. Cameron Johns Winds of fear are blowing through the night That the windbreaks of the heart cannot abate, With subtle infiltrations, they would kill The tendrils of our hope, regenerate. Only barricades within the soul Of ancient kindnesses withhold their blight, Only love's assurance can resist The winds of fear that blow across the night. Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. HANDICRAFT, SOCIALS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Orlene L. Henrie GUNNISON STAKE (UTAH), MAYFIELD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR March 1948 Left to right: Secretary Elva Swallow; work leader Fern L. Hansen; President Alice M. Hansen; Second Counselor Ruth J. Jensen; First Counselor Violet T. Reynolds. The articles for this bazaar were very beautifully made, with particular care being given to details of trimming and finishing. Note the artistic and effective method of arranging the displays. Of unusual interest were the attractive sofa pillows, doilies, quilts, aprons, and children's clothing. Orlene L. Henrie is president of Gunnison Stake Relief Society. Page 624 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 625 Photograph submitted by Ida L. Hatch SNOWFLAKE STAKE (ARIZONA), HOLBROOK WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 1948 At table, left to right: Ellen McLaws; Mildred Kinnison; Lila Standifird; Evaline Palmer; Ruth Hunt; Zelma Stradling; Ruth Richards; Alice Young; Laura H. Smithson. Standing, left to mght: Myrtle Brown; Maude J. DeWitt; LaWanda Slade; Elva Shelley; Emma Hunsaker; Mildred McLaws; Ellen Cooley; Blanche Hatch; Rhoana Crowther; Martha DeWitt; Alice Powell; Rosalind Nez-Bah; Edna Gillispie. Note the beautifully decorated cake and the unusual arrangement of the curled ribbons. Photograph submitted by Thora Ulrich MORGAN STAKE (UTAH), RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND WARD LEADERS ASSEMBLED AT A RECEPTION, September 27, 1947 Front row, left to right, stake board members: Dorothy Bertoch, work director; Eva Jensen, Second Counselor; Margaret Thackeray, President; Genevieve Dickson, First Counselor; Thora Ulrich, Secretary-Treasurer, Evadna Francis, literature leader. Second row, left to right: Elizabeth Hansen, President, Slide Ward; Ann Larsen, President, Morgan Ward; Ireta Jensen, President, Milton Ward; Marie Turner, visiting teachers class leader, Morgan Stake; Dora Rich, President, Richville Ward; Elsie Porter, President, Porterville Ward; Lydia Parkinson, President, North Morgan Ward; Rachel Crouch, President, Croydon Ward. Members of the stake Relief Society board and all ward presidents were in the receiving line to greet the guests as they arrived. They were then ushered into the display room to view the completed Welfare sewing exhibit and were later entertained with a musical program and served with light refreshments. 626 > left to light: F sie Sprague; Clara Gheen; Second Counselor Verette; roctaryTreasurer Geneva Roberts. President Virginig Kirnsy | ounselor Wanda Roberts, Marian Nielson, Back > Standj 8, left to I Maggie Bameo; Th | Ww 1 C States Mj sion Relief Society: Margaret ] mily Smith Stewar » Caughter of President George Albert » Bertha 4 » SF at granddaughter f the Prophet Joseph Smith; artha art, daughter f mith Stewart; Alta Moyle, literatyy, ] der, and Wife of the form President of tp, nsas City B nch; May Ww TY, wife of D H. Ist Co selor to President Francis Ww. Wn eft, Cloe Po » Preside t, Independence NOTES FROM THE FIELD 627 Photograph submitted by Vivian W. Jensen OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), THIRTY-FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTH. DAY PARTY HONORS THE VISITING TEACHERS, March 17, 1948 This unique entertainment honored the visiting teachers who had completed a 100% teaching record for the preceding eighteen months. A delicious hot dinner was served and corsages were presented to the teacher with the longest record of service— Sister Margareta Hadley, for thirty-five years a visiting teacher; the oldest visiting teacher, Sister Fannie Evans, age eighty-one; the youngest visiting teacher, Sister Mary Cartuth, a bride of last summer. The Stake Relief Society President Cleona W. Hedenstrom presented the sisters an award for being the first in Ogden Stake to achieve their 100% building quota—$7o5 for 141 memberships. Officers of the Thirty-first Ward Relief Society are: President Lottie Holt; First Counselor Mary Perkins; Second Counselor Vivian W. Jensen. Photograph submitted by Ethel Hurlburt PORTLAND STAKE (OREGON ), COLONIAL HEIGHTS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS WHO MADE 1,287 CALLS IN 1947 Photograph taken May 2, 1948 Front row, left to right: Josephine Olson; Susan Gray; Ethel Hurlburt, SecretaryTreasurer; Vesta Webster, First Counselor; Mima Hainsworth, President; Della Davis, Second Counselor, Fourth row, left to right: Marguerite Craner; Olive Murray; Vera Remington; Aileen Oldroyd; Laura Ross. 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 Photograph submitted by Leona McCarrey BENSON STAKE (UTAH), VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE GIVEN MORE THAN FORTY YEARS OF SERVICE TO RELIEF SOCIETY Seated, left to right: Lavina Poulsen, Lewiston First Ward; Christensia Hanson, Trenton; Martha Coley, Richmond South Ward; Martha A. Lewis, Richmond; Sarah Snelgrove, Richmond. Standing, left to right: Lydia Leavitt, Lewiston First Ward; Estelle Blair, Lewiston Third Ward; Sarah Preece, Cove Ward; Susie Allen, Cove Ward; Lavinia Wilcox Cove Ward; Clara Wheeler, Trenton. Leona McCarrey is president of Benson Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mabel B. Blackwell WEBER STAKE (UTAH), OGDEN NINETEENTH WARD PROGRAM "BUILDERS FOR ETERNITY," March 30, 1948 Seated, left to right: Elizabeth Wilson; Mary Smith Carr; Mary Burt. Standing, left to right: Mary Potter; Edith Barker, organist; Elda Hurd, chorister; Jessie Burton, accompanist for Singing Mothers; Grace Gledhill, Secretary; Ethel Anderson, First Counselor; Mabel Blackwell, President; Alta Weaver, Second Counselor; Olga Thompson. At this program each person was presented with a card on which was a drawing of the proposed Relief Society building, done in blue and gold. Adding color and interest to the program were members dressed in costume, representing some of the noble women identified with early-day Relief Society work. Ada Lindquist is president of Weber Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 629 Photograph submitted by Hilda E. Perkins OAKLAND STAKE (CALIFORNIA), OAKLAND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS WHO CONDUCTED A SPECIAL "FIFTH-TUESDAY HOUR," March 23, 1948 Left to right: Second Counselor Bernice Kramer; Secretary-Treasurer Lisbeth Witt; Stake Relief Society President Hilda E. Perkins; Ward President La Verne M. Pennock; First Counselor Dorothy E. Brown. On this unique and enjoyable occasion Oakland Ward was host to the entire Oakland Stake Relief Societies, with about 200 sisters being present. Special musical numbers were rendered and Verna Mae Feuerhelm, world traveler, gave a most enlightening lecture on foreign problems. The Relief Society room was decorated very attractively, and there were trays of beautifully arranged homemade cookies. Photograph submitted by Lily M. Ward CEDAR STAKE (UTAH), CEDAR CITY FIFTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO ACHIEVED A 100% RECORD FOR TWENTY MONTHS First row, left to right: Rosa B. Lawrence; Olive Knell; Ramola Smith, Secretary; Annie Esplin, Second Counselor; Genevieve Melling, First Counselor; Elvina Wiatrowski, President; Lauretta Perry, supervisor and visiting teachers messages leader; Thurza Little, Parowan Stake visiting teachers leader; Caroline Jordan. Second row, left to right: Emily Lamoreaux; Fay Slack; Locky Stratton; Lottie Bladen; Harriet M. Hunter; Beth Ence; Viola Bauer; Theresa Peterson; Thelma Ashdown; Thelma Melling. Back row, left to right: Grace Snow; Carol Draper; Elaine Jones; Beverly Carlson; Iris Corry; Lula Rollo; Gwen Corry; Agnes Knight; Henrietta Leigh. This ward was the second in the stake to achieve its 100% building fund quota, and attained the 1947 honor roll on Magazine subscriptions. ulpit, Margery Bird, ¢ mbers Presented at th; ings given S enjoyment to th eral b SH DISTRICT), GLASGow BRANCH, RELIEF HDAY PAR » March 1948 t to right: Helen M. Artin, President, G asgow Branch © wife of the branch President: Margaret Thom. Our Relief Socie be members and friends brough Ta in around $190. That nch (9 members)," concert following, I Eteat success. The h NOTES FRom THE FIELD Second Tow, standing, left to tight: President Veda K, Dittmer; Mary Wagoner; The Constitution of the United States and Religious Liberty almost 2,000 years ago? His own Conscience? AVE 300 years made obsolete The Constitution of the United the drama of Shakespeare, Or has States is the greatest charter of re. It been made obsolete by the mod. Ligious liberty ever written. It wil] ave the years made obsolete age, God more than the Paganism man's love for liberty? Of unbelief. The Art of Beautiful Tone Quality in Singing Parr II Florence J. Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board The language of tones belongs equally to all mankind, and melody is the absolute language in which the musician speaks to every heart (Richard Wagner). The Laws of Acoustics EAUTY of tone is dependent upon the presence of Overtones with their fundamentals. To insure the Proper predominance of these essential elements the singer must observe the laws of acoustics. Some of these are: (a) The motion of the vibrating column must be regular and unobstructed, (b) The vibrations must be focused Listening Nature has given to men one tongue, but two ears, that we may hear from othWhile listening to music one should be so intent upon what he hears that he can recall, at will, the tone quality he has heard, for comParison with other tonal experiences that he might have, Imitating One of the most effective means of learning is that of imitating. This fact is voiced by Weiss in the following statement: "Imitation forms Our manners, our Opinions, our very lives." Imitation also leads to spontaneous onginality. This is strongly asserted by Voltaire as follows: "A good imitation is the most perfect originality." In order to acquire perfect tone quality one must, there. Fore, imitate the perfect in tonal art. Beautiful tone quality. Such reasoning should include, at least, the following facts: (a) To become an artistic singer is a distinctive achievement, (c) The characteristics and mechanics of tone are always the same and are understood only in Proportion as they are unfolded and applied in sincere efforts to sing, (d) Tone quality can be improved only as fast as faults are overcome and prop. Er habits established. It should be remembered that, as ilpin says, "| | Good habits are formed by acts of reason,.,." [Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the 1€ choristers' and basis for the discussion in t] Page 632 organists' department at union meeting. } LESSON ¢ Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 11—"He Spake Many Things Unto Them In Parables" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 19, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, December 7, 1948 Objective: To create a desire to study and understand the gospel of the kingdom. Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. DURIN G the early part of his ministry Jesus was popular. In fact, frequently the multitudes surrounding him were so large they would impede his progress. Because of these large crowds, he found it difficult at times to speak to the multitudes. He, therefore, devised the plan of going to the seashore and having his disciples provide a "'small ship" which was kept in readiness for him and in which he sat down and spoke to the crowds. The boat would be anchored a short distance from the shore. It was during one of these meetings at the water's edge that he adopted the method of explaining his talks by using parables. All students admit that the Savior was the Master Teacher of the world. In teaching, he followed no definite plan or method. He drew his examples from nature. He would see a sower at work in a field, a fox running across his path, a woman at a well, and each would provide him a story to illustrate his doctrine. The things of nature were his own creations and, of course, he knew how to use them to the best advantage. "A Sower Went Forth to Sow" The parable of the sower was probably the first parable used by the Savior in teaching. Everyone is familiar with this parable, but there are many who contend that it should, in reality, be called the parable of the soil. The story is as follows: And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side, and the fowls came and devoured them up: Some fell upon stony places, where they had not much earth: and forthwith they sprung up, because they had no deepness of earth: And when the sun was up, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away. And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up, and choked them: But others fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit, some an hundredfold, some sixtyfold, some thirtyfold. Who hath ears to hear, let him hear (Matt. 13:4-9). This method of teaching was a new one even to the disciples and Page 633 Was a departure from the Savior's Which h been sown to grain. Seo earlier method » there Ore, gave Ond: the Shallow soil underlaid } an Interpretation to this p table, In Tock, would Sustain th sproutin nef, his interpretation Was as fol. Plant only fo; 4 short me, after fo) Ich jt uld wither and die ird oll upon Which wee Hear ye therefore the Parable of the Seeds had been sown. Ground Othersower. When any one heareth the word Wise Capable of Producin a crop of the kingdom, and understandeth it not,. &. Then Cometh the wicked one, and catch. WOuld not y a because of the thick. 5 1 e the way side. But he that received the Would yielq aN increase of thirty, S€ed intg Stony place » the same is at hearst rd, and anon Witt = wat Or even hundredfolg., Teceiveth it; Y¢ © Not root in him lS interest.© O note that ¢ € self, but dur th for le: for wh n thorns hich lNg up in the Poor ttibulation 9, Persecution ariseth ease, ade of soil tg Choke the Word of t ey a Py he is Sr - God are the 'care of tp, World, and 2/80 that receive Sted among the orns;, is he tha eareth the word, © d the care the deceitfulness f riches, In good of this World, and the Cceitfulness of soil, the teacher Sow, Seeds of tiches, ¢ the word, an he be ometh truth With an ICIpatio d en usunfruitfy] ut he that recejy d seed into lasm, knowing that ther, wil be a ents ec gS Chaps not the exper' beareth fi, and bringeth fe th, some an harvest, but stil thirtyfolq if not an Aindredfold, som sixty, some thirty hundy dfold" (Dy. Ar] F g att. 13:18.23) 0od Tidings to All People) Even.; ee Was limited by the soil. Let ins will Ot permit the giving in teachers learn to prepare wel] the 0 il, as an example, AJ] of the Parables The Wheat and the Tares f the Testament may be Another o¢ the Master's great LESSON DEPARTMENT 635 assured that a time would come time than it does in the northerly When there would be a Separation climes, The lesson of the Parable js and the tares would be bummed The Telatively "sy to learn. "... The Seed time and manner were to be left to Of truth js vital, living, and capable he Lord. Of such €velopm aS to furnish e » Speaking to Joseph spiritual food a elter to al] w. Smith in 832, Teferred + his paracome seeking » € size of the le (D -7). It is Suggested kingdom + + WaS not to be Judged at the entire Section be read because it had a smal} b ginning The Mustard Seed The Leaven Y un-Jew h, for ¢ € children Of stood. Like the One la € considered Srael had Ong looked Tward to it typifie ] Inherent € comi Stat glory of the Mes. Power to grow ast diffuses Itself Siah, J Startled them hear its throughoy Ifeles and beginning ompared with 4 Mustard ¢ anges the floyr toab Oyant mass seed ever, the use of the mus. F ough. Tard plant f, h Comparison as € truths of the g Spel have the C on among Jews. | alesPOWer wit themselves When tine the Mustard plant attaing g larg. Understood, tO leaven the w T growth in 4 Comparatively shorter lump of humanj Hofmann 636 en in the flour and the spread of truth are sometimes slow in action but they work quietly and effectively. While the leaven symbolizes truth, it must be remembered that the same thing, in different aspects, may be used to represent evil. Evil power may also permeate or "'leaven" the whole lump. The Hidden Treasure The parable of the hidden treasure is recorded only by Matthew (13:44). The critic has often said that it was not honest for the finder to conceal the discovery of the treasure from the owner of the field. We may be assured that Jesus would not commend a dishonest act. The finder followed the Jewish law and all that was done was in accordance with the law of the day. Let us remember, also, that in the parabolic teaching of the day, little attention was given to what might be called the trappings, or outward forms. Certainly no one would, or did consider these trappings as an integral part of the story. The happy man who found the treasure sold all he possessed—gave up everything gladly—in order that he might purchase the field. The Master taught by this illustration that when once the treasure of the kingdom is found, the finder should lose no time nor shrink from any sacrifice needful to insure his title thereto. The Pearl of Great Price The parable of the pearl of great price should be carefully studied (Matt. 13:45-46). Of course, the pearl is used to represent great value. The merchant was seeking goodly pearls. When he found one which excelled all others, he sacriRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 ficed all he had to obtain it—it was the pearl of great price. The pearl represents truth. When it is found, no price is too great for its possession. No one can truly become a citizen of the kingdom who is unwilling to surrender all for that citizenship. 'The amount each person must pay depends on how much is "his all." That only is a sufficient price. Latter-day Saints have a great heritage. Their pioneer forebears gave their all for the "pearl of great prices' The Gospel Net Dr. John A. Widtsoe, in his book The Gospel Net, gives pathos and meaning to the parable of the same name. The gospel of the kingdom has been preached in many lands. It has gathered into its folds good and bad people, mostly good. Often the sorting does not take place until the people have gathered in Zion, and it may not be completely done there. The great "Fisher of Men" will make the final sorting eventually. The just and the unjust will be separated, and each given a reward according to merit. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. State why you think Jesus was a great teacher. From what source did he draw his great examples to illustrate his teaching? 2. Relate the parable of the sower and tell why it is sometimes called the parable of the soil. 3. Describe the parable of the wheat and the tares. What was the lesson taught by it? 4. If a copy of the book The Gospel Net is available, have someone tell briefly the story of the conversion of the mother of Dr. John A. Widtsoe. LESSON DEPARTMENT 637 Visiting Seachers Ilessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 3—"Inasmuch as Ye Have Done It Unto One of the Least of These My Brethren, Ye Have Done It Unto Me" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, December 7, 1948 Objective: To reaffirm what constitutes the true spirit of giving. Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world; For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger and ye took me in: Naked and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord when saw we thee an hungered, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me (Matt. 25:34-40). IFE, in the main, is thought of as being temporal rather than spiritual. Most of us are earth-drawn throughout the majority of our living days. We seek learning, work, position, and favor among our fellow men. In our struggle to attain these, we find passing satisfaction in the material things of the world. But there are greater things than these which make the material gains of life of secondary importance. The important values are the joys of the spirit. 'These come from the perfect service of feeding the Master's sheep. It is said by modern teachers that if someone holds a grudge against you, and you can get that person to do you a favor, his enmity will disappear for we cannot dislike one to whom we do good. Is it not true that one reason for the love of parents for their children is that they minister lovingly to the needs of their offspring? How then can we demonstrate our love for our Savior whom we cannot meet face to face? By obeying the first great commandment and the second which is like unto it: by loving our neighbors as ourselves. Then we shall better understand that the Lord who so loved each of us that he suffered death that we might live, accepts the service we give any of our brethren as being given to him. What a great opportunity our Church affords us to give such service through accepting calls to work in any capacity. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matthew 25:40). 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 Work Mleeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Making Women's Wear from Men's Wear Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, December 14, 1948 N most cases the wool used in men's suits, if it is of good quality, is far sturdier and more durable than that available in stores for women's clothing. Even after it has been discarded as shabby or worn out, the average man's suit offers unusual opportunities for making-over, because of the excellence of its texture and quality. The worn parts are usually found in places where they can be ignored when making over the man's suit into one for a woman. Such parts as sleeve edges, plackets, trouser seat, and cuffs can all be cut away without interfering with a woman's suit. When making a man's suit over into a street suit for yourself, it is usually necessary to shorten the sleeves, which does away with the worn part, and it is unnecessary to use the upper part of the trousers which 'eliminates those wom parts. The legs of the trousers are turned upside down to make the skirt, bringing any weak spots toward the hem and also allowing a little flare at the bottom. Fit the coat to your proportions. Make the shoulders narrower with a center dart tapered to the bustline in front. Narrow the neckline at the center back seams of coat and collar. Adjust the hip and waistline with a dart taken from the coat hem to under the bust, being sure it is in line with the shoulder dart. The side seams can be fitted as needed according to the lines of the figure. Sleeves can be taken in as needed, tapering them to match the underarm seams and the armhole. Shorten as necessary. Using the upper part of the trousers for the bottom, make a four-gored skirt. The new longer length can be obtained by making a fitted yoke for the top of the skirt from the unused top of the trousers or from the vest. When the man's suit is too faded or shabby to use on the right side, tip the suit to pieces, clean and remake using the wrong side of the fabric for the right side of your suit. The entire suit will need to be recut, using a commercial pattern. On most women the pockets in a man's coat come rather low. If they are patch pockets, they can be raised. If bound or flap pockets, a patch pocket can be set over them at a higher more becoming level. An attractive lady's suit can be made by cutting the coat short to just below the waistline thus avoiding the pockets entirely. For this model the collar can be eliminated and a plain fitted neckline used instead. If the suit is striped, many clever effects can be devised as trimming by reversing the stripes in bands, pockets, yokes, etc. Last, but not least, the man's coat could be easily made into a bolero. €aNn take the ye will alway ce) Ormon to the works (Alma a things of God."; 8 abound jn g00d 7i24)e 23 IS Is m y, that p thaps | ma Sa result, I «an instrument jn the hands of God ¢ found Wise co nsel, P! Nciples of the Joy (Alma 29:9 tated, antsy and epee Cot re PS wei Stated, nd p ophetic Crature of -... Do ye SUPpose se "4 mae not a ae Spiritual EXPTessions aré Im accord 32°10, 11), With the Bible, who divine lesson a ee" who mens ry. D s Of S€lves Withoy ein Compe €d to e um-_ this other Book of Books,; Fools mock t they shal] Mourn; and ( study of the Bible fro the literary €r 12:26 viewpoint, the eternal Purposes of the Lorg Iterature. Shall rol] On, until al] p; m his Promises shaq] Ormon §8:2> Ove little childr Te—sayings of pract;- cal worth and 1 i €N with g Perfect love. And they are all alik Plift, Pointing the Way of Tighteous n it 1 € and Partakers of say: a labor ¢ perform Whilst in this tabernacle of clay, that w, May confathering together the bits of WisToni 9:6) _ dom; but similar &€ms of distinctiye literary quality are to be found In _ Many, as th, many of the Chapters of the book Follow; Te c ook of Mor. Mon, Search fo such treasures will bring true Tiches. What May to of aa emo eke iy Pe "cep impresed 'table above all t ings (] Nephi 1:22), If the choice aying is wutten and oF it cutteth them very center (J IS Practice js commended rage) he ht b Waity will also be Elven to this che ght be; an — we h for Teclous lines jf the gems » "ie they might have joy (1 Nephi are Studie Mm their Settings, Foy every book of this Scnpture wil] 5, 'oul-stirring quali f life are amplified ang Clarified by ur readers may recall that In the amon, there S No such Yea, IS the love of God, which shed- © Builty taketh the truth ¢ be hard See that ye have faith, hope and char. Ning 'some soul to "epentance; and is my ) of these ship God only once in a Week? (Alma Ima 32:16) 3 Cate MY grace js Sufficient for the meek (Eth.( — ok, quer the enemy f all Tighteousness (Mo. Be found of appeal to €ach one who Cpt in a little book of Teference example, after the Soul-testing Strug- Class. Leaders. Here Are Your Reference Books for your 1948-49 Social Science Lessons CO) MAN AND THE DRAGON.........00 20.000...$2.00 Dr. John A. Widtsoe 0 JOSEPH SMITH: PROPHET-STATESDr. G. Homer Durham O| GOSPEL KINGDOM $2.25 Dr. G: Homer Durham CL] DISCOURSES OF WILFORD WOODDr. G. Homer Durham BOOKCRAFT 1186 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah When ordering, add 2% Sales Tax in Utah Write for listing of books ASUVANTCCAUULUROTROUUSOATA ESCH REST UERTS CSUN ORE CRUARC NOES EAe SELECT YOURS NOW FROM OUR COLLECTION OF AMERICA'S FINEST CHRISTMAS CARDS by Hallmark, Norcross,- Gibson, NuArt, Bank B. Gordon, Exclusive, American Artists and many others. Ei Children study best with good SCHOOL SUPPLIES Let us help you outfit your family. Pembroke's 24 East Broadway Tel. 4-8424 TT MUMNTOLHAADEOSUOUENUADGUNSUDODOOUEREDOONUOSSOCAEODESHESEOOUGODOULOOQUEDOUGAUEAUCQUOANOONUGEOONIS HUUEADUGUTAOSGERUEEUUEADEADTAGLORTORTOTL UOUUEAALGREDEROGUGRSORAUGUAUCEAGDEGEDEEUOCEODQNIGUNCEUEOUAGGUROGSUESEREROONSOUAGOI SES ONRDEAODSONRDOODEREA EAA GUADUODUOCUONSORONDODOGEOODNUOUDADGSDERULOSEORUSEAUUISINSEIGE anvaaeeaer THAT'S WHAT YOU GET IN ona "among fons — a find any color you want to match any color in draperies, wallpaper—anything. BENNETT''S 65 West First South and Bennett's branches and dealers in Utah and Idaho Our Zz Tease Most food buyers like to 'shop in clean, light, airy stores where they may take all the time they desire to select the foods they eat. We have spared no expense or labor to make O. P. Skaggs System stores just such places. Try shopping at your nearest O. P. S. Store, just once. We know you will be back regularly. O. P, SKAGGS " STORES Page 641 MAN RUFF $2.25 $2.50 642 gles on the part of Lehi and Nephi to get to the borders of the sea, and build the ship for the great voyage, the "ball" was given for their help and guidance. And Nephi with appreciative heart says, "Thus we see that by small means the Lord can bring about great things" (I Nephi 16:29). Again when Alma admonishes his erring son Corianton—as quoted in part in our previous lesson, the sorrowful father says, "Do not suppose... Ye shall be restored from sin to happiness. Behold, I say unto you, wickedness never was happiness" (Alma 41:10). Some of these profound lines of wisdom sprinkled through the pages of the Book of Mormon, lay emphasis on certain basic themes. For example, liberty, equality, and human welfare are given repeated attention in such passages as the following: Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land (America) unto me, and to my children forever, and also all those who should be led out of other countries by the hand of the Lord.... And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them (From the words of Lehi: II Nephi 1:5, 7). And even I, myself, have labored with mine own hands that I might serve you, and that ye should not be laden with taxes.... If I whom ye call your king, do labor to serve you, then ought not ye to labor to serve one another?" (From words of King Benjamin: Mosiah 2:14, 18). And he also commanded them that the priests whom he had ordained should labor with their own hands.... And the priests were not to depend upon the people for their support.... And again Alma commanded that the people of the church should impart of their substance, every one according to that which he had.... And they did walk uprightly before God, imparting to one another both temporally RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 A Great CAP... Is beginning at the "Y" Coming from all parts of the Church, more young people than ever before will be at Brigham Young University for the opening of the 1948-1949 school year. They will find unequalled opportunities for high standard education in the world's finest social and spiritual environment. AUTUMN QUARTER DATES New students' Orientation Sept. 24, 25 Registration Days Sept. 27, 28 WINTER QUARTER BEGINS JAN. 5 (New students' applications due Dec. 1) BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY ahaa a" aTaa aT aTaa aaa MaMa aaMaMae FOR... RELIEF SOCIETY REFERENCE BOOKS AND ALL OTHER BOOKS OF THE CHURCH Write EZRA 1. MARLER L. D. S. BOOKS BY MAIL Salt Lake City, Utah STANDARD PRICES PERSONAL SERVICE SAME-DAY MAILING Write for Free 1948 Price List ee Box 267 LESSON DEPARTMENT and spiritually according to their needs and their wants (From story of Alma and the Church of Christ: Mosiah 18:24 ff.). Joy in Righteous Living is another theme echoed in varied effective expressions throughout the Book of Mormon. For example: O all ye that are pure in heart, lift up your heads and receive the pleasing word of God, and feast upon his love; for ye may, if your minds are firm, forever (Jacob 3:2). Whatsoever is good cometh from God, and whatsoever is evil cometh from the devil (Alma 5:40). In the moving story that Alma the younger tells to his son Helaman, of his being redeemed from sin and turned to the joy of active goodness, we have an effective example of stirring literature. Writes Alma: And now, for three days and for three nights was I racked, even with the pains of a damned soul. And.... While I was hartowed up by the memory of my many sins, behold, I remembered also to have heard my father prophesy unto the people concerning the coming of one Jesus Christ, a Son of God, to atone for the sins of the world. Now, as my mind caught hold upon this thought, I cried within my heart: O Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on me, who am in the gall of bitterness, 'and am encircled about by the everlasting chains of death.... When I thought this, I could remember my pains no more.... Yea, my soul was filled with joy as exceeding as was my pain!: Yea, and from that time... I have labored without ceasing, that I might bring souls unto repentance; that I might bring them to taste of the exceeding joy of which I did taste; that they might also be born of God, and be filled with the Holy Ghost (Alma 36:16 ff.). 643 joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary + A name through three generations which has carried implicit confidence from the time of appointment by President Brigham Young as the first mortician in the Intermountain West. The cost is a matter of your own desire. Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 No. Main Salt Lake City Autumn Quarter at a greater University of Utah Make plans to enroll for the 1948- 49 school year—a year during which the most extensive program in the history of the university will be offered. Opening Dates Sept. 20 English and Achievement tests for freshman. Sept. 21 Freshman assembly at Kingsbury Hall. Sept. 23 Registration of freshman, Sept. 24-25 Registration of all others. Sept. 27 Regular classwork begins. University of Utah Salt Lake City We Recommend the Following Music as Specially Suitable for Relief Society Choruses Beside Still Waters Hamblen 22 LG Bless This House Brahe = ee AS Eye Hath Not Seen Gaul How Beautiful Upon the Mountains Harker ieee ecceeeeeeeeeeeeeeenes 16 How Lovely Are Thy eed Liddle _..... Es |) How Lovely Are The Messengers Mendelssohn uw... En 12 In The Garden - Miles eee oll Invocation Moore _.............. ) ees |) King of Glory | XS <=}.20 King Of Love My Shepherd Is Shelley 0 16 Lord Is My Light Allitsen 2200S Open Our Eyes MacFarlane 18 Stranger of Galilee Morris) ee20 Teach Me To Pray Jewitt 2 5 Prices Quoted Are Net Postpaid Cx Mail orders usually sent same day received Da FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET Wtuste SALY LAKE CITY 1, UTAH In this study one is reminded of the admonition from John (5:39): "search the scriptures." Certainly in the Book of Mormon there is a wealth of Wisdom Literature of practical, sterling worth. Added to this there are many places where the prophets of long ago days on our American continent made plain the divine principles of the gospel. As a striking example take the masterful interpretation of the resurrection and the restoration by the prophet Alma, as recorded in chapters 4o and 41 of the book of Alma, or from the same book in chapter 42, the exposition of justice and mercy. This represents really great religious literature. It is worth reading and re-reading; indeed one must read it often—grow up with it, to grasp its deep import. A few concluding paragraphs from these splendid chapters will serve here to illustrate the profound thought, the high literary quality of the whole portrayal of divine truth: But God ceaseth not to be God, and mercy claimeth the penitent, and mercy cometh because of the atonement; and the atonement bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead; and the resurrection of the dead bringeth back men into the presence of God; and thus they are restored into his presence, to be judged according to their works, according to the law and justice. For behold, justice exerciseth all his demands, and also mercy claimeth all which is her own; and thus none but the truly penitent are saved... Therefore, O my son, whosoever will come may come and partake of the waters of life freely; and whosoever will not come the same is not compelled to come; but in the last day it shall be restored unto him according to his deeds. If he has desired to do evil, and has not 644 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 ae" AUERBACH'S Helps You Make in fifteen patterns Burlap backs 1.50 to 3.49 7 A Warp cloth backs 6.98 to 8.98, Rug yarn 2 oz. Skein 50c: Frame 7.98 It's easy to learn, we give free instruction as long as you need it, and help you get the back on the frame. Work in our sewing room. The rugs you hook will be beautiful and last for many, many years. Art & Needlework—Fourth Floor LADIES! When you come to con-. Ference we cordially invite you to drop in at Our store and see and hear the beautiful HAMMOND ORGAN! 74 South Main Si. GLEN-BROS. MUSIC C0. Chs Cols *'Idaho's Latter-day Saint College" repented in his days, behold, evil shall be done unto him, according to the restoration of God. Only a few hints of the richness of the 0spel messages, with some Suggestions of their distinctive it. Etary quality—their sincerity and clarity in Tevealing Saving truths— could be given in this brief lesson. Brought forth with divine help by the Prophet of these latter days. The Book of Mormon contains a wealth Reference: Book of Mormon. Each member of the class should provide herk 1. What is one essential difference be. Tween the Presentation of Wisdom Literature, as represented by "Proverbs" and such literature in the Book of Mor. Mon? B. In what Tespect is there a similarity? Give, for example, one of the proverbs and some like gem from ollege example of an Exposition of basic pos pel Principles found in the Book of Fall Term StartsSept. 9-13 a. II Nephi 26:23 to end of chapter; "b. Mosiah 4:21 to end of chapter; c, Alma 18:10-35: Helaman 13:1-3 Write the Registrar at Rexburg, Idaho, fora Catalogue 646 tite "bok sar Mannan 2. Make a study in class of some good mon. Take, if you will, one of the ollowing ot some other of your own selection RELIEF SOCiETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1948 Is Expanding toda Four-Year Why Not Enroll at Ricks? Inter Term StartsDec. 6 Pring Term StartsMarch 7 smmer Term StartsJune 6 LESSON DEPARTMENT and continue with 30 to end of chapter; e. II] Nephi 1 to 17- 3. Caution: In making any of the foregoing studies keep attention not alone on the doctrine—but. Also upon the effective expression of the principles of life and salvation so well portrayed. The Book of Mormon—while in consonance with the Old and the New Testament in the presentation of gospel truth—has a distinctive style or way of presenting old truths. This is but natural, because of the different authors who have made the record— and it adds to the charm of this "Book of Books." One good way to enhance the appreciation of this "New Witness for Christ" is to have some of its fine passages voiced or read aloud expres sively. > SOCIAL SCIENCE No lessons are planned for December in the Social Science and Optional departments, due to the holiday season. ET SPRING GARDENS START WITH FALL PLANTING Write today for our free Autumn Catalog illustrated in full color. TULIPS DAFFODILS HYACINTHS AND LILIES _ PERENNIALS "TREES AND SHRUBS September is Lawn Planting Month PORTER-WALTON CO. P, O. Box 1619 Salt Lake City 11. Utah 647 NE A TO OT LISTEN TO THE RICH, TRADITIONAL TONE OF A WURLITZER ORGAN 4 Models Now Available Priced To Churches At Your Chorus Will Improve With A Wurlitzer From SUMMERHAYS MUSIC CO. 17 W. First So. Salt Lake City Pine LOL A Qdeal pul for @ HOUSE HEATING @ WATER HEATING @ COOKING bd REFRIGERATION MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Serving 26 Utah and Wyoming Communities $1,091.42 $2,481.98 $1,382.92 $3,479.00 From lear and Sar Rosa Lee Lloyd, author of "Learn of Love," says that somewhere during her early education she learned about love and how important it is when writing poetry or fiction or staying married to the same man forever and ever. Rosa Lee began her writing career at the age of seven and even now she has to be careful or her imagination will run away with her. She has won two national story prizes and has sold numerous stories and poems to United States and Canadian national magazines. She was editor of the Year Book at Davis County High School, a member of the Utonian staff at the University of Utah, and she is a past president of the Art Barn board of directors, past president of the Barnacles (story-writing group) and is now the president of the Salt Lake Chapter, League of Utah writers. Mrs. Lloyd and her husband Llewellyn lost their gifted and promising son Tyndale in the recent war, KK KK I should like to take this opportunity to mention the enjoyment I have gained from reading the fine material presented in the Relief Society Magazine. "The Visitors" by Fay Tarlock (March 1948) and "'Pankapaw" by Deone R. Sutherland (March 1948) held a particular appeal to me, —lIris W. Schow, Brigham City, Utah It is indeed a pleasure to have work appearing in a Magazine which consistently publishes real poetry. "Hillside Grain Field' by Eva Willes Wangsgaard is delightful. —Elaine Swain, Vallejo, California I appreciate the fine material contained in the Relief Society Magazine and look forward to receiving it each month. —Rose G. Goates, President, West Utah Stake Relief Society, Provo, Utah I especially like the editorial "Of Fathers and daughters" (June 1948) for my father was very dear to me. And I like the photos and art work of the Magazine. —Gladys I. Hamilton, Mancos, Colorado Page 648 Carol Read Flake, author of "Sudden Storm," tells us: 'Words cannot express the joy with which I received notice of the acceptance of my story. I am humbly happy that my first story is to appear in the publication of my own beloved Relief Society. During my mission to the Fastern States (1935-37) I served for a time as mission Relief Society secretary under Sister Don B. Colton. I am the mother of five children, four sons and one daughter. The oldest is eight and the youngest is one. I shall be happy when I can be regularly engaged in Church work, but I hope to have more children—girls! Ee KR I have received letters from people as widely separated as California and New Jersey referring to my _ recent article ("For Makers of Rhythmic Beauty," June 1948). Ome lady in the East wanted to start to work immediately on a course of work under me, but I had to tell her I was not teaching a correspondence course in the subject at this time. You are putting out a very attractive and helpful Magazine. Warmest wishes for your continued success. Dr. Carlton Culmsee Utah State Agricultural College Logan, Utah Anna S. D. Johnson, author of "The Seventh Handcart Company," published in the July issue of the Magazine, has been requested by many readers to furnish a list of the five couples married aboard ship. Here is the list: C. C. A, Chnstensen and Eliza Haarby; C. C. N. Dorius and Ellen Gurinda Rolfson; J. F. F. Dorius and Karen Frandson; Lauritz Larson and Anne M. Thompson; Jacob Bastian and Gertrude Pederson. "Some young people said regarding my story 'Questing Lights,'" writes Belle Watson Anderson, "that they thought everyone who came over on the trek was an old or tired person. 'How lovely to find they were young people, just like we are, with our problems.. Sources. Off Enrichment for Relief Society Lessons Essentials in Church History 714 pages $2.50 By Joseph Fielding Smith The Restored Church 740 pages $2.50 By Wm. E. Berrett Presidents of the Church 372 pages $3.00 By Preston Nibley Joseph Smith, An American Prophet 440 pages $3.00 By John Henry Evans Joseph the Prophet 179 pages $1.50 By Daryl Chase Joseph Smith, the Prophet 552 pages $3.00 By Preston Nibley Teachings of the Prophet Joseph 410 pages $2.50 By Joseph Fielding Smith Brigham Young, Man and His Work5s2 pages $2.50 By Preston Nibley Life of Heber C. Kimball 507 pages $3.00 By Orson F. Whitney Life of Joseph F. Smith 490 pages 2.90 By Joseph Fielding Smith Gospel Doctrine 553 pages 2.00 Discourses of President Jos. F. Smith Gospel Standards 386 pages $2.25 Discourses of President Grant Comprehensive History of the Church $25.00 Six Volumes By B. H. Roberts COLORED CHURCH HISTORY PICTURES Set of 93, 8" x 10". People, famous places, evenis, achievements, from the beginning to the present. An illuminating aid to illustrating your lessons $3.00 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please find $000. For which please send books and pictures as follows: Name onan.. Address... Os 22eee cnn Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, 7 PERMIT No. 690 Sleep peacefully little one, tucked away in a safe place is a bundle of 'Beneficial Life Policies" that guarantee you and your mama will always have a home and plenty of nourishing food. COMPANY NSURANCE (: 1 et Sait Lake City, Bead NS Coerge Albect Smith, Pres. Ghia | J MAGAZINE VOL. 35 NO. 10 Lessons for January OCTOBER 1948 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Aleine M. Young Mary G. Judd Leone G. Layton Florence G. Smith Josie B. Bay Anna B. Hart Blanche B. Stoddard Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Edith S. Elliott Evon W. Peterson Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Priscilla L. Evans Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 35 OCTOBER, 1948 No. 10 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Your Friend—the Magazine Alberta H. Christensen 652 Relief Society Building News.........-...--..0:--0---+ 654 Oquirrh Stake Uses Tree Drawing in Magazine Promotion 667 Braided Rugs Are Beautiful Delma Peterson 681 Articulate, Resonant Words in Singing Florence J. Madsen 719 FICTION Curtain Call Maryhale Woolsey 661 The Russells Did Not Go to Church—Chapter 3 Edith Russell 671 Questing Lights—Chapter 7 Belle Watson Anderson 676 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 668 Woman's Sphere ees eececcoeescnneenneeeees Ramona W. Cannon 669 Editorial: The Meaning of October 2...........-.. Ssecscsn-necesesesesesnecsesstosesnsseseceseeeceeneererecesesVesta P. Crawford 670 Annual Report—1947.. General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 682 From Near and Far 720 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: 'Peace Be Still'' Elder Don B. Colton 696 Visiting Teachers' Messages: 'In the World Ye Shall Have Tribulation: But Be of Good heer' Elder H. Wayne Driggs 701 Work Meeting—Sewing: Salvage From Shirts Jean Ridges jennie 702 Literature: Words of Light and Truth From the Prophet............00.00-.00-Elder Howard R. Driggs 703 Social Science: Political Ideas Advocated by the Prophet Joseph Smith: is a: Elder G. Homer Durham 707 Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science: The Presidency of Brigham Young..- SS... A Elder T. Edgar Lyon 711 POETRY Epilogue—Frontispiece......... Wu.--.--Beatrice K. Ekman 651 Sas siseeecennngoseenecccouccsceeseconsrtiseseeensatees canniveseensresvessneneerannteesttttessteessstseiseeeeineereenn Grace M. Candlend 674 Migrants oo. Eecceeceoee Others May Lament.. Walk With Me — voce a Marvin Jones 675 Senate gecrerenrer ss errr teedlngsDeer ——s 4 iain Night... Marijane Morris 680 = SS — Oe — mm... I i i 7 a Se aCen EE eee PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop' ildi i toad lESs é p's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 83-2741: Sub- —-- 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; > ~ ee —— eat. 15e. The 4 is not sent after subscription expires. No su ied. Enew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.; =; Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the P i 3, ost Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under —~ of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103. Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed, Rej i i i i m p, jected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Ei ew Things Are Constant o. N.... Cccsccsessecssessusececoeecessovssnessuesnsesacssusensssanesns LINES enna nesneceuveeuueUeTeseSETWeTTEUSTOUETsosvonsersenecsecnessecores saccraussstenseonsesuseeeHsune <dtuazs. Mabel Jones Gabbott 675 velyn Fijeldste CMI 40th ANNIVERSARY Parade of Progress WATCH FOR OUR ~ OUTSTANDING SALES EVENTS! Gull ZIONS COOPERATIVE MERCANTILE INSTITUTION THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE EPILOGUE Beatrice K. Ekman I have come back to our mountains, To our valleys and inland sea; To cedared hills and cattle range, In quest of tranquility. Warm wind flows down from the foothills And pours over fields of grain; Glistening blades of tasseled corn Ate rippling and rustling again; Watching the bearded barley blow, In billowing waves like the sea, Brings back a spindrift of moments That are lost forever to me. Over the hills dry leaves will drift, Winters will lay white covers down; Springs will return and lilies bend, The summers fade and fields burn brown.... As west wind combs the mauve hill grass And brine waves cream the sands with foam, So, shuttle-swift, let my days pass Until I reach my love and home. VOL. 35, NO. 10 OCTOBER 1948 Your Friend—the Magazine Alberta H. Christensen Member, Relief Society General Board NE of the most challenging statements in Latter-day Saint literature is found in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 130:18-19. It is this: Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. If this be true, and we believe it is, we are under the moral obligation to study and to learn, to seek wisdom through the pursuit of truth. Limitations of time and mental capacity may prevent us from being expert in most fields, but each of us can enlarge her understanding by study and by maintaining mental alertness to the opportunities around us. All Latter-day Saint women are familiar with the words of the Prophet, spoken at the Relief Society meeting of April 28, 1842, when he said, "... And this society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth." It was thus the intent from the beginning of the organization that intelligence, which is the capacity for understanding, should grow and expand through divine guidance, and that the gaining of knowledge should be fostered, its power felt and wisely used by its members. Page 652 It is also apparent that the dual objective of the Relief Society was recognized at this early date. Service to others and the development of self has been the two-fold aim kept constantly in mind by those who have guided the organization to its present maturity. An educational program was organized which has _ developed through succeeding years. In time, uniform courses of study were planned, their specific purpose being to teach those eternal principles which are the foundation of the gospel; to develop faith through understanding so that all might enjoy the fruits of the spirit: and to assist the members in meeting the daily problems of life. It was with a definite objective and with definite needs in mind that The Relief Society Magazine came into being. Its editors have been and are conscious of the needs and problems which face the Latter-day Saint family and are endeavoring to help in their solution through this medium. They are conscious of the busy life which the average Latter-day Saint mother lives and have selected types of material which will not only meet personal needs but will conform in reading time to a busy schedule. This wise selection of material is important, for the complexity of modern living demands that we be selective as never before. The woman of today furnishes her home YOUR FRIEND—THE MAGAZINE by choosing from many types of furniture and multiple objects of art. She chooses her wardrobe from numerous fabrics and designs, and her hobbies from a wide variety of interesting activities. Discrimination is especially important in filling her leisure time, for in spite of the many labor-saving devices, her interests have widened and there is increased activity from which to choose. Someone has wisely said that it is not what one needs to do but what one chooses to do that distinguishes character. HE woman of today must be especially selective in her reading for the amount of printed material placed monthly before the public is tremendous. She must select from this morass that which she feels will best fill her needs, mentally, aesthetically, and spiritually. With time as a limiting factor, it is obvious that she must choose wisely. Does The Relief Society Magazine qualify to a place on the selective reading list of the Latter-day Saint woman? I think that it does because it meets so many of her needs. Helpful suggestions on almost all phases of homemaking are given. Pre-tested recipes and nutritional budget-wise menus lead the busy housewife to new ways of preparing familiar foods. Suggestions on making and remodeling of clothing should be especially appreciated at present because of the sudden change in design and length. There is poetry and short fiction for an aesthetic lift—a little star dust to sprinkle on the ironing board and the dishpan. Letters from near and distant readers attest the 653 fact that the quality of both poem and story is being improved and appreciated. The Magazine also supplies a market (though limited) for the creative efforts of Latter-day Saint women. Although not many contributions can be used monthly, encouragement is offered writers through the Eliza R. Snow Poem and the Relief Society Short Story contests and through the gracious consideration of material submitted at any time. The outlines for the courses of study are not only indispensable to the class leaders, but can be equally helpful and stimulating to all who read them carefully. Much thought and skill have gone into their preparation. Here is a deep well of wisdom for every reader who will make the text her own through individual reflection. Here is guidance in the art of living for all who will make application. And here is found in the counsel of the wise, a kindly light which mellows trials and can heal a sorrow. Editorials and special articles offer spiritual enrichment to all who read them thoughtfully, and one must not overlook the attractive covers which the Magazine is "wearing.' They have received much commendation. "Notes from the Field" with accompanying photographs impress us with the unity of purpose and strength of a great organization. But perhaps the Magazine's greatest service lies in the fact that it radiates a definite spiritual influence; a service-loving, beauty-seeking influence which can revitalize any home which greets it and treats it as a friend. Reliof Society Building ews ntil the Names of al] Stakes and Wards, nd bra Which attained 105 Yo Of the Building Fund have been Ptinted, t they May be T€cognized and that The Relief Society Magazine May contain cord. Any Mementos of the past "Poch-making year treasured Y Relief Society through Coming years First wil] be the voluminous central record Preserved by the Seneral board jn book form In which will € Inscribed the name of every Relief Society Quota Gift ontributor, ang that of every Special Gift and Memoria] Gift Contributor, Jy Is planned that the "ompuled names of "ontributors wil} be kept in 7 Special case jn Any Relief Society member May be the Proud possesso, of three types of Teceipt cards. (1) the Quota Receipt Card for the Payment of 4 quota donation, (2) a Special Gift Receipt Card for the Payment of 4 donation IN excess of the quota; and (3) a Memoria] Gift Receipt Card for every Made, the years. Many of the great future leaders of Relief Society who today are mere girls will undoubtedly own "Special Gift Receipt Cards." The Relief Society as part of the Church makes painstaking records and carefully preserves them, and out of Relief Society record books will shine forever bright the devoted and unselfish services of the women of the Church in the Relief Society Building Fund program of October 1947 to October 1948. STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS SoutH Ipano Farts Stake (IDAHO) IpaHo Faris Stake (IpaHo) San Dieco Stake (CALIFORNIA) WELLS Stake (Uran) TETON STAKE (IDAHO AND WyYoMING) GraniTE Stake (UrTau) Nortu Ipano Faris Stake (IDAHO) EMIGRATION STAKE (UrTan) Mesa STAKE (ARIZONA) Rexpurc STAKE (IDAHO) Uvapa Staxe (NeEvaApA AND UTan) Uran Stake (UTaH) © SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON) SoutH Los ANGELES STAKE (CALIF.) Juarez Stake (Mexico) Fioripa STAKE (FLORIDA) TemMeLe View Stake (Uran) Bear River Stake (UtTau) PaROWAN STakE (UTAH) Crepar Stake (UrTaH) Liperty STAKE (Uran) SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH) SucaR House Stake (Utan) SaLt Lake Staxe (Ura) San Luis StaKE (CoLorapo) OneIDA STAKE (IDAHO) Tooece Stake (UtTau) San Juan Stake (UTan) SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) Grant Stake (Uran) East Provo Staxe (Utau) AMERICAN Farxs Stake (IDAHO) Ogurrru Stake (UTAH) East Ricsy Stake (Ipano) San BERNARDINO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) Maricopa STAKE (ARIZONA) San Francisco Stake (CALIFORNIA) WEISER STAKE (IDAHO) Oanu Staxe (Hawar) West PocaTetto Staxe (IDAHO) TAYLOR STAKE (CANADA) Wayne Stake (UTAH) Lone Bracu Stake (CAuirornia) Nampa Stake (IDAHO) Bren Lomonp Stake (Utan) East Mixt Creex Stake (Uran) West Urtan Stake (UTAH) INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA) Pato Ato StTaKE (CALIFORNIA) Lent StaKe (UtTan). OcpENn Stake (Uran) SAN FERNANDO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) Hitisipe STAKE (UTAH) SourH Ocpen Stake (UTAH) TIMPANOGOS STAKE (UraH) Norto Rexsurce Staxe (IpAno) Mount Ocpen Srake (Urtan) Cassta Stake (IDAHO) PALMYRA STAKE (UTAH) GRANTSVILLE STAKE (UTAH) BLacKFooT STAKE (IDAHO) BONNEVILLE STAKE (UrAn) Bur. Ey Stake (IDAHO) Davis Stake (Utau) East Cacue Stake (Utan) HIcHLAND Stake (Uran) Hyrum Stake (Utan) Morcean Stake (UrtAn) Nort Sevier Stake (Urtan) PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) - PHoEenix STAKE (ARIZONA) Provo Stake (UtaH) SoutH Summit Stake (UTAH) West Jorpan Stake (UTAH) Minipoxa Stake (IDAHO) FRANKLIN STAKE (IDAHO) Lyman STAKE (WyYoMInNc) SNOWFLAKE STAKE (ARIZONA) SoutH Carona STAKE (So. CAROLINA) Bic Cotronwoop Srake (Uta) Curcaco Stake (ILiINo! S) PoRTNEUF STAKE (IDAHO) Reno StaxE (NEvapDA) Ricpy STAKE (IpaHo) Benson Stake (UtaAun) LETHBRIDGE STAKE (CANADA) SAN JOAQUIN STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 655 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS NorTHERN CALIFORNIA MIssION EASTERN STATES Mission SAMOAN Mission Hawatan Mission PALESTINE-SYRIAN MISSION Toncan Mission New ZEALAND MIssIoNn FinnisH MIssion WESTERN STATES MISSION East CENTRAL StTaTEs MIssION CeEntTRAL Paciric Mission NorTHERN STATES Mission CALIFORNIA MIssION SwepisH MIssIon WARDS AND BRANCHES (IN STAKES) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the September Magazine and prior to September 3, 1948) Acequia Ward, Minidoka Afton South Ward, Star Valley Alpine Ward, St. Johns American Fork First Ward, Alpine American Fork Second Ward, Alpine American Fork Fourth Ward, Alpine American Fork Fifth Ward, Alpine American Fork Seventh Ward, Alpine Annis Ward, Rigby Arcade Ward, Sacramento. Arcadia Ward, Duchesne Arimo Ward, Portneuf Arsenal Villa Branch, Lake View Aurora Ward, North Sevier Barnum Ward, Denver Barnwell Ward, Lethbridge Batavia Branch, Chicago Bellflower Ward, Long Beach Bennett Ward, Roosevelt Bingham Ward, West Jordan Binghampton Ward, Southern Arizona Bisbee Ward, Southern Arizona Blackfoot First Ward, Blackfoot Boneta Ward, Moon Lake Boulder City Ward, Moapa Bridgeland Ward, Duchesne Burley Second Ward, Burley Burley Fifth Ward, Burley Butler Ward, East Jordan Caldwell Ward, Nampa Calgary Ward, Lethbridge Cambndge Ward, Portneuf Canyon Heights Branch, East Cache Capitol Ward, Washington Carmichael Branch, Sacramento Castledale Ward, Emery Castleford Branch, Twin Falls Cedar Valley Ward, Lehi Center Ward, Wasatch Centerville Second Ward, Davis Charleston Ward, South Carolina Chevy Chase Ward, Washington Claysprings Ward, Snowflake Clover Ward, Grantsville Compton Ward, Long Beach Copperton Ward, West Jordan Cottonwood Ward, Big Cottonwood Cove Ward, Benson Stake Crestmoor Ward, Denver Daniel Ward, Wasatch Darlington Branch, South Carolina Declo Ward, Burley Denver First Ward, Denver Diamond City Ward, Lethbridge Dietrich Branch, Blaine Douglas Ward, Bonneville Downey Ward, Portneuf Draper Second Ward, Mount Jordan Duchesne Ward, Duchesne Duncan Ward, Park East Mill Creek Ward, East Mill Creek Eden Ward, Minidoka Eden Ward, Ogden Edgemont Ward, Sharon E] Paso Branch, Mt. Graham E] Paso Ward, Mt. Graham Elberta Branch, Santaquin-Tintic Ephraim South Ward, South Sanpete Ephraim West Ward, South Sanpete Escalante North Ward, Garfield Etna Ward, Star Valley Eugene Ward, Portland Eureka Ward, Santaquin-Tintic Evans Branch, North Box Elder Fairfield Ward, Blaine Fairview North Ward, North Sanpete Fallon Ward, Reno Farmington Ward, Davis Fayette Ward, Gunnison Fifteenth Ward, Riverside Flagstaff Ward, Snowflake Francis Ward, South Summit RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS Fredonia Ward, Kanab Fremont Ward, Wayne Garden View Ward, East Jordan Geneva Ward, Orem Glendale West Ward, San Fernando Glines Ward, Uintah Gooding Ward, Blaine Grant Ward, Rigby Grantsville First Ward, Grantsville Grantsville Second Ward, Grantsville Greenriver Ward, Carbon Greentimber Branch, Yellowstone Greenville Ward, Beaver Gridley Ward, Gridley Grove Ward, Timpanogos Grover Branch, Wayne Hamer Ward, Rigby Hanksville Ward, Wayne Hartsville Ward, South Carolina Hawthorne Ward, Reno Hazelton Ward, Minidoka Heber First Ward, Wasatch Heber Second Ward, Wasatch Henefer Ward, Summit Henrieville Ward, Panguitch Hibbard Ward, North Rexburg Highland Park Ward, Highland Hillcrest Ward, Sharon Holden Ward, Millard Holladay Ward, Big Cottonwood Homedale Ward, Nampa Homestead Ward, Sacramento Hooper First Ward, Lake View Hoytsville Ward, Summit Hyde Park Ward, East Cache Hyrum Second Ward, Hyrum — Hyrum Third Ward, Hyrum Imperial Ward, Highland loka Ward, Roosevelt Irvington Ward, Portland Jerome First Ward, Blaine Jerome Second Ward, Blaine Joseph Ward, South Sevier Junction Ward, Garfield Kamas Ward, South Summit Kanab North Ward, Kanab Kaysville Second Ward, Davis Kelso Branch, Portland Kingston Ward, Garfield Kirtland Ward, Young Kuna Ward, Nampa LaBrea Ward, Los Angeles La Cienega Ward, Inglewood Lakeshore Ward, Palmyra Lakeside Ward, Snowflake Laketown Ward, Bear Lake Lake View Ward, Sharon 657 Lark Ward, West Jordan Las Vegas Second Ward, Moapa Lava Hot Springs Ward, Portneuf Layton Fourth Ward, North Davis Lehi First Ward, Lehi Lehi Fourth Ward, Lehi Lehi Fifth Ward, Lehi Leota Ward, Roosevelt Lewiston First Ward, Benson Lewisville Ward, Rigby Linden Branch, Snowflake Lindon Ward, Timpanogos Linrose Ward, Franklin Loa Ward, Wayne Logan First Ward, Logan Logan Fifth Ward, East Cache Logan Tenth Ward, East Cache Logan Eleventh Ward, Mount Logan Logan Thirteenth Ward, Mount Logan Logan Eighteenth Ward, East Cache Logandale Ward, Moapa Long Beach Ward, Long Beach Lost River Ward, Lost River Lund Ward, Nevada Lyman Ward, Lyman Lyman Ward, Wayne Mackay Ward, Lost River McCammon Ward, Portneuf McGill Ward, Nevada McKinnon Ward, Lyman Maeser Ward, Uintah Manavu Ward, Provo Manila Ward, Lyman Mantua Ward, South Box Elder Marion Ward, Cassia Mar Vista Ward, Inglewood Marsing Branch, Nampa Marysville Ward, Yellowstone Merrill Branch, Portneuf Metropolis Ward, Humboldt Millville Ward, Hyrum Milton Ward, Morgan Mission Park Ward, Pasadena Monrovia Ward, Pasadena Montpelier First Ward, Montpelier Montpelier Fourth Ward, Montpelier Moreland Ward, Portland Mount Carmel Ward, Kanab Mount Ogden Ward, Mount Ogden Mount Tabor Ward, Portland Mt. View Ward, Lyman Mountain View Ward, Hillside Mountainville Branch, North Sanpete Myton Ward, Roosevelt Nampa Third Ward, Nampa Nampa Fourth Ward, Nampa Neola Ward, Roosevelt 658 Nephi Fourth Ward, Juab North Farmington Ward, Davis North Hollywood Ward, San Fernando North Long Beach Ward, Long Beach North Ogden First Ward, Ben Lomond North Ogden Second Ward, Ben Lomond Nutrioso Ward, St. Johns Oakley First Ward, Cassia Oakley Second Ward, Cassia Oakley Third Ward, Cassia Ogden Fifth Ward, Mount Ogden Ogden Eighth Ward, Ben Lomond Ogden Ninth Ward, South Ogden Ogden Twelfth Ward, Mount Ogden Ogden Thirteenth Ward, Ogden Ogden Fourteenth Ward, South Ogden Ogden Twenty-first Ward, Ben Lomond Ogden Twenty-sixth Ward, South Ogden Ogden Twenty-eighth Ward, South Ogden Ogden Twenty-ninth Ward, Ben Lomond Ogden Thirtieth Ward, Ogden Ogden Thirty-third Ward, Mount Ogden Ogden Thirty-fourth Ward, South Ogden Orderville Ward, Kanab Oroville Ward, Gridley Orton Ward, Lethbridge Palo Alto Ward, Palo Alto Paris First Ward, Bear Lake Paris Second Ward, Bear Lake Park Avenue Ward, Highland Park City Second Ward, South Summit Park View Ward, Long Beach Pasadena Ward, Pasadena Pella Ward, Burley Peoa Ward, South Summit Phoenix First Ward, Phoenix Phoenix Fourth Ward, Phoenix Picture Butte Ward, Lethbridge Pinedale Ward, Snowflake Pine Valley Ward, St. George Pioneer Ward, West Utah Plano Ward, North Rexburg Pleasant Grove First Ward, Timpanogos Pleasant Grove Second Ward, Timpanogos Pleasant Grove Third Ward, Timpanogos Pocatello Fourth Ward, Pocatello Pocatello Eighth Ward, Pocatello Pomerene Ward, Southern Arizona Porterville Ward, Morgan RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 Portola Branch, Reno Preston Ward, Nevada Preston Second Ward, Franklin Raymond Ward, Montpelier Raymond Third Ward, Taylor Raymond Fourth Ward, Taylor Redmond Ward, North Sevier Redwood Ward, North Jordan Redwood City Ward, Palo Alto Reliance Ward, Lyman Reno Ward, Reno Rexburg First Ward, North Rexburg Richmond South Ward, Benson Ridgeway Ward, South Carolina Richville Ward, Morgan Rivergrove Ward, West Utah Riverton Ward, Blackfoot Roberts Ward, Rigby Rock Springs First Ward, Lyman Rock Springs Second Ward, Lyman Rose Ward, Blackfoot Rosemary Ward, Lethbridge Rosemeade Ward, Pasadena Rupert Third Ward, Minidoka Safford Ward, Mt. Graham St. Charles Ward, Bear Lake St. David Ward, Southern Arizona St. John Ward, Grantsville Sahara Branch, North Davis Salem Ward, North Rexburg Salem Ward, Palmyra Salina Second Ward, North Sevier San Jose Ward, Palo Alto San Mateo Ward, Palo Alto San Pedro Ward, Long Beach Santa Ana Ward, Long Beach Santa Clara Ward, St. George Sevier Ward, South Sevier Shelley First Ward, Shelley Shelley Second Ward, Shelley Shoshone Branch, Blaine Sixteenth Ward, Riverside Smoot Ward, Star Valley Snowflake Ward, Snowflake Soda Springs Ward, Idaho Solomonville Ward, Mt. Graham South Jordan Ward, West Jordan South Weber Ward, South Ogden Southgate Ward, South Salt Lake Spanish Fork Second Ward, Palmyra Spanish Fork Third Ward, Palmyra Spring City Ward, North Sanpete Springdale Ward, Burley Springdale Ward, Zion Park Springville Sixth Ward, Kolob Stirling Ward, Taylor Studio City Ward, San Fernando RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 659 Sunnyside Ward, Carbon View Ward, Burley Susanville Ward, Reno Vineyard Ward, Orem Sutter Ward, Sacramento Virgin Ward, Zion Pat Taylor Ward, Snowllake Virginia ard, Long Beac Taylor Ward, orth Webet Walla Walla Ward, Union Taylorsville Ward, North Jordan Warren Ward, North Weber Teasdale Ward, Wayne | Washington Ward, St. George Teton Ward, North Rexburg Washington Ward, Washington Thirty-second Ward, Pioneet Wellington Ward, Carbon Thirty-fourth Ward, Riverside Wellsville Second Ward, Hyrum Thomas Ward, Blackfoot Wendovet Ward, Grantsville Thurber Ward, Wayne West Jordan First Ward, West Jordan Torrance Wa d, Inglewoo West Jordan Secon Ward, West Jordan Torrey ard, Wayne West Warren ard, North Weber Tracy Branch Sacramento West Weber ard, North Weber Tropic rd, Panguitc Whitney Ward, Franklin Uintah Ward, 50u h Ogden Wilford Ward, Yellowstone Uni ard, Burley Williams Ward, Banno Union First ard, East Jordan Willow Glen Branch, Palo Alto Union Secon ard, East Jordan Wilshire Ward, Los Angeles University Park Ward, Portland Wilson Ward, North Weber Upalco Ward, Moon Lake Windsor Ward, Orem Utahn Branch, Duchesne Winnsboro Branch, South Carolina Van Nuys Ward, San Fernando Winslow Ward, Snowflake Vernal First Ward, Uintah Woodland Ward, South Summit Vernal Third Ward, Uintah Yuba City" Ward, Gridley BRANCHES (IN MISSIONS) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the September Magazine and prior to September 3, 1948) Ajo Branch, California Charlo Branch, Northwestern States Alamogordo Branch, Western States Chattanooga Branch, East Central Albuquerque Branch, Spanish-American States Albuquerque Branch, Western States Cleveland Branch, Northern States Anaconda Branch, Northwesterm States Coffeyville Branch, Central States Arkansas City Branch, Central States Colorado Springs Branch, Western Badger Village Branch, Northern States States Baker Branch, North Central States Columbia Branch, Central States Bakersfield Branch, California Corpus Christi Branch, SpanishBartlesville Branch, Central States American Baton Rouge ranch, Texas-Louisiana Dayton Branch, Northern States Beaumont Branch, Texas-Louisiana Denver Branch, Spanish-American Bend Branch, Northwestern States Fast Bakersfield ranch, California Bloomington?! Nch, Northern States Fau Claire Branch, N rthern States Bogalusa Branch, Texas Louisiana El Centro Branch, Califormia Borger Branch, Texas-Lovisiana E] Paso Branch, Spanish-American Brawley Branch, California Elgin Branch, Northern States Buckley Branch, Northwestern States Ellensburg Branch, Northwestern Butte Branch, Northwestern States States Cedar Rapids Branch, Northern States Enid Branch, Central States Champaign Branch, Northern States Eskilstuna Branch, Swedish Chanute Branch, Central States Espanola Branch, Spanish-American Tays Harbor Branch, Northwesterp States c ayden B anch, Californ elsinki Tanch, Innish Ulsboro B » Northwestern States h ansas City Tanch, Cent I States tkland R nch, orthwestern States lckitat h, Orthwestern States Noxville Branch, East Centra] States aedo Bran h, Spanij h-American atsmo B h, Finnish awrence B » Central States Branch, Northern States Natchitoches Branch, Texas-Louisiang aturita Branch, Wester States €W Orleans Branch, Texas-Louisiang Norrkoping Branch, Swedish Central States Centra] States an Antonio Branch, Panish-Americgn Sedro-Woolley Branch, Northwestern loux anch, estern States Sodertelje ch, Wedish Ptingfield anch, Orthwestern States Stockholm nch, Swedish arboro B nch entra] Atlantic States frre Haute Branc E Northern States e Dal Branch, orthwestern anc Ppsala Branch, Swedish Vancouver Branch, Northwestern States aughn Bran h, Northweste States €steras Bra h, Swedish incennes B anch, Northern States Mgaker B nch, Swedish aterlog Branch, Northern Stat ebb City Tanch, entra] States Wenatchee tanch, orthwestern States West Dallas By h, Texas-Louisiang West Frankfurt Branch, Nort. Erm Sta IXIE closed her make-up box that she'g be Teady for dramatics D 4nd stood UP for a fina] look College Next fall, to head for a Teal at herself in the Ong mirror. Career, we t Sighing, she walked slowly towards concerning Clyde Warten, the junthe door, She didn't want to linger jig; college' handsome, young, ney, in the dressing Toom, Painfully cop. Athletic Coach, Scious of the Contrast between the Wonderful, tall dreams | -. Now other girls' bright and Pretty cos fallen g Pancakes fro yes umes an her Itrasevere terday's h, tt Cause of Mavis dark, failored suit inley! Nice Ff; Carefully Pinnin ell, she might haye guessed blond ¢ » looked Dixie wh t Mavis wy nking of when Passed her "All Teady, already>" Organized the "Thespians y 'TI do. P PPOsed to look a Every hing Mavi €ver did as ME€ss, you k »" Dixie answered Ist of a] for— ay Tom a dig. I1ronical] mMond-set } by locket €r first amce laughed. « ut you don't birthday fur cog 4nd airplane It'd take More than 4 Ight hairdo trips in } twenties, Mavis ad and thic Blasse d mannish always had Sverything of the best, clothes, t ke a mess f anyone and had take for Slanted she aS good oking a You know always would © queened j; Over that!" aKeville' 7 Set consisteny Pegey OTrow, eyebrow, Pencil snatch d the ntion every at: Polsed, turned Tound Say in q tractive man in town d Careful, Igy, One, "So O—other somehow h them just S long as People Including— avis' Finley," It pleased he had been 80ing "Thanks hu Ou'te such On for yeg comforts," Dixie smiled. She Not ° that there was anythin Paused to ZIP up the back of Peg. TOng—cheap Or qWuestionable— jn gy's silver-sequined frock, then went her behavior, There Wasn't? Mayic A lot it helps, she thought, to be— Was, simply, that other girls 80t tired Pretty! Clyde Never sees anyone o SCeing Mavis lap UP all the cream but Ma | seltOt tet shin ever all the tim 8ives him an °PPortunity, Pll be glad when tonight js Over! T'm glad D XIE had never fully understood Wwe'r nly SIVing two Performances) What a me Mavis Could b She'd ad such dreams, joining to other girls' happiness, until after i ) Dreams of setting important Parts, That Was when Dixie fel herself of Convincing Mother and Daddy TOW up all at Once and become 4 Page 661 662 woman, head-over-heels in _ love! And she—a mere freshman at the college—what chance had she? "The Thespians" had seemed her opportunity. Clyde Warren was joining. And as Dixie had, all through school, played important parts in plays and on programs and was said to have lots of talent, she thought joyfully that now she'd have a chance to stand out from the crowd, be noticed by the object of her daydreams. She might have guessed that Mavis would have her own ideas as to that! Truth dawned on Dixie after the cast for "Island Idyll" was announced. It was the "Thespians'" first production; Mavis had written the play, she was taking the leading feminine role—Eve Hudson—and Clyde was to play the hero, Adam Rowe. Eve and Adam! Disgusting, Dixie thought. If it had been anyone but Mavis, the town would have buzzed. But Mavis, being above reproach, could get away with— even this! No one, not even Dixie's closest friends, knew how Dixie felt about Clyde. It was as if he occupied a secret shrine down in her heart, too sacred for sharing even a knowledge of its existence. Maybe it would have to be that way forever.... Low in spirit, Dixie wandered among the backstage maze of scenery and props, past the wings, down to the end of the curtain. Pulling its edge back a little, she watched the auditorium filling; people drifting in, in pairs, in parties; trickling down the aisles. She recognized the Finleys, a jovial family group. Her father and mother, quiet but eager. She noticed Steven Taylor, editorRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 publisher of the town newspaper. Coming in with a distinguished-looking stranger. "Look good?" asked a deep, young voice so close behind Dixie that she jumped. "Oh, I'm sorry—didn't mean to scare you, Dixie," said Roy Taylor. Roy was Steven's nephew. Dixie felt a little annoyed. How long had Roy been standing behind her? "Take a look," she told him, stepping aside. "It's better even than last night. Lots of folks coming for a second sight." "Why shouldn't they?" he grinned. "We're good, aren't we?" "The best "Thespians' Lakeville ever had!" Dixie laughed. Admiring him in his formal black-and-white— he was one of Eve's dinner guests in act one—she thought he looked surprisingly mature and attractive. He'll be a handsome man.... Turning suddenly, he smiled at her approval. "Yep, we're well worth seeing twice. Especially," he added quietly, "Eve Hudson's secretary. You know, Dixie, you... Well, you're super!" "Thank you, Roy," Dixie said graciously. She let him take her hand for a shy, gentle squeeze. "Super—in lots of ways!" he murmured. She retorted, "You kid nicely, d'you know it?" And more casually, "It must be almost curtain time." She took another quick peek at the audience. "Did you see your uncle? He's down front, with someone I never saw before." He gave her a queer look. "Dixie, how about a soda or something, and a round or so at Roxy's after the show?" Dixie hesitated. She'd refused him so many times. Since Clyde CURTAIN CALL came into her heart, fellow-freshmen like Roy had seemed mere juveniles.... But Clyde wasn't giving her any tumble; maybe she might as well make Roy happy. ' "Why, I~yes, I'd like it," she replied. Funny, the way his face lighted. He had such nice eyes, smoky-gray with bluish sparkles when he smiled. Last time he'd asked for a date and she'd refused, the smile had been so wistful that her conscience had hurt. He deserved a "yes"... Especially, being so nice to her in this get-up! She couldn't resist saying, lightly, "You're brave, Roy. What if I'd forget to quit being Sally Johnson before we step out?" "T'd risk it. You're still the bestlooking girl in the play, Dixie. And the best actress. And—I think somebody's going to have a surprise, tonight." BEFORE she could ask him what he meant, there was a stir of activity in the wings, and they hurried away to prepare their entrances. Passing lower left, Dixie saw Mavis in powder-pink lace and pearls, waiting with Clyde for their cues. They were smiling deeply into each other's eyes, and Mavis's were narrowed provocatively. Dixie's heart sank lower. Sally Johnson was supposed to care nothing about clothes; to despise men, to take no interest in social affairs except as she must keep track of Eve's dates. Her many lines were important to the building-up of Eve, but never once allowed Sally to sparkle for Dixie. Once the curtain went up, of course, Dixie's resentment at being so unfavorably cast was forgotten. 663 There wasn't time to think, only to act, she reflected humorously. She moved from cue to cue, remembering to handle her notebooks and pencils convincingly, to make the audience feel she really was the efficient and worshipful—but un-glamorous—secretary, seeing to it that Eve, at least, was appreciated, especially by Adam Rowe. Watching him, Dixie wasn't sure that Clyde had much histrionic ability. Nevertheless, he was wonderful! Island dancers in gorgeous cellophane-grass skirts, silver and gold, entertained Eve's guests; softly chanted, sad island songs accompanied the falling-in-love of Eve and Adam. Island black magic was in the villain's schemings. Island scenery, including an incredibly blue ocean backdrop, provided the setting in which the plot unfolded. - But Eve's wardrobe was no island product. It was strictly fashion's latest, right out of Vogue and off the Hollywood silver screen. Lakeville had never seen Mavis more alluring. Lakeville sat on the edges of its collective seats, adoring her. Dixie, underneath her efficient manner and crisp, clear lines, sizzled. The whole thing was so obvious. Why, oh, why didn't Clyde get wise? Why did he, seemingly so smart and adult, fall for Mavis Finley's line of charm like any common fish rising to a baited hook? Scene by scene the drama _progressed, the plot quickened, the romance moved along. Mavis quickchanged from dinner gown to beach togs, to glamorous lounging robe, to a stunning moss-green afternoon suit. She was exquisite in it, when at the last, all obstacles overcome, she stood in Adam's arms, her shin- 664 Y Written, ae. Where js your little Sally Johnson? I must meet her. | ery unusual] bit, Own amid Enthusias¢; applause, 1 t TOS€ again while there..." Wete thrust. T ing Dixie towards him, yo; © ttiumphant b frank] | U Were great, Miss Allen. Al} es Supporting the Wa t Compliments of § Y through, It isn't Often | teven See 5 > Editor, and Grant Weber, BUest critic" f one 50 INsignif; cant," Wh thank you," Dixie Stam D Xte had to Step out amid a new Ted © saw Mavi Finley', 'OM surprise an Confusion It would you!" she heard Roy view for The erald," M eber tumed to UF Persons in the middle hide She was furious w th hersel¢ Taylor, and the Stranger Dixie had that Was Noticed Carlier, ' 5 We exactly what she felt like a child! - » Nice Production, Miss Fin. ' Good, good!" saig the great under of applause, to TeCeive sm le gr her trophy. Her knees were wobbly anger j "Didn't aylor Whisperin Own at Ja; the Players crowd d ment around Dixie exclaj Ing COngratu] tions. Then the babble subsided with a startling Suddennesg. F the sta C: Mavis, Clyde, Steven Stuttering like g child Icy, saw little glints 'of € author-leq Ing lady's I your 7 Was sure * « 'm writing Steven 4 special re he curtain as Continued, "ang there'll be a ood for you, You aren't, by any chance, thinking of a Stage cq reef?' "Well, J have thought» Dixie ] eyes Wanted, suddenly, to TUN away, to Well, CURTAIN CALL Weber. "Look me up when you come to New York.. I might be able to help you with some contacts." _ "Oh, thank you—again—" Dixie exclaimed. MBs. Weber smiled, turned again to Mavis. "If I might offer a suggestion to the playwright, why not build up Sally's part? Show a little more revealingly, her hopeless love for Adam; her loyalty to Eve in spite of her own great longing. As it is, it's a bit too subtle for the average playgoer, I'm afraid. Remedy this—and you can, Miss Finley, you write very cleverly—and I'll be happy to recommend your play to an agent I know..." Spotlighted once more, Mavis unfroze immediately. "You're wonderfully kind, Mr. Weber. I—I was thinking something along the same lines you suggest, and you—your comments ate very helpful and encouraging. I do appreciate—everything you've said, and—Dixie— well, we all agree with you about her," Mavis concluded archly. Somehow, after a time, Dixie was back in the dressing room. Excited chatter bubbled around her. "You really were marvelous, Dixie. But it took that brilliant Mr. Weber to make us see just how good—" Janice was saying, and Peggy interrupted with "It just thrilled me, to see Mavis Finley play second fiddle for once! Another orchid to you, Miss Steal-the-Show!" "But I didn't, really. I didn't mean to—" She stopped, aghast. She'd almost given herself away. Because that was the truth: she hadn't meant to. She'd had not t 665 the slightest notion that poor Sally had a hopeless passion for Adam Rowe. It had been Dixie Allen's secret love for Clyde Warren, betrayed through Sally! A fine actress she was! She'd better accomplish some growing-up, and learn to keep her personal emotions under her make-up! Thank goodness, since no one knew the truth, everyone would accept Grant Weber's interpretation. Even—Roy. Roy was smart— and she could thank her lucky stars he wasn't smarter still. Roy had thought she was wonderful all the time—bless him! And he was waiting for her, right now... "Dixie! Dixie Allen! Come back from that wool-gathering!" Janice's raised voice commanded laughingly. "We're asking a question, you high-hat!" "Wh—what? Oh, I'm sorry—" "Never mind her," Peggy said. "We were just wondering, Dixie. Are you really going to New York?" "Oh, I... Don't know. Someday, maybe. But I like being here in Lakeville. And I'm not eighteen. Yet; I've lots of time, to think about —Broadway." "Gee!" said Peggy. "You're so sensible.... I'm afraid, if I were in your place, I'd just up and go." "Well... Maybe... But there are—things to consider, Peggy. Excuse me if I seem in a hurry, girls, but I've got a date." "Oh, a date!" Laughing voices repeated the word, chanted it. "A date, girls. Maybe that explains it!" Laughing back over her shoulder, Dixie hurried away. She felt young and happy and gay; not a care in the world. It was a wonderful feeling. Just wonderful. Oquirrh Stake Uses Tree Drawing in Magazine Promotion work in this stake are to be congratulated on the beautiful way in which they accomplished their subscription programs, and for their devotion and faithfulness in the "follow-up" work which resulted in a most sie beautifully designed tree, a Photograph of which appears on the opposite page, was used by Oquirth Stake as an aid in achieving its excellent Magazine subscription percentage rate (113%) for 1947. The tree was designed and painted in lovely pastel tints by Sister Hazel B. Jones on a large piece of heavy cardboard, size 27" x 44/7. The graceful Proportions and the unusual beauty of the poster were pleasing factors in securing good will for the Magazine and in interesting the members of the wards in the project. The inscription was written by Martha Lamb, Stake Relief Society President. One week (October 13-18) was designated by the stake for conducting an intensjfied subscription campaign. For this Purpose the five wards were divided into districts and two members of a specially appointed Magazine committee visited each home in the district. Before leaving on their errands the members of the committees met at working sisters was willingly provided by Relief Society members not serving on the "calling committees," or renewals were not obtained on the first visit, members of the committees made Tepeat calls until the fine record of 113 per cent had been secured. Hazel Bertoch—Hercules Ward Hannah Coon—Spencer Ward Myrtle Russon—Pleasant Green Ward Izella Jeppson—Magna Ward Katie Cahoon, Eva Whittaker, and Anna Petersen—Garfield Ward Page 667 Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1888. "For THE Ricnrs OF THE Women OF Zion AND THE Ricuts OF THE LL Nations" OMEN or A LINC N PA Lincoln Park, in the h aster part 0 Chicag » borders on the lak Point, and js ve tensive ang attractive, a5 s n Whom it €rlved its na N other Parks, there are Tustic Seats, shaded by &¢ trees, ang © &tound is ey, 'Te carpeted yw, beautify] lawns ang flowe » intermingled With artificia] Pond annels, for th Convenience of boaters Its chief attrac ONS are those of its h Ouse an extensive exhibition of wild anima] the hot Ouse can h ound innumer. Le tr Pical plants and flowers, SO arran > ACcording ¢, Class and » as Oduce at th ti he most pl asing and structive ap €n With the breezes fall? Because Dame Nature calls them To the €arth's Ntidy floor And their blooming time is 'er. —M. A. F. BEA LAKE sr he Relief Ociety © Bear Lake Stake helg their Twentieth Semi-anny nference a} tC arles, J Y 7th and 8th 88, Prest Julia mdsay p esidin Presidents of the differe t ches of the Oclety gave in eir verbal] reports, whic Were favorable oun. Mgs mad W Temarks, in Which sh Plainly set forty me of the dut * Pertaining to the Latte Y Saints, and Showed th Tesults of obe tence to Gog law —Lottie Pric Cor. § Princess Eugenie of Sweden has Sacrificed her family Jewels to build a hospita] for cripples "PON an island Off the Coast, LEO} dal' Sangen \ = 6 QE \ SS Rae oh THE originator, in America, of poster-preaching to non-churchgoers is a young Baptist girl, Jo Peterson, who began her campaign eleven years ago in Chicago. She now supervises the monthly distribution of Bible quotations on 40,000 billboard posters, small memory cards, or placards for trains, buses, or streetcars. These go to thirtyseven countries. Some have reached Japan and Germany. CENSUS officials believe that by 1950 there will be sixty per cent more women between the ages of forty-five and sixty-four employed than there were in 1940—an increase of one and one-half million. THE annual Girls' State and Girls' Nation activities sponsored by the American Legion Auxiliary give excellent training in democratic government to the young women of America. Intelligent leadership will no doubt result from this enterprise. THE average life-span of women in the United States at present is 69.5 years. MBS. EDWIN J. DRYER JR. (Dorothea M.) is a deputy county attorney in Salt Lake, the first woman to hold this position. 5) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon TWELVE women dentists, from the Western States and Canada, most of them wives and mothers, attended the convention of Western Dentists, held recently in Salt Lake City. Most unusual profession is that of Mrs. Ellen Ferguson of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, who makes ceramic skulls which are exact duplicates of human skulls. They are used by medical students and artists. [N Shanghai, China, is a bank staffed entirely by women, and said to be the only women's bank in the world. The first depositors were women, though men have now joined the ranks. As low a deposit as ten cents is accepted. [N a survey of women and men students at Mount Union College, Ohio, the question was asked: Have modern conveniences made it possible for the average woman to bear and rear children and maintain a home properly and at the same time carry on a career in business? Eighty-four per cent of the students said "No." Yet recent statistics show that one out of every ten married women in America is gainfully employed. Does this represent the difference between ideals and practical necessity? Page 669 OUr Sisters in many lands to fulfil] R € is busy With fall sew. 5 © Purposes of In fo the earth is Sometimes nop Tetify our P€tsonalities Sometimes it flected in the strenuous days of the Is not alone the ACtiVities Which we r. Omemak most enjoy th are Necessq ct there is much, Of steadfast joy to our development we ma at autumn py; &S in the Teturn of be trul utished Pritually many of our ch IC€st_ pri leges and 4esthetical] Socially, an on- "©SPonsibilities h oyal Relief structive] We need th Well-planned SPlritua] Tength, and €P sense our Sisters g: us willingly and Of the blesseq Continuity of that ©y need the Insight and ympathy Which js Plecious and orthwhile— ich we may have to off © lasting treasures th may bey "ale ocieti hich; clude ound Ctained even In this among the membership older wom troubled d €n, and the young mothers as well € return the anctuary of can best achieve th Jectives of the Relief oclety room Which has he orga Ization UP accom Meant so m > WE go back Plishments d individual gtowth to the Joytul privilege f meetin us the " lve-and-take" Velops again with men who are united most beautifully IN a st dfast circ] belief ang Purpose. We el of uniteg Sisterhood again that co forting Sense of be Ctober is th time for makin Onging, of bein tive units In a Our plans for the Relj f Society year, teat an Society—an 6 for beginnj & our attendance t Eanization lowed by more than a meetings, and f, Joining with ou; r Century of sisterhood and accom. Many sisters in the Privileges and Plishment under Prophetic dire. T€sPonsibilities of our Steat organ. The Russells Did Not Go to Church CHAPTER 3 Edith Russell NGLAND is so rarely prodiEL gal of sunshine, I remember that beautiful morning as though it belonged only to yesterday. The sun spilled gold on the dusty windows of the ugly office building to which I daily turned my steps, and a great armada of white clouds sailed before a stiff breeze blowing in from the North Sea. I had no premonition of what the day might hold, beyond the usual galaxy of accounts, ledgers, the bevy of tired, middle-aged women making their contribution to the war effort, and another evening at home, reading before the fire while my mother knitted and waited expectantly for Antony's step on the path. At the office I took off my coat and prepared for the day. The sunshine lighted up the faces of my "school" of women; there were some eager and animated, others there were who were anxious and old. I knew how it felt when letters from the front were delayed. As I smiled and said "Goodmorning," the door of the classroom opened to admit the elderly person of the office manager followed by a younger and vigorous man in his late twenties. "Good morning, Miss Russell," the manager said. "Please to meet Mr. Gregory Miner, late of the King's Own Royal Rifles. I wish you would be good enough to give him some insight as to the function of your school. He is to learn the business and will need to know." Mr. Miner bowed. He was possessed of a fine healthy color, a somewhat stocky physique, and he exuded an atmosphere of fastidious cleanliness. I liked him at once, and as soon as the manager had retired, I gave him into the charge of a nice homely matron, at whose desk I could conveniently observe and instruct him. I was near enough to see that on his left hand he wore a most peculiar ring—a great silver Indian head—a rather vulgar trinket, I thought, on the person of an Englishman. It flashed in the sunlight and I wondered why he wore it and from where it came. It seemed a trifle incongruous compared to the quiet conservative quality of the rest of his appearance.. A little before lunch I approached his desk to inquire after his progtess. 'The ring flashed silver in the morning sun and, smiling, he covered it with his hand. I smiled, too. "What an unusual ring!" I re marked, and he lifted it for my examination. "But here is one even more unusual," he volunteered, and from his pocket he withdrew a dull gold object, shaped like a shield and covered with peculiar hieroglyphics I could not understand. It was not Page 67] 672 vulgar like the Indian head, but apparently this was not valued for its ornamentation, but for something deeper and more significant. "This ring," said Gregory Miner, "IT won for achieving." "Indeed?" I replied, "What exactly do you mean—achieving? Achieving what?" REGORY Miner seemed to inhale a deep breath. "Miss Russell," he said, and his eyes looked directly into mine, "what do you think of a Church which has for one of its maxims, 'The glory of God is intelligence?' " The room, filled with thirty women industriously engaged with accounts and figures, endured one of its rare moments of silence. I could hear the old office clock ticking on the wall and for some reason I thought of time and its relation to eternity. I had a momentary and entirely incomprehensible vision of the vicarage at St. Matthews and a woman called Hannah Shuttleworth with her illegitimate child, then a peculiar sensation of warmth suffused my whole being, the same one feels on beholding an old and intimate friend with a familiar greeting on his lips. I gave Gregory Miner look for look. "T knew I wasn't wrong," he said, and my heart gave a great bound as though for a moment it had almost ceased to beat for fear I should give any other answer but this. Gregory Miner smiled, too, also with relief. "T knew I wasn't wrong," he said. "What Church is this to which you refer?" I wanted to know. "The Church of Jesus Christ of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 No? You have Well, then the He Latter-day Saints. Not heard of it? Mormon Church, perhaps?" regarded me quizzically. I believe I made a reply, but actually I was no longer in that dusty office schoolroom. I was six years removed, watching Michael, my brother, waiting for him to pick up a book my mother had forbidden; a book in which were lurid tales about a strange people called Mormons. That evening I was home late for dinner. The hungry Antony whooped for joy when I entered the cottage, but my mother was concerned lest my delay had been occasioned by anything disastrous. "Of course not, darling," I reassuted her, as we sat down. "As a matter of fact—" I was magnificently offhand—"As a matter of fact, I have been talking to a Mormon in town." "You have been—what?" Horror expressed itself in every line of my mother's features. Antony helped himself to more vegetables and inquired: "You mean he was in a circus, or something?" I could feel my mother's eyes fixed upon me, but I avoided them and waived Antony's question. "He is a very charming fellow, Mother," I said anxiously. "I feel sure he is perfectly respectable. He is being taught the business at the office. And he—he has only one wife." I was concentrating upon the food on my plate. I heard my mother say in a cold, shocked voice: "How do you know?" I took a deep breath. "Because I asked him," I said, and my face burned at the memory. I was dreadfully conscious - that somewhere in this innocent conver- THE RUSSELLS DID NOT GO To CHURCH sation lay an issue so great I was afraid even to contemplate it. | lifted my eyes to meet those of my mother. A "Perhaps Antony will bring in the dessert," she Said, "I think we have all had enough of _ this course." Miserably, I looked at her face, How I hated to feel her disapProval. Why did I not simply laugh and teil her that if I met a thousand Mormons, it was a matter of no consequence? Why? Why? Why? HE next few weeks passed in a strange atmosphere of discoyery. The young Mr. Miner was an assiduous missionary, Every day brought new explorations into the strange new world of religion. There were obstacles, of course, mental and aesthetic obstacles; a Prophet who was an American; who spoke in the same idiom as that of the cinema, and other facts at first disconcerting to me. And, always, on the face of the I told her, one evening, that | would be baptized. She said nothing at first, think you might—come to 'the Church and see mé€—see me baptized?" Her look froze me. Come to see you baptized," she said with such "T didn't do want 673 I will have no Part in it. Ever since I am ashamed of you now. I don't Wish to refer to the matter again, have written to Michael as I fee] he should know." | I went out and walked through the village, up the hill towards beautiful old St. Matthews. It lay The Gothic beauty church struck me afresh, seemed to address itself to me In poignant appeal. But it isn't any use, I gave answer. You only have a part of the truth. I love—and always shall— your turrets and your bells, and your windows—but I can't feed the soul of me only on these. That's why I'm leaving you—for something whole and complete. I came to you, once, looking for God—remem. Ber? I found him—in part. But I'm greedy. A Part isn't enough. So—I'm following my Star... 0 A week later, the day of my baptism dawned. I was to be baptized in the afternoon at three, and in the morning, at the office, Mr. Miner asked me concerning my mother. "She will be i you baptized," he assured me, confidently. I laughed, derisively. He didn't know my mother. He didn't know that the Russells did not go to church. He had no conception of the extent of my disloyalty. 674 Luncheon, at home, that day, was an awkward session. Excitement had taken away my appetite, but I strove to eat so as not to irritate my mother further. Antony, intrigued by thoughts of someone having the temerity to "duck" his sister, asked embarrassing questions throughout the meal. But at last it was over. I escaped to my room and put the few things I should need into my bag. I could hear my mother dressing in her room. "Tm going, Mother!" I called. "Goodbye!" Her voice, a little strained and unfamiliar, came back to me. "Wait for me! I'm going into the city, too. We may as well go together." She appeared a moment later, and without further conversation, we went out into the street where the bus was waiting. The vehicle was very full and, though we sat together, we did not talk. My thoughts were filled with the wonder of what was going to happen to me. A part of me ached for the sweet woman beside me, but withal, I was gloriously happy. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 As the Church came into view, | rose to my feet and turned to my mother. "Goodbye, darling..." She, too, was on her feet. '"Mumsie, where—?" "Hurry," she said. Stopping." A moment later, we stood together on the pavement—a pavement suddenly paved with gold. The bus swung away, Citywards. '"Mumsie—where are you going?" Incredulity was in my voice. A sob, too, I couldn't help it. I didn't care. "Going?" Incredulity was in my mother's voice, too. "Why—I'm going to Church!" Bless her dear heart, she was as surprised as I was! "But—" I was staring, dumfounded. "IT know—the Russells." My mother actually laughed and_ the sound rang in my heart like a peal of bells. She slipped the little bag I carried from my grasp. In it lay a precious white gown and a missionary's copy of the Book of Mormon. "We'd better hurry," she said. "or we're going to be late." "The bus is ——— CYGIE Grace M. Candland The year is growing old; The hazy autumn sky Is pathway for the flight Of geese and blue winged teals' Departing cry. They seek a warmer clime, Each from his tattered nest Down in the icy marsh And reeds along the lake At winter rest. And we who watch them go On strong and steady wing Will hear their eerie call From dim horizons break In early spring. FEW THINGS ARE CONSTANT Mabel Jones Gabbott The late rose petals, curled along the edge, Are brown and fallen, like sweet, fragrant rain; Where once we walked beside the garden hedge Only thorns and brittle stalks remain. The wind laughs in the locust tree and shakes The crescent pods of seeds, sunburnt and dry; The limbs are bare; no more the green leaf makes Its lacy pattern on the summer sky. And now along the river where we walk The star-shaped snowflakes fall and instantly Are melted; whirled by water, reed, and rock, Are lost forever, running to the sea. Few things on earth are constant; beauty dies, But love like ours will live beyond these skies. (fw! (ae MIGRANTS Marvin Jones Wild white days and snow geese flying, Quivering lines of phantoms crying; Bronze October—migrant weather— Birds are wind, snow is a feather. Wind and geese sing to a rover, Pagans calling, wheeling over— Go my heart and still your crying, Go where winds and geese are flying.... Cd te OTHERS MAY LAMENT Dorothy J. Roberts No death is here though leaves of autumn drift Earthward through the leaning aisles of light. Some unseen element with wings will lift Their weightless beauty with unfailing might. Others may lament that autumn dies, Seeing summer tarnish on a path of stone, But something in my heart turns Easterwise, Knowing earth can merely claim her own. When cold breath from the canyon's mouth is starting And maples torch the senses with their cry, Death is not here, but only nature parting The summer union of the earth and sky. Page 675 Synopsis: Andrew Rumgay leaves his erg and fascinators for her daughters —~a and his Fancee Jane Allison in and soft warm Shawls for herself ang Shan j ith the waste she made T. D and goes i 5 Tooele, The Tas lat rocessing wool wo be advan. Artive in On. | and Hugh have tageous for anu f reasons He terry, <5 Mac — oy to nt would t home € care of d Saves |.:. Jane from Scotland. When he finally sende the bairns— hig brother ang sister— it, he receives news that Jane has married when they aTived, He Could catch romeone else. Andrew is g Btieved and UP with his Church Work. He was lonely man setae tS 2005. Fog his small Making up for lost time now. When brother and sister, 'stead, there Was no Special] activity Planned enc "rs, he had been interested jn and to teach the gospe] woo]—jt may have been because hi, He had Wanted to lid a fence Mother workeq in it at home. When around his Jo¢ With the logs which the snow was f00 deep for timber. He had cut when he was timbering, ing he Spent his time, after the but he hadn't found time. Noy he chores were all completed, carding decided to finish UP a lot of odg Jobs rool, ome, woo] round his Sister nter © the soap for The bair Came that fal] tim Washing the Wool, soaked jt Many for Schoo] brought love ang Waters in 2 vat } Made for Comfort to their brother's heart, and specially that Purpose, Washed it, rinsed it, Sunshine to the cabin. He desired and Put it out in the shade to dry. His fraining to be just 4S profitable haw Picking ang Carding the Soft to them as had lS mother White wool int tts for quilts, or love, Patience and SaCcTifice him spinning to yam, she knit the She had ther and mo er to mily's up; » 4nd stock. Ten, so he fe t ly he could Ings. So cimes she € wool] € care of ty, nto beautify] colors and knit sweat. Preparations fo, the winter QUESTING LIGHTS had been completed. The shelves and root cellar were ful] of food. His yatd was stacked high with good wood to burn, tee called on him for a few days of on the millwas asked to go out and talk to the people about buyin Stock in the factory company. Plans were made to organize a cO-Operative Store in Resplendence. As Brother Rumgay's Tesponsibility in the bishOptic was to look after the young people, he didn't settle long in any one place, Thanksgiving was the of all winter activities in € people entertained themselves at the. Meetinghouse. They had Programs of various kinds, Operas, home dramatics, and dances. Often ere were sleigh-riding parties, eir favorite entertainment was the supper dance. They would all gather at some home for a hot cooked supper; then they would go to the meetinghouse for a program and dance, At holiday time they decorated the ward house and planned enter. Tainment for every ni beginning the ward. Singing Christmas carols; Brother Coleman played classical Music on his violin; the bairns gave a dialogue. 677 ob presented a Short talk on gifts: I'm going to tell you how the MacKin. Lays received their Bteatest gift of all. My Picked it up and read th of aM He studied their literature and prayed to his Father and received a - He applied for baptism, This is how We received our very greatest gift. Andrew had suffered a lot of bad luck the past year, and Mother was cager to help a wee trifle to bring 800d luck to him in the new year. She got Bob out of his bed early, and, dressed up in Sunday clothes and new shoes, she sent him along to Andrew's with a basket filled to the brim with every good thing to eat. Anarew insisted on Bob's coming in and eating a bite of breakfast, then he sent Bob back to his mother's with the basket filled to the brim again. No bad luck would visit the Rumgays and MacKinlays— Bob had taken care of that. A darkcomplexioned boy — with guid clothes and new shoes, carrying something filled to the brim— brought good luck. Mother felt just a wee bit casier when she thought of Andrew's situation. 678 GPRING came early. The women were doing their housecleaning and their sewing, the men building and repairing fences. The wool business was successful. Andrew, with the help of his brother and sister, Bill and Janet, had more work than they could do. One evening in April all the Macs dropped by Andrew's house for a little visit. As they were finishing supper a knock came on the door. Bill answered. It was the bishop, his second counselor, and the ward clerk—Andrew's fellow workers, calling. They talked about the crops and the weather. Then Andrew asked them why they were calling, as only the night before they had met in bishop's meeting. Andrew was a little curious and a little anxious. He wondered if they intended to release him. The bishop paused thoughtfully for a few moments, then explained, "Brother Rumgay, we are calling you on a mission to Scotland, if it can be arranged. 'The ward has some missionary funds you would be welcome to use." "A mission!" Mother exclaimed, "surely, Bishop, you do not joke about such sacred matters." "We are not joking. We were never more serious in our lives. Well, Brother Rumgay, what have you to say?" "A mission!" Andrew spoke slowly, weighing every word. "I hadn't thought about it, but it's what I do want more than anything else in the world. I found something, on the plains, something priceless. I would like to share it with my loved ones and friends." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 "We thought as much," returned the bishop. "Now we will leave you to do your planning. It can be worked out.". The Macs were dumfounded. "And Andrew just after telling us he never wanted to cross the plains again," Brother Coleman laughingly expressed himself. "And the bairns just arrived," Mother added. "Andrew must go on his mission. But how?" the Macs questioned. Bill and Janet complicated the picture. 'Their brother wanted them to stay at home and not add more responsibility for Kathleen and Mother. He did not want to take them back to Scotland as they loved the new country and were doing so well in school. Mother studied a long time, and then thought she had the solution. "Maybe it will work out," she said, "maybe it won't—if it does it is the one way out and the only way that I can see." "Don't keep us in_ suspense. Mother," Andrew anxiously pleaded. Mother looked around at all her companions. Strange that not one of them had thought about the missing member of the Macs. "Why Margaret, to be sure. Don't tell me you've all forgotten her." "Margaret," slowly Kathleen spoke. "That's the most beautiful name and the most beautiful person I have ever known. Oh! I'm getting so lonesome to see her." "That's it," Andrew spoke up quickly, "Margaret is maybe just as lonesome for Kathleen and Mother. If she is, she will come." QUESTING LIGHTs ARGARET was very anxious to see the Macs again. The Stuarts had made her as welcome as one of their own, yet the years had been long and very trying since she parted with the Macs on the plains, She had tried to convince herself that work was the solution to all her Problems. If she worked hard enough, eventually be blotted out and she would become interested in new People and new places. She knew now this wasn't true. Her anticipation of meeting the Macs thrilled her as nothing had done since she left them. Mother and Bob went to Tooele to bring Margaret to Resplendence. The day she arrived had been set apart for celebrating. Mother had insisted on them killing all the pullets, because, after all, she might not be able to buy cayenne pepper. Andrew's missionary party was to be held at the meetinghouse that night. Margaret helped Kathleen cook the supper, setting the table with Mother's best dishes. She wore a Pale blue dress with a fitted basque, full sleeves, and a long billowy skirt. The basque had a curved neckline and a vestee of fine, cream-colored lace. Her long black hair was plaited and wrapped around her head. She wore her mother's cameo, gold and black earrings, and lovely flowers in her hair. Mother Mac's description of her was perfect—slim and trim, The door opened and Andrew walked in. "Margaret, let me look at you, young lady! Why, you're beautiful! Twice as beautiful as you were when you left us on the Plains. You're good, too! Thanks 679 for 'making my mission possible, |] am sure the Lord will know it is your contribution as wel] as mine," Andrew spoke from 4 full heart. "I wanted you to go on your mis. Sion, Andrew. It is your opportunity to offer our kinsmen the gospel, with the wonderful blessings "we have all received," Margaret spoke quietly. "It took a lot of faith and courage to accept a mission when I had a young brother and sister to take care of, but the bishop said it could be arranged, and now it is, The bairns are going to love you, Margaret! | Ope you can learn to love them." "I'm sure I can, Leave it to us and the Lord." "Oh, Margaret, you are wonderful!" UGH called on Andrew regarding a detail of the program for his farewell party. While they talked Margaret sat beside Mother Mac and covertly studied the face of Andrew. He had not been well When she left him on the plains, but she was hardly prepared for What she saw in him tonight. A spirit of righteous indignation rose in. Her heart against Jane Allison. Andrew was Pale and nervous, yet she was sure the Macs hadn't noticed it, because he had managed every day to do his full share of all the work, Margaret believed that God had called Andrew on this mission, and she decided that there would be no home worries for the young man while he was away. She would take care of that. Margaret bowed her head and silently prayed that Andrew would be brought safely back to her. n the plains and wiped her eyes. Drew to get starteg on his Way to ey all had a Wonderful time at Scotland. It had been 4 long time rang that way), and Margaret became Andrew Was different tonight acquainted with the wool, very different © was happy, more like his og self than he had been in But before many months the Months. His friends thought it was young man was calling for his mail ISSi Cttle, Tam 80ing for g Walk today; Will you Come along with me And blackbirds whir in Sudden flight; Where burnished Sheaves form Stacks that Tise Like heaps of gold, Priceless yielq> Let us lose our Cares, just for toda And glean the beauty of the field, atijane Morris Tonight there is a shadow Stealth Pon the huddled harvest fields, Startled death too Soon,,. Too Soon, ere does this bloom of summer go €N autumn leaves dance in the air? Does €arth take back What she has borne To gladden hearts some otherwhere? 680 She remembered the tree in tears RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE—ocTopep 1948 The bishop was anxious for Ap. Braided Rugs Are Beautiful Delma Peterson RREVEF Society women have many hobbies which give them the satisfaction of personal accomplishment and the joy of helping others. Some of these hobbies appeal particularly to women who love to make their homes beautiful and at the same time exercise their capabilities in being masters of the ways of thrift. Marie C. Jacobsen of Richfield, Utah, has turned her artistic abilities and her homemaking skill to a most pleasing and useful hobby. She makes braided rugs—not just the ordinary hit-and-miss, hurry-up kind—but works of art which reveal color harmony and expert workmanship. She makes large rugs and small rugs, round rugs and oval ones—rugs suitable for any and every room in the house. She has made two large tugs, twelve feet in diameter, and numerous small ones. And what is more pleasing in a home than a shining polished floor set off with a large, colorful braided rug—or more charmingly useful than a small rug placed where many footsteps pass? In the first place, in her rug making activities, Mrs. Jacobsen uses only materials that are not required or necessary for other purposes. Many articles, such as old bedspreads, cushion covers, draperies, which many women discard, may appear as new and colorful strands in a rag rug, especially when faded colors are dyed into rich, bright tints. Using four strands of rags, Mrs. Jacobsen sews the various lengths together with strong thread as she braids, carefully selecting colors for harmony and the weights and widths of strands which will work in evenly. There is a very special "knack" of holding the strands at the proper tension, not too loose and not too tight, so that the rug, when finished, will lie flat. Mrs. Jacobsen, wife of M. O. Jacobsen, and mother of two children, was born in Denmark in 1878 and came with her parents to America in 1888. She has lived in Richfield for thirty-nine years, actively serving Relief Society and lending her support to Church and community projects which have uplifted and benefited the community. During the war, Mrs, Jacobsen used another of her hobbies to advantage— she knit for the Red Cross eighty pairs of bed socks and twenty-five sweaters. 'Truly it can be said of her, she "'eateth not the bread of idleness." Page 68] SELECTED DATA Gnnual Report —1947 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer HE following pages illustrate the record of service and achievement of Relief Society for 1947—the one hundredth anniversary of the Church's home in the West. We are pleased to include reports from the Czechoslovakian, East German, and Netherlands Missions, the first received since 1938, due to war conditions. The following brief summary shows the membership trends in twenty-five year periods: During the first twenty-five years (1847-1872) Relief Society work was carried on by a few scattered organizations. In 1867 Brigham Young instructed all bishops to establish Relief Societies in their wards and by 1872 the membership had reached approximately 10,000. During the following twenty-five years (1872-1897) stake units were created (the first being in Weber in 1877). Interest in Relief Society work was stimulated generally so that by 1897 the membership had reached about 20,000. During the period 1897-1922 uniform courses of study and regular weekly meetings were established which greatly accelerated growth to a membership of 53,412. From 1922 to 1947 the society achieved its major growth as noted in the accompanying chart, a peak of 115,015 being attained in 1941 in anticipation of Relief Society's Centennial in 1942. From 1942 to late 1945 many women were engaged in war work which prevented them being active in Relief Society, but during 1946, the first postwar year, the membership increased 4107, and in 1947, Utah's Centennial year, the membership increased 6,045, a ten per cent increase in two years, making a total of 111,843 members at the end of 1947. This increase in membership is a welcome and heartening attainment and the corresponding increase in all phases of Relief Society 'work is equally gratifying. The outstanding activity of 1947 was the launching of the fund-raising program for a Relief Society building to be erected as a permanent home for the organization in Salt Lake City. The plan, announced at the annual Relief Society conference in October, is to be completed in one year. Following the Nauvoo period, from a small nucleus in Utah and neighboring territories the organization has spread over much of the civilized world. With the establishment of new stakes and new missions and the re-opening of foreign missions, Relief Society looks forward to sharing its blessings and benefits with increasingly greater numbers of women in many lands. To all Relief Society vores, past and present, whose vision and devotion have made possible Relief Society's notable achievement of the past one hundred years the present general board expresses its sincere appreciation and deep gratitude. Mlustrated by Dorothy Platt Handley Page 682 ANNUAL REPORT—194:° RENDS in the accompanying chart show the growth of Relief Society during its 100 years in the West. Following an intensive membership campaign in 1941, when a sudden peak of 115,015 members was reached, there was a decline. In 1946 membership resumed its steady growth commensurate with the es mo, increase in Latter-day Saint. F families—heading toward the SE: 4 goal of every Latter-day Saint woman a member. The percentage of members ac- - © fo strength and vitality of any organization. Note that while leadership activity obviously ~ eould not keep pace with the; {~ membership otherwise has Can a o 45 re i e LDS. FAMIIES (847 {872 [B97 {922 1947 } WN TOTAL L. D. S. FAMILIES—200,029 foo inh, 178,008 In Stakes 22,021 In Missions TOTAL R. S. MEMBERSHIP—111.843 ], 93,207 In Stakes 18,636 In Missions oe 2 58.969 MEMBERS IN LEADERSHIP 47 20 GENERAL OFFICERS—1872 STAKE OFFICERS—310- 1 OTHER OFFICERS—7,774 CLASS LEADERS—34,878 52.72% VISITING TEACHERS. _we tive in leadership indicates the | ____ ysudden growth in 1941, its ratio ~"oeen maintained. 1 _; So Go THES geet rt fh espe MISSION OFFICERS—9.907 LOCAL OFFICERS—4,208 a - s y, 4 J y.,: ~ a bd: B Whyva "ow (fh — anid Aprede Vioug YON. The lagia Diet eget —m ay Vinlond, - __TABLE OF DISTRIBUTION m Re aie ni P STAKES MISSIONS TOTALS vale, OCATION OrganiMemOrgani-MemOrganlMem- ™ - actions bers sations bers xatons bers, ~ Vnited st ate Ter, 1.580 91,279 G14 9.822 1,994 101 foe " t » 190 530 10, Argentina im 17 = Australia 1} 11 hn Austria » Comada; Brazil o1gi 6 F: ' \% Car 1 € Gy * i Cen. A b al: } Denmark 6 2il, 4 ie, — wi oan ¥: ~+iaei 4 4 95 Pie 1@ ra. A, France (1946 9 9 bs States _— 70) Sammon Great Britain 1 18 541 aT ey oe el Mexico, 24 29 «Gade,. Od Cow? \ ere N sre be ie? 19 465 oe f:; 4 wd li > =i eniral Pacific (}7: 7 13 36 _ SL Switzerland - heats Palestine 1 1 lG Xice *. M: Samoa 51 51 794 WT; r s uth Afr q 84 s € 1 297 15 yf if Switze id 12 & 12 180,., > 2 Tahiti (1942)* 247 15 247 = s Ra Tonga (1946)* 31 420 31 420.. 7 West German (1938 _. 48 1,193 48 1,193 Meni _. 2 (1) poo Tone GRAND TOTALS 1,420 y 104 18,636 2,524 111,843 2 Bast German faa 3 ay = — ty ©). LATEST AVAILABLE FIGURES West German, (is) 119: Sea _— 21 784 Nee tine " 1) 428 ~ NORTH DAKOTA 1)10 December 31, 1947 2,524 ORGANIZATIONS 111,843 MEMBERS KEY NUMBER OF ORGANIZATIONS [N STAKES NUMBER OF ORGANIZATIONS IN MISSIONS NUMERALS OUTSIDE OF SQUARES AND CIR. CLES INDICATE RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP. Page 684 @) e sourn paxora @n @) 16 63] 89 4 MINNESOTA WISCONSIN 65, NEBRASKA lowa Om ae Snel 15) 130 C2) — missourns U6 | 212] 55 (6) ass (Gs) aus ere TENNESSEE 386 s @) 140 G) 4 i = S)PP\ [ALABAMA 281 = @|OX@ 89 197 LS 238 617 LOUISIANA 3 L. 4 Ag ® (2) Mm RHODE ist. 4)a7 0 CONNECTICS 1)6 [i}4 NEW JERSE 17 DELAWARE 2) 69 MARY" LAND 194 VISITING TEACHERS MEETINGS—10,519 Og QO O 0 8 9,748 Average Attendance of the 771 Meetings Visiting Teachers—17,461 Meetings in Stakes or 30.06%. In Missions. | SUNDAY NIGHTS. 5TH TUES., EXTRA SEWING, ETC. 12,497 3,626 MEETINGS MEETINGS IN STAKES IN MISSIONS ANNUAL REPORT—1947 TOTAL VISITS 1,458,000 b y 34,878 Visiting Teachers in 20,388 Districts rectors 995,820 - oo AT HOME 20,850 > COMMUNICATIO IN LIEU OF VE NS Ts HOME Z. 680,291 MESSAGES DELIVERED TO 68.31%. OF THE FAMILIES FOUND AT. HOME. ——— ". CH EACH L. D. S. HOME a) SHOULD BE VISITED ~- BY RS. ONCE A MONTH OR 12 TIMES A YEAR.; ee IN 1947 EACH lL. D.8, FAMILY WAS VISITED AN AVERAGE OF ¥ Page 687 'ANNUAL REPORT—1947 Average In Stakes In Missions Attendance sii. @ Gem © O@ @ « Av \ 46.26% wie ie oO SEW! Apne monees 41.63 % Lh swine 28 SNE wo F ABEND oC sen Ck (es a a i ) i A J 29.54% 36.55 Yo ESSENTIALS IN oN 8 NOTE THAT AVERAGE ATTENDANCE WAS GREATEST IN THE THEOLOGY MEETINGS TOTAL AV. ATTENDANCE OF 36,166 or 32.33% of R. S. Members ANNUAL REPORT—1947 138,895 VISITS TO SICK AND No. Of Funerals at Which R. S. Assisted..................:006 Dressing Only................ Complete PreparaPage 689 tion for Burial.............. 109 bam & |' ANNUAL REPORT—1947 289,189 ARTICLES COMPLETED / IN 952,222 HOURS eunts OTHER BEDDING - WOMEN'S MEN'S SUSCELLANEOUS Number of Articles Completed For: Church Relief Red All Welfare Society Cross Others 180,041 99,143 3,635 6,370 Page 690 CLOTHING © CLOTHING «CLOTHING; ANNUAL REPORT—1947 - 549,412 2 53,963 HRS. (__TOYAL HOURS © + oY as. "OF SERVICE RECEIVING -~ BY RS. WOMEN Ald 'y — FOR CHURCH of y it 49 OO ai é BY A ft OTHER RS, WOMEN OR ARTICLES COMPLETED ~~ For Church Welfare. At R. S. Meetings 180,041 _ * Vavingnannnnnnnnnnnnrinn sannarmennnnsipninne Se gs he MISSIONS ¥. IN 4,795 FAMILIES—15,017 PERSONS WERE GIVEN FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE. THIS SERVICE GIVEN UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE BISHOPS, INCLUDES FAMILY ANALYSES AND FOLLOW-UP VISITS BY WARD R. S. PRESIDENTS AND IS IN ADDITION TO OTHER TYPES OF SERVICE RENDERED BY R. S. TO THE WELFARE PROGRAM. 4,184 in Stakes 611 in Missions FAMILIES 1,610 In Missions 13.407 In Stakes PERSONS Page 69] . X f ahd 'es i ANNUAL REPORT—1947 $575,326.80 Cash Balance Jan. 1, 1947 $699,494.92 Cash Receipts* BALANCE NET ASSETS $1,681,683.02 $422,912.22 Wheat Fund $122,238.33 ial War Bonds $140,116.55 —— $163.00 F Real —— Accounts $99,481.96 Other Assets *=THESE FIGURES INCLUDE CONTRI — BUTIONS TO THE R. S. BUILDING FUND WHICH APPEARED ON THE FIRST BI-MONTHLY REPORT (DEC. 20 1947) FROM WARDS. STAKES AND MISSIONS AMOUNTING TO $55,044.90 ' i Ee g: aD. @ NS Ny Kstate $298,733.53 7 _—— Payable = Lr me 1 - Disbursements* ANNUAL REPORT 693 Comparative Financial and Statistical Data 1947 1946 Changes 1946 to 1947 Number Number Number Per or Amount | or Amount | or Amount | Cent STAKES AND MISSIONS, TOTAL 207 197 +10} +5.07 Stakes 168 159 +9 5.66 ORGANIMissions 39 38 +1 2.63 ZATIONS focal 2.524 2,393 +131| +5.47 Wards in Stakes 1,420 1,352 68 5.02 Branches in Missions 1,104 1,041 63 6.05 Membership, Total 111,843 105.798 +6,045; +5.71 General Officers and Board Members 20 19 +1] -+5.26 Stake Officers and Board Members 1,872 1,699 +173} +10.18 Mission Presidents and Other Officers 310 282 +28} +9.92 MEMBERS Ward and Branch Executive Officers 9,907 9,276 +631| +6.80 Other Officers 4,208 4,916 —708| —14.40 Class Leaders 7,774 7 841 —$7 _—. Visiting Teachers 34,878 31,678 +3,200} +10.10 All Other Members 52,874 50,087 +2,787| +5.56 L. D. S L. D. S. Families, Total 200.029 177,770 +-22,259 aa 'MILIF! In Stakes 178,008 162,811 +15,197| +9.33 FAMILIES In Missions 021 14,959 +7,062| -+-47.20 MEETINGS HELD, TOTAL 104,545 90.219 --14,326 | 4-15.87 In Wards and Branches 100,750 86,577 +14,173| +16.37 Regular Ward Meetings for Members 74,108 62,731 +11,377 | +18.13 Mar. Sunday Night Meet. And Special 4,231 3,853 378| -+9.82 a Teachers Meetings 10,519 9,633 886] +9.19 Ward Preparation Meetings 8,312 27) +1,090} +15.09 Ward Conferences 2,095 1,890 te 10.74 Ward Conference Preliminary Meetings 1,485 1,248 237 18.99 In Stakes and Missions 3,763 3.606 +157) +4.35 Stake and Mission Dist. Board Meetings 1,940 1,868 +72 3.85 Stake ae Ward Officers (Union) Mtgs. 1,456 De +94 He z 1: i r¥g| 2. MEETINGS eetings In Lieu of Union Meetings 36 x aN -_ General Board Meetings Held $2 36 —4| —11.11 VISITS TO WARDS BY STAKE OFFICERS 12,999 10,415 +2,584| -+24.81 AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS For Members 36.166 30,507 +-5,659 He 28,423 25,215 3,208 12, i eens 7, '292 2:451| $46.31 BY AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REG ULAR MEETINGS " 32.33 28.83 +-3.50 In Stak 30.49 28.40 +-2.09 In' Missions 41.54 31.09 410.45 VISITING TEACHING ae of a. Districts ' se ' ee i ee ami isits, Tota,458,000 237, 1: ACTIVITIES Fone 995,820 846,065 149,755] +-17.70 Not Home 462,180 391,841 +70,339) +-17.95 Per Cent Home 68.30 68,3 No. Communications in Lieu of Visits 20,850 16,992 +3,858] +-22.70 == | Guy, | Gr! AD i 694 e iterature Ocia] Science omen's Clothing Men's Clothing Other (Miscellaneous) TE SERVICES Visits to Sick and No. Of Ward First Aig Kits PREPAREDNESS i Ward Home Nursing Su Pply Chestg * Of Wards With List of Nurses Cash Recej ts FINANCES isbur, Cash isbursements Net Assets EMERGENCy A 2,524 ORGANIZATIONS With, —~ 111,843 MEMBERS 4 el | = 100,750 MEETINGS iS Jeeruilioy. ~~ -'1458,000 vigrre 34,878 VISITING TEACHERS OMEMAK. NG LITERATURE SOCIAL SCIEN. CE BOUND — 15,473 DAYS CARE oF SICK 289,189 BY R. S. WOMEN Th (fu wy Webfere = 180,041 ARTICLES__piyg 549,412 HOURS Ze CLOEMM csr, Of ie as dak, CHE. Eel a CU Gites peppy zap, % 2 Page 695 I 138,895 —AND VISITS To SICK AND HOME. Ey DEPARTM ENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 12—'Peace Be Still' Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 20, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, January 4, 1949 Objective: To strengthen faith in the Lord Jesus Christ through the recognition of his power over the forces of nature, of men, and even of demons. Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. Ig is suggested that during the meeting at which this lesson is considered, the members _ sing, "Master, the Tempest Is Raging," Deseret Sunday School Songs, page 204. Toward evening on the day that Jesus had first used parables in his teaching, he suggested to his disciples that they cross to the east side of the Sea of Galilee. No doubt, he was weary and wanted to get away from the multitudes for awhile. Before the trip commenced a certain scribe said unto Jesus, "... Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest" (Matt. 8:18). It was a plain bid for official recognition on the part of one of the ruling class. However, Jesus does not call those to office who seek positions. His policy was announced on another occasion as, "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you..." (John 15:16). He had thus chosen the Twelve. The offer of the scribe was not accepted. While the gospel is for all, those Page 696 who officiate in its sacred work must be called of God. In two other instances on that day the Lord taught great lessons concerning the need for a willingness to sacrifice on the part of those who accept calls to the ministry. One man who had volunteered to follow the Master if permitted first to go home and bury his father, was told, "... Let the dead bury their dead: but go thou and preach the kingdom of God." Another man who wanted to be a disciple requested time to go home and bid farewell to his friends. "And Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God" (Luke 9:57-62). In both cases, the answers may seem harsh. However, the Lord knew what was in their hearts. The work of the ministry was largely spiritual. Let those who were spiritually dead or negligent bury the dead. Those who had been set apart to the service of the Master had pressing duties to perform. LESSON DEPARTMENT: thou not that We perish?" there was 4 great calm." And he said unto [disciples] "Why are ye fearful... How is it that ye Haye no Waves of our troubled souls would be stil]. Lord, teach us to have more f, or dominions, or Plncipalities, Or powers: him, and for 697 him:., For it Pleased the Father that in him should all fulness dwe]] (Col. 1:0) 19). The Lord does, and will have complete contro] Over the earth jt. Self. Pay] States: Because the Creature itself [meaning the Shall be del; after the stilling of the storm, Jesus and his Party landed on the eastern Side of k 5:9), the devils Tecognized the M A Perry Picture From a Painting by Richter (1823-1884) CHRIST RAISING THE DAUGHTER OF JAIRUS Page 698 LESSON DEPARTMENT - the devils also be] leve, and (Jas. 2:19), the he demons Was POssesseq - Wicked People coulg Not stand to be i his Pl€sence, jf £Y Could avoiq it, em Press SS, and sayest thou, Wh touched tell them € Lord saig "Somebody d done hath touch d me; for | Perceive that orhim, Th an was full of Stativirtue lS gone Out of me" The tude and became Issionary woman, vObwithstanding her fear hereyer ent he told of the came forward and kneeling before Marveloy thing: Jesus had done the Ord confesseq that it was she rt hi © assured her jn kindly ones that In this One short Journey across er faith Made her hole. A he Sea of Galilee Y mighty Study of his Incident CONVinces ys Works had een d He had that the power to heal was Inherent shown his POWer over the elements, in the Lord Jesus to be "exercised at had Cast out dem ls, and had Called us will, an as the jn uence of at least one Elateful, ef Iclent mis faith might cal] jt forth," Let us slonary remember his sq ing " y faith hath made thee Whole" (Luke °43-48), The Raising the Daughter emember, the om Was alrus ealed as Jesus was on the road to €n the Lord Teturned to Ca Ouse of Jairus ¢Maum, great Crowds of People were He trusted the Lord. Even before they reached the home, word reached them that the little girl was dead. Jesus spoke reassuringly to the father, "Be not afraid, only believe." Only three of the apostles, Peter, James, and John, and the parents, were permitted to go with the Lord into the death chamber. Taking the young girl by the hand he said to her, "Talitha cumi; which is, being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, arise." The girl arose and was well. Jesus directed that food be given her as her body needed it. This, it must be remembered, was a case of calling back to life from death, not a case of resurrection (Mark 5:35:43). Restoration of Life and Resurrection There is a vital distinction between restoring from death to life and a resurrection of the body to a condition of immortality. Jesus was "the first fruits of them that slept." He was the first being ever to be resurrected. In all instances prior to his resurrection, the reuniting of the spirit and body was merely a commutation of mortal existence. Jesus controls both life and death. Faith in him brings the desired blessing: Passive belief on the part of a would-be recipient of blessing is insufficient; only when it is vitalized into active faith is it a power; so also of one who ministers in the authority given of God, mental and spiritual energy must be operative if the service is to be effective. Space will not permit giving in this lesson more of the miracles of the Lord. He opened the eyes of the blind, and caused them to see. He healed those who were deaf and those who were defective of speech. It is interesting to note that in these instances Jesus ministered by some "physical contact in addition to uttering the authoritative words of command or assurance." He anointed one man's eyes with clay; on the eyes of another he applied saliva; he put his fingers into the ears of another, or touched the tongue, as the case needed. He healed by a power that was his own. In this, our day, he has directed that we anoint with holy, consecrated oil as did the apostles of old (Mark 6:13). Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Why are self-seeking. Persons not appointed to office in the Church? 2. Describe the miracle of Christ stilling the tempest. 3. Give quotations to prove that faith is the great power by which miracles are performed. 4. Give an account of the woman being healed by touching the garment of Jesus and of the restoration to life of the daughter of Jairus. A al VANITY Caroline Eyring Miner She preens her bright feathers As proud as can be, As if she could wear them In eternity. 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT 701 Visiting Seachers' Nlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 4—In the World Ye Shall Have Tribulation: But Be of Good Cheer Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, January 4, 1949 Objective: To give encouragement to face the coming year courageously, T the turn of the year we might well recall these words spoken by the Savior: "In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer." What cheer can there be in tribulation? How can one take comfort in the thought of misery or suffering? Can it be that life to be good must also be evil? For one who has not lived understandingly, under the promptings of the "spirit," these questions seem unanswerable, Today, through the light of modern scriptures, we may know, however, that there is real purpose in life. That even the bitter experiences in living can add the somber tones which but serve to highlight the brighter joys. What true Latter-day Saints must learn to see in day-by-day patterns, is their ultimate goal. Again and again in the Book of Mormon we read words of understanding and encouragement explaining the seeming paradoxes of life. "But behold," says Lehi, "all things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things. Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:24-25). When we learn this lesson then "joy" like "cheer" reflects the deeper significance. 'The sacrifice of patents for children, the long road to relieve a suffering friend, the bittersweet hours that slip away in the passing of a loved one—these, and the myriads of other hard moments that crowd a full life, can only be sustained by an unfaltering trust in the Master's over-all purposes. By living righteously we may be of good cheer both in the present and in the future, sustained by the knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that all things work out for our ultimate good. Thus, though tribulation must be with us here, we realize its darker side is towards the earth, not heaven. "In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer" (John 16:33). REMEMBER THE BIRTHDAYS OF WOMEN IN YOUR FAMILY WITH A SUBSCRIPTION TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AN ATTRACTIVE GIFT CARD WILL BE SENT TO RECIPIENTS OF GIFT SUBSCRIPTIONS Address: The Relief Society Magazine, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah 702 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 Work IT leeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Salvage from Shirts Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, January 11, 1949 EN'S shirts, like their suits, frequently become shabby and wear out in strategic points long before their full value is exhausted. The collars and cuffs become frayed and they frequently pull out at the armholes, but the main body of the shirts can still stand more wear. If the material seems weak all over, then it is a waste of time and energy to remake them. But when the shirt as a whole is sturdy, many useful things can be done with it. There is a surprising amount of yardage to be found in a man's shirt. The fabric is usually fine, soft, and closely woven. These features, together with attractiveness of color and print, recommend them for remodeling into children's clothes. Logically, the first use that comes to mind is merely re-making the shirt into a smaller size for a boy. In this case try to take advantage, as much as possible, of the tail of the shirt which gets the least wear, for the parts of the boy's shirt which get the most wear, namely the collar and sleeves. Other children's clothing such as sun suits, pinafores and aprons can be constructed from shirts, colored ones being used for play clothes for little girls, and for play trousers, with a bib, for little boys. Attractive butcher-boy smocks, to be worn with contrasting slacks can be fashioned for little girls, using the stripes in different directions for trim. For the teen-age girl lovely blouses can be made in the Gibson girl styles. Many attractive combinations can be fashioned by using plain white shirts along with striped or colored ones. Have a_ tucked white bosom front and cuffs and collar on a solid color blouse. Or reverse the procedure and have striped trim on a white blouse. The young housewife and mother can fashion innumerable useful and attractive aprons. A shirt lends itself better to a style with a waist band and attached bib or merely a front apron type, since the usable length of a shirt is rarely over thirty inches. By combining the available material of the shirt with color, bias, rick rack or even eyelet embroidery, the possibilities are unlimited. To this list of suggestions add numerous items such as sunbonnets for the little girls, petticoats, panties, and even the popular camisole, and we have a vista of make-overs to challenge the ingenuity of any clever woman. LESSON DEPARTMENT 703 ol tterature—Literature of the Latter-day Saints Literature of the Gospel Restoration. Lesson 4—Words of Light and Truth from the Prophet Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, January 18, 1949 jose Smith was the first great interpreter in these latter days of the gospel, which with the help of the Lord and Savior, of Moroni and other holy men, he restored. In addition to the Book of Mormon, which he said is "the keystone of our religion," and the Doctrine and Covenants which is the revealed word of God to this Prophet, there are many sayings and sermons of this great leader which add new light and truth. These help us understand more clearly the plan of salvation; and further, they bring us closer to the spirit and power and kindly nature of "the man who communed with Jehovah." In a helpful little book called Joseph Smith's Teachings—a compilation by Edwin F. Parry from the authorized History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, known as the Documentary History of the Church (D. H. C.), are many illuminating utterances of the Prophet—taken from his sermons and informal discussions, as nearly as his scribes in longhand could record his words. In this study let us center attention on some of these typical selections to get not only spiritual upbuilding, but also for appreciation of the direct, vibrant, lucid style in which the great leader portrayed truth and wisdom. An excellent first example—and this came from his pen—will be found in our "Articles of Faith." For straightforward, orderly composition—clear, concrete, and comprehensive—this religious statement is outstanding. Moreover, the language has a natural rhythm which lends itself to good oral reading and memorizing. In a word, the "Articles of Faith" have high literary quality. Joseph Smith wrote and spoke without ostentation. He wasted no words; truth to him was of first importance. Further, he seemed to delight, as the prophet Nephi tersely expressed it, "in plainness." Further examples of the plain and forceful words of Joseph Smith follow: Baptism of Water and the Spirit The gospel requires baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, which is the meaning of the word in the original language—namely, to bury or immerse: We ask the sects, Do you believe this? They answer, No. I believe in being converted. I believe in this tenaciously. So did the Apostle Peter and the disciples of Jesus. But I further believe in the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands.... You might as well baptize a bag of sand as a man, if not done in view of the remission of sins and getting of the Holy Ghost. Baptism by water is but half a baptism, and is good for nothing without the other half—that is, the baptism of the Holy Ghost. The Savior says, "Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God" (Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 15-16). 704 Faith and Its Fruits Faith comes by hearing the word of God. If a man has not faith enough to do one thing, he may have faith to do another: if he cannot remove a mountain, he may heal the sick. Where faith is there will be some of the fruits; all gifts and power which were sent from heaven, were oured out on the heads of those who had faith (Ibid., page 38). Constitution of the United States— Its One Fault It is one of the first principles of my life, and one that I have cultivated from my childhood, having been taught it by my father, to allow every one the liberty of conscience. I am the greatest advocate of the Constitution of the United States there is on the earth. In my feelings I am always ready to die for the protection of the weak and oppressed in their just rights. The only fault I find with the Constitution is, it is not broad enough to cover the whole ground. Although it provides that all men shall enjoy religious freedom, yet it does not provide the manner by which that freedom can be preserved, nor the punishment of Government officers who refuse to protect the people in their religious rights, or punish those mobs, states, OT communities who interfere with the rights of the people on account of their religion (Ibid., page 24). Here, surely, is literature that was lived before it was written. The Prophet had just gone through the persecutions with his people that brought death to many, imprisonment for himself and others, and expulsion from a State, some of whose officers had violated sacred principles of the Constitution. And he had heard from the Chief Executive of our Nation the weakling words, "Your cause is just; but I can do nothing for you." The expression of the Prophet on the Constitution came out of a full heart. Another stirring expression, Te corded in its burning words for us RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 by Parley P. Pratt, who heard it, was the Prophet's denunciation of the foul mob who held him with other leaders in a dreadful jail. After he had listened to the filthy boastings and profanity of these captors as long as he could stand it, Joseph Smith rose, and in a voice of thunder said, as neatly as apostle Pratt could recall his words: SILENCE, ye fiends of the infernal pit! In the name of Jesus Christ I rebuke you, and command you to be still; 1 will not live another minute and hear such language. Cease such talk, or you OF J die THIS MINUTE. The story continues: remained quiet till a change of guards (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, page In another part of his Autobiography, Parley P. Pratt, who knew Joseph Smith intimately during those eatlier testing years, writes of the Prophet's language as: studied—not smoothed and softened by education and refined by art; but flowing forth in its own native simplicity, and profusely abounding in variety of subject and manner. He interested and edified, while, at the same time, he amused and entertained his audience; and none listened to him that were ever weary of his discourse... - Even his most bitter enemies were generally overcome, if he could once get their ears (Ibid., page 7)- All this is borne out by the fact that during his brief life he attracted thousands upon thousands through his spiritual teachings. More than this, his profound lessons of No man is capable of judging a matter, in council, unless his own heart is pure (Joseph Smith's Teachings, P28° go). A man is saved no faster than he gets 156). There is never @ time when the spirit is too old to approach God (Ibid., page 105). _ is no such thing as immaterial matter. I fine or pure, and can by purer eyes (Ibid., page 104)- Daily transgression and daily repentance is not that which is pleasing in the sight of God (Ibid., page 136). God judges men according to the use they make of the light which He gives them (Ibid., page 161). Examples of effective expression ©. Joseph Smith thought boldly, and yoiced plainly truth as he had gained it with di He had a message of deep import to give to the world—had religious fallacies to correct; and he did it cour ageously in plain language: One thing he did that needed doing and still does, was to take the Sectarian fancy had placed these on heavenly be ings; artists had mis-pictured them; authors had written wrongly of them. Joseph Smith said with characteristic directness: "An angel of God never has wings. ' 705 This point is emphasized because there seems to be need of correcting the fallacy. "Wh " said an adoleon other occasions, portraying the error, it is high time to guard out buying, and help our children to Jean the truth. Our Prophet, with words of clatity and concreteness, performed a divine service in bringing heaven closer to us. He truly re-vitalized Christianity; he brought us closer to angels. He knew them as glorious human beings, for Moroni, "an ang el from on high" had been his splendid teacher. With inspired words and in plainness, Joseph Smith taught the pure and everlasting gospel. With. Clarity and courage he Jaid bare the fal lacies that had grown round it— stripping away the trappings of sectarianism. Nor was there anything narrow Ot prejudicial in all this. It was always inspired with a desire to spread truth. "We do not ask any people," he said, "to throw away any good they have got, we only ask the and get more." Again he said, "One of the grand fundamental principles of 'Mormonism' is to receive truth, let it come whence it may." of which is in accord teenth Article of our F came from this Prophet of the latter days. Religious literature of the world. He contributed not only many sayings 706 further illustration, are some _ excerpts from one of such helpful sermons: GIFT OF THE HOLY GHOST Various and conflicting are the opinions of men in regard to the gift of the Holy Ghost. Some people have been in the habit of calling every supernatural manifestation the effects of the Spirit of God, whilst there are others that think there is no manifestation connected with it at all; and that it is nothing but a mere impulse of the mind, or an inward feeling, impression, or secret testimony or evidence, which men possess, and that there is no such thing as an outward manifestation. It is not to be wondered at that men should be ignorant, in a great measure, of the principles of salvation, and more especially of the nature, office, power, influence, gifts and blessings of the gift of the Holy Ghost; when we consider that the human family have been enveloped in gross darkness and ignorance for many centuries past, without revelation, or any just criterion to arrive at a knowledge of the things of God, which can only be known by the Spirit of God.... We believe that "no man can know that Jesus is the Christ, but by the Holy Ghost." We believe in it in all its fullness, and power, and greatness and glory; but whilst we do this, we believe in it rationally, consistently, and scripturally, and not according to the wild vagaries, foolish notions and traditions of men. The human family are very apt to run to extremes, especially in religious matters, and hence people in general, either want some miraculous display, or they will not believe in the gift of the Holy Ghost at all... We believe that the Holy Ghost is imparted by the laying on of hands of those in authority, and that the gift of tongues, and also the gift of prophecy are gifts of the spirit; and are obtained through that medium; but then to say that men always prophesied and spoke in tongues when they had the imposition of hands would be to state that which is untrue, contrary to the practice of the apostles, and at variance with holy writ; for Paul says, "To one is given the gift of tongues, to another the gift of prophecy, and to another RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 the gift of healing;" and again: "Do all prophesy? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret?".... "The Church is a compact body composed of different members, and is strictly analogous to the human system.... All members of the natural body are not the eye, the ear, the head, or the hand— yet the eye cannot say to the ear... Nor the head to the foot, I have no need of thee; they are all so many component parts in the perfect machine—the one body; and if one member suffer, the whole of the members suffer with it; and if one member rejoice, all the rest are honored with it. These, then, are all gifts; they come from God; they are of God; they are all the gifts of the Holy Ghost; they are what Christ ascended into heaven to impart; and yet how few of them could be known by the generality of men (Ibid., page 70 ff.). The sermon goes on developing the divine theme clearly, impressively, reasonably. Joseph Smith spoke soundly, inspiringly. One marvels at his spiritual insight, his knowledge and understanding of the scriptures and the common sense he reveals in their interpretation. His words leave a message which is easy, for those prepared in spirit, to accept, and easy to remember. These are marks of true literature. In another inspirational book— Joseph Smith, Prophet Teacher— by B. H. Roberts, we are given a scholarly analysis and eloquent presentation of the masterful contributions to the world of this spiritual leader. It is recommended for careful reading and rereading. Studies and Activities 1. Examine our "Articles of Faith" for their literary qualities of clearness, orderly statement, concreteness, and rhythmic language. Have each in turn recited expressively. LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. A. What is the effect of a careful study of the Prophet's sayings and sermons in helping one to an understanding of the gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints? B. How do these expressions help one also to understand the Prophet himself? 3. Carry forward the study introduced on the Prophet's Sermon on the Holy Ghost, or take some other sermon of his and study it. Observe carefully not alone the message he impresses, but also the literary qualities that mark it. 4. Give three to five basic characteristics 707 you find in the language expressions of Joseph Smith that help make of them effective religious literature. References Joseph Smith's Teachings, a Compilation by Edwin F. Parry Teachings of the Prohet Joseph Smith, Compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith. Joseph Smith—Prophet Teacher, B. H. Roberts. Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt —_ Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 3—Political Ideas Advocated by the Prophet Joseph Smith Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, January 25, 1949 Prophet Joseph Smith. EVAN JENSEN AS well as being a prophet, Joseph Smith was an American. As such, he underwent the political experiences of the Latter-day Saints and the Americans of his day. But towards these experiences he applied Objective: To better appreciate the political doctrines advanced by the a growing conception and appreciation for political and religious freedom and related problems. From the revealed word he taught the doctrine and ideal of the kingdom of God. Section 65 of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, dated at Hiram, Ohio, October 1831, identifies the infant Church he established as the kingdom of God on earth. Moreover, "the keys of the kingdom"—divine authority— had been re-conferred on men—himself and others. Few people understand or realize the immediate significance of the Prophet Joseph Smith's inspired 708 declarations, viewed in terms of political theory. The Latter-day Saints were exceedingly practical and proceeded with the business of "kingdom-building" on the American frontier, with city planning, economic and social experimentation, and proselyting activities which received local, national, and international attention, By January 4, 1833, Joseph had written an American newspaperman, N. E. Seaton, that the secular States of the world were facing destruction, and that in order to escape, "all people, high and low, rich and poor, male and female," should repent and be baptized. The snowball growth of the gospel, like Daniel's "stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands" (D. & C. 65:2) with its social system and Church government, attracted wide attention and received complex reactions, even persecutions. The Book of Mormon, with its ideal of true Christian society (IV Nephi), aroused antagonism as well as support. This situation led to a rich political experience in Joseph Smith's own lifetime, as he endeavored to find the sphere of freedom within the practical political world, wherein the little "kingdom" could grow unmolested. Joseph Smith on the United States Constitution Joseph Smith was ultimately forced by experience to the position where he elaborated and justified the use of force in order to maintain liberty. But more fundamentally, the Prophet's political theory presupposed conditions that would make resort to force unnecessary. As early as August 6, 1833, pronouncement was made (D. & C. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 98:4-10) that the principle of freedom was God-given and "belongs to all mankind," and that constitutional law should support that principle. A few months later, December 16, 1833, a revelation was received (section 101:76-80) in which the Constitution of the United States was set forth as the fulfillment of divine purpose "for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles; that every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity a Thus was opened the way for reconciling the conflict between kingdombuilding and the American nation, one of those nations supposedly headed for destruction unless the people received the gospel. In short, in Latter-day Saint belief, American government has a peculiar and special nature under a Constitution which is inspired because it fundamentally recognizes basic "free agency" or human liberty, a limitation which God established. When the Prophet offered his dedicatory prayer at the Kirtland Temple, March 27, 1836, mercy was invoked "upon all the nations of the earth" and petition made that "the Constitution of our land... Be established forever" (D.& C.109:54). Later, on March 25, 1839, a letter was penned in which the Prophet declared that the Constitution was "a glorious standard... Founded in the wisdom of God" because it embraced the principle (federalism combined with civil liberty) which "guarantees to all parties, sects, and denominations, and classes of religion, equal, coherent, and_ indefeasible rights" (D. H. C. III, page 304). In other words, the Constitution of the United States sets up a po- LESSON DEPARTMENT litical system within which the kingdom of God, itself mild in nature, subject to self-restraint and toleration, could stow and flourish. The this: a good State must necessarily be limited to the extent that it guarantee liberty to and noninterference with teligious groups and any other human association based on the liberty of individual conscience, Provided, that the s'Oup Or association, in turn, recognizes the fundamental limitation of free agency, and which is imposed on the American State 5 its Constitution, As th Article of Faith puts it, as contained in Joseph Smith's letter, March 1, 1842, to John Wentworth: We claim Almighty God according A State granting liberty of teligion keeps open the avenue to morality in the people; thus May the voice of the people demand that which is "good." And if they do not, the Temedy in Latter-day Saint politica] thought lies in the Church, whose responsibility it is, as Alma said, "bearing down in pure testimony against them," and in love and faith, awakening the individual and social conscience to worthy citizenship, The Nature of American Government A "constitutional federal republic" is perhaps the best descriptive phrase for the American governmental system. "Constitutional" means that 709 the Constitution Provides the fundamental limits of Power, while describing and distributing the powers that the governmental power found tion and states. Nation has complete authority over any individual or thing—except in wartime, when total Powers have been exercised by the National Goyernment. "Republic" means power Is exercised, and controlled, primarin which public Power is distributed, divided, and subdivided, in the interests of the People's liberties under law, but effective action yet made possible, The Prophet on Practical Political Problems On February 7, 1844, in support of his announced candidacy for the American Presidency, Joseph Smith published a lengthy booklet, Views 1. The ever present danger that those elected to high office will look to their Own selfish interests rather than those of the public, 2. Military Preparedness: "To be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of Preserving peace." 3- Peace, notwithstanding Preparedness, must be the unswerving objective of for. Eign policy. 4. "Agriculture, manufactures, navigation, commerce, need the fostering care of government," including a "judicious tariff." 710 5. Reorganization of Congress to make a smaller, more workable body. 6. Practical politicians will make free use of "reform" measures to win fame and power instead of accomplishing real improvements. 7. The substitution of remedial, corrective measures for traditional methods of penology. "Let the penitentiaries be turned into seminaries of learning." 8. Abolition of slavery by compensating the owners. G. Economy in public affairs. 10. Banking reforms suggestive of the federal reserve system of today. 11. Increased responsibility for the President in protecting civil nghts. 12. Peaceful expansion of the American system to embrace Texas (then an independent nation), Mexico, Canada, and "all the world: let us be brethren, let us be one great family, and let there be universal peace." (For the Prophet's platform, see D. H. C. VI, pp. 390-392 or Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman, pp. 180-183). The Mission and Destiny of America Some suggestion of the Prophet's conception of the role of America in world affairs may be gathered from the foregoing discussion. His faithful follower, President John Taylor, put it this way a few years later: It is true that the founders of this nation, as a preliminary step for the introduction of more correct principles and that liberty and the rights of man might be recognized, and that all men might become equal before the law of the land, had that great palladium of liberty, the Constitution of the United States, framed. This was the entering wedge for the introduction of a new era, and in it were introduced principles for the birth and organization of a new world (The Gospel Kingdom, page 309). On May 12, 1844, speaking of the kingdom of God ideal, the Prophet Joseph Smith stated: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 I calculate to be one of the instruments of setting up the kingdom of Daniel by the word of the Lord, and I intend to lay a foundation that will revolutionize the whole world (Joseph Smith: ProphetStatesman, page 200). On April 8, 1844, he had told the general conference at Nauvoo: The whole of America is Zion itself from north to south (Ibid., page 198). As President 'Taylor expressed it December 17, 1871: The worst wish we have for the human family is that the principles enunciated in our Constitution may reverberate over the wide earth, and spread from shore to shore until all mankind shall be free. The obvious meaning of these views, propounded by the Prophet in relation to the mission and destiny of America is that within the framework of constitutional principles, the restored gospel message of Christ the Lord can be spread and God's kingdom be established throughout the world. Tied with America and its Constitution, the "entering wedge of a new era," then, is the destiny of the human race. Whom the gospel message fails to attract will still have the benefit of American influence wherever constitutional freedom spreads and prevails. 'The Constitution of the United States with American government, and the Church and kingdom of God, are thus seen as twin, co-ordinate objects in the political thought of Joseph Smith, each with a mission of liberty and service to mankind. Questions for Discussion 1. What is the Latter-day Saint idea of the kingdom of God? (The following LESSON DEPARTMENT books contain excellent selections on the subject: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith; Joseph Smith: ProphetStatesman; The Discourses of Brigham Young; The Gospel Kingdom; The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff; Gospel Doctrine. ) 2. Does the principle of freedom belong to all mankind? 711 3. What is "all mankind?" 4. What reasons exist to support the belief that the United States Constitution is an inspired document? 5. What is the fundamental connection between religious freedom and good government? Why is the principle of religious freedom an essential element of a sound political theory? —-- Optional oessons in oLieu of Swasel: Ae cuieo like First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) Lesson 3—The Presidency of Brigham Young For Tuesday, January 25, 1949 Elder T. Edgar Lyon Tue Presmbency A Unir—TuHe Turee ArE ONE BRIGHAM YOUNG President Brigham Young HE second President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Brigham Young, was born in Vermont, June 1, 1801. In 1830 he was living in Mendon, New York, where he was following the trade of carpenter, joiner, painter, and glazier, when he first heard of the Book of Mormon. He was converted largely by this book, but did not join the Church until 1832, after which he moved to Kirtland and became intimately associated with the Prophet Joseph Smith. At his first meeting with Joseph Smith, the Prophet called upon Brigham to pray, and in his prayer, he spoke in tongues, and the Prophet announced to those present that the gift was from God, and added, "'the time will come when Brigham Young will preside over this Church" (NrsBLey Preston, The Presidents of the Church, page 52). Brigham Young was selected a 712 member of the first quorum of Twelve Apostles of this dispensation, February 14, 1835. He played a prominent part in the Ohio, Missouri, and Illinois periods of the Church. In a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, January 10, 1841, the Lord says: "I give unto you my servant Brigham Young to be a president over the Twelve traveling council" (D. & C. 124:127). Less than six weeks after Joseph Smith was murdered, Bngham Young and the Council of the Twelve Apostles were sustained as the presiding body of the Church. They functioned in this capacity from August 1844 until December 5, 1847, when the First Presidency of the Church was reorganized near Council Bluffs, Iowa. Brigham Young was sustained by the apostles as President of the Church and he chose two counselors, Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards. Then the apostles sustained the First Presidency of the Church. Bigham Young was sustained president with Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards as his counselors. 'They were sustained by the Church in the log tabernacle at Council Bluffs, December 27, 1847. The new President was to continue in this calling for nearly thirty more years. During this time, because of the loss of his counselors by death, he was assisted by two additional first and two additional second counselors other than those previously mentioned. Brigham Young stood at the head of the Twelve as the governing body at a time when there was need for a leader of great forcefulness. The members of the Church have all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 heard or have read the testimonies of those who were assembled in the Grove in Nauvoo, after the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum, when the Quorum of the Twelve, with Brigham Young at its head, was sustained as the Presidency of the Church. Typical of these testimonies is that of Emmeline B. Wells (the fifth general president of the Relief Society) who was present when "the mantle of the Prophet Joseph fell upon Brigham Young and so transfigured him that the people marveled." All through the long years of her life, she related this incident in the assemblies of the saints with earnestness and vigor. It was evident that the saints would soon have to leave Illinois. This called for great organizing ability and much wisdom in choosing a new location as well as resourcefulness in providing the means of getting there. The records of the Church during this period indicate that Brigham and his brethren met frequently and studied reports on the Far West. Then, under the inspiration of God, they decided upon their place of settlement. "We will carry out all the measures of Joseph," said Brigham. Many times he expressed the conviction that his experiences with the Prophet during the journey to and from Missouri with Zion's Camp were the most valuable that could have come to him in fitting him for the exodus to the West. In addition to the practical leadership of Brigham Young, he was preeminently a spiritual leader. Under his direction the unfinished temple at Nauvoo was rushed to completion. This was done at great sacrifice in time, money, and labor even when LESSON DEPARTMENT it was apparent that the saints would not long enjoy its use. He was determined that they should have the benefits of their temple endowments and do some ordinance work for the dead, before they embarked on the long trek to the West. When Brigham Young entered the Salt Lake Valley for the second time in the fall of 1848, he had two counselors who were well qualified for the responsible positions they held. Elder Kimball was a man of sound judgment and great courage, and with his other gifts he had an unusual sense of prophetic insight. Willard Richards was a man of penetrating intelligence and added much to the technical organization of the Church and the establishment of the institutions that were needed for their government and in the regulation of their interrelations in their new pioneer life. After entering the Great Basin, Brigham Young commenced to unfold the plan for building the "kingdom of God" in a most remarkable fashion which indicated a great vision of the future destiny of the Church. Emphasis was placed upon the necessity of providing the essentials to maintain life—the securing of food, clothing for the cold winters, and shelter from the cold and heat. He urged the people to be economically self-sustaining and to this end he encouraged the emigrating saints and the missionaries who were abroad to bring or send to Zion artisans of trades and occupations, which could be adapted to the use of the Latter-day Saints in their mountain homes. Coal mining, iron smelting, cotton raising, silk culture and manufactur- 713 M-U:-S-: I-C MUSIC— MUSIC— FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY CHOIRS WURLITZER ORGANS WURLITZER ORGANS WURLITZER ORGANS FOR BETTER ACCOMPANIMENTS SELDON N. HEAPS SELDON N. HEAPS SELDON N. HEAPS For Help With Your Musical Problems SUMMERHAYS MUSIC CO. 17 W. First So. Salt Lake City NEAREST ENEUEDS ee BIBLES There's one to meet almost every Bible need of young or old — student or teacher. Look for the National trade-mark before you buy. It identifies a book you can be proud to give — or to get. SINCE 1863... AT YOUR BOOKSTORE ing, tanning of hides, manufacturing of paint, shoes, harness, hats, linen, paper, ink, glass and lead products, cabinet and furniture works, soap making, woolen manufacturing, the sugar beet industry, and others were commenced, in addition to the usual farming and livestock activities. 'The planting of the many settlements from San Bernardino, California, and Carson Valley in the west, and from Call's Landing in Arizona to Fort Lemhi on the Salmon River in Idaho in the north, were all made as part of his plan to establish latterday Israel firmly in these mountain valleys, and to enable them to utilize the various natural resources for the temporal salvation of God's people. Along with these activities the spiritual needs of the people were not forgotten. Every settlement was in reality a planned Church unit, under the leadership of the bishopric. No settlement was without its combination Church-schoolhouse, and it became the center of the spiritual life of the people. 'The great pioneer leader did not think it sufficient to send out a colony and then read reports of its activities, but he endeavored to visit each colony, yearly, if possible. On these pilgrimages he encouraged the colonists with sound, practical advice and fed them the bread of life by preaching to them spiritual messages as he spoke under the inspiration of God. He encouraged them to seek wholesome recreation that would restore their tired bodies and invigorate their minds. Nor was he forgetful of the need of increasing the membership of the Church nor the divine obligation to Professional am yee Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah "ae ne: THAT'S WHAT YOU GET IN | Vs PAINT. Among them you can find any color you want to match any color in draperies, wallpaper—anything. BENNETT''S 65 West First South and Bennett's branches and dealers in Utah and Idaho 714 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT preach the gospel to the nations of the earth. The missionary work in Europe was expanded to include most of the Continental nations, and more systematic organizations were effected to cover the North American continent and the islands of the Pacific Ocean. Through the organization of the Perpetual Emigrating Fund Company, many thousands of converts were enabled to emigrate to Zion through this cooperative enterprise who otherwise would never have been able individually to meet the costs of the journey. Prior to his joining the Church, Brigham Young was an obscure laborer engaged in farming, the building trades, and functioning as an unpaid Methodist class leader. It was through the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, his contacts with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the power of the Priesthood that he was enabled to lead the Church as he did. He declared: I do not wish men to understand I had anything to do with our being here. That was the providence of the Almighty. It was the power of God that wrought out Salvation for His people. I never could have devised such a scheme. When he passed from mortality on August 29, 1877, at Salt Lake City, the life of a great prophet-leader closed amidst the scenes of the great achievements his leadership had accomplished in the barren wastes of western America. B. H. Roberts said of him: These achievements write down Brigham Young as the Greatest Pioneer and Colonizer of modern times—an Empire founder; and place him easily among the first score of Great Americans. 715 LADIES! When you come to conference we cordially invite you to drop in at our store and see and hear the beautiful HAMMOND ORGAN! GLEN-BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 South Main St. PRACTICALLY ALL SIZES OF 'LAMP BULBS BUY FROM YOUR DEALER A UTAH POWER «& LIGHT CO. MESSAGE 716 HEBER C. KIMBALL Heber C. Kimball The man whom Brigham Young chose to be his first counselor in the Presidency of the Church in 1847 was one of his closest personal friends. He was well suited to the task and Brigham's close acquaintance with him had revealed the characteristics that were needed to help him carry the tremendous load that he would have as President of the Church. Heber C. Kimball was born in Vermont, on June 14, 1801 —just thirteen days after the birth of Brigham Young. He likewise had established himself in Mendon, New York, but he had learned the trade of a potter as well as farming, and in 1830 at the time of a "revival," had joined the Baptist church. About three weeks after his baptism he heard of the restoration of the gospel and he and Brigham and Phineas Young and their wives journeyed to Pennsylvania where they visited with members of the Church. In April 1832, he yas baptized and in September of that year he and Brigham and JoRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 NST ERIEPISSIISDIAEVDIM Two Part SACRED CHORUSES for your SINGING MOTHERS' Repertoire 7947 Sing O Heavens—Simper...$.12 1875 Father, In Thy Mysterious Presence Kneeling — Protheroe 12 5243 Thy House Forever — Protheroe (12 7952 Lift Up Your Heads—Hopkins.12 5972 Come, We That Love The Lord—Barnes 10 5062 The Good Shepherd—Barri.....12 W1718 Grateful, O Lord, Am I— Roma 15 2119 Beside Still Waters — Hamblen 15 1762 Father, We Thank Thee — Castleton eae Ss 5237 For He Shall Give His Angels Charge—Protheroe ___.............10 Write for further information conceming our complete stock of choral music both for women's and for mixed voices. Music sent on approval if desired. Postage prepaid. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, recMAIN STREET ords and musicians' supplies. G SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH DEQ ESA ESA ESI PEF FIRST OF ALL—RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH; Wud ¢ LESSON DEPARTMENT seph Young visited Kirtland and met the Prophet Joseph for the first time. They soon moved to Kirtland, and from that time until the death of the Prophet, Elder Kimball was closely associated with him, being one of the original group of Twelve Apostles. He was sent by Joseph Smith in company with other brethren to open the British Isles to the preaching of the restored gospel in 1837, where they firmly established the Church in those countries. In Nauvoo he became an enthusiastic worker for the development of the saints' city, and after the death of the Prophet was a loyal supporter of President Brigham Young. When the Presidency was reorganized on December 5, 1847, President Young assigned to him the first place in the counselorship, and for the remaining twenty-one years of his life, he stood by his best friend as he had previously supported his Prophet. In the pioneering of the Great Basin, Elder Kimball was one of the planners and_ stimulators. With Brigham Young he visited the colonies that had been established in the various portions of the then expansive Utah Territory, and spoke prophetic encouragement to the struggling saints. He was also a member of the territorial legislature for many years. His particular gifts in speaking appear to have been his ability to speak the language of the common man and to explain doctrines and make them impressive through the use of homely stories and apt sayings which were long remembered and afterward quoted by the saints as gospel truths. He was also possessed of a fine sense of discernment. Particularly did this 717 Dont Delay Every day you postpone changing to the O. P. Skaggs System "Easy Way" of shopping for your foods (if you are not already converted) you lose valuable time as well as money. Modern methods of merchandising in the O. P. Skaggs System Stores have done away with wasted time, dissatisfaction and low quality foods for our customers, Don't wait another day! Come in now and prove for yourself that you can have highest quality foods at less than ordinary prices. O. P. SKAGGS Class. Leaders Here Are Your Relerence Books for your 1948-49 Social Science Lessons O MAN AND THE DRAGON........0.0...........--.$2.00 Dr. John A. Widtsoe O Said SMITH: PROPHET-STATESG. Homer Durham O) GOSPEL tepon a Dr. G. Homer Durham Dl DISCOURSES OF WILFORD WOOD- - G. Homer Durham BOOKCHRAT 1186 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah When ordering, add 2% Sales Tax in Utah Write for listing of books AN RUFF $2.25 $2.50 718 spiritual gift manifest itself in predictions. At Nauvoo when they first commenced to establish the city he remarked: "This is a beautiful place but not a long resting place for the Saints." 'This incensed Sidney Rigdon who was convinced that their troubles were over, but Brother Kimball's prophecy was soon fulfilled. Many are the stories told of his predictions concerning the future of the saints and their troubles and of the Church and its destiny. As a result of a severe fall sustained in Provo, Utah, he died at Salt Lake City on June 22, 1868. Brigham Young lost in him a wise counselor and the saints an approachable leader who lived close to them. God had taken one of the most humble of this world to confound the mighty, the wise, and the strong. Topics for Discussion and Study 1. What characteristics did Brigham Young possess for the great work that was placed upon him at the death of Joseph Smith? 2. What purpose do you suppose Brigham Young had in establishing many smal] settlements throughout the intermountain region, rather than the settlement of a few large cities? 3. What particular contribution did Heber C. Kimball make to the establishment of the Church in its western home? 4. Read and evaluate Heber C. Kimball's ''Address to My Children," found on page 151 of Life of Heber C. Kimball. References N1BLEy, Preston, Brigham Young: The Man and His Work. Gates anp WipTsok, Life Story of Brigham Young., Wuitney, Orson F., Life of Heber C. Kimball; Improvement Era, Vol. 13: page 989; Vol. 33, page 558. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948 "Man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge."—Joseph Smith. Saints should seek knowledge "BOOKS OF THE CHURCH FOR ANY L. D. S. BOOK Write EZRA 1. MARLER L. D. S. BOOKS BY MAIL Box 267 Salt Lake City, Utah STANDARD PRICES PERSONAL SERVICE SAME-DAY MAILING 1948 price list free for the asking SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO., ) Ro AFH ANOTHER DENT Mighty few dented fenders on Sears big storeside parking lot! There's plenty of room to maneuver your car. Main or State at 8th South Salt Lake City, Utah Dial 5-665] Park Free Articulate, Resonant Words In Singing Florence J. Madsen Member, General Board of Relief Society Words are freeborn.... They have the same right to dance and sing as the dewdrops have to sparkle and shine-—Abraham Coles N song the words are just as important as the music. They represent the thoughts, feelings, and emotions that are to be conveyed. It is essential, therefore, that they are fully understood by the listener. However, the words are not to be overspoken to the sacrifice of the tone quality, nor should they be spoken in the small speech form of ordinary conversation. The singer, like the dramatic reader, must use the large speech form which means the full use of all the resonating cavities of the head and face. 'This further implies that the mouth is well opened, the lower jaw thoroughly relaxed, the tip of the tongue touching the lower front teeth for all vowels. In the meantime all the resonating cavities such as the hard palate, the sinuses, the nose, the face-mask, etc., should be unobstructed so that they can function fully as amplifiers of the tone. To obtain the most satisfactory word-resonance the hum tone must be cultivated. The singing-hum is properly produced by observing the following: (a) Yawn position of mouth (b) Closed lips (c) Teeth well apart (d) Tongue relaxed, teeth (e) Lower jaw free and unprotruded touching front This hum is to be practiced with "M" in three different ways: 1. Sustained on various pitches in the medium part of the voice 2. Partial scales and arpeggios (chordlines) then in their entirety 3. Well-known song melodies, such as "Sweet Hour of Prayer," "Abide With Me," "Love's Old Sweet Song"' (chorus), etc. During all humming and word singing the following vocal positions should be adhered to: (a) Erect standing or sitting (b) High and expanded chest and ribs (c) Contracted abdominal muscles With practice these positions can be. Maintained without the least semblance of rigidity. 'This is accomplished when all of the released energy used in singing is balanced and equally distributed and when all of the muscles concerned remain elastic and easily subject to the dictates of the will. Singing, as well as being an aesthetical expression, is very definitely a physical exercise, and all normal physical exercises are possible only through equalized and correlated energy. [Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussion in the choristers' and organists' department at union meeting. ] Page 719 From lear and Sar Maryhale Woolsey, author of '"Curtain Call," was born in Spanish Fork and has lived in Utah most of her life. As a young person, she was indignant that no one had ever written a song about our western mountains—so she did something about it and the ever-popular "Springtime in the Rockies" was the result. She writes stories, poems, plays, and songs. Her work has been published in the Church magazines and Eastern and Canadian magazine. She is a member of the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers (ASCAP), League of Utah Writers, Art Barn Poets, and National Writers Club. Mrs. Woolsey has four daughters who are also talented in writing and art. She attended the B. Y. U. In Provo, Utah. I am truly grateful for all the many years of fine reading I have enjoyed through the Magazine. —Mrs. Wanda E. Stewart, South Gate, California It is nearly 100 miles to the nearest Church from our home and my only connections are through the monthly Magazines and I enjoy them very much and look forward to receiving them. Thank you very much for the wonderful Magazine and may God bless and keep you. Mrs. Lilly Bennett, Menasha, Wisconsin. Just now I sent in another group of Magazine subscriptions for our small branch. I picked up my expiring copy and again read the inspiring poetry therein. Such a beautiful book you are giving us. Money couldn't buy mine back. The contents are complete, especially for a homebody like myself, but the poetry is the best anywhere. It is the first thing I read. —Darliene Thompson, Tulsa, Oklahoma Page 720 Your executive officers very kindly placed me on the complimentary list for The Relief Society Magazine. I should like to become a paying subscriber if this is possible, as the articles on the old pioneering days and old customs are interesting.... During the war the Rector one day had two young American ladies in uniform who paid us a visit from London and asked to be shown over the church. During the visit one stated that her grandmother had been in service as a housemaid in the rectory over ninety years ago and her mother wanted a Photograph of the old rectory, which was duly done. It is things like these which link our two nations together, also our two churches, although many miles apart. —F. Z. Claro, Sidesman, St. Mary's Church, Corringham, Essex, England. I am taking this liberty to send in my appreciation for your splendid Magazine, although I am not a member of the organization, being a man, but I have been treading the Magazine for almost half a century, and I must say some of the finest contributions include the short stories. I used to wonder why we didn't have more writers of stories, real life stories, written by our own people. Now that wish has been realized during recent years for some of the very best stories are found in The Relief Society Magazine. —F. M. Shafer, Moab, Utah One of the most interesting pages in the Magazine to me is the reprint page from "Sixty Years Ago." It seems to link my contribution to Relief Society, small as it is, with all those who have gone before. I feel the magnitude and timelessness of this work. Wasn't it fun to read the fashion notes in the last issue on that page (September 1948)? Mabel Jones Gabbott, Salt Lake City, Utah Sources. Off Enrichment for Relief Society Lessons Essentials in Church History 714 pages $2.50 By Joseph Fielding Smith The Restored Church 740 pages $2.50 By Wm. E. Berrett Presidents of the Church 372 pages $3.00 By Preston Nibley Joseph Smith, An American Prophet 440 pages $3.00 By John Henry Evans Joseph the Prophet 179 pages $1.50 By Daryl Chase Joseph Smith, the Prophet 552 pages $3.00 By Preston Nibley Teachings of the Prophet Joseph 410 pages $2.50 By Joseph Fielding Smith Brigham Young, Man and His Work 552 pages $2.50 By Preston Nibley Life of Heber C. Kimball 507 pages $3.00 By Orson F. Whitney Life of Joseph F. Smith 490 pages $2.50 By Joseph Fielding Smith Gospel Doctrine 553 pages $2.50 Discourses of President Jos. F. Smith Gospel Standards | 386 pages $2.25 Discourses of President Grant Comprehensive History of the Church $25.00 Six Volumes. By B. H. Roberts COLORED CHURCH HISTORY PICTURES Set of 93, 8" x 10". People, famous places, events, achievements, from the beginning to the present. An illuminating aid to illustrating your lessons $3.00 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please find $............... For which please send books and pictures as follows: Nome ooo Address. --. 22 2e2e essen eee Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 ODUCT OF AN FARMS lS VGAR | * PURE | ~ANULATED VOL. 35 NO. 11 Lessons for February NOVEMBER 1948 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - -: - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Aleine M. Young Mary G. Judd Leone G. Layton Florence G. Smith Josie B. Bay Anna B. Hart Blanche B. Stoddard Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Edith S. Elliott Evon W. Peterson Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Priscilla L. Evans Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 35 NOVEMBER, 1948 No. 11 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Joy in Full Measure President Belle S. Spafford 724 And What of the Promise? RedCounselor Marianne C. Sharp 727 Relief Society Building News......----------.---ee-. 730 The Practice of Consonants for Better Singing.............-...--.——-Florence Jepperson Madsen 769 FICTION SCS 0111 Ce ee roran cone eravacersr tr erenranrs teeaeaeenemeatacentncecatentaaeyMargery S. Stewart 738 Questing Lights—Chapter 8. Belle Watson Anderson 747 Then—and Now! Sadie Ollerton Clark 754 GENERAL FEATURES Woman's Sphere ane eeecnneevvneneeennwnsecergenwerscemveseoeennwececeomevecrenrwsseessnneesseeneesRamona W. Cannon 745 Editorial: Thanksgiving for Riches of the Spirit Marianne C. Sharp 746 Notes from the Field: Fashion Shows, Singing Mothers, and Other Activities... General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering oe Z From Near and Far LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: "The Apostolic Mission and Events Related Thereto"'........ Elder Don B. Colton 770 Visiting Teachers' Messages: 'Judge Not That Ye Be Not Judged''.... Elder H. Wayne Driggs 774 Work Meetin —Sewing: Outmoded Formals Jean Ridges Jennings 775 Literature: Earlier Evangelistic Literature Elder Howard R. Driggs 776 Social Science: ''The Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General' ': 7: Elder G. Homer Durham 78} Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science: The Presidency of Brigham Young, continued = Elder T. Edgar Lyon 785 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Dolls Do Not Grow Old A Party for You Dorothy J Mille re N " POETRY ovember Noon—Frontispiece.. Christie Lund Coles 723 move [Hearts Nene eeeEvelyn Fjeldsted 726 e Building Fund Nellie W. Neal 729 Apache Basket on. Ececeeecseseceesnseesassssessesacsseseseeaespesesees Irene Rayner Storey 751 Preface to Winter i i ae Simple Things of Life oo eectececcesesssessssnessessncsseesessoeesectneeseesestteeeesoeeeeeeeeee. Lgsie 'L ae ae ae ecco Spot. Eunice J. Miles 753 I Wait ¢ Sen nnnBeatrice K. Ekman 759 C60 SIE Co) aw) ©) 0 Dc Co Si Grace Sayre 759 Desert Dusk Hilltop Communion.. _. Nnn GLO OS ae 84 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop' ildi i itor: leSS BS: p's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subee 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; a oe Le Sentieg) ee ce ll5e. The Gamer is not sent after subscription expires No s ied. New prom so that i i i a addpaee at ong reas both old and new antes. Ating copies Wile ae ntered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under ene" of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in ee ion 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Sixty Years AQ oocecccecccccccccceccecssueecececeesnessseseseneeceneectensecsnsescsecceeeceeeeeeesnsesnsnsesnscenecensareesenesesmteseeats 744 hand painted glasses... Dear to the heart of all Utahns... These frosted glass beverage sets with delicate hand painted seagulls in four graceful flights... In tones of soft blue and grey. Created exclusively by a famous artist for ZCMI. They make wonderful gifts! Send for yours today! Set of 8 glasses—10 or 12 ounce......................- 6.95 Postage due.25c Frosted Pitcher to match (not shown)................- 3.45 Postage due.25c HOUSEWARES—Downstairs Store. Mail Orders to Margot Manners % ZCMI. Residents of Utah please add 2% Sales Tax. LM Willard Luce "GATEWAY" THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 35, NO. 11 NOVEMBER 1948 NOVEMBER NOON Christie Lund Coles The cornstalks now lie frayed upon the ground; The sunflower faces, gaunt upon their stems, Are stripped of foliage; silenced is the sound Of the stream that splashed its brightly gleaming gems Upon the bending salt grass on the shore, Accompanying birds through every summer tune That now is silenced, too, muted before The barn sparrow's forlorn peep this autumn noon. The fields, heat-seared and fallow, lie untilled And scarred of breast; the monotonous chirp Of crickets in the grass foretells the chilled And lonely winter days that will usurp The autumn now beyond this desolation.... What strength earth manifests in resignation. The Cover: Arrangement of Architect's Drawing of Proposed Relief Society Building, by Evan Jensen. Joy m Full Measure President Belle S. Spafford (Address delivered at the morning session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 3°, history-making day in the life Th is indeed a glorious and It is a remember the thousands of out sisters throughout the world whom circumstances prevent being with us on this important oc casion, but whose hearts and prayets are with us—sisters wn faraway Finsea, South Africa, Old Mexico, and whose devotion and whose cot tributions to this fund-raising P! O" gram have helped to make this 0¢ casion possible. Program. Relief Society women today ate heirs of a great heritage. They have proved themselves wot thy of that heritage, demonstrating sn their characters the same sterling qualities possessed by who have gone before them—faith, devotion to duty, willingness to Un selfishly labor and sacrifice that this society might g° forward. 'They have upheld a wonderful tradition and justified the confidence placed in them b First Presidency. Who, when authorizing us to launch the fund-raising program, said: "We have never known the sisters to fail in anything they have undertaken Page 724 1948) in the past and we feel sure they will not fail in this." 1 am confident that those who have gone before us are today te joicing with us, fot this building to the past and it will belong to the future. In this magnificent achievement the women of this day have kept faith with the noble women of the past by opening the way whereby theit dream may be brought to fruition. Ey have nobly and generously fulfilled the great special the women © making possible a lasting this ber theit efforts done. We stand humbled at the magni tude of what has been accomplished. One yeat ago when the fund-raising day it assumes even greater propor ness unto US. Upon Relief Society women in all parts of the world, touching theit JOY IN FULL MEASURE hearts and causing them to want to do their part of this program. Relief Society officers have evidenced superb leadership, secretaries have faithfully and accurately kept record of contributions. Visiting teachers have loyally carried the program into the homes. Relief Society members with generous hearts have given to it their full support. Our appreciation for all that the sisters have done is unbounded. We acknowledge the support and co-operation of the Priesthood authorities: the First Presidency, members of the Council of the Twelve, the Presiding Bishopric, » and other General Authorities, the brethren of the General Church Welfare Committee, as well as stake and ward, mission and branch Priesthood authorities. All have rallied to our cause and strengthened our hands. | Only those who have been closely identified with the work incident to the planning and conduct of the program as it has been carried forward in the general office can fully appreciate the great responsibility carried by Sister Marianne Sharp as chairman. 'The wisdom and judgment required, the ability to anticipate and satisfactorily deal with questions and problems related to the program, the capacity to keep track of numberless details, and the tireless efforts necessary in taking care of limitless and incessant correspondence are beyond description. Yet Sister Sharp has fulfilled all of these requirements with efficiency and with the true spirit of service, in no way being stampeded by the pressures. Sister Sharp has been assisted by a committee of general board members composed of the following 725 sisters: Velma N. Simonsen, Edith S. Elliott, Evon W. Peterson, Mary J. Wilson, and Leone G. Layton. These sisters have been loyal, meeting every requirement made of them throughout the past year. HE program has been conducted in a dignified manner in keeping with the high standards of the society. Ideals have determined its purposes, and ideals have directed our practices. Sentiment has entered into it, giving depth of feeling and warmth of heart to the program. This achievement represents great monetary value, but not monetary value alone. Herein are represented many intangible values—values of supreme worth—appreciation for the honored position accorded women in the gospel plan; testimony of the divinity of the work of the society; and gratitude for the opportunity given the sisters of the Church to serve through their own great Relief Society; loyalty to leadership; unselfish devotion to a great cause. It is a reflection of the greatness that is inherent within the society. The achievement represents deepseated and tender emotions—the love of a daughter for her mother or grandmother; the love of a mother for her daughter; respect and devotion for a friend; the desire to memorialize a loved one whose memory is revered; the wish to reach out and include as a part of this wonderful sisterhood a dear one who may not have availed herself of this blessing. The dollars which make up the fund represent individual contributions of many types: the providently saved nickels and dimes of sisters to whom these savings meant much; Cherished because a Sven it to Sister, who, and to Participate t; the youn Sister no lef Socj ember, ut lookin °rward to the time whe his priyj lege would be hers, These dollars Tepresent money earned VY indi. T. 9) baby, oy e. Upon thejr time and eNergies— earn. Ings which Tequired hours of hard work, Irrespective of how they 800d of the Society. USt as all of Our righteous efforts d make us glad, S of Relief Society women in Meeting this &Teat present. Nt return to bless them 0 them Joy in full meas. Hey May ©xPetience the Satt comes from Well done. Cy may fe of the *PProbation of Our Heavenly ey may enjoy that deep Sense of happiness and Contentmen} that comes fr Ing one's Part in and Charity flow from its walls to the whole World." BRAVE HEARTS Evelyn Fyeldsteq The h Opefulness and cheerfulness OF brave hearts ey &T€—resolved © Carry on against great Odds, Result, 'at length, in Problems Solved, And What of the Promise? Counselor Marianne C. Sharp (Address delivered at the morning session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 30, 1948) ISTER Spafford has asked me, as chairman of the Relief Society Building Fund Committee, to give a report on the Building Fund. You sisters who are here today, representing the more than 111,000 Relief Society members throughout the world, have come rejoicing to commemorate the conclusion of the fund-raising program to erect a Relief Society Building. Just a year ago lacking two days, the Relief Society sisters assembled at the 1947 annual general Relief Society conference voted to taise a vast sum of money for the purpose of erecting a Relief Society building. You will recall that the plan provided that all Relief Society stake boards donate one half of their stake board funds on hand as of December 1946, and that every stake, in addition, be responsible for $5 for every enrolled member as of December 1946. Provision was also made to have Relief Society members and friends donate Special and Memorial Gifts, as they might desire, and the missions of the Church, except the European missions, were invited to take part in the financing program according to quotas to be set by their respective Relief Society mission presidents in consultation with the mission presidents. It was hoped that these amounts, when added together, would make up a grand total of $500,000 or half a million. To raise such a vast sum of money in one year was an undertaking which to some seemed well-nigh impossible and to others not even advisable. But the program had the full approval of the First Presidency, and right after the October conference the funds began slowly to come in. To reach the true objective it was not only necessary that the money be raised, but it was essential that the giving be done in a spirit of love so that blessings might be poured out upon the sisters. From the expressions which have accompanied the remittances, it seems certain that the sisters throughout the world have earned the blessings of the Lord and that they have been bound together in closer bonds of sisterhood. As one sister wrote who lived far away from any organized Relief Society: "In my heart the quota would never be complete if my share was missing." 'There have been numberless Memorial Gifts made to honor dear, faithful Relief Society workers of both the past and present. Recently the Florida Stake Relief Society expressed the spirit of the Memorial Gifts when they wrote: This money is to be applied as a Memorial offering to honor our beloved leaders, Brother and Sister Charles A. Callis. It is a pleasure for us to do this as we feel that our roll could never be complete without its being headed by the names of two of our leaders who have given of themselves so unselfishly to the building up of the Father's kingdom in Page 727 the South. We know that the lives of these two People stand as qa living me. Morial and will always be indelible on the minds of the people of the South, Truly the spirit of this undertaking has been pleasing to our Father in heaven. We report to you now the ex. Penses which have been incurred to date incident to Taising the money. All figures used throughout will be in even dollars. Postage $156 Stationery 27 Printing 758 Financial Clerk 75 Inscription on Certificates 234 Foreign Exchange 148 Total $2,058 Before the beginning of the fund. Taising, it was the earnest desire of the general board that it might Provide some revenue to meet such necessary expenses, A few years ago one of the General Authorities wrote a series of articles for The Relief Society Magazine. Later the general board desired to issue the articles in book form as a reference. He consented but requested that the royalties go to Relief Society. The earnings were earmarked to meet any necesSaty expenses incidental to Taising the Building Fund. When the entire edition is sold the royalties will be sufficient to meet all the ex Penses just reported, We know you likewise are happy that each dollar you contribute will go into the building. WE feel very humble and at the same time very proud to report now the amount of money which you and thousands of sisters whom you represent have Taised to erect a Relief Society Building. We know that long hours and arduous. Toj] have been necessary to accomplish the achievement you have made. The stake board quota of $35,483 has been paid in full and it is with deep gratitude that Wwe report that every stake in the Church has been recognized here today. Contribution quotas "of stakes amounting to $443,885 have been paid, and in addition Special and Memorial Gifts amounting to $10,028 making a grand total from the stakes of the Church of $449,396. Ee and Memorial Gifts made directly to the general board have ranged from gifts of $1 to one gift of $10,000 and from these gifts has come an additional sum of $12,482. Our hearts have been continually touched by the spirit of the sisters in the missions. From those who have no places of their Own in which to meet, no chairs €ven on which to sit, no tables at which to work, has come an outpouring of offerings which made us who have plenty fee] humble indeed. We are proud to Teport that the money contributed by the sisters of $43,927, been advised by the Presiding Bishoptic that the amount of money —$8,000—which Relief Society sisters years ago donated to erect 4 woman's building, is being te- 728 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 AND WHAT OF THE PROMISE? Turned to Relief Society, Fo, this we até indeed Etateful, for Now the money raised by those dear sister, of long ago will Teally become Stone and mortar in the building for which ed, W! Tu deepest Statitude ang. Than sgiving we Teport that the Firs Presidenc have informed us that they wil] Elve to us 4 site on 0 erect the buildi Ors an ample space for our beau tiful building. Have Instruct ed Sister Spafford ahead at once to Perfect b ilding plans, as they fee] that the lief Society iIding jg urgently need d. As soon n enter the building Which you will] have made Possible. 8€Nerosit of the Genera] Authorities to the women of the urch IT am sure Tings JOy to your hearts aS It does to the heart Seneral boarg members clety today, I fe certain Sisters of the future have been given Just Cause to admire 4nd emulate your example. I fee] that once again, as Over the years, the Sisters haye demonstrateg their love and their faithfulness and ave been given by the Prophet hat Steatest blessing Relief Society} Tough which One year 4§0 President Spafford Said to us, "We Must not fai] " With thanksgiving Ww time, we YOur unselfish THE BUILDING FUND Nellie W. Neal UCH wonderful support has been given by Relief Societies of foreign missions of the Church to the fund-raising program to erect a Relief Society Building that the general board wishes to share with the readers of the Magazine a few of their expressions of joy and thankfulness at being permitted to have a part in this great Relief Society cause. The following excerpts are typical of the many expressions that have been received: Every month, we read in The Relief Society Magazine of the wonderful response you are getting in your Building Fund. Here in Australia, almost every branch wants to participate in that movement and is collecting funds for that purpose. I hope that the Lord will bless those who have this project in charge. May success crown your efforts. _-Blanche K. Richmond, President, Australian Mission Relief Society Please find enclosed the contribution of the Canadian Mission Relief Society toward the Relief Society building. We are so happy the Relief Society is going to have its own building. __LaPriel R. Eyre, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society Until this year conditions have been such that we have hesitated to call on the sisters for anything extra. But now things look brighter and the sisters are delighted with the opportunity given them to join with the women of the Church in this project. We are giving each sister the opportunity to contribute what she can, and, in addition, the branches are all planning ways of increasing the fund. __Kate M. Barker, President, French Mission Relief Society Enclosed you will find our check. Please credit this amount to the Relief Society of the Mexican Mission as a donation to the Relief Society Building Fund. Even though the amount is very small, yet the effort made by these sisters ls evidence of their faith and their desire to do something to help. —Mary D. Pierce, President, Mexican Mission Relief Society Aloha to you and to the members of the general board from the Land of Flowers and liquid sunshine. Enclosed you will find a check as a contribution from the Central Pacific Mission Relief Society for the Relief Society Building. Although this amount is small in comparison to most of the checks you receive for this purpose, it is with a great deal of pleasure that I send this contribution from our Relief Society. Although all of our members are very young, they are very desirous to do their part with the other Relief Society sisters of the Church. I sincerely hope and pray that your aim will be fully realized in collecting the necessary amount for the Relief Society Building, and also that our Father in heaven will Page 730 continue to bless you in your untiring efforts for the education and betterment of the women of the Church. —Georgia H. Weenig, President, Central Pacific Mission Relief Society The Relief Societies of the South African Mission are very pleased to join the Relief Societies of the Church in doing their part toward the Relief Society Building Fund. It gives us great pleasure to be able to do this and we send our blessings for your success in this great undertaking. —lIda G. Sharp, President, South African Mission Relief Society I have waited until now hoping to get our Relief Society organized. Since the campaign on the Building Fund is drawing to a close, we want our Uruguayan Mission to have the opportunity of making a contribution. With sincere appreciation for the Magazine and other fine help which we receive from the general board, and with a prayer for your continued success and happiness in your work, I am, —Corraine S. Williams, President, Uruguayan Mission Relief Society We, the undersigned, members of the Relief Society in the Swedish Mission, are grateful and happy to be able to do our little bit towards the construction of the new Relief Society Building, a wonderful monument to the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. May our Father in Heaven bless the planning and erection of this building, so that when it is finished, joy and happiness, knowledge and truth, love and charity may flow from within its walls to the whole world. It has been a pleasure to see how the sisters here have rallied to the call, and how happy they have been in so doing. They were all delighted to think of having their names placed, with all the others, in the cornerstone of the new building. —Ethel E. Blomquist, President, Swedish Mission Relief Society STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS Soutu Ipano Fatts Stake (Ipano) IpaHo Faris Sraxe (IDAHO) San Dreco Stake (CALIFORNIA) WE ts Stake (UTAH) Teron Staxe (IpAHO AND Wyominc) Granite STAKE (Utan) NortH Ipano Fats Stake (IpaHo) EmIcRATION STAKE (Utan) Mesa StTaxe (Arizona) Rexpurc Stake (IDAHO) Uvapa Stake (NevapA AND UTan) Utan Stace (Utan) SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON) Sourn Los AncEtes StaKe (Ca. IF.) Juarez Staxe (Mexico) FLoripa StaKe (Fioripa) TEMPLE View Stake (Uran) Bear River Staxe (Uta) Parowan Stake (Utan) Cepar Stake (Uran) Liserty Sraxe (Urtan) SMITHFIELD STAKE (Uran) Sucar House Staxe (Urtan) Satt Lake Sraxe (Uran) San Luis Staxe (Cororapo) ONEIDA STAKE (IDAHO) TOOELE STAKE (Uran) San Juan Stake (UtTan) SEVIER STAKE (UrTan) Grant Sraxe (Uran) East Provo Staxe (Uran) AMERICAN Farts Stake (IpaHo) Oguirru Stake (Uran) East Ricsy Staxe (IDAHO) San BERNARDINO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) Maricopa STAKE (ARIZONA) San Francisco Stake (CALIForNIA) WEISER STAKE (IDAHO) Oanu STAKE (Hawai) West PocaTeLto Stake (IDAHO) TAYLOR STAKE (CANADA) Wayne Stake (Utan) -Lonc Bracu STAKE (CALIFORNIA) Nampa Stake (IDAHO) Ben Lomonp Stake (Uran) East Mitt Creek Sraxe (Uran) West Uran Stake (UTan) INcLEwoop Stake (CALIFORNIA) Pato Ato STAKE (CALIFORNIA) Lent Stace (Uran) OcpEN Sraxe (UTAH) San Fernanpo STAKE (CAirornia) Hitusipe Stake (Utan) South Ocpen Stake (Utan) RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 731 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE _NoVEMpep 1948 Timpanocos STAKE (Ura) PIONEER Stax (Uran) Norty RExpurc Saxe ( IDauo) AST JORDAN Stag (Uray OUNT Ocpen STAKE ( TAH) CCATELLO Stax (IDauo ASSIA STAKE (Ipauo AKE Virw STAKE (Uray) ALMYRA Staxp (Urax AINT JouNs STAKE (Arizona) RANTSVILEE STAKE (Uray OUTH Sanprrg Stake ( Uran) LACKFoory KE (IDano LPINE STaxr ( TAH) ONNEVILLE S. ARE (UtTay Norry Jorvan STAKE ( Uran) URLEY Staxp (IDAHO ARK StTaxr (Ura ) AVIS STAKE ( Uran) NSIGN StTaxg ( Uran) AST Cacur STAKE (Uran IVERSIDE Sraxp (Utay 'CHLAND Stax (Uray NION StTaxr (OrEcon YRUM Sraxp (Utay ORTH Dayys STAKE (Uray ORGAN Stagg ( Utan) LBERTA Staxp (Canapa Norry SEVIER STAKE (Uray EAVER Staxp (Utax Puornrx STAKE (Arizona OISE Stax ( Ivano) ROVO Stax TAH) ACHE Staxr (Uray Soury Sum STAKE (Uran PAHO Starr (Ipaxo ) Wesr Jorpan STAKE ( Uran) Los ANCELEs STAKE ( Cattrornta ) TNIDOKA Stax (IDano) ALAD Sraxg (Ipaxo) RANKLIN STAKE (Ipaxo) Mounr Granam § AKE (Arizona YMAN Srax ( Wyoming) Portranp STAKE (OrEcon NOWFLAKE Sy E (Arizona ) HELLEY Sraxp (Ipayo Soury Carorin, Stax (So. Carorin, Soury Sar ARE Staxg ( TAH) Bic OTTON STAkE (Uran) Sourn Sry; R StTaxr (Uran) HICAGO Sraxp (Inx1ois ) INTAH Staxg ( Utan) ORTNEUF STAke (Ipano) YELLowstony STAKE (Ibauo ENO Srax (Nevap, ZION Pap Stake ( TAH IGBY StTaxr (IDauo Berxerry STAKE ( Catirornta ENSON StTaxg (Uray AINT Grorgr Staxr ( Uran) Letusringp STAKE ( Canapa) ARBON STaxr (Uran) AN Joagur Stax (Cattrornta ) OOSEVELY STAKE (Uray FAR Laxr STAKE ( IDaxno) Nexo STAKE (Uran) °TTONWoop STAKE ( Uran) Denver Sta (Cotorapo ARFIELD Stax (Uran) UCHESNE Sraxp (Utan RIDLEY Sy, ( Cattrornta UAB STAKE (Uran) UMBOLDT STAKE (Nevapa OLOB Srax (Uray NAB Stax (Uran) OsT River STAKE (IDAuo Monzprtrpp STAKE ( TDAH) OAPA STAR ( Nevapa) Mounr ORDAN Staxp ( Uran) OON Laxr Stake ( Ura) EW Yorx STAKE (New y, KK ) ORTH Weprr STakr (Uray ORTH Carzon STAKE (Ura) Nevapa STAKE (Nevapa) ANGUITCH STAKE ( Utan) Rarr River STAKE ( IDano) AINT JOsEpy STAKE (Arizona Soury Box Ever STAKE (Utax OUNG Staxr ( EXICO) Soury Davis STAKE ( TAH) REM Staxp ( Utan) UMMIT Sragp ( Ura) STAR Vatrry STAKE ( Wyomunc ) ASATCH STAaxp (Uran) ESERET Stagg (Uran) Wasninero STAKE (D. C, Mp., ANNOCK Staxp (Ipaxo ) A. AND Pa, ) UNNISON Stagg (UTan Wezrr STAKE (Uray OGAN Stagg (Utay Brainr STAKE (IpaHo Mount Locan STAKE (Uran SACRAMENT STAKE ( Catirornra) ORTH Bo DER Staxr (Utay Twin Farrs Sta ( IDano) ORTH SanpETe Stax (Uran) Farr Weep STAKE ( Utan) Emery STAKE ( Utan) Mitrarp STAKE ( Uray SHARON STAKE (Uran) SPOKANE STAKE ( Wasuncton SourHery Arizona, STAKE (Arizona) AKLAND Staxp (Ca RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 733 MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS NorTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION EASTERN STATES MIss1oN Samoan Mission Hawatian Mission PALESTINE-SYRIAN MISSION Toncan MISssION New ZEALAND MIssIoNn Finniso Misston WESTERN STATES MISSION East CENTRAL STATES MIssION CENTRAL Paciric Mission NortTHERN STATES MIssIon CALIFORNIA Mission SwepisH Mission Navajo-Zunt Mission Soutu AFRICAN Mission NorTHWESTERN STATES Mission CENTRAL STATES MISSION Texas-Louisiana Mission SPANISH-AMERICAN MISssION CANADIAN MIssIOoNn WESTERN CANADIAN MISSION Mexican MIssION NortH CENTRAL STATES Mission AUSTRALIAN MIssION Urucuayan Mission SOUTHERN STATES MiIssIon CENTRAL STATES MISSION TAHITIAN MISSION New ENGLAND Mission Frencu MIssion CENTRAL ATLANTIC States Mission WARDS AND BRANCHES (IN STAKES) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the October Magazine, and prior to October 7, 1948) Adams Ward, Los Angeles Alameda Ward, Oakland Albion Ward, Raft River Alexandria Ward, Washington Allison Branch, Young Alpine Ward, Alpine Alton Ward, Kanab Altonah Ward, Moon Lake American Fork Third Ward, Alpine American Fork Sixth Ward, Alpine Anchorage Branch, North Davis Annabella Ward, South Sevier Arco Ward, Lost River Arlington Ward, Washington Axtell Ward, Gunnison Aztec Branch, Young Baker Ward, Union Bancroft Ward, Idaho Bear River Ward, North Box Elder Beazer Ward, Alberta Belfry Branch, Big Horn Benjamin Ward, Nebo Bennion Ward, North Jordan Beverly Hills Ward, Los Angeles Bloomington Ward, Bear Lake Bluebell Ward, Moon Lake Boise Fourth Ward, Boise Bonanza Branch, Uintah Bonner's Ferry Branch, Spokane Boulder Ward, Garfield Bountiful Third Ward, South Davis Bountiful Fifth Ward, South Davis Brigham Third Ward, North Box Elder Brigham Fourth Ward, North Box Elder Brigham Seventh Ward, North Box Elder Brigham Eighth Ward, North Box Elder Brigham City Second Ward, South Box Elder Brigham City Fifth Ward, South Box Elder Brigham City Sixth Ward, South Box Elder Buhl Ward, Twin Falls Byron Ward, Big Horn Cannon Ward, Pioneer Cannonville Ward, Panguitch Carbonville Ward, North Carbon Cardston Second Ward, Alberta Cardston Third Ward, Alberta Carlin Ward, Humboldt Castle Gate Ward, North Carbon Center Ward, Riverside Centerfield Ward, Gunnison Central Ward, Bannock Challis Ward, Lost River Charleston Ward, Moapa Cherry Creek Ward, Malad Chester Ward, Yellowstone Chesterfield Ward, Idaho Cheyenne Ward, Denver Clearfield First Ward, North Davis Clearfield Second Ward, North Davis Cleveland Ward, Emery Clifton-Morenci Branch, Mt. Graham Clinton Ward, Lake View Coalville Ward, Summit Columbia Branch, Carbon 734: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 Colville Branch, Spokane Conda Ward, Idaho Corrine Ward, North Box Elder Cortez Branch, Young Davis Ward, Uintah Delta First Ward, Deseret Delta Second Ward, Deseret Delta Third Ward, Deseret Denver Second Ward, Denver Deseret Ward, Deseret Dimond Ward, Oakland Dingle Ward, Montpelier Douglas Ward, Southern Arizona Draper First Ward, Mount Jordan Eagar Ward, St. Johns East Ensign Ward, Ensign East Orange Ward, New York Echo Branch, Summit Edison Ward, Pioneer Egin Bench Ward, Yellowstone Elba Ward, Raft River Elko Ward, Humboldt Elmhurst Ward, Oakland Elmo Ward, Emery Elsinore Ward, South Sevier Emery Ward, Emery Emigration Ward, Park Englewood Ward, Denver Evanston First Ward, Woodruff Evanston Second Ward, Woodruff Evanston Third Ward, Woodruff Fairview Ward, Star Valley Fairview Ward, Washington Fairview South Ward, North Sanpete Farmington Ward, Young Farnum Ward, Yellowstone Filer Branch, Twin Falls Fillmore First Ward, Millard Fillmore Second Ward, Millard Fillmore Third Ward, Millard Firth Ward, Shelley Flowell Ward, Millard Fort Collins Branch, Denver Franklin Ward, Mount Graham Freedom Branch, Moroni Genola Ward, Santaquin-Tintic Gila Branch, Mount Graham Glendale Ward, Kanab Glenwood Ward, Alberta Goshen Ward, Shelley Grace Ward, Bannock Grand View Ward, Sharon Granger First Ward, North Jordan Granger Second Ward, North Jordan Granite Ward, Mount Jordan Grant Ward, Cottonwood Grass Valley Ward, Gridley Gray's Lake Ward, Idaho Grouse Creek Ward, North Weber Grover Ward, Star Valley Gunnison Ward, Gunnison Hailey Ward, Blaine Halfway Branch, Union Hamilton Ward, Gunnison Hanna Ward, Duchesne Harper Ward, North Box Elder Hartley Ward, Alberta Hatch Ward, Panguitch Hayward Ward, Oakland Helper Ward, North Carbon Heman Ward, Yellowstone Hiawatha Ward, Carbon Highland Ward, Alpine Hinckley Ward, Deseret Holbrook Ward, Malad Hollywood Ward, Los Angeles Hooper Second Ward, Lake View Hunter Ward, North Jordan Huntington Ward, Emery Huntington Second Ward, Emery Hurricane North Ward, Zion Park Hurricane South Ward, Zion Park Imbler Ward, Union Inkom Ward, Pocatello Jewett Branch, Young Kanosh Ward, Millard Kenilworth Branch, North Carbon Kimball Ward, Shelley Kimberly Ward, Twin Falls Lago Ward, Bannock La Grande First Ward, Union La Grande Second Ward, Union Lake View Ward, Lake View Lapoint Ward, Uintah La Verkin Ward, Zion Park Layton Ward, Mount Graham Layton First Ward, North Davis Layton Second Ward, North Davis Leavitt Ward, Alberta Lebanon Branch, Mount Graham LeGrand Ward, Park Leslie Ward, Lost River Levan Ward, Juab Lewiston Ward, Spokane Liberty Ward, Bear Lake Logan Ninth Ward, Cache Logan Twelfth Ward, Logan Logan Fifteenth Ward, Cache Lomond View Ward, Farr West Lovell West Ward, Big Horn Lovelock Branch, Reno Lund Ward, Idaho Lynndyl Ward, Deseret Malad First Ward, Malad anhattan a ew York anti Cente d, South Sanpete anti North » South Sanpete anti South d, South Sanpete apleton Ward, Kolob arriott Ward, arr West Mona Ward, Juab Ontpelier Second Ward, Montpelier Ontwel] Ward, Roosevelt North Eighteenth Ward, Ensign North Spokane Ward, Spokane Oak City Ward, Deseret Oceanside Branch, New York Ogden First Ward, Weber ard, Ogden Twenty-second Ward, Weber Panguitch North Ward, Panguitch Park Ward, Nebo Parker ard, Y, ayson First 'Ward, Nebo 4yson Second 735 alem rd, Portla d almon ard, Lost River amaria War » Mala andpoint Branch, Spokane outh Gran d, Cottonwood Pting Gle td, North Carbon Pring Lak td, Nebo Pringville Fr; St Ward, Kolob c Springville Fifth Ward Kolob Springville Seventh Ward, Kolob '; q Syracuse Ward North Davis Union w. D, Union abdiona W. » Duchesne alley Center ard, Cottonwoog almage oon Lake ermont d, Or aylorville Wa d, Albertg allowa B h, Union atcher W. » St. Joseph allsburg » Wasatch ayne Ward, Star Valley ashington Terrace Branch, Weber Oquerville Wa d, Zion Park ells Ward, Humbo} Tidel] W. [ tah endel] td, Blaine ucson War, [ Southern Arizona estchester Br, ch, New York Turnerville Branch, Star Valley; West Point Ward, North Davis Twenty-tifth Ward, Pioneer W. Iterocks Branch, Uintah Wenty-sixth Ward, Pioneer illard Ward, South Box Elder Twenty-eighth ard, Riverside Winnemuceg Ward, Humboldt Twenty-ninth Ward, Riverside Woodruff Ward, Malad BRANCHES (IN MISSIONS) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHjp BUILDING QUOTAS Abbeville Branch, Southern States Cottage Grove Branch, Northwestern any Branch, Texas Louisiana State €xandria B anch, exas Louisiana Ouncil Bly S Branc \ Western States Marillo Bra ch, XaS Louisiana Coushatta B ch, Tex S-Louisiang Tdmore Bran h, entral States Ovington B h, Texa Oulsiana thens B h, Southern States Téston Br nch, est anadian tlanta Bra h, Sout €rn States uautal Br. Nch Mexic uburn Bran h, Nort Western States Dallas Tanch, No hwestern tates ustin Branch €xas-Louisiang anville Bran h, Cent al Atlantic ack Creek Bran h, entra] Atlantic Stat tat Cer Lodge ranch, Northwestern ay City B ch €xas-Louisiang tat aytown Br » Texas. Ouisiang el Rio B h, Spanish American smnettsville Bran » Southern States enmark Bran 1, Southern States ergland B ch, North Centra] States Ouglas Bra ch, §. Thern States Wings Bran h, North Centra] States uNcan B anch, C Ntral States Tmingham B nch, Southern States utham h, Centra Atlantic Oomin anch, Orthern States States OOnville B » Sout ern States ast Point B ch, Southern States TOWnsyil] h, Spanish-American wonton Branch €stern nadian TUNSWick B anch, Sout em States I] °rado Bran h, Cent al States uena Vist, Branch, Central] Atlantic ™pire Bra ch, Sout ern States ate Tmita Bra h, Mex Cambridge Branch, New England Fairbault Branch, North Central States amden Branch, Southern States atmerville Branch, Texas-Louisiang Carlsbad Branch, Spanish-American Fort Frances Branch, North Centra] Carlsbad Branch, Western States __ States - Catawaba Branch, Southem States cePort Branch, Texas Louisiana arlottesyille Branch, Centra] avle Branch, Swedish antic Stat Es €nola B anch, Southern States atham Br neh, Cana _ ettysburg Branch, North €nttal States Céilass 5 15son Branc rs Southern State. O'urnmbus Tanch, Southern States oldsboro RB nch, entral Atlantic Olumbus tanch, Southern States ta Cornwal} Branch, Canadian Gretna Branch, Centra] Atlantic States Ridin alsingborg Branch, Wedish, *There are two Columbys Branches in Hamilton Branch, Canadian Southern States Mission. Hammong Branch, Texas-Louisiang RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS Hanapepe Branch, Central Pacific Hattiesburg Branch, Southern States High River Branch, Western Canadian Hilo Branch, Central Pacific Hoges Store Branch, Central Atlantic States Jackson Branch, Southern States Jonesboro Branch, Central States Kalihi Branch, Central Pacific Kapaa Branch, Central Pacific Kelsey Branch, Texas-Louisiana Kitchener Branch, Canadian Lafayette Branch, Northern States Lake Charles, Texas-Louisiana Lanakila Branch, Central Pacific Liberty Branch, Southern States Little Rock Branch, Central States Livingston Branch, Northwestern States London Branch, Canadian Longview Branch, Texas-Louisiana Los Angeles Branch, Spanish-American Macon Branch, Southern States McAllen Branch, Spanish-American McCalla Branch, Southern States Meridian Branch, Southern States Miles City Branch, North Central States Milledgeville Branch, Southern States Mission Branch, Central Pacific Missoula Branch, Central Pacific Missoula Branch, Northwestern States Montgomery Branch, Southern States Montreal Branch, Canadian Moultrie Branch, Southern States Mount Zion Branch, Central Atlantic States Myrtle Beach Branch, Southern States Nahunta Branch, Central Atlantic States New Bedford Branch, New England New Smyrna Branch, Southern States New Westminster Branch, Western Canadian Ocala Branch, Southern States Olive Branch, Southern States Oregon City Branch, Northwestern States Oshawa Branch, Canadian Ottawa Branch, Canadian Ozumba Branch, Mexican Pachuca Branch, Mexican Panama City Branch, Southern States Perry Branch, Southern States Phoenix Branch, Spanish-American Piedras Negras Branch, Mexican Portland Branch, New England Providence Branch, New England 737 Quitman Branch, Southern States Redmond Branch, Northwestern States Red Star Branch, Southern States Reedsport Branch, Northwestern States Regina Branch, Western Canadian Ridgeland Branch, Southern States Rio Grande Valley Branch, TexasLouisiana Rock Hills Branch, Southern States Rocky Mount Branch, Central Atlantic States Roanoke Branch, Central Atlantic States ~ Rosebury Branch, Northwestern States Roswell Branch, Spanish-American St. Catharines Branch, Canadian Saint Louis Branch, Central States San Diego Branch, Spanish-American Santiago Branch, Mexican Sarah Branch, Southern States Sarnia Branch, Canadian Saskatoon Branch, Western Canadian Seminary Branch, Southern States Shelby Branch, Northwestern States Simcoe Branch, Canadian Springfield Branch, Central States Springhead Branch, Southern States Stratford Branch, Canadian Sumatra Branch, North Central States Sun Branch, Texas-Louisiana Sylacauga Branch, Southern States Tallahassee Branch, Southern States Tampa Branch, Southern States Taos Branch, Spanish-American Texarkana Branch, Texas-Louisiana Toluca Branch, Mexico Topeka Branch, Central States Toronto Branch, Canadian Tower Branch, North Central States Vallecitos Branch, Spanish-American Vernonia Branch, Northwestern States Victoria Branch, Western Canadian Vidor Branch, Texas-Louisiana Wahiawa Branch, Central Pacific Wailuku Branch, Central Pacific White Sulphur Springs Branch, Central Atlantic States Wichita Branch, Central States Willmar Branch, North Central States Wilmington Branch, Central Atlantic States Windsor Branch, Canadian Winnifield Branch, Texas-Louisiana Winnipeg Branch, North Central States Winona Branch, Central States Winter Haven Branch, Southern States Zylks Branch, Texas-Louisiana Seasoning Margery S. Stewart snowy plains of Wyoming. John Fenton leaned against the window, staring unseeingly at the endless wastes, How could a returning missionary not look like a returning missionary? He fished in his pocket for Susan's letter, He held it in his hands but did not read it. He knew it off by heart, f train fled through the Darling, I've planned this Thanksgiving It has to be I've asked all my friends from school and some of yours, don't come home ail stirred up about things.°.; I to love you and some of them just don't understand. John grinned at Clara Wells, who sat opposite him. She was Teturning from her mission in the Eastern States, "How do returning missionaries look, Sister Wells?" he demanded. Clara Wells looked at the letter in his hand. "So that's what she said. Well... How do I look?" "Nice," John said thoughtfully, "and sort of shining." "Do I?" She nodded her smooth brown head. "Well, I've had enough experiences in the last two years to keep me shining for a lifetime." She looked at him critically, "You look very nice, too, tall and dark, and purposeful... And something else, indefinable. Don't let the world rob you of it." € porter came through calling, "Rock Prings... Rock Springs, five minutes _— 'Home?" Clara's voice wavered. On her coat. Have to look after Maury McClaughlin from now on." "Maury McClaughlin!" John demanded. "That wild Scot?" Clara laughed. "{ know she's been a handful. But it's that impulsive Curiosity of hers. She couldn't help getting lost in Chicago. After all the things you were up against in the British Mission, you ought to be able to handle a seventeen-year-old youngster," "But she's not just any youngster," John stated flatly. "I can't do it." "You have to do it," Clara pointed out Teasonably. "You're the only missionary left, It's just a few hours to Salt Lake. Her aunt will be at the station." The door was flung open at the back of the car. "Sister Wells," a Clear voice shrieked. "Your station it is," John pulled his neck into his collar as the quick footsteps rushed down the aisle, Maury McClaughlin brushed past him and flung herself into Clara's arms. "Oh, it's lost I will be with you gone! Not to see your bonny face or hear your voice!" Maury's own voice rose despairingly. OHN Fenton's mouth twitched as he watched the girl burrow her face into Clara's shoulder. Maury's bright red hair shimmered like silk. She was g tall girl and very slender. She lifted her face. SEASONING Her eyes were a deep, gemlike blue. She owned the freckled skin of the redhaired. Her gestures were dramatic and sincere and terribly young. "You've been an me, that you have!" aury possessed a radiance that made John feel he was in the path of a prairie fire, Clara kissed Maury. "You have a big job ahead of you, dear, making a home and a Place for your mother and father and your smal] sisters. But you can do it. You'll have them with you in no time at all. I only wish I could be close enough to help." "But you've been so good to me!" Maury wailed. "And I've been a grief to you. That I have.": "Nonsense." Clara teached for her bags. "Now you stay close to Elder Fenton and don't leave his side at any station." "Aye, that I won't," vowed Maury Passionately. She turned to John. "I promise with my hand on my heart not to give you a moment's worry." John bit back the chuckle. He knotted his brows firmly. "You'll not be getting off at any station. Own sister to Understand?" She asked reluctantly, "Not even if I see an Indian?" "No," said John, "and please _ don't scream when you see another cowboy. It's... It's embarrassing." They stood on the train platform and watched Clara step into the circle of joyous friends and relatives, who hugged her furiously one after another, their faces wet with tears. Clara waved her hand at John and aury as the train pulled away. He put her arms around an elderly, 739 gtay-haired woman, who made John think of his own mother, The train gathered speed. John felt a wild tug of homesickness, He wanted to get off and push the cars, fy seemed to move with such deliberate Maury pulled at his sleeve. "We'd She "Of whom do you think when you look like that? "Someone very nice?" "The nicest," John agreed. "I'm just hoping she won't have changed her mind about me, | Was mighty lucky to get her." For an instant the light seemed to vanish from Maury's face, but she slid into the seat beside him and folded her hands demurely on her lap. "Susan Meredith, isn't it? Sister Wells told me you are engaged to marry her," joan Fenton stared ahead. He saw Susan's small, delicate face, her dark curling hair, her competent, assured manner. Susan knew ex: actly what she wanted from life. He still found it hard to believe that she had included him jn her_plans, that she was willing to marry him when she could have so many others. "re was a small rustling beside him. John tumed. Maury was sit. Ting quietly, her hands in her lap, her eyes on his face. "Ts it so large then, the city?" she asked. "You recall MacBrogan town. | shall: be quite lost in a large place," 740 John grinned Tuefully, recalling the Chicago episode. "J think | should warm the city fathers that you're coming." He sobered. "But I do remember MacBrogan town, the good times we had there. I tre. Member the first night we came, two missionaries cold, hungry, and tired, and how your father took us in and fed us and listened to us." Mauty's eyes grew large and brilliant, "Always it was so. The best for the poor who had no roof or Cover. That was my father all his life long." "He's a wonderful man." patted her hand. "It won't be long. You'll get a fine job and work and save, and your family will be saving, too, and then you'll be together, perhaps next Thanksgiying." She tubbed the darned place in her plaid skirt. "Tell me then about this Thanksgiving. I don't understand." John chuckled. "It's a wonderful] day, Everybody gets a turkey or a £00se and calls in all the Telatives and friends, Why, in St. George the women start getting ready two weeks ahead." He took a deep breath. "Gosh! I can almost smell the dinner now, mince and apple Pies, turkey browning." Maury sighed in wonder and delight. She slid down in the seat. "So many days for just fun here in America. I love it, In the war we were so often hungry, never, -until os ' She pressed thin hands over her stomach. John Fenton felt a quick pity, remembering the pinched faces of the people he had left. Behind, their austere tables, their uncomplaining RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 their sharing. But he gunned down on her, remembering. "Tl never forget the look on the waiter's face, when he Saw you stow away your third breakfast' on that ship. I think you set a record." He laughed at her quick blush. "Never mind, your aunt will no doubt have a marvelous meal waiting, then you'll find out about Thanksgiving." But her white hands pressed in as though the Pain persisted still. "Where will you be, Elder F enton?" "With Susan. She promised me a fabulous dinner. Then my brother is driving up to take me down to St. George, and I'l] have another celebration," "Will Susan g0 with you?" He shook his head. "She goes to the University. There are sO many things going on at Thanksgiving parties... She may come later," "She must be very beautiful?" "She is!" She smoothed her cheek. "Would -+- would anyone find me... Fair?" JOHN regarded her critically, "There are a lot of men who really like red hair, Oh, you'll get martied all right, to a fine young man, no doubt." Her small face tightened. Her lower lip quivered. "That I'll not!" she said tartly and rose. She tossed her flaming hair, "{ shall stay unmarned forever and ever, aye, that I will." _ Now what was wrong with her? John. Turned to watch her swinging, determined stride down the aisle. Suddenly, in spite of her height, she seemed very small and alone, an alien in a strange land. € porter came. "A telegram for Miss McClaughlin, Sir." In hi Oat, t to breathe. Aury Jumped to of their 600d money?" City, the | John Coughed to hide his laughter. "Open it and see,"; °W who would © spendin' You hear, Elder Fe 742 hands outstretched. "John, darling! How handsome you look." She flung back her head for his kiss, "Come and meet everyone. Mother put dinner at nine so you'll have plenty of time to make an imptession." 7s laughed at her flow of words. "Susan, you haven't changed either. Bossing me around just like always." He kissed her again and put his arm around her while she made the introductions. He shook hands with them all. His eyes searched theirs. It was a habit he had acquired in the mission field. In all of them he found the blank, uncomprehending stare of the stranger. "What a lovely place!" Even the smoke-grimed platform and the black, ugly gates had the beauty of familiarity. Susan laughed. "Now you do sound just like a missionary. Oh, John, it's been hideous with you gone. I want to catch up on all the fun we've missed." She stopped short. "John? That girl? She keeps looking at you?" Contrition seized him. Maury. He had forgotten her. He turned. Maury was standing some distance away, a slim, waiting figure, something patient and forlorn about her. John took Susan's arm. "Come and meet her. She's a convert from Scotland. Darling, would you do me a favor and ask her to your dinner?" He stumbled over words in his haste to tell of the aunt who could not come, of Maury's family in Scotland. Susan drew back, impatience on her pretty face. "John! I couldn't possibly ask her! Mother has RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 stretched the table to its last inch. It would ruin the decorations." "But Susan, we just have to ask her. This is her first night in this place. She hasn't a soul. It's Thanksgiving. Please, Susan, for me?" Susan shook her head. "John, you'll never learn. Things just aren't done that way. I'll ask her some other time. We'll put her in a cab. You'll see, she will be perfectly all right." AURY looked up and saw them coming toward her. John winced away from the blinding relief in her smile. He turned to Susan. "I can't just put her in a cab. That's what we did in Chicago. That's why we missed our train. Ten missionaries spent a day looking for her." "Where on earth was she?" "The cab driver's wife was having a baby, no one to help her to take care of the children. Maury thought it would just take an hour or so to help out, and stayed eighteen hours." "Good _ heavens!" Susan's lip curled. "Where do you find your friends?" John said stubbornly, "I don't have time to argue now. You take your friends and go on back to the house. I'll see that Maury gets to her aunt's house in one piece." He introduced the two girls. He felt an instant's wonder. It must be Maury's bright hair, but some. Thing about her made Susan seem small and drab and meager. "I'm going to take you home," he explained to Maury. She looked from him to Susan. SEASONING "Oh, but the dinner, Elder Fenton. I couldna' take you away." Susan smiled widely. "It's al] tight, Miss McClaughlin. He can come later, Goodbye now, John." "Well... If you're verry sure..." Maury's Scotch burr was never more in evidence. John reached for her bags. Watched the others leave, now, let's find a cab." cab_ whisked away just as they reached the street. They hesitated. Maury looked about her. She took a deep breath, "Is the city then so near?" "Just a few minutes walk," John assured her, "Would you,.." she swallowed, "would you spare the time? | could come for my bags tomorrow, have such a hunger, here." She Pressed her hands over her breast, "T have a hunger to see it al]... The Temple... The Eagle Gate." The passionate longing in her voice made a lump rise in John's "Of course we will. Wait here a moment." 'THE Temple grounds were closed. They peered through the gates. The floodlights made a shower of gold on the stay stones. Moroni stood in golden relief against the dark blue of the night sky. Maury's face, € whispered, "Tt's better than | reamed," John' said huskily, "Tt's better than I remembered." They walked to the Eagle Gate and back, to stop and stare like any Pair of tourists at the L Main Street... The 743 the statue of Brigham Young, the dazzling beauty of Main Street after dark, John found that he had been walking for a Jon "Gosh, girl! You're hungry!" "That I am!" € cafe was small, cheerful, and bright. John Studied the menu. "Turkey, of course?" "Turkey?" she lifted inquiring brows, "Every true American has to have a slice of turkey inside him. On anksgiving day," She sighed and slipped out of her shabby green coat. | "Oh, this wonderfy] America:. ] think this day was made for me. A Thanksgiving day and my own heart so full it can hardly lifted her eyes to his. "Just think what I have to be thankful for this day... The missionaries coming... My father urging us all to listen. - Something new and strange and beautiful coming into our lives — and now, look at me here!" She sat up taller. "A Latter-day Saint in the Promised Land." John looked at her for a long moment and pieces of a puzzle fell into Place. There was something in her | ick and sure and unamade his own heart home shone before him in ail their hard work and struggle and triumph. Don't let the world Tob you, Sister "For THE Ricyrs OF THE Women OF Zion AND THF Ricurs OF THE OMEN oF ALL Nations" € ma Some beauty in Our souls may have been Wrought, Through faith in God, obedience, and trust. —Emmeling B. Wells THE HOME or CHILDHOop. A few Pictures, a little pains taken to make a ) the furniture look br; 5 enty of Sunshine and fresh air Makes g house Wholesome and the Inmates better the children Out from any place because jt Is tog 800d for them; they wil] be more Tefined and Cultured jf they are taught how to handle things that are valuable and Pretty, than jf they are always denied the Pleasure. Childhood', hours Pass quickly €nough, and the cares and Petplexities of life bring a Out many Changes jn one's fee]. Ings and circumstances, therefore It seems Wise and Prudent to fortify our children by a &€nerous Supply of 800d nature, and help them to cultivate all the higher and holier attributes of the Mind. Annt Em. KY MEMORY IMMORTAI> Ts memory immorta]? Aye, ever and e'erAll that life hath e'er lainly wnt in the book of the soul, where We read h S ey Of the eart' hope, of the Past' every deed —O. F. Whitney NEIDA 5 € Relief Ociety of the Oneida Stake he their nual conference at Fra Klin, § 9, 1888, Pres Elizabeth Fox Presidin te: Richards e't to exhort ys to lay aside all pri "and train the minds of our chil TEN; not spen MISCELLANEOUs. Thought engenders thought. Place one idea on Paper, an. Other wil] follow it, and stil] another, untij you have Written g Page. You cannot fathom your mind, There jg 4 well of thought there Which has NO bottom, The More you What you are capable of At first your ideas may come out in lum s, homely and shape. Less; but nO matter; time and Perseverance wil} altange and Polish them. Learn to think Tite; m | ti ae VK. V vg SLD "THANKSGIVING Day inevitably turns our thoughts backward to the sturdy character of our Pilgrim Fathers. They are literally the forefathers of many Latter-day Saint men and women, as was remarked by a noted genealogist visiting in Salt Lake City some years ago. The Rich family, who have contributed much to the strength of the Church, are descendants of the Captain Rich who owned and piloted the Mayflower on the voyage when it carried the first Pilgrims to American shores. THE Olympic Games indicate that Fanny Blankers-Koen, thirty, a Dutch mother and housewife, is the world's greatest woman athlete. She easily won four first places in the games: the eighty-meter women's hurdles, in which she established a new world record of eleven and two-tenths seconds; the 100-meter and 200-meter women's sprints; and the anchor in the 400- meter women's relay. She already holds the world record for the women's broad jump, for which she could not compete this time as it was held at the same time as one of the events in which she was contending. Had she won this in the Games, she would have been the only known athlete since the dawn of the Olympic Games in Grecian Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon times, to win five first places. Our American, Babe Didrikson, won enormous prestige for taking two first places and one second in the 1936 Olympics. WILHELMINA, now self-titled dowager princess of the Nethetlands, abdicated the throne of the Netherlands and the Dutch Empire September 4, in favor of her daughter Juliana. It was Wilhelmina's sixty-eighth birthday and the fiftieth anniversary of her coronation. Her reign has been marked by thnift, simplicity, a close relationship with her people, which was a distinct royal innovation, a shrewd insight into affairs of state, and the courage to follow the path she believed right, and in some Cases humane, in the face of general opposition. She is the sole survivor of seventeen monarchs contemporary with her first days as queen. Five only wore their crowns until their deaths. Wilhelmina's hobbies have been bicycling, skating, horseback riding, walking in the woods, and painting. Two days after her mother's abdication, Juliana became queen of the Netherlands at an investiture service at Niewe Kerk, the church being now connected with the royal palace. Juliana is the mother of four daughters. Page 745 turn thanks to his Father In heaven for the mul tiplicity of material bless. | There May come also into his mind's eye, in contrast, by him. Too often In Considering the lot of the saints in earlier days, em. Phasis is placed upon the Poverty Taciousness and sang in away by evil or designing men. By and nurturing them they will glow with a brighter hue and 8ive light to the souls of the faithfy] mately reach that flaming Celestia] World, there to dwell] eternally in the presence of the Lord. Or these Tiches, trye thanksgiy. Ing should be Offered, Wy C. S., Cuaprer g Synopsis: a ri +, gay 'caves his listen to young discuss qlother and his lancee Ison in i Cotland an Joins his friend 8h Shand the soi ther ¢ rth. It Was the other Kinlay ang her son Bob, a piece of gro d Whom they }, Own While doin mis. He to] €m about the rea] 'onary work, a d become acquainted with al r Kathleen an and uae tiend Mar. Ae i = for eer faret Pury; nd Kathleen are ] a "altied on board © ship. While cross. And had fen held for ny cen ing the plains A drew is lost mM a blizzard turies f, the Testoration f the Osand is rescued b argaret. She later Pel. S Mor Onism jn caves the Macs and goes to live in Tooele, action and it was Wonderfy] ndrew and t ACs arrive jn Zion and " but J »" Kathleen Hug ave a so —Mac S, bu c @ x lg10n Oleman Sh Te and saves hey Countered money to 8 Jane fro Scotland When ey had a church whic Most of he finally sen S it TECElves news that them attende ry Sunday Fane has may Someone else ndrew. IS a griey and lone and he sends ther Dou i suid man leved Y man. C ' for the two youngest children jn his fam. Baptized the children, Preached J iy, «He 18 called on a Mission, and Mar. Guid Sermon, Came w €never he Was Baret comes to Stay with the children needed. Gi s While he; gone, ut no ] d NDREW became a hero over. Ele were different Places to A Might. The NEWS spread: to w Ich the estless sons of Scotland every part of King's Kettle were pmgtating— Australia, New that Andrew Rumgay, the Mormon Zealand, South Aftica, but the b j m s Tends and telatives from near Church wag filled to overflowing and far began calling to see him, with People, in hopes the young asking many questions. "What elder from Utah Would speak about | Ica, of America? What about all the Andrew's mother's home of two eve Tee land? Man own rooms, which had furnished 4 roof ls home? Ate yo Nich, Andre? Over the head lS loved Ones Show us Some of your Wealth." since the happy day David Rumgay Andrew decided this was 4n ophad Carried Janet Black over Its worn Portunity to Pteach the Eospel, so threshold, Was still a Model of ef he answered every question Catefy]- ficiency, Everything was planned, ly and truthfully led" 748 The thing that seemed uncanny to Andrew now was the suit problem his mother handled so_ skillfully. She had five boys to keep decently dressed at their work every day, and at church on Sunday. She kept a record of who got the suit last year, whose turn it was this year, material on hand, what relative had given them a worn suit, what she got out of it after washing and cutting it down. She had made every suit Andrew had worn, until the new suit he had bought for going away. Life for the children was different in Scotland than in America. The bairns were all up at daylight, eating their porridge before their eyes were half open and, with their dinner pails in their hands, off to work before sunup. Often the Sabbath was the only day they saw the sun. The missionary thought of the children in Utah, well-fed and warmly clothed, with plenty of the necessities of life, if their parents were willing to work for them. They had time for rest and play, and the opportunity of attending school every day. How thankful he was that Bill and Janet were in Zion, and with such a wonderful person to take care of them! E remembered that Margaret was very much like his mother around the house, quick and efficient in getting things done. He had worked, cooked, and cleaned for the bairns, and what a slow, hard job it had been. Then Margaret had come into his home, and he found there was magic in her touch. The place, so out of harmony at times, began to respond immediately to her woman's contact. He smiled RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 when he remembered the curtains he had hung in such pitiful folds and plaits. 'The first night he had come home after Margaret had arrived the curtains fairly laughed and shouted, "Man, look at us now!" The dishes on the shelves kept their faces clean and shining in spite of the fact that they were still used three times a day. What a time he had had to keep them clean and he had been always breaking dishes. Margaret was beautiful and so the cabin was beautiful, he recalled. Margaret smiled, and was cheerful, so the cabin was smiling and cheerful. He always thought of her in a long, full, billowy dress of blue, with flowers in her black, silken hair. Andrew stayed close to his mother during his time out for visiting. All his friends and relatives had been to see him, and time was precious. Soon he would be leaving for his missionary work. So, while she cooked, darned, and mended, he read to his mother from the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants. He wanted to study the gospel, so this was an opportunity for them to study together. Janet Rumgay's joy was full and brimming over, as she sat and listened to her son. He was such a guid lad. Out of her tears, trials, heartaches, and prayers, he had somehow come through. He was growing to look like his father. David was about again now that Andrew had come back home. But David could not talk and read like Andrew. Mormonism had been like a college education for her son. She must keep all his brothers and sisters in the Church. She wanted every one of them to become just like their brother. QUESTING LIGHTS She often asked him about the young lady with the pretty name who was caring for the bairns. He seemed to trust her; he never wortied about the children. But then Mother Mac and Kathleen were near, if they should get sick. Andrew would become excited and very enthusiastic. "Why, Margaret is the best little nurse in America." His mother suggested that perhaps, only perhaps, if Margaret was willing to take care of the bairns, she might be willing to take care of him, too, when he returned. She watched his face light up and she studied him very intently, pleased with what she saw. Then Andrew would grow sad and disappointed again. "Why worry about Jane Allison when Margaret is in Utah? She must be wonderful, Andrew. She would make a guid Scotch wife for you, and you like her, I'm sure." Why worry? That was the question he was trying so hard to answer. NE evening Andrew stood in his mother's doorway comparing Resplendence with King's Kettle. Resplendence was new and young, new land, new homes, new mountains, the great storehouses of water, homes, food, and wealth. King's Kettle was old; the soil needed constant replenishing; the homes were slowly wearing away. Just then the moon suddenly appeared from behind the clouds and spread its silvery light over his childhood home. It brought back pictures of the past. Jane was strangely in the floodlight, at home in the garden the night before he left for America; at the 749 monastery, promising to be faithful in life, faithful in death. Suddenly a sweep of emotion came over Andrew. He crossed the street and went running up the trail, along the sidehill, toward the pits. Mary saw him and ran after him. "Andrew, Andrew, wait for me." HEY climbed the hill together in silence, to the childhood trysting place. All the months of hard living on the plains, the days and nights of loneliness on the river bottoms, his precious dreams in the forest, overwhelmed him. There was no purpose in the life he had been living. Everything was gone with Jane. He sat down with his head in his hands, praying for self. Control. Mary began speaking softly. "JI thought it better not to even mention her name. Maybe that wasn't the right way out. Now I will tell you everything I know. For nearly two years after you left Jane was just the same. She came to Church and to see mother once and sometimes twice a week. Then she began to change. She didn't come to Church regularly, nor to see mother so often. You know how unreasonable Herbert Allison and his wife were against the Mormons. Well, your letters were far apart, and you wrote Jane all about the trek across the plains. Jane told me she was frightened. She could never live through such an experience, she said. A few months later a man began calling at the Allison home. He was a business associate of Mr. Allison, and lived in Dumferline. He had a lot of money and property. You know what money meant. To Jane. She was always the best- 750 dressed girl at Church. Jane didn't go out with the stranger, but he continued to call. Later, they were married and made their home in Dumferline. She has riches, but not happiness. She still loves you. I met her in a store one day when I was shopping. She stopped and talked with me for a few minutes and asked about you. No, Andrew, Jane is far from being happy." "Thanks, Mary. You've always been a true sister and such a comfort—pouring oil on turbulent waters." He smiled, took her hand, and they walked back home in the moonlight. * KK NDREW'S peace of mind was won through the study and preaching of the gospel. He reported to his president, was assigned his companion, and they went to work. The Lord had been generous with him, he would be generous with the Lord. They studied and worked hard. They called at every home in King's Kettle and taught the gospel wherever the people would receive them. When the branch president was released Andrew was appointed to take his place. They continued to work in King's Kettle and then went to nearby villages to tract. Finally, Andrew was made conference president and he and the elders continued to labor in the vineyard of the Lord. _Andrew received many great blessings—health and peace of mind. He could see the hand of the Lord shaping his destiny, and he was a wise designer. The missionary was grateful for the hard things he had passed through; they were blessings in disguise. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 Then came the time his mission was completed. He was released to return home. Some months before Mary had told him of the death of Jane's husband. He received a letter from Jane, asking him to call, so he went for old time's sake. She lived in a castle, it seemed to the elder, on a street where only the rich could afford to live. He rang the doorbell. Jane answered it. She was charming, gracious, and had developed into a wonderful picture of womanliness, but Andrew 'was unmoved. "I have this home, many acres of Jand, and a lot of money, left to me by father and my husband, and because, Andrew, I have never stopped loving you for one minute, I am asking you again not to go to Utah." "My answer is the same, ~_ My home and all I shall ever want are in Zion. Now that I have completed my mission, I'm returning home." "I'm sorry for what I did. I did not want to hurt you, but after I read of your long walk across the continent I could not face it. Andrew, I am no pioneer. I hate poverty, misfits, everything that goes with it. I could not come. You have loved the riches of another _world, while I love the wealth of this one. Our paths are so far apart. I am in the fog. You are beyond me." "My treasures belong to this world, too, Jane. I draw my interest every moment of my life, and it is mine for the asking. I am no longer in the fog. My heart and head are clear and free." "Someone else?" Jane inquired. QUESTING LIGHTS "Yes, Jane, I am sure there is someone else." x KX K & Andrew walked the _ flagged streets of Dumferline back to his childhood home. He wanted to think things through., Jane never would have been happy in the cabin or in Resplendence. How very thankful he was that she had not come. 'dis head was clear and free: but 751 his heart was not free. At home in the cabin was the lass he loved. Margaret was a pioneer, and would make a wonderful wife for a pio neer. Jane would be happy in her beautiful home, with her acres of land and her money—while he would be happy in the cabin with the bairns, and with Margaret—if she cared enough for him to stay. He prayed that he would not be too late in asking her. (To be concluded) > APACHE BASKET Irene Rayner Storey Crisscross went the weaving rush, While her eyes traveled far; Infolded were the swallow's flight, And the gleam of metal star. Interlaced with warm, red grass And quail tuft's woven brim, The primordial flush of dogwood And the spruce's evening hymn. In primitive grace and Indian art She coiled the flowing stream, In polished bits of abalone, The glacier lily's dream. In chippa twigs and cedar roots, In zigzag line and turn, The rain cloud and the thunder bird In strangest lore may bum. PREFACE TO: WINTER Jessie M. Robinson Thready weeds in buff and brown, Brittle, silvered grasses, Milkweed pods of fairy down; A crying blackbird passes. Meadows rimed with pearls of white, And oaten stubble trembling Like a wave of copper light; Honk of geese assembling. Sulphur sunset burning low Past boughs of late. November; Indian summer's warm red-gold Is now a graying ember. Dolls Do Not Grow Old Dorothy J]. Roberts OU lucky ladies who are mothers of little girls know that dolls do not grow old. Mari Etta has told you so, with proper six-year-old emphasis, and she will not surrender her dolls to the gaping mouth of the trash can. Many of these, to you, wan and bedraggled beauties of last year or years before, may be glamorized for next Christmas and reside, unashamed, beneath the lighted tree with the newest doll. Spirit the retrievable ones away in the weeks before the great day and in solitary moments try transforming them into pert and new someones. Begin by examining the dolls in shops and noting the dressed-up beauties in magazines, for ideas on hair arrangements and costuming. Also, keep in mind the beloved little heroines of fairyland and fable and Page 752 those well-loved ladies who lived long ago or who are still with us, and don't» forget the period and nationality dolls, Dutch, French, and Oriental. Now examine your doll's hair. If it is still present in any quantity, you can comb it carefully, separate it into locks, and put it up in bobbypin curls and leave it pinned up until the day. Or you can rebraid it and tie it with fresh ribbons. If the hair is scanty and the pate looks bare, switches of gleaming locks may be purchased at the dime stores to transform the plainest miss into a glamorous heroine. One hairpiece, cut in half, should be enough for two wigs. Some stores carry bright, short curls, at very little cost. With artificial hair, plus glue, and the help of a hat, you can arrange a new wig for the doll. The hat may have to be sewed on with the wig, but a young mistress will be pleased, nevertheless. To brighten up the pale doll, wash her carefully. With a damp cloth, then with a steady hand, repaint the lips with red nail polish. Paint the finger and toenails red also. Faded eyebrows may be rteDutch Hat Fold of Malerial Seam ewe ee ete Feld' bak here DOLLS DO NOT GROW OLD touched with a bit of brown oil paint. Clothes may not make the man, but a doll is different. Since her small bisque body claims no soul (except to her little mother), habiliments become her chief charm. So let her have as many and as elegant costumes as your purse and inclination allow. Gather — bright, clear-colored pieces of materials— cottons, satins, velvets, laces, braid —from scrap bags or remnants from dime stores. Basque waists and bouffant skirts are easily made and are loved by children, being a refreshing escape to elegance from their own simplified wardrobes. Ribbon bows placed here and there, a touch of gay embroidery, or a flower, will make of these clothes much prettier ones than can be purchased at average prices. If you have no time for sewing doll clothes yourself, perhaps a cousin or a young neigh- 753 bor would like to take over the project for a fair sum. Hats can be made of scraps of felt or velvet or braid (sewed on a paper pattern in rounds for a beautiful, floppy hat). Dutch hats, made of one piece of felt, folded and stitched down one side, are pretty and suitable to sew on to the new hair. You will find that making a doll's trousseau is a fascinating little labor of love and one both you and the daughters will remember long after they are no longer little girls. THE SIMPLE THINGS OF LIFE Geneva I. Oldroyd I love the simple things of life That come to us each day, A baby's smile, a collie's bark, A group of boys at play; A garden growing in the sun And giving of its store, A rosebush in its second bloom Of beauty as before; My neighbor's nod across the fence, The postman's friendly smile, The sociability of friends— All these make life worth while. THE DEAREST SPOT Eunice J. Miles A place of peace, A rendezvous from harm, A roof against the gale To keep us warm; A cozy kitchen Where a kettle sings, And children prattle Over the artless things, Where love and friendliness Hold greatest worth— This is our home, The dearest spot on earth, Then—and Now! Sadie Ollerton Clark AST June my husband, David, our youngest son, and I took a brief vacation from the coastal plains of Texas. We had a happy reunion with friends in Utah, picked up Reid, another son who had just finished a school term at the State university, and turned the green Chevrolet south to Arizona, over the Grand Canyon bridge. We had planned on one more cool evening before we faced the heat of the Salt River Valley, and thought it would be a treat to the boys to stay overnight on the north rim of the canyon. But after an afternoon of climbing and _ sightseeing, both boys declared they would rather go on. It would be cooler to ride through the desert at night, they said, and we could sleep comfortably at Flagstaff. "Flagstaff is such a long way," I protested. "It will take us all night to get there." "It is just a four or five-hour drive," declared our eldest. "We can be there before midnight." Knowing from past experience he could outargue me, and also that he was generally right, I found my place in the back seat of the car. We drove through the beautiful meadows of the Kaibab just as the sun was shedding its last rays. On one side of the road we could see deer and cattle grazing together, and on the other, a stately stag posing on a cliff, as if for a picture. Then, as my husband took my hand, I knew that he, as well as I, was seeing this scene twice—now, and as it looked twenty-four years ago when he Page 754 brought me, his bride, to this lovely spot for our honeymoon. The mountains and pastures looked just the same. The deer and cattle together could have been an identical picture. But on that turn of the road where one white-tailed doe bounded lightly into the forest we remembered a band of twentyfive bucks. We had surprised dozens of the delicate little creatures who had given us startled glances and darted away. Either not so many deer, I thought, or they keep hidden better. And I looked in vain for the whitetailed, black squirrels which I tremembered were formerly everywhere. The moon was coming up as we left the great forest and _ started down the historic hill to the desert. Twenty-four years ago we would not have dared cross it at such an hour. Then, we had looked down upon the same scenes—the interminable range of low, red mountains so symbolic of this country, with the only landmark in all those endless desert miles a low rock house at the foot of the hill. My thoughts traveled backward.... We oe Ke S Leigh and I started down that rocky trail which (nearly a quarter of a century ago) served for a road, we saw a car near the rock house and two men, probably a quarter of a mile away, climbing toward us. As they came closer they hailed us, and we looked to our water supply, for we thought they would surely need a drink. But as THEN—AND NOW We approached them they waved a small canteen at us and swore mildly. "Wouldn't you know it—just a couple of kids! Where on earth are you heading for?" "Flagstaff, and on to Phoenix." "Flagstaff!" One of them sat weakly on the tunning board while the other cried, "Take a fool's advice and turn back. You will never make it." They told us their story. They had been stuck in the sand, time after time, and had dug themselves out with their bare and_blistered hands. They had been four days crossing the desert, and when they reached the rock house they had had to abandon their car because their gasoline supply was exhausted. We talked to them a few minutes, but assured them we were going on. They refused our offer of water and continued their climb, shaking their heads, while we jolted down over the sharp rocks of the old wagon road. This was not the first time we had been discouraged. The day before, a few miles out of Kanab, we had partially broken a spring. The Owner of a combined livery stable and garage sold us a used one, but when we told him we intended to cross Lee's Ferry he was surprised. "Why didn't you go by way of California?" he asked. "You'll never make it this way." We explained that we had intended going another route. In fact we had been in Yellowstone Park the previous week, and before we dared start for the Pacific Coast we had telegraphed for advice on getting into Arizona from California. Our answer had been to avoid California 755 as Arizona had a quarantine against California cars in June of 1924 beCause of a raging epidemic of hoof and mouth disease. Cars had been held up at the bridges for weeks, and there was no relief in sight, so we had decided to try Lee's F erry. Our adviser was stil] pessimistic. He said we would get stuck in the sand, that he had taken a party to the Ferry just a few days before, and that he charged fifty dollars for the trip, but after these people had seen the road they had given him one hundred dollars. But we couldn't afford even fifty dollars. It had taken practically every cent we had to spare to buy that spring for the car. We weren't afraid, but we hated to appear too self-confident, so we left him, saying we would go on to the canyon and decide what to do then. There was no hotel at the north rim in 1924, so we camped out. The business of the canyon seemed to be centered in a big, log store and post office. Just after dark we walked toward it. Coming through the windows we heard strange and unearthly sounds of music, accompanied by weird shrieks and wails. Curiously, and a little frightened, we pushed Our way into the big room and watched a man engaged in one of the favorite pastimes of the day— working the dial of a home-built tadio and trying to find every station he could reach. It was my first encounter with a radio! EIGH talked to some of the men gathered there. When they learned we were planning to go across Lee's Ferry they looked at us in amazement. I don't recall that they actually told us not to try to 756 go, but one after another started telling some pretty tall stories, or so they sounded to me. I can picture one of the men now, long and lean, wearing high-heeled boots and Stetson hat and faded overalls. He waved his hand toward the great chasm and pointed out some dim and flickering lights from the blackness beyond. "See those lights?" he said. "Well, last summer an old party come here late in the afternoon—him and his wife in a big Packard limousine with a Negro chauffeur. 'They turned up their noses at our accommodations here, but decided to spend the night in one of the cabins. When it was dark enough to see the lights, the man asked where they were coming from, and I told him they were from E] 'Tovar, the big hotel on the south rim. "How far is it across?' he says. "*Thirteen miles,' I says. "He turned to his wife and said, 'Let's go over for dinner and stay there.' "Well, we all thought he was joking, so we all chipped in and said, "Yes, why don't you? It's an easy drive, only thirteen miles,' and so on. We couldn't understand how ignorant a feller could be about distances out here. But when we saw they were actually taking us serious and were putting their bags in the car we changed our tune. We told him he couldn't drive to the other side that night. It was 135 miles of no roads at all and he couldn't carry enough gas in that big Packard to get him over there. "Well, this old guy had taken us serious at first, and now for a while he thought we were joking. When he found out we meant it, he got RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 stubborn and accused us of trying to make them stay in this wild place. We finally persuaded him to fill his tank and take five gallons of gas extta. "But this old boy, he had an awful time. He made it to the Ferry all nght, but the next day he ran out of gas. There wasn't a chance of anyone coming along that road who could help him, so he left his wife and the colored man and started to walk. He walked all day, lost in those hot, dry hills, but finally found an Indian camp, and bought some kerosene. It took him all the next day to get back to the car, and another day to get to the Little Colorado, to a filling station. They had tun out of water and were nearly dead when they finally reached El Tovar. He said all he wanted to do was to get out of this forsaken country and he would never come back. He had enough of western scenery to last him all the rest of his life!"' All the men laughed and several recalled the circumstances. Others had more stories to tell, but Leigh and I said nothing. The next morning we took a last look at the magnificent gorge and started back through the Kaibab. At Jacob's Lake, Leigh stopped the car and asked, "Which way?" I answered, "Don't be silly. We've got to get home." "Hail, oh, hail to Arizona!" sang my husband as we drove through the wonderful Kaibab Forest to the top of the hill. "Jumping off place," I called it. It was there we had met the two men. We were soon on the desert, trying to follow a poor semblance of a road. It was never too clearly de- yds water. Q little, and t imtere The ruge 751 although he did tell us that a few years before the cable broke and the boat got out of control. Wondered if the passengers ha peen asking t0° many questions at the time. The green cottonwoods and wil low trees gave 4 grateful shade to the hot country. We saw snatches of gardens and fruit trees, but the side of the river, about sunset. Leigh recalled his yaother's stories about zona town, and they had traveled these wearisome desert miles by team and wagon It took them 4 month, and one of the nightmary spots of the tip had been the climb J suppose st was because we thought we would Surely get somesomeone laugh, We sat UP in bed Where soon that made the next day and looked about us, It was barely SO long. It seemed almost endless. Light, but Leigh s°Cognized the The rocks "JUMping-off. Place, € had made bed in 2 Place" hill jj d Mto our triangle of lass which atked tires an we had to stop and Junction o TC€ roads— West to Patch one 'very hour or so © Flagstage NE east ¢, Albuquergue Toad wasn't So bad, but it didn't and tthern we had Ke x and followed them twenty miles, J had fatten asleep as My tall son only to find that they turneg around =~ drove Swiftly across the same old and came back over the same Tuts. Desert on Well paved Toads, and | Forty miles lost! € put a fey Was awakeneq Y a display of neon Tocks in the Toad to discourage the signs and flashing lights, Next traveler from Making oyy mis- "This ig the Junction," Reid saig. Take, and went on. But Our water "We will be in Flagstate In a fey behind. Member this place. And I'm Late that afternoon We reached thirsty)" the "Little Colorado" trading Post. Then | smiled, a little €mbar- € Tver was dry, but the store was Tassed, even after all the € years Open. A an waited on us, and "IE there had beep ew lights expressed no SUIPTISe at seein US. Twenty-four years € wouldn't She allowed nly one canteen of have been ught in such 4 predica Water for Ourselves and the car ment," Xplained, stly to y € decided to drive On, NO matter Self. "But What time js it?"' Ow long it took US, when we heard = Was just four hours since we the now tragically familiar Sound of had left Jacob's Lake. Another blowout. In disgust, Leigh Tet short g time even to - "T can't fix Tealize Where we've been," | Said, Weanly, «yy. Ll just Camp here Way it wa before?" j;1 d my young: and go on in the mornj est. We put UP the cot There wags Would Jp Il have to ad only a Swallow or ty, Of water left mit J 4PPrteciate al] he comfort J nN the cantee » and laughingly can en I el these days Made 4g Ceremony of drin ing it But take Wenty-four years from rp, hen we Jy down to he most fan 48€ and give hat same boyish tastic dreams They were all about COmpanio and I would Still be Water e€ wer Swimming In it, thrilled to fac th Own. F, Salling on It, but when we Teached jf you never &¢et off the Paved high. Or a drink jt Was gone Way, and can Make ag nth's jour SEASONING (Continued) 759 Seasoning (Continued from page 743) "Now, what are you thinking?" Maury demanded. "Of your father's house." "Why?" "Pm remembering how small it was, and how there was always room for people—always room for the hungry, the cold, the cast out. - - everyone who needed food and friendship." She laughed. "Hard put we were at times to make it go, but that is where my father's thrift was right welcome." "That's what I mean. Some people, who have little, have so much. And some, who have much, have nothing at all." He looked about him. "Gosh! I have a lot to learn, like how it's not the food that makes Thanksgiving, but the seasonings from the heart." She nodded. "Aye, I know." She looked at the clock. "You must hurry now. You must not be late for her dinner." John pursued the last shred of turkey. "Maury, did I ever tell you that red is my favorite shade of hair?" She paused, fork in midair. Tears sprang suddenly upon her glowing cheeks. "Nay, you didna'.. You really find it fair?"' "T find it fair," John repeated. —— WILD GEESE Beatrice K. Ekman Above the marshes and reed-fringed lagoon, I hear the wild geese honking in their flight; Bathed in the luster of the hunter's moon, They dip their wings down trackless lanes of night. Over the coarse marsh grass pale vapors rise, On the dark lake a bright moon-path is drawn, As, faint and faraway, the honking dies And wild geese merge with moonbeams and are gone. | WAIT FOR SPRING Grace Sayre I shall pause long when autumn's golden flame Burns in the maple's glory, to its last Dim ash. I cannot bear earth's poignant claim, Graying to embers in a wintry blast. The leaves that drift beyond the garden wall Will rest in golden layers on the sod; But I must not look back to see them fall. I pause.... While empty boughs commune with God. And who am I to gaze on nature's pall? I wait for spring where autumn's gold is massed, And by these symbols, know the year has passed. A Party for You Sara Mills HERE'S party blood in your veins. Read one of the old pioneer diaries. It will tell of furniture pushed outside to make room for dancing feet. Any pretext was enough: a visitor, a person about to go visiting, or no pretext at all. Often as not the party lasted through the night to morning chore time. It was these parties that kept gaiety alive in the bleak days. Now, in farremoved 1948, you have an essential need to keep gaicty nourished. Give at least one party this holiday season. The memory of it will leave a warm glow to help you up the steep, cold ascent of the January and February hills. We're passing on to you a menu for a party dinner you can engineer single-handed, if need be. The dinner is an easy one, but so good it will set the tempo for a fine, blithe evening. Roast turkey is the main dish (as cheap as any other in these days). It is abetted by potatoes au gratin in an elegant guise; a salad that can be made the day before, and a fruitcake. This may be the one you made in November, or the mincemeat fruitcake listed on the menu. For bread, buy clover-leaf rolls and break them in threes for serving. Dress your turkey the night before, down to the last stitch. Also make your salad the day before, and prepare your potatoes. The dinner ls self-serving, of course. Because your oven will be turkeyoccupied in the afternoon, set your Page 760 potatoes to bake in the casserole the first thing in the morning. Then keep them covered on top of the oven, popping them in the last thing to be re-heated. For a drink, use your favorite fruit-juice concoction, hot or cold. MENU Roast turkey with dressing warm ) Potatoes au gratin Pear jello * Celery with avocado cheese relish Cranberry sauce Mincemeat fruitcake Clover-leaf rolls Fruit drink (served PoraTors AU GRATIN Potatoes (boiled in skins, approximately one large one to two persons) Thin cheese sauce (about % cup of grated American cheese to each pint of thin white sauce) Bread crumbs (fine and dry) 1 large onion, sliced Worcestershire sauce Butter, salt, and pepper Boil the potatoes in their jackets. When they are cool, slice them in smallish pieces and place them in a large dish. Season with salt and scatter slices of raw onion throughout the potatoes. Cover and leave in a cool place overnight. Next morning, remove all onion slices. Make a thin white sauce of butter, flour, and milk. Add the seasonings and the grated American cheese. In a large casserole, place alternate layers of potatoes, bread crumbs, and cheese sauce, topping the dish with a thin layer of crumbs. Dust lightly with pepper and dot with butter. Place in a low oven, about 250°, and bake for two hours. Taste well for seasoning, have plenty of the thin cheese sauce, and bake slowly. You will have a dish of rarely blended flavors. A PARTY FOR YOU PEAR JELLO 1 package lime jello 2 cups liquid 1 can or quart bottle of pears 2 small packages cream cheese 1 pinch ginger 1 tbs. Vinegar Dissolve jello in 1 cup of boiling water and add 1 cup of pear juice. Pour half of the jello, with vinegar added, into a flat pan. Put in ice box. Place remaining jello in bowl and when it is congealed, beat with a rotary egg beater. Cream the cheese smoothly with a fork; add gradually to the beaten jello. Add ginger and pears cut in pieces, and place on top of plain jello. Chill. For a large party you will need to double this recipe. Avocapo CHEESE RE. LIsH 1 cup finely mashed avocado 2 tsp. Lemon juice 4% cup sieved Roquefort cheese 1 tbs. Thick, sour cream Dash of Tabasco and Worcestershire sauces Salt and pepper to taste Mix all the ingredients well and chill. Just before serving, place a portion of the relish in celery stalks chilled in ice water. 761 MINcEMEAT FRUITCAKE 2 cup shortening 1 cup brown sugar 1 ¢gg 1 cup mincemeat 2 cups flour 2 tsp. Baking powder "a tsp. Salt % tsp. Each cinnamon and cloves % cup milk ' cup chopped nuts "2 cup, chopped, candied fruits This is a cake you can make with utmost confidence. Cream the shortening and sugar together. Add the egg and mincemeat. Beat well. Sift together the flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon, and cloves. Add alternately with milk to mincemeat mixture. Fold in chopped nuts and fruit. Bake in a greased paperlined loaf pan in a 350° oven for 1% hours. Serve in thin slices. You may need to double this recipe, also. At the last minute, while your husband is carving the turkey and you are tending to heating the rolls and potatoes, ask one of your guests to arrange the salad and celery stalks. You can now enjoy the party with untuffled ease. 1$4.4.4.4.4 4 66> —Eee VvvVvVvVvVvVvyTwwwvwww Remember the Women of Your Family with a Subscription to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE zine for one year, beginning with Use this Coupon Enclosed please find $1.50 for which please send the Relief Society Maga- (Name) to: (Street and number) (City and State) (Ward or Branch) (Stake or Mission) Yes aS fale which begin with January 1949 must be received by December Shall we send a gift card to the recipient of this subscription? 'SS FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. FASHION SHOWS, SINGING MOTHERS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Gwendolyn T. Gwynn WASHINGTON STAKE (WASHINGTON D. C.), CHEVY CHASE WARD BRIDAL SCENE FROM STAKE FASHION SHOW Front row, left to right: Valerie Candland; Marilyn Margetts; Kathleen Ann Carpenter. Back row, left to right: Ruth Benson; Millicent Burton; Florence Johnson (the bride); Alice Ann Wilkinson; Jean Ellen Patterson. All of the girls in the photograph are daughters of Relief Society members of the Chevy Chase Ward, and their dresses were made by their mothers or their friends. Gwendolyn T. Gwynn is president of Washington Stake Relief Society. Page 762 NOTEs FROM THE FIELp RD RELIEF SOCIETY IR BABIES, ay 25, 1948 President, Leone G. McQueen, First Counselor. Standi 8 left to tight: Orene Yer, social Science leader; Edith C eed, theology lea x Marjorie B. Crittende » Work meet; ] der; ster R. Bro nN, Organist. The work and hay aken our ba With us each we Carry on oy duties, All of these officers Performed heir duties faithf, lly during the entire season": ary FE. Wright is President of Summit Stake Relief Society STAR VALLEY STA (WYOmM ), BEDFORD ARD RELIEF SOCIETy HOLDs SUCCESsr R, €cember 5 1947 Which was Contributed toward financing the new wa d chapel y This little Organization the Relief S » having only thirty members, has Ociety Building Fund. The ganization ww, collected, € sisters are happy to have an; © built for the w the 150 and $159 was an interest In this beautif. | hurch, Seated, left to tight: Thelm P Sister Pace comments upon thj interesting &toup as follows; «; Christmas 8ift sale 3 d social, It was g own, Second Counselor, Grace M. Pace ave enjoyed A ancing Party was held In connection with this bazaar, Which was Planned a5 a TY successfy] Occasion and nett 764 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 Photograph submitted by Alta J. Vance BIG COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH), SINGING MOTHERS WHO FURNISHED THE MUSIC AT THE MORNING SESSION OF STAKE CONFERENCE, March 14, 1948 The director is Margaret S. Larsen; organist, Gladys B. Nichols; pianist, Dorothy W. Cutler. Alta J. Vance, now a member of the general board of Relief Society, was president of Big Cottonwood Stake Relief Society when this photograph was taken. Helen Anderson is the present stake president of Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Zina Baker WEST UTAH STAKE, PROVO SECOND WARD TEEN-AGE GIRLS MAKE LAYETTE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY WELFARE PROJECT Front row, seated, left to tight: Colleen Pritchet; Georgia Miner; Leona Aston; Ina Tunborous; Barbara Tunborous; Virginia Ritchie; Hildred Nelson; Marilyn Green. Second row, seated, left to right: Geraldine Snow; Marilyn Sturgis; Elizabeth Hendrickson; Laurel Baker; Rula Huff; Juanita Stone; Ruth Hawkins; Margaret Campbell; Leah Ruth Crawley. Standing, left to right: Veva Anderson; Erlene Lewis; La Faye Anderson; Gwen Rasmussen. Upon the completion of this project, which was most beautifully and carefully accomplished, the leaders of the teen-age girls enjoyed an afternoon social and invited the girls and their mothers., Rose Goates is president of West Utah Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD O WARD RELIEF SOCIETY FOR SPECIAL p ROGRAM, March Front TOW, seated, Theresa Sims tow, standing, left to right: McBride; Ba 5) MISSION, ANCHORAGE RELIEF so NQUET, (ALASKA) BRANCH March 17, 1948 O right: Ine, Percivy. Son; Dayj all; Ragnhild Askerlund: Mary Hagerstrom Mimmi Jans a Donsson; Emy Lansfeldt. Anna Johanson, Eya arlsson Ebba kstrom Edith Nilsson; Ethel E. Blomquist. Ethel] E, Blomg ist j d Counselor Gertrude Ste Nselor Margaret Futter, utter; Secretary Beryl w. » South African Mi mmett; Front Tow, left to right: Kines Bexfield; Helen Erwin. Maud Rice; Margaret Anderson, Bac | Tow, left to nght: Mildred Sharp; Maggie Sharp; Ona Schroath; Vely, da M, ichards jg President of the East G ta t Ethel] Budney; Con x Nie Fackrel]; Counselor Tt; Vivien Stroble; Cc n; Melbg Jacobs; Rg; > Edith Hatch; Betty GoroO 'Project, lence of the Members of this socie, Was the m king UP, by means of a hectograph, of booklets listing the names and ad. Dresses of al] the branch members. A ime apiece, these | tograph, The STOUp is now at work m Prepared in aq 768 Ree St BS a SSMS Photograph submitted by Mary S. Ellsworth NORTHERN CALIFOR NIA MISSION, SAN RAFAE MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR THEIR April 4, 1948 Clark; Pear] Aiken;; ister Elayne Reid: C off; Second Counselor Betty Millerber Arntsen; Carmen D d Photograph submitted by Bernice McK TEXAS-LOUISIA +a anneal Se SOK. BESS innon » FORT WORTH (TEXAS) RELIEF SOCIETY DE THE ARTICLES FOR THE AND PREPARED T ght: Annie S. Poll President Allene B The Practice of Consonants for Better Singing Florence Jepperson Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board He who knows how to breathe and how to pronounce, knows well how to sing (Pacchiarotti). HERE are various approaches to the improvement of word resonance and clarity in speech and song. One of these is to quickly leave the consonant and sustain the vowel. This should be practiced with the following syllables: may, may, may, etc. Me, me, me; my, my, my; mah, mah, mah; mo, mo, mo, moo, moo, moo. After practicing these alone combine them, as for example: me, may, mah; my, may, me; mah, mo, moo; me, may, mo; me, may, my, mah, mo, moo, etc. When moderate facility has been gained in singing the above exercises replace the M with the consonants: B, P, N, L, D, T, W, etc. The L is particularly useful in effecting tongue flexibility. After sufficient technique has been acquired in vowel and consonant articulation, definite words should be used to apply this skill. With this objective in view, the following list of words should be practiced both in speaking and in singing: May, Bay, Pay Maun, Dawn, Pawn Mayme, Name, Lame My, By, Lie Mate, Bate, Date Might, Bite, Night Mah, Bah, Paw Mile, Dial, Tile Mall, Doll, Ball Mow, Bow, Doe Mote, Dote, Note Mole, Toll, Dole Me, Be, Lea Meet, Beet, Neat Meal, Deal, Peel Moo, Boo, Too Moon, Boon, Doon Mood, Food, Wooed These groups of three words should be increased to include others—words commencing and ending with different consonants, sustaining the vowels longer and longer. Practice all syllables and words first on one particular pitch, then on different pitches, scale and chordwise. Sing the exercises in the easy range of the voice and according to definite thythmical patterns. When three syllables are sung the triplet group may be employed to good advantage and practiced sequentially up and down the scale. When syllables and words beginning with a single consonant have been learned, attention should be turned to the study of double consonants preceding a vowel, such as the following: Blay, Blee, Blah, Blow, Bloo Flay, Flee, Flaw, etc. Play, Plee, Plah, etc. Dray, Dree, Drah, etc. (The R is slightly trilled with the tip of the tongue.) The articulation of consonants, single or double, should be short and distinct, the sustained vowel being the tone. Clear, flexible speech is a prerequisite to beautiful singing. [Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussion in the choristers' and organists' department at union meeting. ] Page 769 : al fe} DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 13—"The Apostolic Mission and Events Related Thereto" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 21, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, February 1, 1949 Objective: To show how those who put their trust in the Lord gain spiritual power and knowledge. Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. FOLLOWING the events described in our last lesson, Jesus returned for a brief visit to Nazateth. The people there had rejected him once but he was willing to give them another chance. He is always merciful and willing to forgive. He went to the synagogue and _ they were astonished at the marvelous work he had done. However, the people were looking for a Messiah and rejected him a second time. They said he was the "... Son of Mary, the brother of James and Joses, and Juda and Simon." His relatives were plain folk. "And they were offended at him." At Nazareth, Jesus did not accomplish any great work because of lack of faith among the people. The Twelve Charged and Sent The work of the ministry needed expanding. Jesus sent forth his apostles on separate missions to preach the gospel. They had been students under the Master for many months; now they were to leave him and commence the work that ultiPage 770 mately took them into all parts of the known world. At first they were to go only to "the lost sheep of the house of Israel." These were to be given the first chance. This was only a temporary restriction. Later they were to go among all nations. Always they were to preach, "the kingdom of heaven is at hand." 'They were given the Priesthood and told to "Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils: freely ye have received, freely give" (Matt. 10:8). They were to rely upon divine aid for all their needs. They were not to take money and were not even to take thought of their lives.? Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment? (Matt. 6:25). All these things were to be provided if they would have faith. They were told: But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you (Matt. 6:33). LESSON DEPARTMENT uch strife h over them. The Ove of their work Must supersede every othdom. In th tinued his Marvelous Work, to understand how © Teport of the 4Postles, when hey return d TY €ncouragin ey had take © Message wher. Ever they had g In each of e Clties or towns had Visited, the ad preached he Eospel of re 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE_NoVEMpep 194g pity. He first taught them Many claim him king to Teign instead of things, healed their sick and comthe unpopular Herod. However, ™m. © crowd was so interested that disciples A stor; m evening came On before they req. Small ship toiled heavily in a Tough lized the Passing of time. It Was seq. The men Could not use the e IVl Stay al] night, but they had no food. Ing the vessel by sheer strength, NOE depart: &iVve ye them to eat. And they ciples Saw him Coming, they WY unto him, We have here but five thought he Was a ghost and Were © fishe 1 and looking P to heaven, he 5 ssed, and raid. And Peter answered him and Said brake, and gay, the loaves + hi 'sciples, Lord, ig; € thou, big come unto and the discip} he mul €. And thee on th Water. And h Said, Come they did al] cat, and were filled: ang they And when Peter was Come down Out of 00k y the fragments that remained the ship, he w Iked on th Water, to po twelve baskets fy]j €y that had to Jesus hen he the wind eaten were about five th and men, be Oisterous, Was aftaid; and beginnin side women and children (Matt, 14:16- 4, sink, he ¢ > Saying, Lord ave me 21), nd Immediate] Jesus Stretched forth his and, and cau Mm, and unt;. H ght hi Human knowledge lS Powerless to thou of little faith explain the miracle. It was done by doubt? Ang when they were Come into left than the whole of the Original Would say to Our troubled souls, "Tt supply, © People soon began to is T; be not afraid." O ing. He had power to feed them, They landed near 4 place calleg They starteq 7 Movement to proGennesaret_one of the beauty spots LESSON DEPARTMENT 773: From there, they down trom journeyed Horth to C heaven, and giveth life unto the world (John 6:32-33). 0 Capernaum, In; Owns through Which the our fathers di ~ - + «Tf any man eat,: of this bread, he shal] live eb essing of his Pass-. Ing might fal] or Cver, O 9 ohn 6:49, 51) Nn fact, Though Within the Teach of al] who diligently Sttive to &ain it, faith; aves and Fishes €SS a divine sift, and can be f L that the Peo- 0m God Jesus said, "I am the bread of again that they life." might partake of hi at bread, he Stated, was ls bounty, The his flesh, « Lord tebuked them, saying: SO eateth Y flesh, n and drinketh my blood, ha eterna] seek me, no: Ye saw the Miracles, last day (John 6:54) j The symThey Wanted to follow One who Stand on f Would feed th e Lord efit, was familiar to Christ' and was as teadily understo eth, but for tha Od as our -sPressions—'devourin d book,' or to Cverlasting Lie ne ces ae nl ing in 1 tuctions ss The te Shall give unto rou for him hath God oe aid j down as a Tule, that was made to ood or drink, jt meant him and ob Y his gospel, They knew ords of ust, I, page 184; page at while Moses leq their fathers, 348 textbook), By the symbolism the Lord ha Provided manna Th ad seen the sus taught that We were Miracle of the loaves +07: i and fishes. To believe In him as the literal Son f God and Y could they not €ep his commandments. Leve now Jehovah? Jehovah of However, it must not be over. The Old €stament js Jesus the looked that his doctrine was diffiChrist, the Bread of Life T Many ciples, when Gave you not Saying: who heaven. Then he boldly Proclaimed: they erily verily, | Say unto you Ye jC; and | but because ye did eat of the loaves, and were filled (John 6:26), Labour not for the meat which Perish. The Father sealed (John 6 It was hard for them to understand. He urged them to believe in Christ of the New Testament Verily, ver. Is he which comet sought him that they might Once before the L Taise him rp at the bolism of bread and w, eT Is, Per. 4Ps, more difficult for Us to under. [ Wherever, m_ Ecclesiaste » allusion study of the law, and the Practice of §00d works" (Geikie, "Life and cult for the Jews to accept. They had heard this, said, This j ". DOE this offend you? What 714 and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before?" (John 6:61-62). Surely it was lmplied that after his death and resutrection he would ascend to his Father. Only through the Holy Ghost can these great truths be known. "Tt is the spirit that quickeneth.. I From that time many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him" (John 6:63, 66). This evoked the inquiry from Jesus unto the Twelve: "Will ye also go away?" Peter answered with deep conviction: Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast 4 the words of eternal lifé. And we believe RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God (John 6:67-69)- Though they did not fully understand all the doctrine, "they knew Jesus to be the Christ." Questions and Suggestions for Discussion,. Enumerate the powers that were given to the apostles of Jesus when they were sent forth on their first great missions. Tell also of the duties required of them. 2. Read Matt. 11:28-30 and tell of your own happiness found in the service of the Lord. _ Give an account of the feeding of the multitude by the Savior. 4. Did the Savior mean it literally when he said, "Ye are the salt of the earth..-- Ye are the light of the world," etc. Me Visiting Teachers TIlessages—Ou" Savior Speaks Lesson 5— Judge Not That Ye Be Not Judged" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, February 1, 1949 Objective: To point out that it is not our place to pass judgment on another. WHEN the Savior gave us the injunction "Judge not, that ye be not judged," he set for his followers a standard which is hard to _ This is because it seems natural for all of us, in our finite state, to see the imperfections of our own. Not once, but many times did the Savior teach those who gathered he gave them Later, to the scribes and the Pharisees he made it clear that even they whose office it was to interpret the law, must not condemn the woman taken in sin, for they themselves "Let him who is without sin, cast the first stone," he said. He tells us to substitute mercy for harsh judgment. Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful. Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven (Luke 6:36-37)- Because of our human frailties there will always be flaws in our natures. It is easy to sit in judgment upon another, but it is unjust to do LESSON DEPARTMENT so since we cannot know all the circumstances that may have contributed towards an act. The Savior knew that only God can render a just judgment, for he alone knows the intents of one's heart. Outward appearances and actions may be misunderstood and misconstrued. There is no living man who is all-wise and who can judge the justice of an act from its 775 inception in the mind to its final result. Albeit the Lord has given to some of his servants, including the bishop of the ward, to be common judges, and to such persons so authorized, gives them wisdom and discernment and inspiration sufficient to qualify them to act in this high place. "Judge not, that ye be not judged" (Matthew 7:1). <> Work I leeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Outmoded Formals Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, 'February 15, 1949 PERHAPS the one article in a woman's wardrobe which gives the least value for the money expended is the formal. Often there is no room in the family budget for a mother's formal, and if there is she hesitates to buy one because she feels she won't get enough wear from it. Formals need not be considered wasteful or extravagant if we extend their usefulness by making them over into attractive articles of clothing after we have grown tired of them as formals or when they have become outmoded. One might even be farsighted enough to plan the new formal with a view to using it later for some Other purpose. For first consideration is the possibility of shortening a formal and either dyeing it or combining it with other material for use as an afternoon or street dress. This, of course is done only if it can be made appropriate to the occasion. Or why not have a dressy negligee or house coat for a feeling of luxury in those few odd moments of leisure lounging? Often, when a fancy housecoat or robe is an extravagance, an old evening gown can be converted into something of this sort that may give much pleasure. As has been stated many times before, one must always be careful to make sure that the color and type of material in garments that are made over is becoming to the individual who is to wear the garment. In some cases little girl's dresses can be fashioned from old formals. If the material is dainty in color and launderable, it is especially usable for this purpose. With the current trend for fuller, longer skirts there is a strong fad for ruffled petticoats. Where is a more logical place to turn for the material from which to make one than to old formals? Taffetas, satins, and other 716 slick materials are usually good to use, and any color in the rainbow, or combination of colors is in vogue. From dresses of washable materials and pastel colors, other undergarments can be made both for children and grownups. Use such dresses for slips, panties, and camisoles. Here, again, is a source of material for blouses. The possibilities are almost unlimited. There is no end to the kinds and colors of material from which one could make a blouse. Whether eyelet pique, silk crepe, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 taffeta, sheer chiffon, or even heavy brocade, most everyone could fit the blouse into her wardrobe for varieties of occasions. And, as a last suggestion, consider the possibility of redecorating a bedroom with ruffles fashioned from the skirt of an old formal. Make a new skirt for the dressing table, a ruffle around the edge of a mirror, fluffy bows for curtain tie-backs. Or you could even disguise a shabby table or makeshift for a table with a full circular flounce falling to the floor that you made from your old dress. _-— a of the Latter-day Saints Literature of the Gospel Restoration Lesson 5—Earlier Evangelistic Literature Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, February 15, 1949 ERVOR to share the enriched truths of the restored gospel— to radiate its glorious new light— naturally brought some stirring evangelistic literature. Missionaries, as soon as the Church had been organized, were sent forth. Not only did they voice the glad tidings whenever they found folk to listen, but gradually they used pen and press to spread the newly revealed word of God farther and wider. It was all impelled by a desire to share—to keep the good things that had come by giving them to others. Indeed one can keep the gospel bright and beautiful only by sharing it. Zeal to do this vibrates through the writings of those earlier missionaries. It still does in the work of today. Two things, however, seem to add to the intensity of the earlyday earnestness: first, the nearness to the Prophet and to the divine drama of the restoration; second, the testing hardships and bitter persecution that had to be met and overcome. We are brought closer to all this in the Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, one of the outstanding missionaries who lived through those soul-searching, early-day experiences. With Oliver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer, and Ziba Peterson, Parley was on the first official mission—this to the Lamanites on the Missouri frontier. A few paragraphs from his Autobiography, a volume of high literary merit, will help make the story live again. The four elders, after traveling afoot for hundreds of miles, and meeting with outstanding success in LESSON DEPARTMENT S10naries were m Ndian leader; and after he TOugh an int rand, Particularly some ook they brought, Ok, things, Was hid in med Joseph Ti Plospered, mighty; they culj- €at Spirit Much, in order went to the place, d found the Book Delawares, and which we hope he will Cause to be read and known among his tribe; it will do them good. Observe here, how Oliver Cowdery, with teaching skill, meets the minds of his listeners—simply, concretely, and in terms the Indians could understand. This is real litclary art. It was in a dramatic setting—worthy of portrayal by a gifted painter. The response of the Indian chief is likewise Picturesque and touching: We fee] truly thankful to our white friends who have come so far, and been at such pains to tell us good news, and especially this new news concerning the Book of our forefathers; it makes us glad in here ( Placing his hand on his heart). It is now winter, we are new settlers in this place; the snow is deep, our cattle and horses are dying; our wigwams are poor; we have much to do in the spring—to build houses, and fence and make farms; but we will build a council house, and meet together, and you shall read to us and teach us more concerning the Book of our fathers and the will of the Great Spirit (Ibid., chapter VIII). These good intentions unfortunately could not be carried out, Rising interest on the Part of the Indians in Mormonism brought immediate opposition to missionary work among them. Indian agents— stirred doubtless by sectarian enmity—ordered our elders, with threat of using military force, off the Teservation. The elders left to continue their work for a time around Independence. It is interesting to note that the very same year our Latter-day Saint missionaries were trying to carry the restored gospel to the Indians, 1831, four chieftains from the farther Northwest came down the Missouri River to St. Louis seeking what they called "The White Man's Book of Heaven." Two of these red men died that winter in the frontier city; the other two returned to their people in the wilds, disappointed; they had been given gifts enough, as one of them said, "to make our moc. Casins heavy," but the light of the gospel they sought had not been given to them. Their people must still "sit in darkness." Had the Latterday Saint missionaries been permit. Ted to carry forward their work, the desire of the red men for light and truth might at the time have been splendidly gratified. Although this first mission of our four young elders, so far as the Inlans were concerned, was thwarted, there was rich fruitage from it else. Where. Not alone in Kirtland, where a religious leader, Sidney Rigdon, and practically his whole congregation, joined the Latter-day Saints, but elsewhere along their route, the elders gathered hundreds into the fold. It was the beginning of a great missionary work, leading to the calling of many others into the service of spreading the gospel far and wide. All of this zeal was inspired by the Prophet, who gave himself untiringly to the labor of love for mankind. His devoted brother Samuel had pioneered the carrying of the gospel into the wider field when he went forth alone to try to sell the Book of Mormon. Though generally rebuffed and unwelcomed on his humble mission, Samuel did place one copy of the Book where it reached Brigham Young, and through him, Heber C. Kimball. A first convert made by Parley P. Pratt was his own brother Orson. Later, 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT in Canada, he also aylor into the mith, a cousi tandfather of our President George Ibert Smith, and another leader were World, were also Xperiences in the field zeal to meet It. Asa result, in 1837, he Produced his StirIs first volume of evangelistic literature by one of the members of €gin with, for th It met enemies of the Ch | with Courage; jt With understanding and eloquence the meaning and quires Teading and In the Spirit of the tim of its creation; SPiritua] hurried Perusal of thi, temarkable book, ne is impressed first of al] with € author's Mastery crete with apt words, quality of high order to h. His prose jg Poetic; it lends Itself to EXPIessive ora] Teading, Sentences and Paragraphs wil] Serve ~ Self will be delivered from i came by reason of the Fa) € earth shall to the Yet Fy. NO more be found, but all th yield her increase and abundance Saints of God (Ibid., "Prophecy Four things are Tequired in Order to | Oice of Warning. constitute any kingdom in heaven or on earth; namely, first, a king; secondly, commissioned officers duly qualified to execute his ordinances and laws; thirdly, a code of laws by which the subjects are governed, and fourthly, subjects who are governed.... In this respect the kingdom of God is like all other kingdoms, whenever we find officers duly commissioned and qualified by the Lord Jesus, together with his ordinances and laws existing in purity, unmixed with any precepts or commandments of men, there the kingdom of God exists, and there His power is manifest, and his blessings are enjoyed as in days of old (Ibid., "The Kingdom of God," pp. 74:75): The Book of Mormon has perhaps been less understood, and more misrepresented, by the world at large than any other publication which has ever appeared (Ibid., "Origin of the American Indians," page 104). B ye hard-hearted, ye ungodly children of men; your eyes will very soon behold him who was crucified for your sins; then shall ye see that the resurrection of the dead is a reality, something tangible, and that eternity is not a land of shades, nor a world of phantoms, as some suppose (Ibid., "The Resurrection and Restoration," page 166). From this beginning, for which the author gives to God the honor for whatever is praiseworthy in it, and pays tribute also to Joseph Smith for his inspiration and invaluable contributions, our evangelistic literature has continually been enriched through like service from others. Through pen and press we are still getting many worthy contributions to forward the spread of the restored gospel to the ends of the earth. Studies and Activities 1. What is implied by the term evangelistic literature? Cite examples of such literature used to help missionaries today. 2. Compare the various means available today in spreading the gospel with those at the time of Peter and Paul; and also with those when. Our Church was in its beginnings. 3. What accounts for the striking success of the earlier missionaries, despite limitations, in carrying the restored gospel to our nation and the world? 4. For the teacher: Assign to two members of the class the reading aloud expressively of the following excerpts from The Voice of Warning: a. Prophecy concerning the Savior: "Prophecy Already Fulfilled," chapter 1, beginning page 24 with words "We will now proceed to show"—and ending page 25 with words "from the earth." b. As to the Book of Mormon: "Origin of the American Indian," beginning page 65 with words, "The Book of Mormon has"—and ending page 66 with "Book of Mormon really is." Note not only the thought of these selections but the literary qualities of the language—clarity, movement, rhythm, word choice. 5. Be prepared, if time permits, to give other brief excerpts from writings of other early-day missionaries of special merit in proclaiming the gospel, or brief stories of the heroic carrying of the message to the world. See the biographies suggested or other like books for such words or incidents. References Autobiography and Voice of Warning by Parley P. Pratt. These for amplifying story of first missionary work, and beginnings of evangelistic literature for the promotion of this great service. A good history of the Church such as Essentials of Church History, by Joseph Fielding Smith; or Comprehensive History of the Church, by B. H. Roberts, will be of help not only in connection with this lesson, but of others in the course. Biographies such as Brigham Young, the Man and His Work, by Preston Nibley, Wilford Woodruff, by Matthias F. Cowley, and like works on our early leaders will also be helpful for human background in these studies. 780 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT 781 Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 4—The Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General" Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, February 22, 1949 Note: A lesson is outlined for Tuesday, February 22, 1949 since some Relief Societies hold their meetings on days other than Tuesday. It is suggested that Relief Societies which meet on Tuesdays present the February 22 social science lesson on March 22 and the March 22 lesson on the fifth Tuesday, March 29, or combine the February and March social science lessons and present them together on March 22. EVAN JENSEN ECTION 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants, "A Declaration of Belief regarding Governments and Laws in General," is the work of Oliver Cowdery, "the Second Elder" of the Church in the new dispensation (Progress of Man, page 367). The Latter-day Saint doctrine of divine authority to build a real kingdom of God on earth occasioned persecution and conflict. 'The memories of the American revolution of 1776 were still fresh in the AmeriObjective: To study section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants as the belief of Latter-day Saints in regard to earthly governments and laws in general. Can mind and the American revolution had been a revolt in which the idea of divine authority in secular affairs had been repudiated. The views of the English philosopher, John Locke (1632-1704) had become very popular in the United States. In 1690 Locke had published Two Treatises on Civil Government. The first treatise was an attack on and an utter repudiation of a work written earlier by Robert Filmer, entitled Patriarcha, which contended that God ordained true government with Adam, and that priestly power to tule, or divine authority, had descended from Adam on down to the British monarchy. Devastating this argument in the first treatise, Locke's second treatise contended for popular representative government and the natural rights of man to "life, liberty, and property." Now came along Joseph Smith with a doctrine 782 misunderstood as being similar to the odious one (in the American mind) of Filmer, with the Prophet and the Latter-day Saint Pnesthood substituted (in the American mind) for the British monarch of "divine right." Joseph Smith's reconciliation of divine authority to build "the kingdom" was subsequently developed in terms of the doctrine of the divinely inspired Constitution, At a special general conference on August 17, 1835, following the approval by those assembled of the revelations to be included in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, Oliver Cowdery read an article written by himself on "Governments and Laws in General"... "which was accepted and adopted and ordered to be printed in said book" (D. H. C. II, page 247) now known as section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Why? As the printed book still states, in order "that our belief with regard to earthly governments and laws in general may not be misinterpreted nor misunderstood..." Significance of the Declaration The Declaration regarding governments and laws is most significant. In the first place, it occupies an official position in the covenants of the Church, moved, seconded, and adopted in open meeting by the people of the Church themselves, upon the initiative of one of its members. Not designated as a direct revelation from God, the Declaration recommended itself to the friends and enemies of the Church as a democratic statement of belief which could not be derided as emanating from outside, extramundane sources. But more imRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 portant, in order "that our belief with regard to earthly governments and laws in general may not be misinterpreted nor misunderstood," the Declaration may be considered the direct ancestor of the very important 12th Article of Faith, which has made it possible for missionaries to preach "the kingdom" in foreign countries without being subject to the charge that they were subversive in undermining support by their people of foreign governments: We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law. Can a man divide his allegiance between kingdom-building and divine authority in a gospel embracing "all truth," with citizenship in the American, British, or any other nation? 'This was the problem. And, from the beginning, it was charged that a Latter-day Saint could not remain a good Latter-day Saint and be a loyal citizen at the same time. The "Declaration of Belief," adopted by the voice of the people August 17, 1835, is one of the first and best answers to this question and, as such, presents some of the interesting contributions Latter-day Saint experience has made to political thought. Implicit in the Declaration is the theory that both Church and State were "instituted of God for the benefit of man." When to this is added the doctrine of the inspired Constitution, a unique theory of ChurchState relations (suggested in lesson three) is furnished. In_ general there are two theories of the proper relation of Church and State, typified by two of the great reformers who had to meet the question head- LESSON DEPARTMENT on, Luther and Calvin. In Luther's theory, the Church is subordinate to the State. In Calvin's view, the State should subordinate itself to the Church. American 'experience, commencing with Roger Williams, has urged the doctrine of separation of Church and State. But when separated, what is their relationship? The Latter-day Saint attitude and experience suggests the answer: their relationship is co-ordinate. Both are responsible, or should be, to God; and both are responsible to the people in building a great world society in which liberty and toleration can prevail. By this means God's kingdom can be built and, although Latter-day Saint doctrine suggests that eventually everyone will acknowledge Christ, yet everyone will have his liberty—even, said Brigham Young, "to worshipping a red dog." In case of conflict between Church and State as they pursue their twin, co-ordinate missions, the g8th section of the Doctrine and Covenants indicates (as does the Declaration) that conflicts should be reconciled by reference to that law "which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges..." This implication of co-ordinate roles and responsibilities for Church and State may be also stated as a broad social, as well as political, theory, deriving from the fundamental "facts" of (a) God's existence and (b) man's existence. Thus, all social institutions bear the same responsibility, in Latter-day Saint doctrine, as Church and State—to make a better world and assist in bringing to pass "the eternal life of man." The Declaration, of course, sug- 783 gests answers to the two fundamental questions of political theory (1) the nature of the State, and (2) the nature of man. The State is limited by the rights of men: We do not believe that human law has a right to interfere in prescribing rules of worship to bind the consciences of men, nor dictate forms for public and private devotion...(D. & C. 98:4). In return for the liberty granted men, and which the good State must respect, men on their part, it is explained:. Are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments;... And that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience (D. & C. 98:5). This is one of the great documents of human, political experience. Full analysis of the entire Declaration will be made, step by step, point by point, in a series of lessons to follow the present survey. It is a great and significant landmark in the literature of Latter-day Saint political thought and should be read again and again. Its concluding verse (12) has significance for the "mission of America," shared by Church and State, and for world affairs: We believe it just to preach the gospel to the nations of the earth, and warn the tighteous to save themselves from the corruption of the world... As starved, cold Europeans in destroyed cities survey their task; as civil strife rages in humanity-filled 784 Asia; as all people survey the chasm between Communist totalitarianism and the chance afforded men to earn temporal salvation by means of God-granted liberty, we may fortify our minds with the political doctrines "adopted by unanimous vote at a general assembly of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, held at Kirtland, Ohio, August 17, 1835" (D. & C., 1921 edition, page 250). Questions for Discussion 1. In the early days of the Church it was often claimed that Latter-day Saints believed that civil government was unimportant. Church history on every page disproves this misunderstanding. In this 2. 3: 5. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE--NOVEMBER 1948 connection, what is the especial significance of the Declaration: of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in general? The Twelfth Article of Faith? Joseph Smith's teachings concerning the United States Constitution? What experiences can the class suggest as to whether or not Latter-day Saints make good citizens? What are the two general theories of Church-State relations that have had wide acceptance in the western world? If Church and State are in conflict, is a Latter-day Saint required to choose which he should support, or does moderm revelation suggest a happier solution? What is that solution?. How does Latter-day Saint political theory point an important method whereby any such conflicts may be avoided? Read verses 1 and 12 of the Declaration, separately, to the class. Discuss each in the light of the foregoing lessons. DESERT DUSK Grace Zenor Pratt A desert glorified by shades of blue and violet, Of lavender and mauve, meeting the evening sky All rose and saffron... It would almost seem As if the world were waiting in a dream For something still more beautiful to come. My heart is full; poignant, amazed, I stand— At this strange miracle of desert land. A wind sweeps the wild sage, the palms on yonder hill Whisper together.... Blue hills fade to mauve, Skies pale and shadows deepen; glory fades away Leaving the desert neutral, silent—gray— Sunset to dusk, and purple dusk to night— The desert sleeps, the gorgeous pageant o'er; Why should I long to weep—for one brief desert dusk That I shall see no more.... HILLTOP COMMUNION Ruth Harwood This hour of dusk I seek the hilltop places, And stand within a high communion tower Of the soul. I pray to be infilled with God's eternal radiance. And be made shining new again And whole! LESSON DEPARTMENT 785 Optional lessons in Lieu of Social Oorenge— The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outsidé Continental United States and its possessions) Lesson 4—The Presidency of Brigham Young (Continued) For Tuesday, February 22, 1949 Elde: T. Edgar Lyon Tue Preswency A Untr—Tue Turee ARE ONE Geo. A. Smith Willard Richards George A. Smith At the October conference of 1868 George A. Smith was sustained as first counselor to President Brigham Young, succeeding Heber C. Kimball. This selection brought to the First Presidency a man of unusual ability who had already proved his worth to the Church, and whose remaining seven years were to be given to supervisory functions in the Church. George A. Smith was born in Potsdam, New York, on June 26, 1817. He was a son of John Smith and a first cousin of Joseph the Prophet. All of his family were Congregationalists but young George could not see that this form of Christianity agreed with the scriptures, so he remained aloof from all formally organized religious bodies. About 1830 he heard of the Book of Mormon through his uncle, Joseph Smith, Sr., who visited his home. He was convinced that it was of divine origin and two years Jedediah M. Grant Daniel Hanmer Wells John W. Young later, in September 1832, was baptized. Moving to Ohio, he was soon sent out as a missionary and until the exodus to the West, spent much of his time engaged in missionary work, traveling extensively in the eastern part of the United States. He faithfully kept a diary and in it is recorded the vast amount of preaching he did. Before 1870 he had delivered 3800 gospel discourses. After the migration into the Great Basin, Elder Smith became an outstanding pioneer leader. He was a robust man of unbounded energy and soon engaged in many activities that were necessary for the establishment of the new Zion. He led the colony that established Parowan in 1851 to establish the iron industry, and assisted in the general settlement of the southern part of the Territory. He has appropriately been called the "Father of the Southern Settlements." So affectionately was he re- 786 New Books For Your Library 0 LATTER-DAY PROPHETS SPEAK—Ludlow $4.00 CO CUMORAH'S GOLD BIBLE— McGavin $2.25 O THESE AMAZING MORMONS— Weston _ $1.00 (0 STORYTELLER''S SCRAPBOOK—Zobell..$1.00 O L. D. S. SCRIPTURES—Orme...............-$4.50 [] GOSPEL INTERPRETATIONS—Widtsoe..$2.25 (] THE TRUE SABBATH—SATURDAY OR SUNDAY Write us for a complete listing of L. D. S. Books. Also special library building offer. BOOKCRATT 1186 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah When ordering, add 2% Sales Tax in Utah lam «6 Write for listing of books SUPERS A very badly abused word applied to food stores—but O. P. S. Stores ARE SUPER— not because of size or arrangement—but super because of our variety—our saving prices — our sanitation— our desire to serve you better at lowest possible costs. Come in soon and see what we mean. 0. P SKAGGS oo EW fficient Service FOOD System STORES RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 garded in that area that the city of St. George was named in his honor. Politically, he served as a territorial delegate to Congress at Washington, D. C., and assisted in forming the Provisional State of Deseret. He was a member of the territorial legislature in every session between 1850 and 1870, with the exception of one year spent in Congress. He was an "empire builder." In the arid West, life could not exist without extensive irrigation systems. Elder Smith was very active in the planning, organizing, and constructing of these irrigation projects. He also was constantly engaged in the promotion of industrial enterprises, primarily those concerned with the utilization of the Territory's natural resources, whereby the saints could become economically self-sufficient. As a member of the First Presidency, George A. Smith was one of the most important men in the great colonization enterprises that Brigham Young planned. By frequent visits to the settlements, by advice about irrigation matters and encouragement and spiritual counseling, he gave help to many people who were struggling and often disheartened in their efforts to make the "desert blossom as the rose." He was a forceful speaker, and God gave him foresight whereby he could lift the eyes of the struggling saints to see the vision of the kingdom of God that would result from their toil and sacrificing. His death occurred in Salt Lake City on September 1, 1875. The present President of the Church, President George Albert Smith, is a grandson of this capable and inspiring leader. LESSON DEPARTMENT John W. Young When George A. Smith departed this life, the vacancy in the Presidency was filled by John W. Yuung, a son of Brigham Young. This young man was born at Nauvoo in 1844 and was ordained an apostle by his father in 1864, but never became a member of the Council of the Twelve. He was interested in industrial pursuits, particularly in the construction and maintenance of railroads which in this era were beginning to enter the West. In 1866 the plans for a railroad to the Pacific, with its possible arterial branches serving the intermountain territory, made it apparent that a new era was about to dawn upon the Church that would end the saints' economic, religious, and social isolation. The Church leaders planned branch roads to serve the various settlements, and were in need of competent advice. Brigham Young chose his son John as a special counselor to him in this capacity in the late sixties, and in 1875 set him apart as his first counselor. He functioned in this capacity until his father's death in August 1877, after which for several years he was sustained as a counselor to the Twelve Apostles. He later moved to New York City where he engaged in railroad management. Willard Richards As Brigham -Young was assisted by three first counselors during his administration, he similarly had the assistance of three second counselors. The first of these was Willard Richards, who was bom in Massachusetts on June 24, 1804. His family were Congregationalists but Willard never formally joined 787 ESPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES 301 Bethlehem—Bower-Stickles 3063 A Christmas Folksong—Reese-Rishel.15 731 Each Christmas Night—Swift............ 5 9670 Gentle Mary—McFeeters...................- 16 534 Jingle Bells—Samuelson.........0.......-.- AS 849 Let Our Gladness Know No End—. Ryg lS 2537 O Holy Night—Adam-Strickling...... 16 688 Silent Night and Adeste Fideles— Swift AS 2-H3016 Shepherds in the Hush of Night— O'Hara-Stickles (lS 2546 Sleep of the Infant Jesus—Christy...15 CHRISTMAS CANTATAS The Heavenly Child—Hamblen................... -60 The Music of Bethlehem—Shannon-Holton ~.75 Prepare Him Room—Hadler..................-.-+-0-+-+ -75 Prices include postage. Mail orders sent same day received G FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH i We 6 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH = any church became 4 Success. Fu Practicing Physician and in the summer of 1835 saw a Copy of the SEA RS Book of Mormon Which Brigham Brigham Young chose him as Is second Counselor jin December, FOR YOUR | RELIEF SOCIETy ROOM a5 assumed much of the clerica] and A SPINET PIANO manci ini A WURLITZER oRcAN |W CHORAL Music $ tration, Jt Was a great change from, the calling of 4 New England Physi-, Which he established ¢ 850, MUSIC CO. Rs; His prone death in "G3, 788 ' ROEBUCK AND Co. 17 W. Ist South gp RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE_NOVEMBep 1948 Oung had left With his Cousin near Boston, Willard read a Portion of 4 brought to 4 close a career that had, LESSON DEPARTMENT under the inspiration of God, given Brigham Young valuable help in organizing and administering the great migration of the saints to the West, and their organization into permanent groups to build the kingdom of Jedediah M. Grant The man whom Brigham Young selected to succeed Willard Richards was Jedediah M. Grant, a man very unlike his predecessor in office. Fi. Der Grant was born in Windsor, New York, February 21, 1816, and had joined the Church in 1833. During his early years in the Church he spent most of his time in missionary work and gained a reputation as a great gospel preacher and an unusually able scriptorian. He it was who opened the Southern States Mission of the Church. In October 1847, he arrived in Salt Lake Valley. When the city was incorporated he was elected its first mayor, which position he continued to hold until his death. He was also a member of the territorial legislature. At the April conference in 1854, he was ordained an apostle and sustained as the second counselor to Brigham Young. For the next two and a half years his energies were spent in promoting what is commonly called "The Ref. Ormation." The saints had become sO engrossed in their struggle to wrest their sustenance from the parched earth that some had seemed to forget that it was their religion that had been the cause of their going into the West. President Grant literally wore himself out physically, through his strenuous efforts to get the people to see the vital values in life. As a result of his efforts, 789 =e LULL SEE US FOR ALL YOUR PRINTED AND ENGRAVED SOCIAL JTATIONERY Invitations, Notes, Announcements, Personal Stationery * Complete Office Supplies * Headquarters for CHRISTMAS GIFTS CHRISTMAS GREETINGS Pembroke's 24 East Broadway Tel. 4-8424 A name through three generations which has carried implicit confidence from the time of appointment by President Brigham Young as the first mortician in the Intermountain West. The cost is a matter of your own desire. Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 No. Main Salt Lake City 790 A SMALL DEPOSIT WILL HOLD ANY PIANO in either of our stores for Christmas delivery Easy Convenient Terms GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. Ogden Salt Lake City Christmas oo: and GOOD BOOKS How Well They Fit Together! For any BOOK OF THE CHURCH Write EZRA L. MARLER L. D. S. BOOKS BY MAIL Salt Lake City, Utah STANDARD PRICES PERSONAL SERVICE SAME-DAY MAILING Box 267 Write for Free 1948 Price List RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948. There was a universal revival of spiritual life and energy, such as the saints had never before witnessed in the Church." 'This calling of the people to repentance had a lasting effect upon the Church membership and resulted in a renewed interest in missionary work to the nations of the world. His early death—forty years of age—probably resulted from overwork in this cause. Coupled with his vigor and uncompromising battle against slothfulness and "backsliding" as he termed it, Jedediah M. Grant had a compassion for all who suffered. He died at Salt Lake City on December 1, 1856, nine days after the birth of his son, Heber J. Grant, who became the seventh President of the Church. Daniel Hanmer Wells The third of Brigham Young's second counselors, was Daniel Hanmer Wells, who was born in Trenton, New York, October 27, 1814. In 1833 he had moved to Commerce (later Nauvoo), where he was a large landholder and prominent in civic affairs. He dealt kindly with the saints who had been driven from Missouri, and although not a member of the Church, was treated as one of their number and was elected to the office of town councilman and appointed a brigadier-general in the Nauvoo Legion. When the saints were forced to leave Nauvoo he decided to cast his lot with them, although had he remained he undoubtedly would have become wealthy from the spoils of their labors. His baptism took place in Nauvoo in 1846. He arrived in Utah in 1848. There he became active in the territorial militia, taking LESSON DEPARTMENT part in the campaigns against the Indians with marked success, and carrying to a successful conclusion the "bloodless war" with Johnston's Army in 1857 and 1858. On being ordained an apostle and set apart as second counselor to Brigham Young, January 4, 1857, he took over the supervision of public works, an essential portion of the economy of the Church, which provided employment for the immigrants during the adjustment period between their arrival in the Valley and the beginning of their agricultural or manufacturing pursuits. He likewise visited the many settlements of the saints and in 1876 visited the newly founded colonies of saints in Arizona, giving them counsel and inspirational advice. The death of Brigham Young released him from his office, but he was sustained as a counselor to the Twelve Apostles. In this capacity he served as president of the European Missions and ended his days as president of the Manti temple. He died March 24, 1891. Topics for Discussion 1. What evidence can you present to show that God inspired Brigham Young to choose his counselors because the Church had need for the talents they possessed? 2. What evidence can you find that these men grew, under the power of their calling, to meet the needs of the Church and its members? 3. What do you suppose caused Willard Richards to make the remark he did about the Book of Mormon when he first commenced to read it? 4. How do you account for the fact that so many of the early Church leaders were converted to the restored gospel by the Book of Mormon, even before they had seen Joseph Smith? 5. Read the two accounts of Jedediah M. Grant's preaching in the Southern States, as given on pages 59 and 60 of 791 Jenson's L, D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia. References West, Franxuin L., Franklin Dewey Richards. Instructor, 1946, 1947, 1948. A series of articles on the diaries of George A. Smith. Hincx ey, B. S., Daniel Hanmer Wells. Jenson, AnprEw, L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia. Improvement Era, Vol. 10, page 561; Vol. 17, page 1165; Vol. 18 pp. 285-287. "WIST YE NOT THAT I MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS?" by PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. An invaluable reference book on temple ceremonies and sacrifices in the time of Christ. With illustrations. $1.50 Postpaid All rights and royalties assigned to Relief Society. On sale only by Relief Society Genaad Board, 28 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, ah. Professional ae Staal Sialeaneny @ COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Car and Sar sons and President of the Houst, " Branch all non members, and _ €ach One praised elief Society, She gan wr ng while € Magaz; c very highly, Saying the attending Brigha Young Univer. Ity. Her Passed jt On to friends and relatives Whe and beauty of language and cep j means of a Te, Sight into ch Tacter an Personality, Man n McDonald, OF our read will re i €r delightfy] Visitors" by Fay Tarlock and her 1948) IS a fascinating st Cen active lead 'ards and branc: tiny s]j ave welcome Many mis. © Slonaries and converts to the Ch 0. P Out of ell timate] atfie] » Mass. D would not 18 without jt, Y. Porter, Myton, Utah. Oer, MY mission. Want it for m mM am Mend it to SO much en y the fine Story €ptember js ue of The Relief So Frank ety. Mag, zine, "Learn of Love ea fan ce Lloyd Louisville, Kentucky, Page 792 Sadie Ollerton Clark, author of "Then— and OW," is the Wife of Leigh WwW. Clark, Ouston, Texas. She is the iterary work jg distinguisheg by 'clari 'ou May be Interested to know that ] Visited S€veral of the families that J have Other of three been Sending the Magazine to, They are they had finished reading it, It w; Hor Christmas... Give Flim a Lif -Long Gift of History / DOCUMENTARY HISTORY OF THE CHURCH $1.75 Vol. 2, 1949 Priesthood text STUDY GUIDE 35c COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH eee ae. Ae $25.00 By B. H. ROBERTS Six masterful volumes—the full story of the restoration with details and commentary available nowhere else. PROTESTORS OF CHRISTENDOM.................. $2.00 By JAMES L. BARKER Historical reasons for the restoration of the Gospel. JOSEPH SMITH, AN AMERICAN PROPHET.... $3.00 By JOHN HENRY EVANS Perennially popular with Mormons and especially with nonMormons. PRESIDENTS OF THE CHURCH...........000....... $3.00 By PRESTON NIBLEY Concise, graphic, inspirational biographies of eight presidents. DESERET BOOK COMPANY Official publishers for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City 10, Utah DEC > * a } Sor Chuislnas Giving the Book the World Loves Best THE Mational piste press Publishers of Quality Bibles Since 1863 - At Your Bookstore SUCDSDECTOGOOUDESDORNTEUORGUCGEAODSDOTDESDN ONE Ty MAG O2 TH m VOL. 35 NO. 12 DECEMBER 1946 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer. Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - = = = = = - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - > - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - -. - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 35 DECEMBER, 1948 No. 12 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Living to Enjoy the Blessings of the Lord President George Albert Smith 796 Relief Society Building News. 801 The Annual General Relief Society Conference o......--cssssscncceccecoeeeoeenesesnesecenceeeneeevoneneseeentegenstasnaennsenses Oe cea ee er receGeneral Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 802 Happy Grandmothers'' Enjoy Entertaining Hobby 808 Effective Choral Organization..... Florence Jepperson Madsen 840 a FICTION Lean Your Ear This Wary'? Oo..... Cccsccccsecceeeeeceeeeeeeees Tris W. Schow 804 Then Came Christmas -.... CcccsscccoccsscseccceeccesseccssecssusssesnessnsescssnsesnneseconsescnnsesenneeconseeeedGrace A. Woodbury 809 Questing Lights—Chapter 9 (Conclusion) Belle Watson Anderson 822 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 812 Woman's Sphere.......... We. Aeseransgaciassaea teeniesRamona _W. Cannon 813 Editorial: 'The Heavens Declare the Glory')....-... Ccc: ccsscssesssesssseseeesneeeseeeeesVesta P. Crawford 814 riscilla L. Evans and Florence G. Smith Released from the Genera! Board....... 815 In Memoriam—Alice Merrill Horne 816 New Serial to Begin im Jomucary nce. Ccc ecccceccseensesssuesnveseneeesneesneenssstnvesensenensonee 817 Notes From the Field oo. Ecccccccssscsseessessessess. General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 828 From Near card Far oocccceccccscesccscecesscesseececsecssesneseeoeesesanssessessesnes 864 a. LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: "A Period of Darkening Opposition!' -... CccccccccssesccsssscssseccssvescsseesenneesElder Don B. Colton 841 Visiting Teachers Messages: 'Ye Cannot Serve God and Mammon" sansowscassosensteevoveswesncin-=o = nner.. Elder H. Wayne Driggs 846 eens bass. Cata. Jean Ridges Jennings 847 pile: E the Restoration....... CcccesscessseeeeeeeeenneesElder Howard Driggs 848 ocial Science: Main Currents in Latter-day Saint Political Thought as Revealed in Discourse Gnd Literature nee ceecccsoneeceeeeseeeeeececescsovecesesegeceeceesecessiusteseeeeeserssssensnetesseElder G. Homer Durham 852 Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science: The Presidency of John Taylor...0...0.2--cscsceees a renee mene enor emeeeettteeteeeennElder T. Edgar Lyon 856 meee eenticiceeegsee---- eAlice Willardson 818.. Elizabeth Williamson 826 Grace Rushton Squire 827 ' POETRY The Christmas Dream—Frontispiece 20... CocseccssssescesssessssessosssssssssssssssssessssseeeChristie Lund Goles 795 Ring Out, Ye) Bente 2 ccc seet uth May Fox 80] Cm Breen nnnAlice R. Rich 817 satel ne star... Ee a... Dorothy J. Roberts 839 Berd Clo A.. C. Cameron Johns 840 We Pray ee 'Alice Morrey Bailey 845 Miracle of Giving 2000 Horwood 685 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Suba A 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 3 ae; foreign, $2.00 a year; — e in advance. Single copy, 15e. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No ack numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change — address at once, giving both old and new address. Hore as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in a 1103. Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. ZCMI's OWN Ours and yours exclusively! Created and _ designed by famous Madame Alexander especially for you! Qs A Beautiful Doll Masterpiece A charming replica of ZCMI's Story Princess. She has dark, radiant hair, sparkling blue eyes fringed with long, silky lashes. Made of smooth, durable plastic, she is dressed just like the Story Princess in a darling long white gown, satin waist, rayon slip and panties, white shoes and stockings. And in her hand is a little gold wand; on her head a crown of flowers. Fourteen inches tall, she comes in a handsome gold gift box. EXCEUSIVE AT... FOY DEPT.... Third Floor MADONNA GRANDUCA A Perry Picture From a Painting by Raphael (1483-1520) THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 35, NO. 12 DECEMBER 1948 THE CHRISTMAS DREAM Christie Lund Coles Again the windowpane wears hieroglyphs of frost, And the fireplace glows with a crimson tongue; The velvet whiteness of the snow is glossed With flecks of ice like crystal mirrors strung Upon the counterpane of earth; once more The air reverberates with each glad voice, While wreaths of holly decorate the door Opening to all who worship and rejoice. The Christmas dream of peace on earth, good will, Seems near attainment on this holy night, For evéry heart becomes a citadel Reaching in faith toward the star's pure light. And love is whispering... Believe... Believe... Around the whole wide world this Christmas Eve. The Cover: 'Winter Hills," Photograph by Dr. Walter P. Cottam. Living to Enjoy the Blessings of the Lord President George Albert Smith (Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 30, 1948). Could witness this picture as I see it. In no other place can it be seen but here, not only to see but to feel the influence of the Lord that pervades this building. I am looking into the faces of women from many parts of this country, and some from other lands, every one is a daughter of our Father in heaven. Is it not worth something to know that? Is there anything else that you can think of that would give you more satisfaction than to know that you are a child of our Father in heaven, and that he has given you the opportunity to live on the earth at this period of time when the gospel has been restored? 'That was only 118 years ago. That does not mean very much in the long period of time in the world's history, but think what has been accomplished in that time. How marvelous are the changes. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was born, he came into a humble home, a humble father and mother, but they were real Christians. His mother loved the truth and she loved her children. So Joseph, when he was just a boy, had the guidance of one of our Father's choicest daughters. I wonder sometimes as I travel throughout the country and see the hundreds of thousands of people Page 796 I wish everybody in the world scattered everywhere, how many of them there are that realize that they are the children of the Lord. He is the Father of our spirits. And how wonderful it is to live in this day and age of the world among a group of people who know that fact. We are in this great building that was erected during the poverty of the people. They did not have steel to use as we have today. They did not have the electric lights. There are many things that we enjoy today that they did not have, but they built the greatest Tabernacle, the greatest house of worship in many respects, that has been built since the world began, and we are permitted to worship here. 'Think of it, sisters. We have no way of measuring the blessings of the Lord unless we live so that we can enjoy them. We have been told here today that there are certain requirements that we must observe if we are to enjoy all that we should enjoy. And by the way, I believe I would like to tum here to one of the early books of the Bible and read to you what the Lord said, not in the beginning of time, but in the beginning of the peopling of this earth, when there were comparatively few on the earth. People did not know a lot of things that they know now. They did not understand the purpose of many things, but the Lord in his LIVING TO ENJOY THE BLESSINGS OF THE LORD mercy began in the very beginning to give the people advice, his advice. He was not guessing about it because he knew. Sometimes we give advice and I fear we just guess about it, but I am thinking now of the condition of the world after nearly six thousand years that the people have lived upon it, and the sorrow and distress and anxiety that exist. There never has been a time in the world when people knew as much as they know now. There has never been a time when there were as many comforts enjoyed by the people. It is marvelous what has been coming into the world all this time, and yet I think I am safe in saying that the majonty of all the Lord's children who have lived upon the earth have fallen short of being what he wanted them to be. But there was no justification for not following his advice and benefiting thereby because they had his commandments from the beginning. The Ten Commandments Let us consider for a moment some of the Ten Commandments. "Thou shalt have no other gods before me." Why should we? The Lord did not say we may not, but he said we shall not choose who is God, and there is no other god that can take his place. He is our Father. He has been the Father of all the people that have lived upon the earth, the Father of their spirits. All of us have that wonderful blessing that we trace ourselves back to our Heavenly Father. And then he says: "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, ic 797 or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth: Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them." In other words, anything that we may propose, other than our Heavenly Father; we may call it what we will, but it does not become God and we may worship it, but we will not be benefited by doing so, and he says: "I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me." Not only does the sorrow come to the individual in the first generation of those who hate him, but he says that it passes on to the third and fourth generation. How foolish we are, then, not to pay attention to him who is the Father of us all and who loves us and is anxious that every one of us should enjoy the kingdom of heaven, and how foolish we are if we listen to the suggestions and _intimations and counsel of those who are not of God and who do not know what he knows. Now he says further: "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain." Think of the profanity that is in the world today, the carelessness with which the name of our Heavenly Father is used, and yet the Lord warned our fathers several thousand years ago that we were not to take his name in vain. He says further: "(Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy." Why should we keep the Sab- bath day holy? There are blessings that attach to us if we observe the law that governs that blessing. He has told us that. Wherefore the Lord blessed the Sab. Bath day, and hallowed it." wonderfy] would be if one day in Heavenly Father ut their minds to things of tighteousness on the other days, and be a different world in which to live, > "Honour thy faete is a wonderful thing it is to fee] that we enjoy ey have, Now the Lord says: "Thou shalt not commit adultery," I wonder if We realize what a tertible thing it j vice of our H to them pleasure and yet it brings to th 798 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE DECEMBER 194g Now: "Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour." of the loving counsels of the Father of us all. That, and if we d anything, we always lose. Now he says: "Thou shalt not Covnor ant, nor his Ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that js thy neighbour's." In other words, we Should not be selfish and tty to obtain and take from others that which belongs to them. I have just been Teading to you some of the Paragraphs of advice of your Father and mine. I have just been calling your attention to the fact that this I have tread to you today has been in print for thousands of years. People all over the world do not have the Bible as we have it, but they have access to it in most Parts of the world, and among all the wonderful things that are contained in this Marvelous record that I hold in my hand, Just read about ten Paragraphs, or may be started, and if we have another, h more serious it will be thing else we have ever had. Ell now, in the days of the Saylor, at least in the days of John the Revelator, he heard' a voice and that voice said: "Come Out of her, my People, that ye be Not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues,"; That was the voice from heaven that came to him. Do-you know that is why you are here today. Do you know that is why your forebears left the wor]: en we came ere they were so barren and for. Bidding and desolate those who were in the first company 0 the other and you will find no other part of the world that is as 800 blessed as has been the part that has been inhabited by the membership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, not because they were all perfect, but there were enough of them who have kept the commandments of God, that we have been enabled to go on and on and on, and so today you meet in the most remarkable house of worship in the world; you listen to one of the greatest and most wonderful organs; you have listened today to a marvelous choir of sisters. And I might go on and on. And then you go outside of the building and you stand upon one of the most delightful spots that you can find anywhere. 'These buildings upon this block have not been erected selfishly. They have been built that we might learn the very 'Ten Commandments that I have been reading to you along with the other advice that our Heavenly Father has given to his children. I did not know I was going to read the Ten Commandments when I stood up here, but I think probably it is profitable, if we will just think about them, and when we realize that if the people of the world had been keeping the Ten Commandments as I have read them to you today—I only read just a part— we would not be in the condition we are today, and we would be much farther advanced in all the sciences and the blessings that our Heavenly Father has in store for his children that have not yet come to us. Blessings of Relief Society Brethren and sisters, I congratulate all of you and I particularly congratulate the sisters that belong RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 to the great Relief Society organization of the Church. There is not any other organization like it, when I realize what you have been doing in the last year or two, gathering means that you might have a building of your own, that you might worship in if you desire to worship there, that you might transact your business in, a building that you can invite your sisters from all parts of the world to come to and share with you the blessings of our Heavenly Father that have been so richly bestowed upon you. There are no women in the world blessed as you have been blessed. There are occasionally women who have been marvelously blessed, but when it comes to a community, I know of no other place where women have been blessed as you have been in the communities in which you live. And so I am happy to be here with you today, congratulate you that you are looking forward now to having a building of your own. I think that when that time comes, if it is possible to be happier than you are today, I think you will be. And it is not very far away. You have gone out and in a short time have made contributions to an amount that insures a_ building. Now, you were satisfied with the small building over here that cost a few thousand dollars, eight thousand dollars was the amount the Relief Society put into that building, as I remember it now. How would you like to take that building now and surrender five hundred and fifty-five thousand dollars? You would not think you had made a very good trade, and yet you have (Continued on page 833) 8, and branches have not Previously been Published jp The Relief Society Magazine as having Completed their Building Fund quotas: Goshen 5 Santaquin Tintic Fall River Branch, New England One Star Branch, Blaine Hyde Park Bran h," New England offatt Ward, Roosevelt KellogeWallace Bra h, Oroni Wes ard, Moroni Stake orthwestern States an Bemarding Second Ward, ahti Branch, Finnish Mission an Bernardino ynn Branch, €w England antaquin First Ward, Santaquin-Tintic cNeil] Branch, Southem States antaquin Second Ward €w Haven Branch, New England antaquin-Tintic awlins B nch, Western States ublett Ward, Raft River aint John h, New England Oost Ward iver Ptingfield Bran h, New ngland urlington Branch New England ampere Branch, Finnish Mission run Branch, Southern States ashougal Branch Northwestern States ee RING OUT, YE BELLS Ruth May Foy Ring out, ye bells of Christmas ¢j €, ing Out, ye olden Joyous thyme, Which dig not flow from Poet' Ye Christmas bells, ting Out again; 841n, again, and yet again, Ye Christmas bells, Ting out again ntil you stir the hearts of en And take us back to th Moonlit plain To honor the Babe of Bethlehem; Where heavenly beings talked with men Until the reign of gold shall cease About the Babe of Bethlehem; And men Shall walk in Paths of peace. Ere shepherds watched their flocks by The Annual General Relief Society Conference September 29 and 30, 1948. Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer HE annual general Relief Society conference for 1948 was held Wednesday and Thursday, September 29 and 30, at Salt Lake City, Utah, with President Belle S. Spafford presiding. A historic feature of the 1948 conference was the announcement at the Thursday morning session in the Tabernacle of the successful completion of fund-raising for a Relief Society building. The conference opened Wednesday morning with an officers meeting in the Assembly Hall which was almost filled to capacity with stake and mission officers. Elder G. Homer Durham, speaking. In place of Elder Mark E. Petersen, who was unable to attend, gave an address on "Home, the Cradle of Liberty." The annual report and official instructions were presented by President Belle S. Spafford. Margaret F. Richards, President of the Stadium Village Relief Society, Emigration Stake, spoke on "A Young Mother Discovers Relief Society," and Secretary Pickering discussed "Stake Board Functions." Roll call showed 171 stakes and 19 missions reporting, Oahu being the only stake unrepresented. All mission Relief Society presidents from the United States, Canada, and Mexico, who had been specially invited by the First Presidency to attend the conference, were present. Wednesday Page 802 afternoon, departmental meetings, all well attended, were held from 1:00 to 2:00 P. M. For the welfare, Magazine, and _secretary-treasurers departments, and from 2:15 to 3:15 p. M. For the educational, work, and music departments. In the evening the annual reception for visiting stake and mission officers was held in the Lafayette Ballroom at the Hotel Utah. Preceding the reception a formal presentation was held at which gifts for the new building were presented to the general board. An oil landscape painted by Samuel Jepperson, a pioneer artist, was presented by Utah Stake Relief Society; a woven tag throw rug by the Marsh Center Ward, Portneuf Stake; a handcrocheted set of tidies made and presented as a personal gift by Lavaughn Fowler, president of the Inkom Ward Relief Society, Pocatello Stake. The gifts were displayed during the reception. The general session in the Tabernacle Thursday morning was devoted to recognition of the Building Fund achievement and was conducted by Counselor Marianne C., Sharp, chairman of the Building Fund committee. A recorded dramatization, "The Symbol of a Dream," written by Verda Mae Fuller, under direction of Mary G. Judd, gave the historical highlights of. The THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE long-cherished desire of Relief Society women for a building. A portion of the dramatization consisted of reproductions of the voices of early leaders and Bishop Marvin O. Ashton, and the actual voices of President George Albert Smith, President Spafford, and Counselor Sharp. This was recorded before the meeting and broadcast into the Tabernacle during the meeting. A large replica of the building was placed across the center section of the organ. Windows in the replica were made to light up, one by one, as each group of stakes was given recognition, and the door was illuminated when the missions were recognized. This part of the program was entitled "From the Shadow of a Dream to the Sunlight of Promise,' and was written by Vesta P. Crawford under the direction of Priscilla L. Evans and read by Sister Evans. President Belle S. Spafford, addressing the meeting on "Joy In Full Measure," expressed gratitude to the women of the Church that, through their untiring efforts and devotion, the goal had been reached in one year. In an address entitled "And What of the Promise?" Counselor Marianne C. Sharp summarized the Building Fund project and reported the receipt of $554,016 to date. Bishop LeGrand Richards commended the organization for its support of Church activities in gen- 803 eral and congratulated it on achieying the Building Fund quota. The general session Thursday afternoon was conducted by President Spafford and featured an address by President George Albert Smith, in which he called attention to the unique place in the world held by - Relief Society and complimented the women on their devotion to the cause they serve. Counselor Velma N. Simonsen spoke on "Our Responsibility to Inactive Members," and Blanche B. Stoddard on "A Measuring Rod for Growth." The conference was concluded with an address by President Spafford. - Music for the sessions on Thursday was furnished by a combined chorus of 450 Singing Mothers from the stakes of the Salt Lake region, directed by Florence J. Madsen, with Elder Frank W. Asper at the organ. A special feature of the music program Thursday morning was the rendition by the chorus of "Build, Thou, for Life's Immortal Goal," composed specially for the occasion by Sister Madsen. This Singing Mothers chorus, which sang at both Thursday sessions, also sang the following day at the first two sessions of the semi-annual general conference of the Church. At the Wednesday morning officers meeting, Dorothy Kimball Keddington sang "The Flag Without a Stain," and Beverly B. Glauser played appropriate prelude and postlude numbers-on the organ. —— The conference addresses "Joy in Full Measure," by President Belle S. Spafford and "And What of the Promise?" by Counselor Marianne C. Sharp were published in the November issue of the Magazine and President Smith's address "Living to Enjoy the Blessings of the Lord" is featured in this issue. "Lean YourEar This Way" Iris W. DELE Marlowe was not conscious of it, as she hurried purposefully from the elevator to the street, but the mechanically distorted Christmas carol, the fat, gleaming bows hanging from the holly wreaths, and the jostlings of the shoppers were all in harmony with her mood of overwhelming exultation and _ well-being. The air was less crisp than it had been when she went in, and a few large snowflakes were descending reluctantly. A newly changed record blared out discordantly from the loudspeaker above the First Bank. It was softened abruptly, so that the chimes fell on the ear gently and 'separately, Adele thought, as if an angel picked out the tune with one finger, note by note, on little silver bells. "Adeste Fideles—" this was as far as she could get without the aid of English—"joyful and triumphant." "Joyful and triumphant," that was it precisely. For, now that Dr. Copeland had assured her that she was justified in harboring her wonderful hope, she would hurry to tell Roy about it. She would go right into Freem's and interrupt him at his work, even if it wasn't a critical emergency. After all, she never had gone into the store to see Roy, although he had worked there for almost two months. Roy didn't believe in mixing domesticity with business. That wasn't the way to get ahead. Well, neither did she, but this was different. She was so keyed up that she couldn't go home Page 804 Schow and wait until he came out on the seven-thirty bus. That would take too long. Merely walking to Freem's was taking almost too long. The glow in Adele's eyes, coupled with the suggestion of a smile that lifted the corners of her generous mouth, compelled answering smiles from the women she passed. A soprano's recorded singing filled the streets now, and the words seeped into Adele's consciousness: The hopes and fears of all the years Are met in thee to-night.... OW they had hoped for a really good position for Roy, during these early years of their marriage! It had come at last—assistant manager at Freem's, exactly the opening he had wanted ever since he had finished college, the very position where his excellent training in business would assure his advancement, and the murmur in his heart would hinder him as little as possible. And now their other hope, dearer still.... A school group had begun singing over the speaking system: Ho! Ho! Hol! Who wouldn't go? Who wouldn't go, indeed? The gleam in Adele's eyes softened. In six years from now—no, seven— what sort of little lad or girl might be up there caroling with the others? This day really was too wonderful! Adele pulled open the door and entered Freem's Department Store. She would' ask the first clerk she saw where to find Mr. Marlowe. "LEAN Your EAR THIS WAY" HE almost sptinted up the stairs, told the girl who 4ppeared at the window. 805 "T'm Sorry," said the gill, in the tone and Manner of a telephone eDetator giving one the time of day, no longer with ton unty, Topping in to Say, "Hello," How long ave told her. Tight now? 806 ALTHOUGH she had not exactly decided to go there, Adele was hurrying toward the employment agency. It was not the loss of Roy's position that was so upsetting. It was not knowing what Roy was going through, how he was spending his days, and how long or deeply he had been worrying. She had been too busy with her own hopes lately, or he never could have kept up a bluff before her. Not with that frank, trustworthy expression of his! Waiting for the traffic light to change, Adele brushed diligently at the film of snow on the shoulders of her trim brown coat, unmindful that she still had nearly a block to go. Well, one thing was certain, she decided. It was not through any fault of his own that Roy had lost that job. He always got along well with others. Why, his air of willingness to please was the first striking characteristic that she had noticed about him. It was almost as obvious as his busy way of smoothing back his hair with one hand, in an attempt to appear at ease, whenever he felt self-conscious. 'The corners of Adele's mouth curved upward momentarily, as she moved forward with the stream of pedestrians. Activity was at a surprisingly low ebb at the employment agency. Adele had the almost instantaneous attention of a shrewdly efficient young woman, who asked crisply, "May I help you?" "T want—that is, I came to—I was just looking for someone, thank you." | Adele turned and left swiftly. Whatever had she gone blundering in there for? She certainly didn't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 intend to rush from place to place inquiring about her husband, as if she were hounding him down. That could only serve to make them both appear ridiculous. The best thing she could do was to go quietly home. She started for the bus stop at the corner. Should she let Roy know how she had learned that he was no longer at Freem's, or should she wait until he told her? Should she tell him about the baby now? Probably not. It would only add to his burdens—make everything harder for him, and he must be nearly wild with worry now. But wouldn't he be able to tell that she knew about the job, the minute he saw her face? Were they going to keep that nerve-jangling music grinding out all day? "Silent Night..." If only there could be a little silence, maybe she could think at least one of her problems through to a sensible conclusion. No wonder she had dashed into the employment agency without any idea of what to do when she got there. DELE could see her bus approaching when she remembered the satin comforters she had on lay-away at Stewart's for Mom and Mother Marlowe. Whatever had made her pay a deposit on anything so expensive? The minute she felt a little affluent, there she went! Well, she must get over to Stewart's right now and see if she could talk that elderly Mrs. Lee, the saleswoman who seemed to like her, into letting her apply the 'deposit on some other purchases. Lace vanity sets would make nice Christmas gifts for their mothers, and she would be needing a lot of small 807 little more Oney to the deposit, She had 0 force her Way back and make a Teal start on er layette Tha as, Could Cy were ONCE Indoors, A understanding bout th deposit, Ore the first Mirro It was dear and considerate of A check. °Y to spare her the app fainly mus¢ Pre€cede an ut actually it Wasn't fair | to let her Tun the risk it of snow, Straigh tening h come to Teally splurgtucking ing with a down n er hat, back 4 tendril of hair, and ent € placing g judicious h of Powder, Cautiful bination Tadio-phono and she Would k appealing Staph whic she knew that R enough That S, she would if She longed to Possess. What luck tha} could Suppress tha Wotried expres she had 4ppened to decide to s10n, think jt ver a litt] longer! Stewart' evi Well, 1 Sp Someat to say to Make Where 4 Phonograp with a rather that nice little Mrs. Understand good fone was aying "Santa Claus about th €posit. Sh musn't Jet ming to Town, erself T any more incoherent "Better not Pout," thought Adele ounderin To plan head wags Starting fo, the elevators She'd what brought Tesult Wait for ¢ If she had to. Even YS? If o "te Some way Of a cl; r Now, — $0 tired Carol after carol had beat Santa this time. Poo, little fellows, WO women 4pptoached, arm in OF it, but a 4mm, while the Was Probably the last Y_ Spoke into each heart-to-heart chat ¢ ©Y would ever other's faces "But Aunt Millie hold with ad S€Ives so Much good 3) ' ided from their large S ttle pickle fork Size. Sh Would dispose of her," € Paused to Watch, lips Parted with faint] smiling Interest r Ip boots for ding, of al] ¢y bumped Adele from their things! Ity they didn't have Path without slance or 4 break their Patents jn tow; still, Important In their Conversation, matters ha way of gett; They Idn't even need any nice ion, in 4 home little fork to dispose dele, Strugglin things for the baby she coulg take care f ut where was f knowin - +.. She was getting en upon her ears, Y adding g by-passeq the entrance to Stewart's Nistmas against the Current of Pedestrians y spending his one flight f stairs Seemed tog much Two small boys were talking with undoubtedly they had NO suspicion May na Mathews Many years Effie Making Peop] ar, he asked th he returned aptain Ter. Ly € happy, She is now armonica, Played the py: Dution to Utah's h 1947 conven. € musica] gtandnever Teturned, Seve | "SIX Years ho has old before She too gultar and harm t Then Came Christmas Grace A. Woodbury BBIE Walker stood in the doorway of her small adobe home and looked with a disgruntled expression at the sunny landscape before her. To the south, at the foot of a brownish-gray, lowlying hill, ran the Virgin River, gleaming like a broad silver ribbon in the sunshine. To the west rose the Black Ridge, with its scanty covering of creosote bushes whose dingy green only slightly relieved the glistening black of its lava covering. This ridge ended in a point at the northwest of the valley where it almost rubbed noses with the point of the Red Hill, so called because of its red sandstone formation. This hill seemed to diffuse a glow that made the valley warm, even though it was just a week until - Christmas. Generally Abbie appreciated the kindly warmth, but today it struck her as being out of place in a season that should be cold and sparkling with snow. Frankly, she told herself, she was homesick—tired of the whole Dixie mission, its scanty food, brackish water, and alkali soil. Why had they been called way down here just as they were getting comfortably settled in Salt Lake City? Even there she had been homesick for her old home on the wave-washed coast of Nova Scotia—hungry for the sound of the waves and for a view of those mountains whose snowy covering brought the pines and firs into beautiful relief. But in the years that she lived in Salt Lake City she had learned to love the beautiful Wasatch Mountains, ever changing their color with the seasons. Under their protecting watchfulness she had grown to womanhood, had found her mate, and a few years later been married to him. 'Together they planted fruit trees, shrubs, and _ flowers around their little home and then when the fruit trees were ready to yield their first and much longedfor harvest, had come the call to go to the Dixie mission. For a few days it had seemed to Abbie and her husband Charles that the very foundation of their little world was shattered. But they were pioneers in the strictest sense of the word, so again with eyes and hearts hopefully turned toward the future, they sold their home for a wagon and team, packed up their remaining possessions, including their two little boys Charley and Joe and once more took leave of friends and home. Abbie had thought that in Salt Lake they had known hardship and want, but today as she looked back over the years they had spent in Dixie, she wondered how she could ever have thought such a thing. For it was just a week until Christmas and not a cent of money in the house to buy such needed things as shoes and hats, and Christmas presents were out of the question. Abbie had never been one to complain and tears came rarely to her brave, clear-visioned eyes. Even Mother Nature, she thought bitterly, refused to adorn these barren hills with beautifying trees and shrubs Page 809 Engla d, hatles? Ways seem so heerfy] that I of €n wo der if y ever discontenteg With our hard lot here in Dixie." "T'm afraid J do Sometimes, Abmers, my €yes fair] ache for a sight hat rvening Abbie took down her Workbox from 4 high shelf The 0x had been her mother's and one she did not Notice that little Charley ible to Charley's sharp eyes, thank Was TUMMaging in the workbox 'ngoodness!" til he called, "Mother, look, what "Thank 800dnesg! Was ever Made this little Straight crack In the money more Welcome? Now we end of your Workbox?" Can all haye Tew shoes for Christ. D maybe NOT getting an immediate Teply, Sides," saig Ate joyfully, "And € stuck an inquiring fingernay It's £0ing to seem like Christmas Into the crack. The crack Widened a after all!" little. Again he Ptied and coyig See Presently, Charles, who had been that the Whole end could be raised looking thoughtfully at the box, about an inch above the level of asked, "Abbie, what do you know the box. Just then his Mother about the history of this Workbox?" turned to Investigate his silence and "Only this," Teplied Abbie, "my Saw what had happened. With g aunt gave it to MY mother years "ly she picked up the workbox, 480 when she Was just a girl back "Oh, Charley, you haye broken jn Nova Scotia, When mother my box. How ever did you do It?" dieq On the plains coming to the She started toward her husband Valley, MY aunt asked father to let Na; b with it saying, "Just look, Charles her haye the bo keepsake the oy broke MY mother's Father 8ave it to her and she kept Workbox, Do fink that you it until she d Year Or two after could mend it?" We came to D €, then Unc € Rob 1 handing jy to him the box ert gave { to m how an eyes, out fell—no, not buttons nor I haven't the slightest idea," tead, but five Sovereigns! "It would be interesting to know "Well, bless My soul," €xclaimed how the money got into the box," apiece?" A week later Abbj Walker again ut of the bo ewhere," saig Stood in th doo Y Of her smalj Abbie excitedly, "bu Just where jg adobe home, her hus and Charles 4 Mystery to me" eside her. Ogether they looked Charles took x, €xamined Over the oy hy landscape before a minute or, then cned out, them Chris a8 mornin "Lo €re, Abbj © Mystery js and there frosty tang in the solved Ox has a double botair, but the sun ho from 4 sky tom and the Nd Is made 59 that it a, Clear and lue as Spring. The can be pulled The smal] slit children, happy in new shoes and In the end Was put there mittens, and the proud POssessors money could hidden jn he space bie watch d » Smiling happil ctween the fa S€ and rea] bottoms Tesently she log ed up at her hus of the bo b XIE Climate and Said, " > +m glad it aS warped + 0 that this Isn't sno ng, would just Tuin Small s]it Widened and became Visour New shoes." Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, December 1 and December 15, 1888 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF Att Nations" CHRISTMAS: Ah, me! It is Christmas time, merry and joyous. What sweet recollections are recalled to mind on this happy occasion. Old folks and young join in gay pastimes, and it is not only a season of rejoicing, but of refreshing, bodily and mentally. For a few hours, at least, peace is the sentiment of all honest hearts, and harshness and ingratitude are banished.—Aunt Em. UINTAH STAKE: Minutes of the second conference of the Relief Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion, which convened in the Ashley meeting house, Sept. 2nd, 1888, Prest. Sarah Pope presiding. "I am pleased to be with my sisters here to-day; it does me good to see everybody looking so comfortable and so well clothed. Thirty years ago the people in Utah did not have as much as they have to-day; if we had a homemade dress on we were just as happy and thankful as we are to-day, and perhaps more so, because it was harder to get it; to-day there is plenty of everything in our midst, but do we appreciate these blessings? If not we should."—Ada Longhurst, Secretary CHRISTMAS HYMN Ring out, glad bells, your sweetest chimes! Ring out the glad refrain! Peace be on earth, good will to man, Ring out, ring out again! Peal forth, sweet bells, in midnight hour, Good will, good will to man! Hosannah to the "King of kings," Amen, amen, amen. C. L. W. THE CHILDREN'S CHRISTMAS: All the children are on tiptoe with expectancy just before Christmas time. What would Christmas be in fact if it were not for the children? It seems as though Christmas was CHILDREN'S DAY and so it ought to be, for it is celebrated in honor of the most royal Babe that was ever born upon the earth, our blessed Savior, whose coming was heralded by hosts of angels singing and a new star arose in the east, and there was great rejoicing in heaven as well as upon the earth, when the heavenly choirs joined in the anthem that ushered in the new born king.—Aunt Em. A LAMENT O, the sweet yesterdays fled from the heart, Have they a morrow?— Here we stood, ere we parted so close side by side; Two lives that thus part are as ships that divide, When moment on moment there rushes between The one and the other, a sea;— Oh, never can fall from the days that have been A gleam on the years that shall be! —Lytton Page 812 Pened the udience was Paid *Ponse by Mrs fect taste, the testimo tah Symp wen The enti Ww JN St. George, Utah, a drugstore Is owned 4nd operated entirely JUST Off the PTess is a book of Poems, beautifully bound in maon the nationa] Committee on teach- &T Preparation and Professional ington, D. C,, during her three-year IVice, Page 813 ~—> EDITORIAL oO manger at Bethlehem, Christmas is truly a time for Considering the stars and all the "h to the earthbound a symbol of that Which endures in } nal patterns, and to everlasting law. Many travelers have observed that the stars which are visible in the Holy Land seem more beautiful than those in any other place in all the world. This very near to earth. Above the hills of the East appeared the new star, a fulfillment of Prophecy, a guide, and a beacon. The Magi followed that star with implicit faith akin to that high spinitual dedication with which many in succeeding ages have fo]. Page 814 DECEMBER 1948 NO. 12 lowed the gospel of which the star Was a symbol. And many thought of the message that Jesus brought to the unto the stars in its Steadfast shining. It has been said that the heavens are an open book in which the stars are golden letters. Yet there is much that men, without Tevelation, cannot understand. For in the stars is written the Story of how the worlds were made and set in place. The Prophet Joseph Smith has told us that: The earth rolls upon her wings, and the sun giveth his light by day, and the moon giveth her light by night, and the stars also give their light, as they roll upon their wings in their glory, in the midst of the power of God.;.. Behold, all these are kingdoms, and any man who hath seen any or the least of these hath seen God moving in his majesty and power (D. & C. 88:45, 46, and 47). In this time and in this place may we be comforted by the symbol of eternal patterns which the stars reveal, and let us Test assured that more knowledge will be given us in that time and Place which God has set for our knowing. Is not God in the height of the heaven? And behold the height of the Stars, how high they are! And thou sayest, How does God know?... Thick clouds are q covering to him... And he walketh in the circuit of heaven (Job 22:12-14), VPC Relief Society Program "A Story in Granite and Bronze," aS Well as for her ©0-Operation in writing and Impressive delivery of "From the Shadow of a Team to the Sunlight: of Promise" Which Tecognized the Stakes and Mission S S€rvice has de Sister mith y TY Cognizant of he differin Conditions under which elief Society functions; vatlous parts of the world carrying out her 8eneral board a ignments, he has Manifested S. 4 willingness to serve and 41 appreciation of the °PPortunity to Serve, coupled with a Sentleness of Spirit and 4 love for the women of the Church, Page 815 816 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 young women whom Sister Smith will supervise will come increasingly grateful acknowledgment for the spirit of understanding and helpfulness which she possesses in a marked degree. The general board is confident that Sister Smith will find continued joy and satisfaction in her new calling and will be greatly blessed by the Lord. Gn Memortam—Alice Merrill Horne LICE MERRILL HORNE, beloved member of the Relief Society general board (1902-1916) passed away October 7, 1948, at the age of eighty.: Through her mother Bathsheba Smith Merrill, Sister Horne was a granddaughter of George A. Smith (cousin of the Prophet Joseph and First Counselor to President Brigham Young) and Bathsheba W. Smith, a beautiful and gracious woman, fourth general president of Relief Society. President George Albert Smith is a cousin of Alice Merrill Horne. Sister Horne was also blessed with a rich spiritual and intellectual heritage from her father, Clarence Merrill. Alice Merrill, wife of George W. Horne, was richly endowed with beauty and strength of mind and personality. Whatever her capable hands touched blossomed with enduring symmetry. She served her State as an active member of the Legislature and in numerous other positions of civic trust and responsibility. Sister Horne's work on the general board covered a wide range of activities, including the chairmanship of the Public Health Committee which established a series of sanitary milk stations in Salt Lake City and accomplished many other reforms vital to the welfare of mothers and chil- 'dren. She traveled widely as a representative of Relief Society, attending the International Council of Women in Berlin in 1904 and the meetings of the National Council of Women in 1902 and 1909, the Worlds Fair in 1915, and many other meetings of importance. In the field of art, Sister Home rendered invaluable service. She made many beautiful designs for Relief Society programs, bulletins, and other publications. A series of lessons which she prepared was published under the title Devotees and Their Shrines, a Handbook of Utah Art (1914). The book was adopted as a text in the schools of Utah and has been widely read, still maintaining its place as a most inspiring reference book. The preface, a masterpiece in prose, expresses Sister Horne's life-long philosophy of accomplishment: "Every spirit which enters mortality comes stamped with infinity—with a power to reach out and grow illimitably.... Listen to the infinite of your soul when it calls." A gifted artist herself, Sister Horne devoted much of her life to the encouragement and welfare of other artists. She supported all groups and individuals interested in poetry, music, and cultural development of every type. Her life was broad and beautiful; she lived fully and richly and IN MEMORIAM—ALICE MERRILL HORNE 817 helped all who knew her to partake of the same bounty. She leaves an able and gifted family, two sons who are doctors, and three talented and lovely daughters, who are carrying forward much of their mother's unfinished work. Alice Merrill Horne will be long remembered for her kind nursing of the sick, her innumerable kindnesses as a neighbor, and her untiring devotion as a friend. Many remember her precious guardianship of pioneer ideals and skills. She will also be remembered as a woman richly endowed who gave liberally of all that she possessed. Relief Society women who attended the annual general Relief Society conference, held just prior to Sister Horne's death, will remember her as she sat on the stand as an honored woman who had labored long and faithfully for the advancement of Relief Society work in all its many phases—a woman of whom we all may well be proud and appreciative that she has lived among us. New Serial to Begin in VYanuary HE first chapter of "Joanna," a new serial by Margery Stockseth Stewart, will begin in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. 'The story relates the courageous efforts of a young widow to give her four children the best in life. The character portrayal is excellent, and the entire story is beautifully written. The author is the wife of Russell Stewart and the mother of two children. She is of Norwegian descent and has received a Citizenship Award from the Salt Lake City Junior Chamber of Commerce given for outstanding accomplishments of descendants of foreign-born Americans. A gifted writer of both stories and poetry, Mrs. Stewart has won many prizes. In 1946 her story "The Return" placed first in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. Many of her poems have appeared in the Magazine, including several frontispiece poems. Mrs. Stewart is a member of several literary organizations: the League of Utah Writers, the Barnacles (a Salt Lake City story-writing group), and she recently organized a chapter of the National Writers' Club. Her Church work has been vatied, with service in dramatics in the M. I. A. Being particularly outstanding. << WINTER Alice R. Rich North wind, like unleashed fury, comes from bare and sodden hills, And sapless, naked trees and shrubs creak with its biting chills; Gray, lumbering clouds roll ominously, without turmoil or sound, Then loose their mist to spread a skirt of crystals on the ground. Aprons for Christmas Alice Willardson T seems only yesterday that we | had our annual ""Day with Longfellow." I mean the day we spend each fall in the canyon. We sit on a hillside in the warm sunshine absorbing the quiet and glorious color while we take turns in reading Longfellow's poems. It has become a sort of personal holiday to keep the autumn from slipping past us. This year the maple leaves were so colorful that with the sunlight on them they actually seemed to give off light and warmth like fire, fire which does not leap and fade but remains steadily brilliant. I am glad, too, for the pine boughs and the cedar berries, for today the sky is gray and the wind is furious. Dead leaves are blown carelessly against the windowpanes; the fire in the fireplace feels good. The smell of the pine boughs burning in the grate is so pungent that I can close my eyes and see the Christmas tree. I can see all the gifts and wrappings scattered everywhere and hear all the happy noises and excitement. It won't be long till Christmas! You know! This year I think I'll have an apron Christmas! This morning the sewing room looks very cozy and inviting. And just last week I heard Vina say she didn't have a single good apron. She likes one that is big and serviceable. Kate likes them to be sort of pretty and serviceable, too. I have a pattern with a ruffle on the shoulders, pinafore style, that will give it a festive appearance. She likes red, too, and it will sort of go with her Page 818 kitchen. Anne always loves yellow and I have those scraps of flowered dimity which will combine with either white or yellow organdy beautifully. That's one thing about giving aprons, they can be so individual. And they are within the pocketbook of the giver and always welcomed by the receiver. There are so many styles, colors, and materials—aprons for all occasions and all ages. Apron styles like those in illustrations No. 1 and No. 2 will cover your whole dress from danger of splashings. Made from percale, and minus the ruffles, they will be very practical. If made from dimity they 819 Wear "XCeptionally Well, too, and made from lawn, dimity, Otgandy, ate so Pretty to Protect your nice dotteq Swiss (and b the Way, if dinner, With the Tuffles, or 3 touch ing 4pron that will Teally stand of applique, they are Pretty as wel] Many Washings, you can't beat dotPicture No. 2, If you ate tired of There are three Pictures of S€ryWashing and untangling apron Ing aprons Ulustrated here, Nos. 3, stings, this button back Is very + 4nd 5, which can be made from Work in, one that covers the dress IS much Prettier than jf you had completely, Tap-around Styles are bought SPecial materia] and used 4 € handiest and most useful aprons commercia] pattem, A combinafor the busy housewife. Tion of Materials j, Usually prettier ext, there are all the lovely little than Just one Material, and you can serving 4PTONS—aprong as Pretty and use old aprons for Cutting Patterns dainty as flowers, These Can be fo; New ones. —__ No. 3 820 No. 6 PRON No. 6 gives a suggestion for using applique trimming to form the pocket. Applique is used also to trim No. 7. An excellent idea for getting flowors, fruit, etc. For your applique work is to cut them out from some of the many colorful materials with large and distinct designs. Aprons may be effectively trimmed with ruffles of self material (as illustrated in No. 8) or RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 they may be accented with ruffles of a contrasting color. A very lovely decorative apron was made from white organdy as illustrated in No. 9. Colorful flowers cut from percale were inserted under the hem. The hem was turned over the flowers and fastened down on the right side by a dainty featherstitch. The same motif was also sewed under the organdy pocket. The flowers under the organdy not only made the work less inclined to ravel, and more easily ironed, but they also gave it a sort of ethereal, fairylike touch so suitable to organdy. Questing Lights Belle Watson Anderson CHAPTER g ( Conctuston) HEN a Scotchman Teally makes up his mind, things begin to happen. That's why Margaret was just hanging up the curtains in the cabin when the Missionary walked in. "Andrew!" She hopped down from the ladder. "We weren't ex. Pecting you so soon. How did you manage it?" Andrew spoke impetuously, "Margaret, when a man's in love, he Says to the whole world, 'Step aside, and let me pass!' Well, here I am! Nothing will ever stop me if you are willing, Margaret, could you learn to love me?" "Learn to love you?" Margaret stood silent for 4 minute, then laughed joyously. "You see, man, I am far ahead of you. Like Rachel of old, I have waited seven long years for this, with not the encouragement she Teceived, either," er face grew grave as she relived the years in her thoughts. "You mean—Oh! Margaret, it is unbelievable." He took her tenderly in his arms and kissed her. "Darling, I wil] spend a lifetime to say I'm grateful." The bairms outside heard voices and came in on the run. "If only mother could see her bairns today, she wouldna' worry," Andrew Prophesied. "Margaret how can I pay you?" Page 822 "T love the bairns, Andrew." He took them all in his arms together. "Oh! You are all so marvelous. What a homecoming! I'ma very happy man." If Andrew had put time and ef. Fort into his Missionary work, Mar. Garet had been Just as busy in the care of the bairns and the wool. In Tooele she had been thrifty and saved her money. She loved to work in the soft, fine, white wool, and to the cards, she had added a spinning wheel and a loom for weaying carpet and Tugs. She had even purchased a jig for knitting socks and stockings. She looked forward to owning a home of her own someday on the millrace, where she would install a large loom for weay. Ing cloth. Linsey-woolsey was very Popular. The loom could be rigged to a water wheel in the big creek, Many bats of many hanks of yarn, white and beautiful colors, for knitting, Carpets, come out When she had too much to do, Kathleen and Mother had helped her. So the loom clicked and clattered, and the spinning wheel hummed and away the hours while Andrew had been dway preaching the gospel. In the cabin Margaret had also put glass in the windows, changed the mud roof for homemade shingles, laid Carpet on the floors, and planted many roses and walnut trees around the home. at once, byt Margaret Wanted a river bottoms with Andrey, Rumbeautify] wedding. At the Store 8ay. She Suggested to him that the when they could not pay her in take a horseback Tide the next Sat. Er hom Cotland the gills 4 drew tho ght it was a onder. "an early to m, € and plan their fy) Idea, so he nt Gypsy and TOUSSeaux een and ther Pinto "P to Mother's for their Tide vere wonderful Sewers, an With They slowly Walked their horses their help, hey all could have beau to the can on. Resplendence Was "itul dress » and she ould have cautiful at thi, time of year. A come lovely things for her home, Pestry in 'very tone and Color of So she left the SPinning room m ie autumn had been hung from Meni for 4 sewing room at © Clest Of the Mountains Farther other's for a —— UP In the hills Vesper campfires were cy baked a edding ake, fruit Tightly urning, Tver san Puddings, and shortbr d, eve OW, sacred Melodies fo the rituals ng that was ©ssential for a eT a the harvest me. Wwonderfy] dding. Nd while. They worke d they talked ©Y tied their horses to some Maple brush and walked Into the zs me = men td Mar great ay Woodlands. Higher ~ In n Taised grain on the river bottoms;; and timbereg In the forest and that 'Tash eg 'ees and the wild tiage he hadn't gone back to the "The more trees that come down fields or to the forest. 1 the forest the more homes g0 up "Yes, he Was hard hit for 4 time, in the Valleys, Many. People are cured him of aj] hat," her said mes eve > Margaret The aigaret remembg d th "Jane must fing the s T must re 00k," as had called | On the turn to the forests Plains whe ndtew would sit for °Y walked back to their horses Se ON dive an, look far eyond Mounted, and hey y ched the camp. She h d know he was the river ro d Margaret touched the Teaming of Jane was all Pinto With h quirt, and Y were Passed now, she did y need to off to g gall Owards the bottoms NDREW was Particularly inter. Ested in the songs of the stream. "Can you imagine anything so far-fetched as to interpret ese very happy Toundelays of music into weird and solemn dirges?" "Oh, it's 59 peaceful here the bottoms." Andrew arose and led Margaret to the fields, earth. 'T am like my kinsmen jin Scotland, Margaret," | would like to Own some land." Ve will find other fields act ling, and build Sreater harvests, 'The "Name our wedIng day, Andrew, and I will make aTangements to be there." n their way ELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 er has her Tocks, tea, even the camp, comes, Margaret?" "Her é With such' a wife, darling, | know [| Cannot fail," cy planned to be Married as S00n as arrangements could be car. Ned out They would take two wagon up at Mother Mac's, for the women to pack everything they P. They ex- & was Bob was Just putting in the wagon box the wood and kindling he had chopped to build fires, at, no Bob to build the. Fires?" Andrew asked. We have a lantern." ca" idn't she menOw are the food Mine are fill. We trust your mother," "Well that like the mitted, Part won't be just Plains," Bob gratefully adeK & x 'THE Macs had Planned to hold a Teception at Mother's when they retumed, but the people of the 824 R Meetinghouse Was the sisters had Cooked g big Wedding Thanks 4 lot, folks," Supper at the Hunters, They had At the €nd of the Party they | ng cak E aked other €dding ca €S, as one Passed the y, dding veryone Would not be Nough foy everyone called for a q Nee by th acs. The town ¢, € 4 piece After the Orchestr gan pla ™s "Annie Supper there a Onderfy] PtoLaurie" Brother Coleman danced Stam, and at the last Brother Hunt. With Mother Mac, Bob chose Helen er had a few Words to Say to Andrey, Hunter Who was just about a Mac, and Margaret. ATgaret was beautiful In her Ndrew, a fey, Years ago you and | upon row, until it yw, ng enough Picked out some land the river to fall into th > Uppling folds Ottoms of her dres Sh 4 Wreath of ell, after you left on Our mis. Y Ite satin Tosebuds yw th blue and s10n, the People decided that since pink Centers Corsage ang YOU were so ling to 6° into the bouquet were Ite an pink World and + Present us, they Would Jar SPUr combined with blye asters IKE to d Something f, Ou. Toathleen was lovely in a beau night ae giving YOu back the tiful shade f yello Mother With One hundred Sixty acres, all her soft Stay hair, was y, ty bonn Paid for, ang nearly all bro =>. Ia Pale lavende Janet, the little ne this is just 6 the many flower girl, wore pink wedding Presents the People of Re. The strains of the Tomantic music Splendence are giving to You toof "Annie Laurie" rete changed to weht, Brother and Sister Rumgay, the sweet thythm of "Home, Sweet in bet <<, When th: ¢ len dance € Music was Sacred, the: atgare ei, © fand, theme divine, as the bridaj aan — tc = ais had Couple kept tim to its beautiful Owere pon "ii, "Ne "Was 1 - called for 4 speech and "Tov the cabin down on ike Aislpes, stood up. "Bro thers and Millrace, Margaret," Andrew spoke isters, mp heart js too ful] for ex. Softly; 7 Ptession tonight. En a man has I have learned to love It, too, the 5Spel, a wife, home, land, bean. They danced a fey, measures, and Gfil gifts and kind friends, no Margaret added, "And the bairns, Words can €xpress his 4PPTeCiation. Andrew Waited breathlessly until I hope to take the remaining years she added, "And the Elder, too," Christmas Presents Can Be Different Elizabeth Williamson SIDE from the personalized gifts you will select for your family and close friends this Christmas, there are two other groups you may want to consider— your neighbors, and the people who seem to have everything. Well, who can resist good food, especially if it appeals to someone's special taste and is packaged attractively? Here are some suggestions for the people who have everything: Page 826 Small cheeses, wrapped in bright cellophane, and attached to an evergreen branch Packaged caviar Spreads and relishes Imported hors d'oeuvres Homemade jams or jellies If you are famous among your friends for making an unusual cake, or specializing in Christmas plum puddings, or confections, you may want to give one of these. Dates stuffed with fondant seem to be a favorite of everyone. These, wrapped in bright Christmas papers or colored tin foils, are attractive and tempting. If your friend who has everything lives in an apartment, she will especially appreciate food. Perhaps some of your home-canned fruits, jellies, or pickles will be very welcome. You may give vegetables from your own garden, such as dried onions, potatoes, or squash. Packaged fresh fruit, containing oranges, lemons, or grapefruit, with a liberal sprinkling of nuts, is another idea. Put these (fruits or vegetables) in CHRISTMAS PRESENTS CAN BE DIFFERENT large containers which can be used later. For example, use a wastepaper basket full of assorted fruit, or a magazine rack containing squash and onions. Dish drainers, lettuce drainers, or anything which appeals, to your imagination can be used. Your close neighbors very likely will have the same type of garden, grow the same vegetables, and make the same jams and jellies you do, so pethaps the food suggested above 827 will not serve as a very exciting gift for them, but, don't you think freshly baked Christmas pastry, or a big crunchy breakfast cake, dotted with nuts and maraschino cherries, will appeal to them for their Christmas breakfast? Individual plum puddings, a mincemeat pie, fruitcakes, will be gratefully received. Your neighbor will be very pleased to know that you haven't forgotten her during the rush of the holiday season. Christmas Letter Grace Rushton Squire [ the real sense of the word, Christmas means more to a mother than it means to anyone else. That means more than a mother? It commemorates the birth of the Savior, and who knows just what In the hearts of all mothers lies a sacred knowledge of the reality for which Christtruly stands—the birth of a little Babe. The spirit of that Babe of Bethlehem dwells in every mother's heart and acts as a focus whi hearts are softened with the spirit of giving, draws closer the bond of kindred hearts, which the cares, pleasures, and sorrows of this world are continually striving to break. At this season of the year, when the earth is wrapped in a sheet of white, when trees are bare and nature is lying asleep, the heart is turned to the spiritual and moral the call, for in her family lie her hopes, joys, and ambitions, The mother's heart is then calling her family the family circle that is where her heart is calling. Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. HANDICRAFT, SOCIALS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ann Jane Killpack. NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION, WILLISTON (SOUTH DAKOTA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY HANDWORK DISPLAY Sister Ann Jane Killpack, President, North Central States Relief Society, reports that the sisters of the Williston Branch have been blessed abundantly for their willingness to serve, and have found great joy in doing so. Under the able direction of PresiPage 828 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 829 ern B. Fowers LAKE VIEW STAKE (UTAH), ARSENAL VILLA BRANCH BAZAAR Photograph submitted by F Left to right: work leader Viola Elm; Magazine Tepresentative Fern Sheffer; First Counselor Belle S. Calderwood; President Eva G. Henderson; Secretary Glenna S. Hunt; theology leader Joyce Longhurst. Fern B, F, owers, President, Lake View Stake Relief Society, teports that the work of this branch has been outstanding. The society is newly organized and had no money small part of the beautiful and varied bazaar Prepared by these sisters. Several full-sized quilts and baby quilts were included as well as many articles of exquisitely made handPhotograph submitted by Frances Wilcox LONG BEACH STAKE (CALIFORNIA), RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PAGEANT, March 12, 1948 Second Counselor Ida Holt; President Frances Wilcox; First Counselor Lucretta Warnock; Delores Halls; Senmonia Ames; Ethel Spongberg; Arema Dolton; Elizabeth from the beginning to the Present day. Each ward Participated in the alrangement of the scenes which were depicted with musical accompaniment. A lovely reception 830 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 bid gah a oe Photograph submitted a Nellie Neal FARR WEST STAKE (UTAH), OGDEN FIFTEENTH WARD BAZAAR Note the beautiful patterns in the quilts, the children's clothing, the many handmade articles and the food display at the left. This photograph shows only a part of the beautiful exhibits which were carefully prepared for the occasion. Nellie Neal is president of Farr West Stake Relief Society. Photograph aereTNUWed by Rose B. Astle SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA) ENTERTAINS RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS OVER SEVENTY Approximately 450 guests attended this delightful social honoring the forty-two members of the stake Relief Societies who are over seventy years old. Especially honored was Sister Mary Rockwood (inset), ninety years of age, who has been a secretary in Relief Society for more than twenty-five years. As an infant she was brought across the plains to Utah in a covered wagon. As a young woman she was an officer in the Retrenchment Society and also delivered copies of the Woman's Exponent from door to door, to save postage for mailing that pioneer publication. 'The mother of ten children, Sister Rockwood experienced the hard work and trials connected with rearing a large family under pioneer conditions. She made soap, candles, quilts, carpets, and clothing; she dried fruit, took care of a garden, sat up with the sick, and helped to prepare the dead for burial. Sister Rockwood now lives in Huntington Park Ward with her daughter Laura Stephens. Rose B. Astle is president of South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 831 Photograph submitted by Wilmyth B. Palmer MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA), MESA FOURTH WARD, OLD-FASHIONED ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 16, 1948 First row, seated, left to right: Lucille Burnham; Vera Rogers; Vonda Faucett; Annie Van Leuven; Ruby Smith; Lillian Palmer. Second row, seated, left to right: Detta Biggs; Phoebe Scott; Corine Fuller; Minnie Lisonbee; Caroline Pew; Maud Oliver. Third row, standing, left to right: Roberta Clayton; Margaret Lisonbee; Elizabeth Maddox; Beverly Harris; Second Counselor Anna Pew; President Lillian Mullenaux; First Counselor Jeanne Wright; Secretary-Treasurer Wilmyth Palmer; Maud Clement; Elizabeth Porter; Fern Shelley. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Annie Belle White; Opal Johns; Leah Wright; Nora Beck; Mary Lou Rogers; Idell Williams; Mildred Fischer; Marcia Williams; Susie Wade; Caroline Staples. Fifth row, standing, left to right: Ann B. Elliott; Vivian Warden; Druzilla Clement. Sixth row, standing, left to right: Marjorie Brown; Natelle Murdock; Norma Whght; Ula Julian; Pauline Palmer; Minnie Bond; Lettie Bates. Vida Brinton is president of Maricopa Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by La Priel Robinson Eyre CANADIAN MISSION, MONTREAL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY Left to right: First Counselor Wilma Carmichael; President Anne Wilson; Second Counselor Elisa Altus. President Wilson reports that this small branch (16 members) is very active. They have repaired and sent many bundles of clothing to Europe and during the summer of 1948 they met every two weeks in order to make quilts and prepare articles for their bazaar. LaPriel Robinson Eyre is president of the Canadian Mission Relief Society. 832 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 "Lean Your Ear This Way" (Continued from page 807) finger, not "'aside of his nose," but in the familiar, self-conscious gesture of pushing back his hair, for just the split second before he recollected that some of his hair simply could not bear pushing back. Unmistakable, the familiar young hand on the pudgy old body! She could almost see the willing-toplease expression behind that puffy, round smile. Wanting to laugh almost as much as she wanted to cry, Adele remained for the rest of the conversation. "You won't be seeing me on Christmas Eve, boys, but I'll be seeing you," concluded Santa Claus. S the boys moved out of earshot, Adele stepped forward. "Isn't it about time for your lunch, Santa?" she inquired. "I beg your pardon, madam," Roy said. Then, noticing the giveaway in the tone of his voice, despite his effort to disguise it, he added ruefully, "I might have known you'd find me out. I admit it's more than lunch time. Just wait a second, while I change coats, and I'll take you out for a sandwich." "IT have to talk to a saleswoman upstairs," said Adele. "Tl attend to that while I wait. But, Roy, whatever happened at Freem's, you should have told me." "Nothing spectacular happened at F'reem's," he stated simply. "Just the unexpected return from Tokyo of one Major Dickson, an expert assistant manager, with honorable discharge papers in good order, and considerably more than a murmur ailing his heart. I would have told you, if I hadn't known that I could keep us in the income class by Santa Clausing until Christmas and helping with the pre-inventory sale here until the new year. And after that I have the promise of helping out with income tax returns at the State Capitol. In my spare time I'll continue to haunt the employment agency, in the hope of getting something really good lined up again." "And I know you will," reassured Adele. © The beauty of it was, she felt, that she actually did know that he would. It might be ridiculous, but, after all, it was traditional to feel just this warmly confident when one walked beside that bulky, redclad figure. All the while she had worried so about wherever Roy could be, he had been fully competent to take care of his share in their partnership. Conscious that Roy was still talking as he led her toward the back of the store, Adele centered her attention on his words. "I certainly wasn't going to tell you about this stunt until afterward. I'm glad it doesn't strike you as being too rugged. But, once I get a real job lined up again, no more of this Santa Claus gag for me!" "T wasn't going to tell you, either," said Adele, and the merriment in her eyes became something that was deeper. "But, 'Lean your ear this way,' Saint Nicholas! No matter how good a job you line up— from this year on, you'll have to count on assuming the role of Santa Claus, permanently." LIVING TO ENJOY THE BLESSINGS OF THE LORD 833 Living to Enjoy the Blessings of the Lord (Continued from page 800) before you, in the not far distant future, the possibility of a building, a women's building, erected by the generosity and _ self-sacrifice and faith and devotion of the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that will be the equal, I am sure, of any building that women use in all the world as a women's building. So I congratulate you on your possibilities, on your probabilities, because I think in the not far distant future, if the world will come to its senses, if they will stop quarreling with one another, people will stop fighting one another and do more praying and less fussing, I think we can begin the erection of our building for the Relief Society that will not only give joy to you who are particularly interested, but all the rest of us will be happy that you have it. We have been doing a lot of repairing of one kind and another, been working on this organ, making that a little better than it was before, that is, we hope we have. I have not been listening to it lately, but I am assuming that it is very 'much improved, and when they get it finished I am sure we will all be happy. But think what it means. Here you are. You have come into this greatest of all houses of worship. 'There is not anything else like it, no other house in the world with a dome like this, no other house in the world that has the acoustics that this building has, and in this building we have one of the loveliest organs that anybody has in all the world. And wonderful choirs sing*here. The voices of our Father's sons and daughters are heard here. It does seem to me when we sing if we would just appreciate how good he has been to us, it ought to be the easiest thing in the world to sing his praises while we are here in this marvelous building. Blessings of Saints As I look over the audience I see the children and the children's children of some of those who were pioneers, came into this valley in an early day, and they came here with the word of the Lord in their hands. They not only had the Old and the New Testament, the Holy Bible, but they brought with them the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price, and other scriptures, all that the world has in the way of true scripture we have, plus a lot of other scripture that the world has not had until the Lord gave it to us. Surely we are not unmindful of all these things. And when I think of the beautiful block that we are on here, and the flowers and the shrubs and the trees, the glorious sunshine that we enjoy here in this part of the world, and all of the blessings that God has bestowed upon us in such a rich way, and our homes, I am extremely grateful. Do you realize that when the people came into this valley, a little over one hundred and one years ago, there was not a house that a human. Being could live in? Now look at it. Lovely homes, lovely churches, streets, conveniences of almost every kind that at group of "43 Men, three wom "Thirty?" €n, and two children, who thought "Yes." € must be Teaming, They could Twenty?" not imagine that this could be the "Yes." Place the Lord Wanted them to set 'Ten?" ©. But it was and See what has "Yes," appened That is how Precious Tighteous nd now People come from all People are. Let uS Not forget that. Teamed there Could be such a Ow, think of wha we have here Cautiful city as you have here." Think of the righ fous men and women that live in the communi Promises to the Righteous that you live in and they are Ow, all the blessings that have righteous, They are not perfect, | ness, our Carelessness, Our indifferj, what the Lord has Ptomised. [f ence, but they are the Tesult of honyOu seek first, not last, but seek the people WETe So wicked, and when ment, guns may begin firing at any he asked: « hy you would not detime. Why? Because the differstroy the righteous People who are ence being, here We are trying to do there in those cities," and the what Our Heavenly Father would eavenly Petsonage said to him: like us to do and there, many of LIVING TO ENJOY THE BLESSINGS OF THE LORD them are doing what they know they should not do. Now, my brethren and sisters, and particularly the sisters, because you are the majority in this great audience today by far, I congratulate you. I congratulate you on belonging' to the finest organization in all the world, officered, managed, and planned and carried on by women. There is not anything else like it, and I hope that you will keep in mind the suggestion of one of your sisters today to look after those who are not taking advantage of their opportunities. Do a little missionary work wherever you are and encourage others to do the same thing, and instead of having a few thousand people who are willing to do what the Lord wants them to do and make every effort to do that, there will be millions of people who are influenced to keep the commandments of God and stay the destruction that the Lord has said will come upon the earth unless the people repent of their sins and turn to him. He has already assured us that it will take repentance. I would not like to sound a discordant note here, nor cause anybody to begin to worry because of the destruction that may come, but I can say this that the Lord has promised you in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that if you will seek first his kingdom, that all desirable things will be added. That means the unde- _ sirable things will be stayed and your homes will be the abiding place of peace and thanksgiving and gratitude to God, and mothers and fathers will love one another and work together in rearing their families. Parents will cherish their chil- 835 dren and bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, and children will be taught to honor father and mother with the assurance that their days may be long in the land that the Lord our God gives unto us. Gratitude for Hospitality _I have just touched upon a few of the things that the Lord has promised to us and to all people who will accept him and his advice. I think it is marvelous. I want to take this occasion | to thank you good women living in different parts of the country who have taken care of us who are General Authorities of the Church as we have traveled through the country; we have been in your homes. You have fed us; you have given us places where we could be made comfortable, and in many cases you and your husbands have carried us on our way. I am grateful to you for the kindness that I have received. It has been marvelous to me how many times I have been in a position where I needed real help, and it has come as a result of good women and good men in the community where I happened to be. Now, coming back to the building, I wish we could tell you right now when it can be started. I wish we could tell you just when a number of them could be started. We are needing buildings for the Church in so many cases. We were in need of over four hundred houses of worship and structures to be used by the Church a year ago, and it may interest you to know that over two hundred of them are already finished or are in the course of completion. Half of them, but there are yet another two hundred and more, and in so many cases where two communities or three use the same house for worship, in due time each will have its own house and its place of recreation, and all will meet together as brothers and sisters under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord. _ How wonderful it is to have that influence. Come into this building when there is not a soul here and close your eyes and I think you will feel like others have. Time after time people have said there seems to be an influence here that I have never felt any place else. There should be. There should be an influence in this building that people can feel because the Lord has promised that his Spirit will abide in these places that have been dedicated to him as long as we treat them as we ought to. I congratulate you. I wish I had words to express my appreciation for what you are doing, what has been done by those who have preceded you and for what your daughters who are coming along will do even after you are gone. What an opportunity the Lord has blessed us with, to give us the fulness of the earth in these marvelous mountain vales, and all the advantages and opportunities of the civilization of our day, plus the testimony that burns in the souls of hundreds of thousands of people that we are the children of God and we know it, and if we are righteous, may remain close to him throughout the ages of eternity. I congratulate the leadership of this great organization, your presidency and general board, the stake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 officers, and the ward officers. If you could get them all together this block would not hold them, to say nothing of this building. They are a great army of women and when you realize that at one time. Ten righteous people could have saved Sodom and Gomorrah from destruction, think what an influence you have, think what power you have in this world if you are recorded among those who are righteous, honoring God and keeping his commandments. It will not be long before disaster will come to the earth. It will not be very long before this earth will be cleansed and purified by fire and become the celestial kingdom, but in the meantime, the Lord has given to us the opportunity to go forward, rear our families, develop our homes, prepare our institutions of learning and all the advantages, under the influence of the same spirit, if we will, that will be here when our Heavenly Father and _ Jesus Christ, our Lord, will be here in person,. Think what a wonderful thing it is!' 'That is the preparation for it, that is why these commandments were given and the other commandments of the Lord, not to prevent us from happiness, but to add to our joy and our comfort and our satisfaction, day by day, while we go forward looking to the time when we will be with those whom we love forever. As I stand here today I realize it may not be long until the summons reaches me. When it comes I will pass out of the picture here in mortality, but when that time comes I am looking forward to meeting the dear ones that have preceded me, those who have gone before. And LIVING TO ENJOY THE BLESSINGS OF THE LORD there are many of them on the other side that have gone through the experiences of mortal life, have lived true and faithfully and devotedly, so that our Heavenly Father has promised them they may return to earth as celestial beings and dwell here throughout the ages of eternity. 'That is what these books are for. That is why the Lord gives us so much information that we refer to as scripture. It is not that we may have food and clothing and houses and lands here. That is only a part of it. It is that day by day we may so adjust our lives that we will become more perfect as the years go by, rear our families to be more perfect. That is the purpose of it all, in order that all may be saved in the celestial kingdom and have the companionship of those who are dear to us, forever. Relief Society for All the Sisters That is what this great organization you belong to was instituted for. It was not just to make quilts. It was not just to go from door to door and ask people to make a contribution to your fund. That was only a part of it. The Relief Society of this Church was organized that all of the daughters of our Heavenly Father, I say all of them, because it was intended that they should, those who are worthy should be identified with the Relief Society of the Church, and that each one should not only be a member but that each should be a faithful, devoted daughter of the Lord, working in that organization of Relief Society for the blessing of all your sisters. What an influence you have in the world, and how much more influence can be had if you 837 can persuade your sisters in the communities in which you live, that are not doing anything particular in preparation for eternal life in the celestial kingdom, to come into the fold and begin work. I have been talking about the sisters, inferring that there are some women that are not yet doing all they should in the Church, but I would like to say to the two or three or half a dozen brethren that are here, we have a whole group of men in the Church whom unless we can get the sisters to help us, I do not think we will gét very far with. We have men in the Church, who have grown up in it, who do not even hold the Priesthood and we have others who ought to hold the Melchizedek Priesthood who only hold the Aaronic Priesthood, hundreds of them, and if they die under those circumstances they may lose their opportunity of eternal life in the celestial kingdom, and they are your brothers and husbands and fathers, in some cases. I do not mean you who are sitting here, but I mean the women, husbands and fathers and brothers, these men, and we need to do teamwork, and we need to set our homes in order. If our sisters would only encourage their husbands to do their part, visiting in the wards in which they live as ward teachers, trying to draw the men in that have not done just what they should, and then the women would go out and do their share, encouraging the women to come in. Do you realize what the Lord has said? What matters it, though you spend your whole life here upon earth, performing the duties: incident to mortality, spend your whole 838 life, and during that time the result of your effort is the salvation of one soul, and that your own? He said you shall have great joy in our Father's kingdom with that soul. We all have something to do, and I congratulate you on what you have done. No other group of women in all the world has compared with what you have done in the way of blessing mankind, rearing your families and devoting yourselves unselfishly to bringing peace and happiness to those that were in distress, and because of that, the Lord loves you, and he is anxious that you should have every advantage and every blessing, and he will give it to you just as fast as you are worthy. I am grateful to be here with you today. I thank these sisters who invited me to come and visit with you, and I want to be among those who will be permitted to come into your new building when it is completed. I hope that it may be kept so sweet and clean and wholesome and beautiful and delightful that the Spirit of the Lord will find comfort there. That is what I hope it to be, and I trust that that will be in the not far distant future. I wish I could tell you just where it could be located. I wish I knew, but it will not be far away from the Temple. It will not be far away from the Tabernacle, and I want to say to you it will not be very far away from the Lord, and that is the important part. So keep smiling, keep working, keep planning, and praying. Remember your sisters in the old world, millions of them, who have comparatively no comforts. In twenty-four hours they could not enjoy the peace that you have here in five minutes in this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 building today, wherever they are, and they are your sisters. We have over five thousand missionaries in the world endeavoring to bring the peace and happiness that you have to our Father's other sons and daughters. A good many of those in the world are women. There was a time when our sisters did not go into the world very much as missionaries. There was a time when some of the mission presidents did not think they could do missionary work very well, it was so difficult, but if you would see some of the letters that are written in from mission presidents now, ""Cannot you send us some of those fine women that can do such splendid work among the women and among the children in these lands?" There is a way. It is coming. In the not far distant future there will be more missionaries out. If we will just keep the standard of liberty and of righteousness floating here in our homeland, keeping our homes in order, husbands faithful and devoted to wives, and wives faithful and devoted to husbands, parents to children, children to parents, neighbors to neighbors, remembering that the second great commandment referred to in this wonderful volume by the Savior of the world was: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." If we did that how wonderful it would be to go from house to house and from village to village and find dwelling in every heart the Spirit of God burning there in a luminous, delightful way, filling the soul with happiness and peace and comfort and satisfaction and knowing that that will endure forever. I pray that the Lord will bless LIVING TO ENJOY THE BLESSINGS OF THE LORD these presiding officers, the general officers, the stake officers, the ward officers, all these who have responsibility, and oh, let your light so shine that others seeing your good works will be constrained to glorify the name of our Heavenly Father. We are his children. This is a part of his family that is gathered here today. How wonderful it is to know that he is not far from us, that he is all-powerful, and has promised us that if trouble comes, if necessary he will come down in heaven, not from heaven, he will bring heaven with him upon this earth and fight our battles and preserve us, and we will go on living throughout the ages of eternity. That is the promise of our Heavenly Father. | Again, I thank you for your kindness to me and to my associates as we travel in your communities, your kindness to all those who need you, your kindness to those people who live across the great and mighty ocean. I do not know whether you have been told, but probably you have, one hundred and twelve carloads, each car the capacity of forty tons, a hundred and twelve carloads of food and bedding and clothing have been shipped across the ocean 839 since the war to feed and make comfortable your other brothers and sisters, some of whom have not yet come into the Church. That has been your contribution. How many quilts did you have? We have had in total about nine thousand. My goodness! Just about two months from now you will wake up some morning, somebody has left the window open and the fire has gone out and you will wish you had just one more quilt, and then realize that the organization that you belong to, in that one item—that is only one item—over nine thousand handmade, homemade, quilts have been made by your organization, and then you have asked for the privilege of giving them, not selling them, 'of giving them to our Father's other children that they may be, in part at least, as comfortable as you are. God bless you for your faith and your devotion and your fine work. Keep your homes in order. Keep the adversary away. Live so that the Spirit of God will be with you all the time, and I can say to you that if you will do that you will be happy all the time and that you may so be, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ONE LONE STAR Dorothy ]. Roberts I shall be there; I must return Tonight when one lone star will burn Across the acres of the world. Before its last faint gleam is furled I shall follow the camel's hoof; See winter silver on the roof; And set my heart attune to hear— Despite the centuries—one clear Hosanna, filtered though it be, Coming from hilltops far from me. I shall breathe the scent of myrrh Blent by the kneeling worshipper; And behold the jewels spread Beside one on his humble bed. With all the hungering hosts of men, I shall partake of peace again. Before the waning year is spent I shall return for sacrament. Effective Choral Organization Florence Jepperson Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board UST as the piano and organ are built to produce balanced volume J when chords are played, so should a singing group be organized to produce a tonal balance when engaged in part singing. Therefore, when effecting a singing organization, careful attention should be given in choosing the proper number and type of voices for the various parts. Thus, for example, in a chorus of fifty trained singers the division should be about as follows: twenty first sopranos, sixteen second sopranos, and fourteen altos. In organizations made up of both trained and untrained singers, or of untrained singers entirely, the proportion of distribution necessarily varies. One may be able to sing the soprano part in a mixed chorus with comparative ease and still be unable to sustain the highest part in a women's chorus without effort and strain. This is due to the fact that in a women's chorus there are two and often three voices singing below the soprano, necessitating constant singing on higher pitch levels; while, in a mixed chorus, there is but the one treble voice (alto) below the soprano, therefore, generally requiring a more normal range of voice. In classifying and distributing membership care should be exercised, especially in relation to the sopranos so that only those who can sustain high tones easily should be selected for this part. Thus it is seen that those who are chosen to sing the first soprano part should possess voices of the high, lyric type. Such classification not only conduces to better tone quality but also to more accuracy in pitch. One loud, strained voice can upset the pitch of an entire group. When not enough high sopranos are available to balance the other parts of a chorus, it is advisable to choose songs which the moderately high soprano voices can sing with ease. It is often necessary to strengthen the second soprano part. This is easily done by having a number of the medium high sopranos assist. However, different members should be chosen for different songs, thus giving more sopranos experience in singing inner parts. 'The value of such experience is emphasized by Robert Schumann in the following statement: "Sing frequently in choruses, especially on the middle parts. This makes you musical." ~<- MUSIC C. Cameron Johns This is the universal tongue; Explore the labyrinth of sound. The soft diapason speaks to every heart, In the mighty roll and ebb of notes In simple terms that each may understand. The organ speaks to the earth-bound There is no Babel With the voice of God. Where the searching fingers of melody Page 840 E)DEPARIMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 14—"A Period of Darkening Opposition" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 22, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, March 1, 1949 Objective: To acquaint class members with the events of the Savior's life during the time he was Preparing the apostles for their final great responsibilities. Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. UR Lord had spent two years in the great work of his ministry during which he had received considerable popular acclaim. The plain people heard him gladly. There was a turning against him that boded ill during the third year. That was the sifting period when those who really believed would be separated from the "luke-warm" and those who were openly opposed. Spies had been watching him closely both in Galilee and Jerusalem. Ceremonial Washings "And Many Such Like Things" Jesus began detailed instructions to the apostles. He wanted them to be prepared to carry on after his foreknown death. They were yet to make a great change in discarding the rabbinical forms and ceremonies of the Jews and to go wholly to the plain, but glorious Tequirements of the gospel of the kingdom. Already, with the approval of the Lord, they had so far transgressed "the tradition of the elders" as to omit the practice of ceremonial cleansing of hands before eating. They were ignoring customs that had become rabbinical laws. It should be remembered that "the offense charged against. The disciples was that of ceremonial uncleanliness, not physical uncleanliness or disregard of sanitary propriety." Not because they had soiled hands, were they criticized, but because they did not perform the ceremony. When this criticism was made, Jesus replied by asking a question, "Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition?" He called them hypocrites and cited Isaiah's prophecy, "... This people honoureth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me" (Mark 7:6). To prove his accusation he cited the commandment of God, "Honor thy father and thy mother." Moses had even proclaimed death to him "that curseth his father, or his mother" (Ex. 21:17), The law requiring a son to assist needy parents had been so changed Page 841 CHRIST HEALING THE SICK Page 842 A Perry Picture From a Painting by Schonherr LESSON DEPARTMENT of God straining camel," noneffective, ey were at a gnat and swallowing a of children to Parents, of husband to wife, of Parents to children, concernIng adult children, and th orphans, Welfare Plan," Pres, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., eneral Conference, October 6, + + Hearken unto me every and understand: without a man, that entering into him can him 'hear (Mark 7:14-16), 843 Within the Borders of yre and Sidon Jesus, evidently seeking seclusion where he might instruct the Twelve, decided to 8° north into the counhoenicia. But, in the language of one of the dis iples, his woman, great is thy faith: be it unto 844 tread also Mark 7:24-30.) Some wonder why the Lord delayed granting the request of the woman. Well, we do not always know God's ways. We do know that the woman's faith was proved and it was a great lesson to the disciples. The blessings of the Christ were for all who had faith. 'They were not to be confined to the children of Israel. After Jesus left Tyre and Sidon, he traveled for some days among people who were not Jews. Wherever he went he healed the lame, blind, and maimed. When they saw. The mighty works, the gentiles glorified the God of Israel. In one particular instance, the people asked the Lord to lay his hands upon a man who was deaf and defective in speech. Jesus led the man away from the crowd, then put his hands in the man's ears and touched his tongue. "And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain" (Mark 7:35). | Another Meal in the Desert On this trip Jesus again fed a large group of people—four thousand men, besides the women and children. These people were hungry and away from home. The disciples had only seven loaves and a few little fishes but the people were fed abundantly, as in the case of the prior miracle. (Read Matt. 15:32- 38.) Again Beset by Sign-Seekers When he could not find seclusion elsewhere, the Lord took his disciples for another trip on the Sea of Galilee and gave them some profound instructions. He warned them against the false attitude and docRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 trines of the Pharisees and Sadducees. 'These two ordinarily discordant parties were united in their opposition to the truth. So often that is found. The most frequent trick of the adversary is to ask for a sign. When these wicked people asked Jesus for a sign he refused with a sharp rebuke: A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given unto it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas (Matt. 16:1-4). "Thou Art the Christ" The writer of these lessons has purposely cut short the consideration of other topics in this chapter to give somewhat detailed study to one particular incident recorded in chapter 16 of Matthew. "When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" Mark well the question which was really the subject of the conversation. He _ wanted them to know once and for all who he was. They reported to him the rumors, ".,. Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets." The people seemed to have no intimation that he was the Messiah. In the eyes of the people he had not measured up to their expectations of a great deliverer and king. To many, signs had been given, but he had rejected their offer to crown him king of Israel.. Then to the Twelve, to whom had been given special training and preparation, he propounded the question, "But whom say ye that I am?" Peter answered for the group, "... Thou art the Christ, the LESSON DEPARTMENT 845 Son of the living Gog" at was Reference lS made to Matthew 4 solemn testimony—_, POSitive 16., knowledge "And Jesus answered and said unto him, B essed art Ou, And "Mon Barjona: for ath not Tevealed; alt loose osed in n, ) t Peter, and These keys were authority to act Upon th; Tock IT wil] buil for God. Church; ang © gates of hel] Shall Not prevail | 'Y Were given to the Twelve Apost] Wh ll against it" (Matt. 16: 13-18). Did es, at church yp. On the earth today claims author; 771°, Mean hat he was — for its Presidency ang *Postleship to 801ng to build his church "pon Pet. Bind on carth and it shall be bound &T OF any other man? € Lord was i heaven? D e Lor give use. Referring to his own C urch, Was it €s8 keys that Were not to be used? Then to be given toa man? 0, that © aNswer can on] be given in the would make man's church, Negative, To € Church of esus "Through direct Tevelation from tist in this day have been given od, Peter Knew that Jesus was © same keys of authority as are bethe hrist; and "PON revelation 3 ing used almost every day in the 4 rock of cur foundation the emples of God urch of Chr St was to built," A Church bui "pon tha revelation Questions and Suggestions for 6 SCCUre as a rock and the Powers 0 iscussio Bates of hej" can never Prevail guided. Th due Tespect, an Made in the law: Honour thy father and church built "Pon Peter would be "4 ne the Incident of the healin of ter's church and not the Church the daughter of the woman of Canaan. Can his Church be builded and main he would build his Ch h upon the rock ained, Of revelation. The hills, Joy that a bird's throat spills. Burst high against it as long 4S It is go led an of J rus Christ, By revelation alone 1. Discuss the changes the tabbis had 3- Discuss the Promise of the Lord that 846 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 Visiting Seachers Nlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 6—"Ye Cannot Serve God and Mammon" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, March 1, 1949 Objective: To emphasize that the allurements of the world do not provide lasting happiness. ¢*X7O man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other" (Matthew 6:24). In_ this statement, from the Sermon on the Mount, our Savior was warning against setting our hearts too much upon material wealth and worldly possessions. "For," he declared, "where your treasure is, there will your heart be also" (Matt. 6:21). Does this mean that we must forego pleasure in the good things of earth? No, for we are told that:... The earth is man's and the fulness thereof... Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart; yea, for food and for raiment... And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess (D. & C. 59:18- am). Note those concluding words: "to be used with judgment, not to excess." Is ours not an age of excess? As the poet Wordsworth phrased it, "The world is too much with us; late and soon, getting and spending, we lay waste our powers." If we are not careful, the worldly attractions in life can become so _all-absorbing that we may fill our days with things of little worth. At such times we are in danger of losing the power to discern what constitutes teal values. In seeking to gain more and more of material things we are apt to become covetous. Against this sin the Savior warned: "Take heed, and be ware of covetousness; for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth" (Luke 12:15). Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth cortupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal (Matt. 6:19-20). "Ye cannot serve God and mammon" (Matthew 6:24). Natin WE PRAY Evelyn Fjeldsted We pray not for the downfall of A sovereign or a goal, We pray only that the light of truth May come to every soul. LESSON DEPARTMENT:. 847 women's blouses hey get enaway underarm Sections and Sleeves erally sh bby or the Sleeves Pull out inding hem Ing 8€s, and ut the front On, which js the holding It arou Waistline with attractive Part of the blo © Outlasts 4 tape sewed to the bing e §0€s, and We often ave the embroidhe Side of CKline or elsewhere "ly and ruffles Jef 800d cond}. * ngerie touches brighten up a fe) Tr, ess entimes blouses Neckline CCEssories may be made that have discarded by a grown Tom the d ends "cyt aver ipr eas be cut do 7 Into smaller from old blouses and lingerie. (The sizes for yOung girls thus eliminat. Smallest bjt of lace can be Tenewed Ing the worn parts under the arms "round a glass or bottle, Pressing jt In many Cases there wil] be plen Out to ful] dimensions With the fin "Of good Material that can be sajUsed as Cdgings for ¢ Hars Or Cuffs or Tawn thro gh it 4 tiny bow MSerts on lars or vest and the "smajj fry" wh falls heir to sable collar cuffs or collar jt will be proud 4 Peacock aNd vestee sep m ade from 80, the good Parts of these nice he good Parts Ouses and 'PS could eas; yY be made Into watGeatune—nemine of the Latter-day Saints Literature of the Gospel Restoration Lesson 6—Lyric Expression of the Restoration Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, March 15, 1949 A truly religious song is an overflow of the soul. When the heart gets "so full that a drop over fills it," lyric expression affords emotional relief. Singing has therefore ever been, except with extremely Puritan-minded folk, closely linked with religion. The children of Israel let out their hearts in song. Thus came their soulful psalms and other lyrics. In later years when Christianity was first being spread among the folk of Europe, the carols, vibrant with love for the Savior, were created to bring continuing joy and uplift for all. The psalms and carols may be called lyrics because they are an outpouring of great emotion— of praise and thanksgiving. The lyric is a poem which has the quality of music. It is a "form of musical utterance in words governed by emotion and set free by a harmonious rhythm." Didactic poetry differs, in that it is instructive in nature or teaches a moral lesson. Lyric poetry as distinguished from either didactic, epic, or dramatic, is expressive of the poet's feelings rather than of outward incident or events. There are certain laws of lyric form. One of them is the law of brevity. It is impossible to keep the lyric pitch for very long. The rapture tums to pain. There is also the law of unity. Too, the lyric vocabulary should not seem studied or consciously ornate for that breaks the law of spontaneity. Naturally, with the spiritual rejoicing inspired by the restoration, the impulse was to sing praises to the Lord. Our Prophet was even given a revelation voicing divine approval of such lyric expression, in these beautiful words: "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." In the same revelation the Prophet's wife, Emma, was assigned the "selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church." With such heavenly sanction and guidance at the beginning, the Latter-day Saints were encouraged in making song and music an intrinsic part of their worship. At the outset, of course, there were no songs written by members of the Church. They could use only those created by others in accord with the spirit of the restored gospel. Within a few years, however, springing largely out of the missionary work, songs began to appear, a few of them set to music of earlier creation. Some of the hymns of high nonsectarian cast were found inspiring 848 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT and helpful, and adopted. Some of these which are still sung are: "O God, Our Help" (From the Wesley Collection); "God Moves in a Mysterious Way," by Cowper; "Joy to the World," and "Sweet Is the Work," by Isaac Watts. Lyric lines from such hymns are akin to the psalms in soul-lifting quality. To illustrate: O God, our help in ages past, Our hope for years to come, Our shelter from the stormy blast, And our eternal home. *e * God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform; He plants his footsteps in the sea, And rides upon the storm. Note the majesty and strength in these simple lines, just given. Feel also the spiritual lift of the following lines: Joy to the world! The Lord will come And earth receive her King: Let every heart prepare Him room, And saints and angels sing. Latter-day Saints, in common with other God-loving folk, could sing with responsive hearts such songs. 'There was need, however, for something even closer to the meaning and spirit of the newly restored gospel for the satisfaction of their inmost need. Nor was this something long in coming. Again we turn to Parley P. Pratt as a pioneer in the creation of distinctively Latter-day Saint hymns. In his Voice of Warning, which, as has been said, is poetic prose, he occasionally would express his thoughts in verse, as he did at the opening of his section on the Book of Mormon: Lo! From the opening heavens, in bright array, 849 An angel comes—to earth he bends his way; Reveals to man, in power, as at the first, The fulness of the Gospel long since lost. It was not long before this missionary poet was also creating hymns of classic cast—songs still dear to our people, and often sung. They are vibrant with the spirit of the restoration—and filled with truth. For example: The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled, The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world. The above stirring lines and others in the hymn, set to music by another master, George Careless, as well as those that follow from the inspired pen of Parley P. Pratt, rank with the finest of religious lyrics: Come, O Thou King of Kings, We've waited long for thee, With healing in Thy wings, To set Thy people free.... Come, make an end to sin, And cleanse the earth by fire, And righteousness bring in, That saints may tune the lyre.... No need is here to quote at length from the songs which have become so much a part of us. Mere giving of an opening line will set a Latterday Saint congregation ready to sing the hymns dear to our hearts. And sing they must to get the full beauty of the lyric lines. Singing is just a more beautiful way of reading. Through a song one lingers on expressive words. Yet this also should be remembered: One can sing a song soulfully only when one can read the song aloud expressively. Try it. As the epic rise of the Church continued, lyrics expressive of the emotional high points of the res- 850 toration naturally Many Songs are the heart throbs of the latter is the loved lyric, "Jotures, and an impressive message are in its rhythmic lines, a few of which follow: O how lovely Radiant beamed the sun above, Suddenly a light descended, Brighter far than noon-da sun, And a shining, glorious pillar O'er him fell, around him shone, hile appeared two heav'nly beings, God the Father and the Son, "An Angel from on High," of earlier creation, by Parley P. Pratt, An angel from on high, the long, long silence' broke; Descending from the sky, These gracious words he spoke: "Lo, in Cumorah's lonely hill, a Sacred record lies concealed; Sealed by Moroni's hand, It has for ages lain; To wait the Lord's command, From dust to speak again. Still another, created by one of the great song writers of the Church, William W. Phel were created. © RELIEF SOCiETy MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 Blessed to open the last ispensation; Kings shall exto] im and nation's Tevere, Hail to the Prophet, ascended to heaven! Taitors and tyrants now fight him in vain; Mingling with Gods, he can plan for his brethren; Death cannot Conquer the hero again, Another splendid hymn by William W. Phelps, vibrant with the Spirit of the Testoration, begins with these lifting lines: The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! The latter day glory begins to come forth; he visions and blessings of old are return. Ing, And angels are coming to visit the earth. We'll sing and we'll shout with the armies of heaven, Readers of this lesson ably Tecognize that 4 characteristic of these earlier expres- » OF S€rmonizing, js in the lines, The lyrics mentioned above sing the them one feels th poet in the teality that God lives and Jesus is the Christ, Out of the lengthened y darkness, doubt, dissension the multiplying creeds, God again had spoken; his Son Jesus Christ had come again in person to re-establish his work; simplicity, the earth. Those of Poetic skill expressed these truths with fervor and devotion. In doing LESSON DEPARTMENT so they left us all a rich heritage of lyric literature. Nor was it men alone who voiced with true emotion, with beauty and clarity, the feelings and thoughts that lifted their souls. Gifted women of the Church likewise created lyrics. Among these was Eliza R. Snow, whose life links with not only the period of the restoration but with the after stirring years. One of the most loved of her poems is "O My Father—a "prayer perfect"—in its artistry of lyric expression. It carries also one of the sweetest, most divine tributes to mothers ever expressed. I had learned to call Thee Father, Thro' Thy spirit from on high; But until the Key of Knowledge Was restored, I knew not why. In the heav'ns arewparents single? No; the thought makes reason starel Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? Then, at length, when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation, Let me come and dwell with you. Here is precious truth given under inspiration for not only Latter-day Saints but for all the world. In this brief study, we have been able only to open the door to treasures. It is hoped that those who participate in the lesson will be intrigued to search for and enjoy more of the songs that make the restoration live again. Indeed the members of the Relief Society have been doing just this through the years. May the writer, with this closing word, pay tribute to those of this 851 great organization who chose the Relief Society Songs. This hymnal, if such it may be called, contains a precious selection of uplifting religious lyrics. Congratulations also are due this splendid society for the forward-looking creation of the "Singing Mothers." It is an inspirational example for all the world. Studies and Activities 1. A. What is a lyric? How does it differ from didactic poetry? B. Why may the psalms and the carols generally be classified as lyrics? 2. What are the characteristics of the earlier lyrics or songs created by members of our Church? Illustrate. 3. Make a brief comparative study of "Come, O Thou King of Kings," by Parley P. Pratt, and "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," by W. W. Phelps. In what basic respect are they alike? How do they differ? 4. Discuss briefly the statement that "singing is a more beautiful way of reading." 'Take some stanza of a song; as, "O My Father;" "Jesus Once of Humble Birth"; "Joseph Smith's First Prayer," "Praise to the Man"; "Rest, Rest on the Hillside, Rest"; or another of your choice, read it aloud, then sing it, noting the difference. 5. Be ready to join with the class in expressive singing of some song that expresses the joy of the restoration of the gospel. References Pyper, George D., Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns, 1939. Relief Society Songs. Latter-day Saint Hymns. Some study of the background of the poets named may be helpful in understanding their preparation for poetic expression. For this the Comprehensive History of the Church by B. H. Roberts, or Historical Record, by Andrew Jensen will be helpful. Note: Keep the study within the general theme of the restoration. 852 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 5—Main Currents in Latter-day Saint Political Thought as Revealed in Discourse and Literature Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, March 22, 1949 by some of the early Church leaders. EVAN JENSEN HE doctrines of the Christian teligion are the foundation stones of Latter-day Saint political thinking. Translated into the terminology of political philosophy, the following appear to be basic: 1.-The State and government are essential. 2. The State must recognize man as a child of God and so respect human liberty.. Religious freedom is not only essential to man's nature as a child of God, but is the means whereby eternal truth can be made available to men in society, who can then provide the basis for a healthy State and good government. 4. The government of God is fundamentally limited in that it will not interfere with human liberty—on pain of ceasing to be Godly, and governments in their Objective: To appreciate the contributions to political thought voiced operations should recognize a similar limitation. 5. The Constitution of the United States partakes of divine inspiration because it recognizes the above principle, and thus serves as a model for all governments. E In, through, and around these more or less basic postulates, are many rich expressions in the literature of Latter-day Saint political thought. Sidney Rigdon (1793-1876) Prominently identified with the rise of Mormonism was Sidney Rigdon, The "Lectures on Faith," for many years printed in editions of the Doctrine and Covenants, constitute his principal contribution to Latterday Saint literature. For notation here, however, attention is called to a discourse of July 4, 1838, at Far West, Missouri, sometimes styled by Joseph Smith as a Mormon "declaration of independence." Copies of the speech were printed in pamphlet form and are today very rare. In 1941 a San Francisco bookseller was holding a copy for sale at $800. The speech was uttered in the midst of LESSON DEPARTMENT the Missouri persecutions. It sets forth the nght of resistance when liberty is infringed. The Latter-day Saint answer to the deep problem of political thought is thus suggested: When is violence, if ever, justified? Rigdon's statement is perhaps the most fiery, radical statement in Latter-day Saint thought and can only be understood in relation to the trials and sufferings of the driven, persecuted saints. Remember it then, all men. We will never be the aggressors, we will infringe on the rights of no people, but shall stand for our own until death... And the mob that comes on us to disturb us, there shall be between us and them a war of extermination... (Whitney's History of Utah, I, page 144; see B. H. Roberts, Missouri Persecutions, page 193, for a complete quotation). Parley Parker Pratt (1807-1857) Perhaps one of the most romantic ' figures among the early saints, aside from Joseph Smith, was Parley Parker Pratt, who joined the Church in August 1830. In 1837, in vigorous prose, Pratt produced The Voice of Warning, probably Mormonism's oldest, most famous tract. Chapter three of this work is devoted to an enlarged explanation of the kingdom of God idea, viewing the restored Church as God's "organized government on the earth." The Voice of Warning is easily available and excerpts from chapter three can readily be examined. Brigham Young (1800-1877) Brigham Young, that great empire builder whose stature grows with the years, has yet to be recognized, as he some day will be, for his deep philosophic insight. A beginning was made in 1937 when Professors 853 Gabriel, Warfel, and Williams of Yale University included Brigham Young's views on government in their anthology, The American Mind. (See also Discourses of Brigham Young, chapter 31, "Political Government." ) Quite outstanding among President Young's many statements bordering on the subject of political philosophy, is his discourse on "The Kingdom of God," July 8, 1&55. (Journal of Discourses II, 309-317). Here is the stated ideal of the great, tolerant, Christian world society towards which Church and State should strive in their "co-ordinate" capacity, and in which one need not be a Christian so long as he respects the rights of others. When the Kingdom of God is fully set up and established on the face of the earth... It will protect the people in the enjoyment of all their rights, no matter what they believe, what they profess, or what they worship. If they wish to worship a. God of their own workmanship, instead of the true and living God, all right, if they will mind their own business and let other people alone... That Kingdom grows out of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but it is not the Church, for a man may be a legislator in that Body which will issue laws... And still not belong to the Church of Jesus Christ at all. John Taylor (1808-1887) The third president of the Church produced a work concerning which Hubert Howe Bancroft wrote: As a dissertation on a general and abstract subject, it probably has not its equal in point of ability within the whole range of Mormon literature (History of Utah, page 433). This was The Government of God (Liverpool: 1851). President 854 Taylor faced some of the most severe political problems of the Church. Book Five of The Gospel Kingdom (pp. 297-349), published in 1943, contains the choice selections of his thought in many matters ranging from world problems, to the Latter-day Saint position with regard to the American nation, socialism, and other movements. In 1855, while publishing a weekly newspaper, The Mormon, in New York City, John Taylor wrote, for example, the following: We believe that our fathers were inspired to write the Constitution of the United States, and that it is an instrument, full, lucid, and comprehensive.... That it is the great bulwark of American _ liberty and that the strict and implicit observance of which is the only safeguard of this mighty nation. We believe that the president, governors, judges, and governmental officers ought to be respected, honored, and sustained in their stations but that they ought to use their positions and power, not for political emolument, or party purposes, but for the administration of justice, and equity, and for the well being and happiness of the people (The Gospel Kingdom, PP- 309-310). Wilford Woodruff (1807-1 898 ) President Wilford Woodruff inherited—and solved—the great political problems thrust on the Latter-day Saints during President Taylor's administration, many of them going back to 1830. In so doing, Latter-day Saint thought is indebted to President Woodruff for one of the most clarifying concepts we have concerning Church-State telationships and the problem of the "kingdom of God" therein. In answer to a public question, "What is the Mormon idea of its rule as the Kingdom of God?" President WoodRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 tuff replied, in harmony with the Latter-day Saint "co-ordinate" theoty of fundamental limits—for human liberty's sake—on both Church and State: It is this: we hold that this Church was set up and organized by command of the Almighty; that it has the right to formulate and maintain rules of church discipline applying to its own members; that the extent of its punitive power is the excommunication of the transgressor; that it has no power to punish anyone by deprivation of life, liberty or property or personal injury in any form; that governments should not regulate the church, nor the church seek to control the state; that all men should be politically free and equal to vote as they please and to sustain what politics they please, so that they do not infringe on the rights of others (The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff, 1946, page 193. An important "Official Declaration" of December 12, 1889, pp. 193-195, preceded the above statement). The presidents of the Church who have followed: Lorenzo Snow, Joseph F. Smith, Heber J. Grant, and George Albert Smith, have continued, with others, to expound and develop the Latter-day Saint contribution to the more adequate political theory that scholars, statesmen, and modern men seek. Problems of war, peace, labor relations, industrial strife, and social organization have all been discussed and gospel solutions therefor suggested by modern Church leaders. Questions for Discussion 1. In America and England, the Society of Friends (or Quakers), have attracted world-wide attention because they refuse to bear arms. American and English law, accordingly, has recognized their rights as "conscientious objectors" to war. When, if ever, is the use of force justified? On what basis can Sidney Rigdon's address of July 4, 1838, be understood? The participa- LESSON DEPARTMENT tion of thousands of boys and some girls belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the armed services? 2. Chapter 9, in President Heber J. Grant's book of compiled discourses, Gospel Standards, is entitled, "Government and Public Affairs." Class leaders might examine this chapter as well as chapter 21, "Political Government" in the Discourses of Brigham Young for source material. 3. Discuss Brigham Young's statement that a man may be a legislator in the kingdom of God "and still not belong to the Church of Jesus Christ at all." 4. How does the above statement relate to the quotation given from President Wilford Woodruff in this lesson? —_-< MIRACLE OF GIVING Ruth Harwood Your precious gift to us Will ever be A portion of your own Eternal treasury. 855 TAKE A TRIP TO OLD RUINS Mexico and Central America Sponsored by Florence Pierce, author of "The Story of the Book of Mormon'' and "The Golden Plates.' Conducted by Dewey Farnsworth, author of "The Americas Before Columbus." Leaving Salt Lake City January 5, 1949 An all-expense-paid 30-day trip by bus and plane to the fantastic ruins of Mexico and Centra! America, where magnificent civilizations flourished and vanished centuries before Columbus. Travel through Mexico, Guatemala, San Salvador, Honduras, and Yucatan. See Mexico City with its National Palace, Palace of Fine Arts, and Cathedral; the great Cement City of Teotihuacan, Pyramid of the Sun and Moon; Toluca with its native markets; Xochicalco and the "Silver City'; Floating Gardens, Teneyuca, Cuicuilco, Cholula, Monte Alban and museums; Mitla, Chichen-Itza, Uxmal, and Kabah. See Carlsbad Caverns and other points en route. Travel in 'uxurious chartered buses and safe Pan American Airline planes; live in the best hotels; eat the finest meals. For terms and further details, write or phone: Florence Pierce, 576 Columbus Street, Phone 4-7201 Salt Lake City For terms and further information write: Dewey Farnsworth Box 143, Salt Lake City, Utah A2RLALAALDAALALALAALALALALALALALALALAB A GIFT WHICH CARRIES THE TRUE SPIRIT OF CHRISTMAS Make your gift list complete by including a book that will long be cherished "WIST YE NOT THAT | MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS?" The Visit of Jesus to the Temple at Twelve Years of Age President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. $1.50 Postpaid All rights and royalties assigned to Relief Society On Sale ONLY at General Board of Relief Society 28 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send...........-e-ceee Name copies of "WIST YE NOT THAT I MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS?" at $1.50 each. Enclosed find...... Coe (Check or Money Order, no stamps). Address 856 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 Optional leeds Gh ea of Social Science—The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions ) Lesson 5—The Presidency of John Taylor Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, March 22, 1949 Tue Presiwency A Unrr—Tue Turee ARE ONE George QO. Cannon President John Taylor At Milnthorpe, Westmoreland, England, on November 1, 1808, a child was born in humble surroundings whose influence as a stalwart defender of religious truth, was destined to be felt in Canada, the United States, and the continent of Europe before his life closed seventynine years later. John Taylor was his name and he became the third President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Born into a Church of England family, he was discontented with its theology and sought for more vital religion. When about fifteen years of age he joined the Methodist Church and was soon functioning as a local exhorter. About 1828 he emigrated to the New World and within a year John Taylor Joseph fF. Smith or two had established himself in Toronto, Canada, as a local Methodist preacher. He was a wood turner and made his living at this trade. It was not long, however, until he became dissatisfied with Methodism. He was an assiduous reader and had an analytical mind. His treading and thinking showed him how far Methodism was removed from the gospel of the. New Testament Church, and so he withdrew from the Methodist organization, taking a large following with him, and formed with them a study group for the purpose of discovering the true Biblical teachings concerning the fundamentals of Christianity. They came to be known as "Dissenters." At this time a new sect known as the "Irvingites" was mak- LESSON DEPARTMENT ing claim that God had called a prophet and that the Primitive Church was again formed: upon the earth. John Taylor was attracted to this movement but soon saw its inadequacy and withdrew from it, continuing his search for the true Church. It was at this critical time in his life that Parley P. Pratt arrived in Toronto. He traveled as did the ancient apostles "without purse or scrip," depending upon God to direct him to the honest in heart. Elder Pratt began holding meetings and among those who attended were John Taylor and his wife. "John wrote down eight sermons which Apostle Pratt preached," says B. H. Roberts, "and compared them with the scripture." He also investigated the evidences of the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants. "I made a regular business of it for three weeks," John relates, "and followed Brother Parley from place to' place." The result of this thorough investigation was that John Taylor and his wife, Leonora Cannon Taylor, were baptized on May 9, 1836, by Elder Pratt. Elder Taylor became a staunch supporter of the Prophet Joseph. He was called to the apostleship by revelation on July 8, 1838, and thus began a career of Church leadership that was to continue for forty-nine years. -At Nauvoo he was editor of the Church weekly, the Nauvoo Neighbor and also for a time of the monthly periodical Times and Seasons (a semi-monthly publication after the first year). In these capacities he became intimately associated with Joseph Smith and grew to love him with a bond that 857 was stronger than any fear of death. He voluntarily accompanied Joseph Smith to Carthage jail and the Prophet's last hours in mortality, indeed his very last hour,. Was soothed and comforted by the tender and wholesome spirit and loving friendship of John Taylor. During the attack in which the Prophet lost his life, Elder Taylor received four musket balls in his body, one of which he carried with him to the grave. As a member of the Council of the Twelve he did extensive missionary work, opening Ireland, France, and Germany to the preaching of the gospel: and supervising the translation of the Book of Mormon into French and German. At the death of Brigham Young in 1877, John Taylor was senior member of the Council of. The Twelve and by virtue of this office, presided over the Church during the apostolic presidency which lasted until 1880. In October of the latter year the First Presidency was reorganized and he was sustained as President of the Church, with George Q. Cannon (whom he had converted in England in 1840) and Joseph F. Smith (later to become the sixth President of the Church) as_ his counselors. This Presidency served the Church until 1887. This decade from 1877 to 1887 was a trying one, filled with a series of vexatious crusades and troublesome political struggles carried on by enemies of the Church against the Church in the Territory of Utah. The courage that President Taylor had manifested in the face of death in Carthage jail now guided him in his administration of Church affairs. In spite of the external pressure that WINTER TERM begins Monday, January 3 There is a continued strong demand for trained office workers. If you are planning a business or civil service career, let us tell you about the waiting here. Opportunities Inquiries welcome at any time. Write for free literature L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah SIMPLE ARITHMETIC Merely add an O. P,. Skaggs System Store to your list of BETTER places to shop... Subtract the weekly cost of your purchases. You'll discover an interesting and profitable adventure. Yes, we have all the good things you want, at lowest possible prices. 0. P SKAGGS be ervice; FOOD "STORES was attempting to destroy the Church, his vision of the destiny of the Latter-day Saint Church was not dimmed. In addition to conducting the affairs of the Church at headquarters, he planned and directed the openings of the Mexican and Maori (New Zealand) missions; inaugurated the Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, and Upper Snake River Valley colonizations of the saints; planned the colonization of saints in Mexico and sent missionaries to labor among the Indians in Idaho, Wyoming, New Mexico, and Arizona. It was during President Taylor's administration that the golden jubilee of the Church was celebrated, and in spite, of the persecution that was directed against the saints it was made a time of rejoicing. Debts due the Perpetual Emigration Fund by poor saints were cancelled, as were overdue tithes; cattle. And sheep were distributed to the poor and the needy; and the Relief Society was called upon to assist in the good work for the benefit of the Church asa whole. The preceding year had been one of great drought and there was a scarcity of seed-wheat for the new crop. President Taylor suggested that the Relief Society sisters lend their 34,761 bushels of stored wheat—they had been accumulating it for years against a time of need— to the farmers, to be repaid without interest after the harvest. 'This was gladly done and proved to be of great benefit to all of the settle ments. President Taylor was a man of culture and refinement. He wrote as a gifted theologian and a profoundly religious philosopher. His literary writings, as well as his sermons, man- 858 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT ifest a beautiful style. As recreation he wrote religious poetry and drama. His best known poems which have been set to music, are the missionary hymn, "Go Ye Messengers of Glory," "The Glorious Plan," and "The Seer," in which latter he' poured out his heart concerning his departed Prophet-leader. Due to the crusade that was being waged against the Church, President. Taylor was faced with the alternative of submitting to a prison sentence or retiring from the public eye. He chose the latter course and made no public appearance after February 1884. From his post in exile he directed the affairs of the Church to the best of his ability. The enforced separation from his family and his inability to get the exercise to which he was accustomed, undoubtedly shortened his life. He died in exile at Kaysville, Utah, on July 25, 1887. God had guided this leader from his native England to the New World where the restored gospel awaited him, and then given him inspiration to guide the destinies of the kingdom. Of God on earth. George O. Cannon George Q. Cannon, whom President Taylor chose to be his first counselor in 1880, was born in Liverpool, England in 1827, and was baptized by Elder Taylor in June 1840. Emigrating with his parents to Nauvoo in 1842, he went to live at the home of his uncle, Elder John Taylor, and until 1849 was considered a part of the Taylor household. At Nauvoo he learned the printing and publishing business under the tutelage of his uncle, and this skill proved of great worth to himself and the Church in later years. He emigrated 859 a = poi 4 ORF: A } + PS 03 Pt | / ' 7 tps Sor. 4 F, lational BIBLES SINCE 1863 AT YOUR BOOKSTORE "BETTER _LIVING "BUY. FROM 'YOUR 'DEALER' 3 UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 860 SEARS PARKING| we i eat: rs Ran = a= RIGHT HANDY You are just a step or two from your car when you shop at Sears. No long walks with heavy bundles, no parking tickets to bother with. Main or State at 8th South Salt Lake City, Utah Dial 5-6651 Park Free Professional aut, Social Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utab RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 to Utah in 1847. Brigham Young recognized in him a man of great ability both in temporal and spintual matters, and he was called as a missionary to the Hawaiian Islands in 1850. He remained there until 1854 and during these four years was primarily instrumental in the conversion of about four thousand natives to the Church. He acquired great proficiency in the use of the Hawatian language and translated. The Book of Mormon into that tongue, and later at San Francisco, published this work. He was ordained an apostle August 26, 1860, and left soon afterward for New York where he acted as immigtation agent for the Church, In 1861 he established the first Churchowned printing shop in England, and for many years this establishment was the chief publishing center for Church literature. While in charge of the British Mission between 1862 and 1864, he directed the emigration of upwards of 13,000 saints to America in especially chartered vessels. Charles Dickens visited one of these vessels before it sailed, to make a report on emigration, and saw President Cannon supervising and organizing the group for the voyage. He paid President Cannon and the Mormon emigrants some fine compliments in his article in Uncommercial Traveler. President Cannon established the Juvenile Instructor (now The Instructor) in 1866, as a means of teaching the gospel to the youth of Zion. He devoted many years to the organization of the Sunday Schools in the Church and was a member of the Sunday School Union from its organization in 1867 until his death LESSON DEPARTMENT in 1901. A man of great speaking and reasoning ability, he was elected as territorial delegate to Congress for ten years and held numerous positions within the territorial government of Utah. To President Cannon the Church is greatly indebted for the publishing of much of its literature. He encouraged many of the early converts to the Church and more recent ones to write their religious experiences for the benefit of the young people. These were subsequently published in the Juvenile Instructor and as pamphlets or booklets. As first counselor to John Taylor, he shared with his President the hardships of the persecutions of the 1880's and stood by him as a valiant assistant in managing the affairs of the Church. Joseph F. Smith The second counselor of President John Taylor, Joseph F. Smith, was a son of Hyrum Smith, brother of the Prophet, and was born at Far West, Missouri, on November 13, 1838. He had spent a life of service for the Church at the time the call to the Presidency came in 1880. He had gone on his first mission at the age of fifteen to the Hawaiians and had been ordained an apostle in 1866. A further account of his life and labors will appear in the following lesson and the one dealing with him as President of the Church. Topics for Discussion 1. What is there about the words of "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief" that made such a powerful appeal to the Prophet during the trying hours before his death? 861 We Suggest These Ladies' Three - Part Numbers for your RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUS 3017 Beautiful Isle of Somewhere Fearis. LS 531 Hold Thou My Hand Briggs a5 1560 In the Garden Miles _........--..- 16 962 Invocation Moore 16 2W1511 It Was For Me Blount oe |) 1776 King of Glory Parks 20 2010 Leave It With Him BMWs _ oon... 15 1759 Lord Is My Light Allitsen 16 1941 Old Rugged Cross Bennard _ 16 13651 Panis Angelicus Franck _ BS) 0144 Prayer Perfect Stenson 5 1596 Stranger of Galilee Morris eS We specialize in music for L. D. S. Choral groups of all types. Write for information. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. Postage included in prices We also have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home and school. Representatives for Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments. Records, and musicians supplies. Ce LSA FIRST OF ALL—RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH aun Wtuste MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH PETES LILES 2. What do the titles of President Tay- _ lor's most important writings—The Government of God and Mediation and Atonement—treveal concerning his religious thoughts and feelings? 3. Why do you suppose that "Nay Speak No Ill" was one of President Taylor's favorite hymns? 4. Read and discuss Charles Dickens' article, partially reprinted in Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, V: pp. 91-93. The "Mormon agent" Dickens mentions was George QO. Cannon. SELECT YOUR Christmas PianoNoW! A small deposit holds any piano till Christmas. Mason & Hamlin Chickering Wurlitzer Easy Terms GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. Established 1907 Salt Lake City Ogden References Smitu, Josep Fie. Pinc, Essentials in Church History, pp. 380-384. Roserts, B. H., Life of John Taylor. Roserts, B. H., Comprehensive History of the Church, V: 519-538; and 580-594; VI: 187-190. Smiru, Josep Fretpine, Life of Joseph F, Smith. Articles on George Q. Cannon in Instructor, January 1944—December 1946. This. Christmas Remember the Women of Your Family with a Subscription to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Use this Coupon Enclosed please find $1.50 for which please send the Relief Society Magazine for one year. Beginning' with en eee ee ee (Name) anne ces es evEstleChonarsecersoneses-c_., —(Street and number) a csoseesneneoteneonsusensaeensesonsuuensnsnsusseseesunenretsteatatateateasersereee (City and State) cessneeseeneess. (Ward or Branch) a a... Satsesteeneeaseesensecnsetsensnenansecnsnecsneeecssessrseseenetenesenssneeseess (SHAKE OF Mission) Shall we send a gift card to the recipient of this subscription? Yes 00000... No = which begin with January 1949 must be received by December 862 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 AUERBACH'S H Ips You Make Oblong or oval rug backs in fifteen patterns oad Burlap backs 1.50 to 3.49 _ 2 Warp cloth backs 6.98 to 8.98 a ' Rug yarn 2 oz. Skein 50c — Frame 7.98 It's easy to learn, we give free instruction as long as you need it, and help you get the back on the frame. Work in our sewing room. The rugs you hook will be beautiful and last for many many years. Art & Needlework—Fourth Floor Iris W. Schow, author of "Lean Ear This Wa >" lives in Brigham She is a gtaduate ll Writing Stories and Poethobby, summer school Permittin Ive of her stories have been Published and her Poetry has appeared in Church magazines and in na. Grace A, Woodbu » author of "Then Came Christmas," Is the wife of Dr. An. Gus M. Woodbury of the University of Utah faculty. Mrs. Woodbury, a native of St, George, Utah, writes with carefy] attention to details for local color and illuminating character material, ixie colonization Stories, I enjoy and 4Ppreciate the Magazine, t seems 'to me month, also Vv. - C's e especially J enjoyed the Pictures surely do tel] the Story more im. Pressively | I take this Pportunity to tel] you how. I enjoy and appreciate The Reliet the theology es. Socie h interest and | I enjoy the Magazine very much and hope { wil] Not miss a number, J hope you will all be b in this Wwonderfy] Work for J think it js the finest Magazine We have in oyr home,: —Julia A. Stephensen, Delta, Utah Your Magazine js 4 joy to have. Look forward to each number. Less you always that your Magazine may always be an Inspiration, —Mrs. Louisa Ensign, Ogden, Utah EN Best wishes for the Magazine. It is Priceless to me, —Rettie A. Tenny, Los Gatos, California a Hor Christmas... Give Flim a Li e-oLong Gift of History / DOCUMENTARY HISTORY OF THE CHURCH $1.75 Vol. 2, 1949 Priesthood text STUDY GUIDE 35c COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH A ee ee ee $25.00 By B. H. ROBERTS Six masterful volumes—the full story of the restoration with details and commentary available nowhere else. PROTESTORS OF CHRISTENDOM$2.00 By JAMES L. BARKER Historical reasons for the restoration of the Gospel. JOSEPH SMITH, AN AMERICAN PROPHET _.. $3.00 By JOHN HENRY EVANS Perennially popular with Mormons and especially with nonMormons. PRESIDENTS OF THE CHURCH |...$3.00 By PRESTON NIBLEY Concise, graphic, inspirational biographies of eight presidents. DESERET BOOK COMPANY Official publishers for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake Ciy 10, Utah U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 WHAT GREATER GIFT CAN A FATHER GIVE HIS LOVED ONES THAN THE ASSURANCE THAT THEY WILL ALWAYS HAVE NOURISHING FOOD, AMPLE CLOTHING, AND A HOME O* THEIR OWN? This assurance is guaranteed when underwritten with Beneficial Life Insurance. BENEFICIAL LIFE noeterb at OMPANY Giorge Albert South, Prox O aa
